Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16802
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN 3162-EC)
June 24, 1997
Public Sector Modernization, Private Sector Development and Energy
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
April 14, 1997
Currency Unit   =  Sucre (S/.)
US$1.00         =  S/. 3815.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNF         -  Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CFN         -  Corporacion Nacional Financiera
(National Finance Corporation)
FOPINAR     -  Development Fund for Small Scale Enterprises
and Artisans
OED         -  Operations Evaluation Department
PFIs        -  Participating Financial Institutions
SB          -  Superintendency of Banks
SSE         -  Small Scale Enterprise
TA          -  Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:       Shahid Javed Burki
Director:             Paul Isenman
Division Chief        Krishna Challa
Staff:                Marcelo Romero,
Ecuador Resident Mission
Jyoti Shukla, LA3PS


﻿FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE .......................................................... i
Evaluation Summary       .................     ................................................ ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background.......................................................1
B. Project Objectives and Design........................................2
C. Achievement of Objectives.........................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project...................................8
E. Project Sustainability ............................           .................9
F. Bank Performance............................................... 9
G. Borrower/Implementing Agency Performance............................10
H. Assessment of Outcome.............................................              1
I. Operational Plan.                             ................................................. 1
J. Key Lessons Learned...............................................I
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment         ..............................     ......... 13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits...................................... 14
Table 3: Project Timetable                             ............................................ 15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual   .   ............. 15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation..............     .............16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................... .............16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .....................17
Table 8A: Project Costs ..............................................18
Table 8B: Project Financing...........................................18
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits.................................... 18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants6........                                      19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements.....................20
Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs ...............  .......................  20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions..................................... 21
APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR................. 22
. Contribution to the ICR  Benefis..2............. 2
II. Letter with Analysis of FOPWAR's Financial Condition and Operational Plan ..Sttmns..... 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.


﻿APPENDIX B: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATISTICS .......................... 47
Table 1: Loan Characteristics
Table 2: Loan Disbursement by Tenor
Table 3: Loan Disbursement by Province
Table 4: Loan Disbursement by Sector
Table 5: Loan Disbursement by Size
Table 6: Average Loan Size Provided by BNF and Other PFIs
Table 6A: Loan Disbursements by PFIs
Table 7: Loans in Arrears
Table 8: Sub-loan Supervision 1990
Table 9: Sub-loan Supervision 1991
Table 10: Sub-loan Supervision 1992
Table 11: Sub-loan Supervision 1993
Table 12: Sub-loan Supervision 1994
Table 13: Sub-loan Supervision 1995
Table 14: FOPINAR: Statement of Financial Condition
Table 15: FOPINAR: Statement of Income
Table 16: FOPINAR: Selected Ratios
Table 17: CFN and FOPINAR: Financial Structure, Loans and Disbursed Loans
Table 18: FOPINAR Administrative and Indirect Costs to Outstanding Portfolio
Table 19: Debt Service and Foreign Exchange Surplus


﻿i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
LOAN 3162-EC
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Small Scale
Enterprise Project in Ecuador, for which Loan 3162-EC in the amount of US$50 million
equivalent was approved on February 1, 1990 and became effective on October 26, 1990.
The loan was fully disbursed and closed on June 30, 1996, one year after the original
closing date of June 30, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Marcelo Romero (Ecuador Resident Mission) and Jyoti
Shukla (LA3PS) at headquarters and reviewed by Mr. Krishna Challa (Division Chief,
LA3PS) and Mr. Robert Crown (Projects Advisor, LA3). Since the first draft of the ICR
was prepared by the Ecuador Resident Mission there is no formal Aide Memoire.
The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing an evaluation of
the project's implementation which is included in Appendix A of the ICR. In addition, after
reviewing the Bank's contribution to the ICR, CFN management provided further financial
analysis of FOPINAR and outlined an action plan to address some of the issues raised in the
ICR. This letter and attached analysis are also included in Appendix A.


﻿
﻿11
EVALUATION SUMMARY
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT (LOAN 3162-EC)
ECUADOR
1.    Introduction This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth
Small Scale Enterprise Project in Ecuador (SSE-IV hereafter) for which a loan in the
amount of US$50 million equivalent was approved on February 1, 1990. SSE-IV followed
three previous Small Scale Enterprises projects in Ecuador financed by the Bank for a total
of US$ 90 million equivalent between 1980 and 1989.
2.    Project Objectives Project objectives were to enhance the contribution of the SSEs
to industrial development through the modernization and expansion of SSE production by
(a) facilitating the access of SSEs to formal credit, (b) promoting lending to SSEs by
participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), (c) providing more focused and integrated
technical and managerial assistance to eligible SSEs and reinforcing coordination among TA
providers, and, (d) further strengthening the management and technical skills of PFIs that
provide credit to SSEs.
3.    Project objectives were well identified on the basis of the country's development
strategy and project appraisal. The appraisal mission concluded that SSEs were more
efficient than large enterprises, were concentrated in the production of labor intensive goods
matching the country's comparative advantage and operated in a less distortionary with
more flexible labor markets and lower rates of effective production protection. However,
access to credit and technical assistance remained key constraints to SSE development.
4.    Based on this assessment, SSE-IV continued the line of credit component
implemented through FOPINAR (Development Fund for Small Scale Enterprises and
Artisans) as a second tier rediscounting fund within CFN (National Finance Corporation).
SSE-IV also included the following innovations: (a) an agreement to use market determined
interest rates in place of subsidized interest rates in previous projects, (b) an increased
technical assistance (TA) component focusing on the institutional development of
FOPINAR, the capacity to appraise sub-loans and enhancement of institutional capacity of
SSEs, (c) stringent qualifying criteria for PFIs, and (iv) greater transparency in allocating
overhead expenses between FOPINAR and its mother institution, CFN.
5.    Implementation Experience and Results The implementation and outcome of the
project is evaluated to be Partially Satisfactory in this report. The project achieved some of
the objectives set out by the SAR especially in terms of its on-lending targets and overcame
some substantive shortcomings identified in previous projects. However, the project was
not as successful in meeting some of its institutional development objectives - the provision
of technical assistance to SSEs and the maintenance of the financial viability of FOPINAR.
6.    The project exceeded the on-lending targets set out in the SAR by 27% with 5,719
loans and leveraging $114.5 million of resources, 38% higher than the $83.0 million
estimated by the SAR. FOPINAR estimates that these sub-loans created 18,422 jobs,
compared to 14,500 estimated by the SAR. The project also maintained its focus on small
entrepreneurs with an average loan of $12,230 and achieved considerable regional


﻿iii
dispersion. A particularly important achievement was the introduction of market rates of
interest. Default rates remained below the general financial sector averages.
7.     The project also encouraged the participation of 40 financial intermediaries in lending
to SSEs. This was reinforced by significant operational improvements to address problems
of bureaucracy and delays raised in earlier projects. However, the project design was not
flexible in allowing the PFIs variation in the spreads charged for their administrative costs
and assumption of risk. Project design limited the PFIs to charge a spread of not more than
6 percent. This cap may well have perpetuated PFI perceptions of the low profitability of
PFI lending compared to larger loans which yielded spreads as high as 18-19 percent.
Implementation was also not fully satisfactory in monitoring the institutional capacity of the
PFIs. BNF, a public sector development bank, continued to receive almost 44 percent of
on-lending even though it was experiencing higher than average repayment rates, signaling
problems with its sub-loan appraisal capacity.
8.     The TA aspects of the project were partially successful. The project was largely
successful in the TA activities that aimed to strengthen FOPINAR's capacity and the
capacity of the PFIs. It was less successful in reaching the SSEs themselves with TA
services aimed at improving their productivity and institutional capacity, due in part to
substantial internal restructuring within the implementing agency. Additionally, this TA was
supply driven and envisaged to be delivered through a very small department of a largely
financial institution. In retrospect, this may not have been an appropriate design.
9.     A disconcerting feature of this Project is the financial deterioration of FOPINAR
which started in 1994. After several years of continued growth in its assets and loan
portfolio, FOPINAR incurred operating losses from 1994 to 1996. This resulted in a
deteriorating financial situation and negative net worth in 1994 and subsequent years (minus
US$ 2.9 million in 1996). The deterioration of FOPINAR's financial position was due to
several reasons, including a large and disproportionate share of CFN's operating expenses
being charged to FOPINAR as overhead costs, which ranged from 37% to 75% of
FOPINAR's total operating expenses. After 1992, there was also a sharp increase in
FOPINAR's interest expenses leading to a negative gross financial margin and declining net
worth. During these years, FOPINAR was borrowing money from FOGEN, another CFN
fund, for its on-lending operations at the domestic deposit reference rate, when in fact
FOPINAR had IBRD money available in the Special Account. As these inter-fund loans
were of shorter maturity than the sub-loans they backed, FOPINAR began repaying FOGEN
faster than it was getting repayments from the sub-loans, leading to additional borrowing
and interest costs. Also, FOPINAR was paying FOGEN interest every month while
collecting interest from its sub-loans quarterly and/or semi-annually leading to additional
liquidity shortfalls made up by additional loans. Finally, FOPINAR was also legally
restricted by the Monetary Board from investing its short term cash in interest earning
assets, thus depriving it of potential interest income. While these are disconcerting features,
it should be noted, however, that CFN itself remains financially robust and much of the
financial losses incurred by FOPINAR were offset on an accounting basis with
corresponding income in other funds managed within CFN. During ICR discussions, CFN
management agreed with the mission on the inappropriateness of the past policies and
outlined a plan to correct them.
10.   Borrower performance was satisfactory in some aspects of the loan, but deficient in
the management of FOPINAR's financial condition. The adoption of the market rate of


﻿iv
interest was undertaken a year before the target date. The most significant shortcoming of
the implementing agency was in the financial management of FOPINAR, presumably to the
benefit of the financial position of some other CFN funds. The Bank's performance was
highly effective in the preparation and appraisal stages of the project, but much less so in its
supervision. In particular, the Bank should have been much more effective in monitoring
and raising the issues of the financial deterioration of FOPINAR, the revision of the margin
cap on the PFIs and the partial implementation of the TA component.
11.   Future Operations CFN continues to maintain its focus on small and micro-
enterprise sector and is requesting financing from other multilateral sources for that purpose.
CFN's management has also outlined an action plan both to recapitalize FOPINAR and to
change its internal procedures to correct the practices that led to FOPINAR's financial
deterioration and to make FOPINAR's operations independent and transparent. These
measures are outlined in a letter from CFN to the Bank (Appendix A) and include: (i)
Decision by CFN's Board to recapitalize FOPINAR, (ii) Changes in the system of allocating
overhead costs by the size of portfolio in each fund, (iii) Adoption of a new policy to ensure
better match between the terms of the sources and uses of each fund, (iv) Establishment of a
current account for FOPINAR so that is can manage its financial operations independent of
other funds and permission from the Monetary Board to allow it to invest its short term
liquid cash in interest bearing assets. The Bank has also urged the Government to explore a
more pro-active and demand driven system for TA services.
12.   Key Lessons Learned The key lessons learned in this project include:
* Apex financial institutions need to appraise the financial capacity of PFIs not just
at the start of the project, but to develop capacity to monitor this continually
making revisions to the eligibility list as needed.
* The principles of transparency and accountability that necessitated the creation
of a separate fund (FOPINAR) for project implementation need to be reiterated
continually by the Bank so that the rationale is understood by the apex
institution. If such principles are not followed, there is little justification for the
creation of a separate fund and a separate set of procedures and accounts.
*   Bank supervision should have been much more effective in monitoring the
financial performance and accounting practices within CFN/FOPINAR and
taken immediate steps to raise this issue with the Borrower.
*   TA interventions should be well articulated, demand driven and lodged in an
agency with a clear mandate for providing TA services rather than lodged in a
small department of a financial institution.
*   Caps on margins charged by the PFIs can be counterproductive and may have
discouraged PFI participation in lending to SSE. Margins should be allowed to
respond to market conditions.
*   A good evaluation system requires more than a monitoring database. Adequate
resources and institutional capacity are needed if it is to provide useful inputs to
readjusting project design.


﻿
﻿IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT (LOAN 3162-EC)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Until the economic reforms of the early nineties, Ecuador had traditionally followed
an import-substitution model with protectionist industrial policies, an over-valued exchange
rate and a concentrated, commodity based export sector. Three products - petroleum,
banana and shrimp - accounted for the majority of the country's exports, with oil alone
comprising 70% of exports in 1983, making the economy vulnerable to exogenous events
affecting production and world prices. In manufacturing, three sub-sectors - food, textiles
and wood products - accounted for 99% of exports in 1990, with the rest of industry,
including most small scale enterprises, producing for the domestic market.
2.    Ecuador's economic performance was disappointing during the eighties with the
onset of the debt crisis in 1982 and declining world prices of oil. Despite several attempts
at stabilization and adjustment, inflation rates rose to 85 percent in 1985, real per capita
income fell and Ecuador stopped servicing its external debt. Failure to re-establish
sustainable economic growth and weaknesses in the public sector capacity led to economic
stagnation and deterioration in publicly provided services.
3.    The reform effort intensified with the Administration of President Sixto Duran-Ballen
in 1992, and a strong program of stabilization and economic liberalization. This program
included reduction in the public payroll, tax reform, deregulation of the financial sector,
trade reform with reduction in tariffs to 5 to 20 percent, membership of the World Trade
Organization and greater integration with Andean pact countries. The program yielded
important results with a reduction in the public sector deficit from 7 percent in 1992 to 0.4
percent in 1994, reduction of inflation from 60 percent in 1992 to 27 percent in 1994,
concomitant reductions in interest rates, and liberalization of the exchange rates. The
economy, however, once again came under severe macroeconomic pressure in 1995 due to a
border conflict with Peru, a drought induced electricity crisis and a political crisis. The crisis
exposed the fragility of the financial sector as real interest rates rose sharply and credit
tightened with foreign capital flows declining sharply due to the political and economic
uncertainty. In 1996, the emerging liquidity problems of the financial sector led the
Government to extend special lines of credit to some institutions and to introduce a program
to refinance existing loans and improve the capital position of banks.


﻿2
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
4.     The Fourth Small Scale Enterprise Project (SSE-IV hereafter) followed three
previous Small Scale Enterprises projects financed by the Bank for a total of US$ 90 million
equivalent between 1980 and 1989'. At the end of 1987, given the faster than expected
pace of commitments under the third SSE loan, the need for a fourth operation was
envisioned. SSE-IV was prepared by FOPINAR (Development Fund for SSEs and
Artisans) with the help of the Bank staff in 1988, appraised in January 1989, and presented
to the Board in January 1990.
5.     The project objectives as set out in the Staff Appraisal Report were to enhance the
contribution of the SSES2 to industrial development through the modernization and
expansion of SSE production by:
(a)    Facilitating the access of SSEs to formal credit;
(b)    Promoting lending to SSEs by participating financial intermediaries (PFIs);
(c)    Providing more focused and integrated technical and managerial assistance to
eligible SSEs and reinforcing coordination among TA providers; and,
(d)    Further strengthening the management and technical skills of PFIs that
provide credit to SSEs.
6.     Project objectives were well identified on the basis of the country's development
strategy, analytical work undertaken during previous operations and project appraisal. The
appraisal mission concluded that SSEs were more efficient than large enterprises, were
concentrated in the production of labor intensive goods that matched the country's
comparative advantage and operated in a less distortionary environment with more flexible
labor markets and lower rates of effective production protection (between 20% and 30%) in
sectors dominated by SSEs, e.g. food processing, textiles, leather products, wood, furniture,
and metal products. The appraisal mission also noted that SSEs had generated virtually all
of the additional manufacturing employment during the 1980s.
7.     The appraisal mission identified the lack of long term credit as a key constraint to
SSEs and noted that SSE share of the banking system credit declined from 7.7% in 1981 to
4.5% in 1987. This was due to the high costs of delivery, high perceived risk due to lack of
information and track records, inadequate collateral and, in Ecuador, close relationships
between the financial sector and larger enterprises. Studies undertaken through SSE-III
The first Bank loan (Loan 1879-EC) for US$20 million was approved in June 1980 and helped establish
FOPINAR , with subsequent operations in 1982 (Loan 2221-EC for US$40 million) and in 1986 (Loan
2673-EC for US$ 30 million) continuing to expand FOPINAR's capabilities.
2 A June 1989 Decree defines SSEs as firms with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) of 50 million
sucres valued at their acquisition value ($100,000 at the time of appraisal and about $115,000 in 1997).
SSEs were also defined as establishments with less than 50 employees.


﻿3
also identified limited access and poor quality of technical assistance for product design,
production management, quality control and marketing and poor coordination between
private and public entities providing such services.
8.    On the basis of this analysis, SSE-IV continued the line of credit component (US$50
million) implemented through FOPINAR as a second tier rediscounting fund within CFN
(National Finance Corporation).  FOPINAR had been the implementing agency for the
previous three projects and its successful development of institutional capacity was well
evaluated under SSE-III. SSE-IV also included the following innovations:
(a)    The primary achievement of SSE-IV was an agreement on the use of market
determined interest rates in contrast to the subsidized interest rates under previous
projects. This was agreed upon after a long and protracted policy dialogue
undertaken in conjunction with the Bank's Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (No.
2897-EC). The on-lending rate to Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) was
initially fixed at the 90 day certificate of deposit rate, to be adjusted in uniform six
month increments to the market determined commercial bank lending rate by June
1992. Spreads of 2.5% for FOPINAR and of 5-6% for the PFIs were envisaged.
An interest capitalization scheme was offered to final borrowers as an option to
avoid the adverse effects on cash-flow management of high nominal interest rates.
(b)    SSE-IV also included an increased technical assistance (TA) component (US$1.6
million). While TA in earlier projects had focused on the institutional development
of FOPINAR and on the preparation and appraisal of loans, this project also included
TA to meet the production and marketing needs of SSEs. The TA component was
to be financed by CFN (US$1 million) and a US$ 600,000 grant from the IDB.
(c)   Based on the experience of SSE-III with numerous PFIs and high incidence of
bankruptcies, SSE-IV established stringent qualifying criteria for PFIs, requiring
them additionally to be in good standing with the Superintendency of Banks (SB).
(d)   The project also sought to make transparent the criteria for overhead expenses
charged by CFN to FOPINAR, requiring its inclusion in FOPINAR's budget.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.     The implementation of SSE-IV took longer than appraisal estimates and the Closing
Date was extended by one year (the commitment date for sub-projects was extended twice).
Disbursements were slower than anticipated due to, inter alia, delays in the adoption of the
new financial policy before signing the loan, slow absorption by the market of the higher
market interest rates, the high level of liquidity in the financial system leading PFIs to use
their own funds and the 1995 reduction in economic activity.
10.   Experience with previous Bank-supported SSE projects shows that these projects
had largely met their objectives in terms of the number of SSEs assisted and jobs created.
The OED Performance Audit Report for SSE-III also considered it particularly successful in


﻿4
supporting the institutional development of FOPINAR as a premier second tier financing
institution for SSEs. Nevertheless, SSE-III was rated Marginally Unsatisfactory primarily
for reasons of cost effectiveness, as on-lending in the local currency at a highly subsidized
rate resulted in an estimated loss of US$20.5 million to the Government due to the
devaluation of the sucre. Another set of issues identified in the earlier projects was the
redtape and slowness of loan approval. SSE-IV design aimed to address both these issues.
11.   The implementation experience of SSE-IV demonstrates that it is likely to achieve
some of the objectives set out by the SAR especially in terms of its on-lending targets, while
overcoming some of the substantive shortcomings identified in previous projects. SSE-IV
was less successful in meeting some of its institutional development objectives, both in the
provision of technical assistance to the SSEs and in maintaining the financial viability of the
implementing agency. This overall conclusion is elaborated in the paragraphs below.
12.   Provision of long term financing to SSEs The project exceeded the SAR target
of the number of loans by 27% with 5,719 loans (Table 1). This $50 million line of credit
leveraged a total of $114.5 million of resources, 38% higher than the $83.0 million estimated
by the SAR. Based on estimates given by SSEs in their sub-loan applications, FOPINAR
estimates that these sub-loans created 18,422 jobs. FOPINAR also supervises a sample of
335-550 of loan beneficiaries annually, and has estimated that two years after they had
received a loan, these SSEs had employment 21-54% (on average 31%) higher than their
own estimates at the time of application (Appendix B, Tables 8-13). A rigorous analysis of
the impact of the SSE loans, including partial coverage of the period covered by SSE-IV,
and the sustainability of their impact on employment creation, is presently being undertaken
by the OED and was not duplicated for this ICR.
Table 1: Project Performance Indicators
SAR estimate    As reported by FOPINAR  as % of SAR est.
No. of loans                4,500               5,719               +27%
Jobs                       14,500              18,422               +27%
CFN/FOPINAR resources    $ 9.0 million       $12.67 million         +41%
Funds mobilized from PFIs  $ 7.0 million      $ 7.3 million         +4%
Funds mobilized from     $ 17.0 million       $44 million           +159%
beneficiaries
13.   The Project was also successful in maintaining its focus on small entrepreneurs and
democratizing access to credit with an average loan of $12,230, and achieving regional
dispersion with 69% of disbursements outside the main urban centers of Quito and
Guayaquil. This dispersion was accomplished by the high level (44%) of sub-loans on-lent
through BNF (Banco Nacional de Fomento), a public sector development bank, with its
large branch network. Sub-loans made by other PFIs averaged US$ 24.3 thousand, three


﻿5
times in size than those given by BNF (US $ 8.5 thousand). Project funds were used mainly
to support the expansion of existing firms (72%), while 28% were used to create new
facilities. Principal economic activities supported included fishing, food products, clothing,
wood furniture, basic metallic products and restaurants & hotels, which represented more
than 57.5% of loan proceeds. (Appendix B Tables 1-5).
14.   Additionally, project targets were achieved in a more cost effective manner than in
SSE-III with the use of market rates of interest. FOPINAR established a freely determined
interest rate for its operations in May 1991 (Reg. 739-91), one year earlier than the SAR
target of 1992. Interest rates were fully freed for the entire financial system in September
1992. Between May 1991 to December 1995, FOPINAR applied a market determined rate
of interest based on the deposit rate of each PFI. However, this led to a multiplicity of on-
lending rates for FOPINAR and it had trouble managing its portfolio. Therefore, in January
1996, FOPINAR simplified the system of determining interest rates by linking them to the
reference deposit rate for the financial system as a whole. The reference deposit rate was
defined as the nominal weekly weighted average rate of certificates of deposits from 84 to
91 days of all private banks. The use of market interest rate protected the Government
from the large exchange rate losses it suffered in SSE-III. Though the Government,
through BCE, continued to cover the exchange rate risk by on-lending in sucres, the use of
the market interest rate and the caps on the spreads charged by the PFIs (5-6%) and by
FOPINAR (2.5%), led to large surpluses for the Government/ BCE, currently estimated to
be about US$ 20.5 million, though this number is likely to change over the repayment period
of the loan.
Table 2: Performance of FOPINAR Loans Compared to
Performance of the Financial System
FOPINAR loans %    Total PFI portfolio
in arrears (90 days)  % in arrears (90 days)
1990           2.3                6.3
1991           2.4                5.5
1992           3.3                5.4
1993           4.1                4.7
1994           3.6                2.9
1995           6.5                12.1
15.   The financial quality of the sub-projects financed through the SSE-IV remained high
through most of project implementation, with lower arrears rates than the total portfolio of
PFIs. In 1995, however, the arrears rates started rising both for the FOPINAR and the
general portfolio (Text Table 2). This was due to an overall deterioration of the investment
climate for SSEs due to the effects of globalization on the SSEs, a general economic
recession and the pervasive effects of high real interest rates prevailing in the system. As a
result, in June 1996, FOPINAR decided to open a loan rescheduling facility to address
arrears of 15 months or more. It should be noted that FOPINAR's own portfolio did not
suffer because of these arrears as its participation agreement with financial intermediaries
allows it to debit the debt service directly from the PFIs' accounts with the Central Bank.


﻿6
16.   Promoting Lending to SSEs by (PFIs) 40 financial institutions participated in
SSE-IV including 28 banks (of which BNF was the only public sector bank), 9 financial
institutions and 3 savings and loans cooperatives mobilizing more than US$ 7.3 million of
their own funds, marginally higher than SAR estimates of $ 7 million. On-lending through
BNF accounted for 44% of the loan with four private banks - Austro, Filanbanco, Pacifico
and Pichincha - channeling another 30%. (Appendix B, Table 6) PFI participation was
encouraged by significant operational improvements to address problems of delays raised in
earlier projects. The approval process was decentralized with 80% of FOPINAR's loans
being approved by its branches of CFN/FOPINAR and the approval time was reduced from
30 days to 15 days. PFIs also gained greater autonomy in the sub-loan approval process as
the training activities strengthened their institutional capacities for loan appraisal. As in
previous projects, PFI participation in SSE lending was also strengthened by the mobility of
FOPINAR staff and there was a high correlation between PFI participation and the presence
of an ex-FOPINAR official on their staff. Despite these gains, the Project may not have
taken sufficient account of the high administrative costs of SSE, and the maintenance of the
5-6 percent spread may well have perpetuated PFI perceptions of the low profitability of PFI
lending compared to larger loans which yielded spreads of 18-19 percent.
17.   Providing Integrated Technical and Managerial Assistance to Eligible SSEs
The TA component financed a large group of activities, but remained partially implemented.
CFN conducted 91 workshops training 4,055 participants in production, quality control,
management, and marketing, undertook 15 diagnostic studies of specific SSE sectors,
developed 7 in-plant assistance programs and supported participation in more than 25
commercial fairs. These funds were provided as grants to SSE associations. In addition,
FOPINAR also trained almost 8,000 small scale entrepreneurs in loan applications,
conducted 227 workshops and provided industrial diagnoses and studies to targeted
beneficiaries. This training was well received by SSEs and was important in maintaining the
volume of sub-loan applications. The amount of in-plant assistance to individual firms,
however, was lower than expected with only 174 beneficiaries versus 900 planned. In
addition, 5 studies of trading companies, implementation of four group marketing
organizations, and strengthening of the technical information system in CFN were not
implemented. More important, CFN developed only limited institutional capacity for TA
provision and remained largely reactive in its mode of operation. It was not able to develop
into a dynamic operation, seeking out demand for SSE TA and leveraging its resources and
knowledge to develop an effective network of second tier market driven TA institutions.
18.   There were several reasons for the partial implementation of the TA component.
This component was expected to be executed through FOPINAR, but in April 1992, CFN
was reorganized and the TA services to SSEs were transferred to CFN's Development
Division, with FOPINAR retaining only the credit promotion and financial training
responsibilities. This change, together with the virtual halving of the TA staff from 10 to 4,
program produced delays and partial implementation. IDB's estimated contribution of US$
600, 000 also did not materialize. Finally, with the devaluation of the sucre, the dollar
denominated amount of the expected US$ I million CFN contribution became very high for
the implementing agency and CFN disbursed about US$ 600,000.


﻿7
19.   Another objective of this component was to integrate the scattered TA activities in
the country. CFN planned to strengthen its Technical Cooperation Committee as a
coordinating and monitoring entity, but canceled these plans when the Ministry of Industry
established a similar committee. Though this may have been an appropriate decision at that
time, the Committee within the Ministry has largely been non-functional and has met only
twice. As a result, project objectives of the coordination and integration of the scattered
technical assistance services in the country were largely not addressed.
20.    Strengthening Management and Technical Capacity of PFIs  This component
largely achieved its objectives. FOPINAR undertook substantive training of PFIs and small
entrepreneurs in the preparation and appraisal of applications and on specific technical
matters. FOPINAR also developed a standardized financial analysis to assess the financial
strength of financial intermediaries for inclusion in the credit program. This practice was
reinforced in 1993 when CFN began operating as a total second-tier institution, under a $ 75
million global credit line approved by the Bank in June 1993. The one exception to this
generally good record may be the continued and large participation of BNF in the Project.
Though BNF's participation was considered crucial to the success of the Project because of
its ability to reach a dispersed group of small, rural clients. However, BNF's arrears rates
have been higher than the general portfolio, especially in later years, and it reporting system
irregular. It is also generally accepted that BNF's financial and institutional capacity is
weaker than the other PFIs, and in 1993, when the multi-sectoral line of credit was approved
for CFN, BNF did not meet the eligibility standards. Nevertheless, FOPINAR did not
review the participation of BNF on an on-going basis during the implementation of SSE-IV
and BNF remained the dominant PFI in the project with 44% of the on-lending..
21.   A disconcerting feature of this Project is the financial deterioration of FOPINAR
starting in 1994. Despite several years of continued growth in its assets and loan portfolio,
FOPINAR incurred operating losses from 1994 to 1996. This resulted in a deteriorating
financial situation and negative net worth in 1994 and subsequent years (minus US$ 2.9
million in 1996). Between 1987 -1991, return on assets averaged 2.2% (excluding 1989
that registered losses due to a sizable provision for loan losses), while return on equity
yielded an average of 18.9%. This trend changed after 1992 with negative returns on assets,
which averaged about 3% in the last five years. In addition, operating expenses as a
percentage of the loan portfolio rose from 1.51% in 1987 to an average of 5.25% over
1990-95, improving to 3.59% and 4.2% in 1994 and 1995 as the loan portfolio increased.
(See Tables 14-18 of Appendix B).
22.   The recorded deterioration of FOPINAR's financial position, is in part a result of the
accounting practices within CFN and FOPINAR. CFN itself is financially robust with assets
amounting to US$ 642 million and a net worth of US$ 164 million in 1996. Nevertheless,
CFN has continued to charge a disproportionate share of its operating expenses to
FOPINAR as overhead costs ranging between 37% to 75% of FOPINAR's total operating
expenses, with an average of 57% for the period of 1987 to 1995 and 2.98% of its loan
portfolio. Given that FOPINAR had its own staff, these were in excess of the amount
appropriate for an apex financial fund.


﻿8
23.   The excessive overhead charges to FOPINAR provide only a part of the explanation
for FOPINAR's deteriorating condition. After 1992, there was also a sharp increase in
FOPINAR's interest expenses leading to a negative gross financial margin and declining net
worth. During these years, FOPINAR was borrowing money from FOGEN, another CFN
fund, for its on-lending operations at the domestic deposit reference rate, when in fact
FOPINAR had IBRD money available in the Special Account. As these inter-fund loans
were of shorter maturity than the sub-loans they backed, FOPINAR began repaying FOGEN
faster than it was getting repayments from the sub-loans, leading to additional borrowing
and interest costs. Also, FOPINAR was paying FOGEN interest every month while
collecting interest from its sub-loans quarterly and/or semi-annually leading to additional
liqudity shortfalls. Finally, FOPINAR was also legally restricted by the Monetary Board
from investing its short term cash in interest earning assets, thus depriving it of potential
interest income. While these are disconcerting features, it should be noted, however, that
CFN itself remains financially robust and much of the financial losses incurred by FOPINAR
were offset on an accounting basis with corresponding income in other funds managed
within CFN. During ICR discussions, CFN management agreed with the mission on the
inappropriateness of these past policies and outlined an action plan to correct them.
24.   The SAR identified suitable qualitative indicators to monitor project implementation,
disbursements and reporting requirements including SSEs assisted and financed, FOPINAR
administrative and financial key indicators, administrative costs/average portfolio and the
level of overhead costs being charged by CFN. However, the SAR did not establish any
quantitative benchmarks to monitor implementation. Indicators for project impact identified
by the SAR were static indicators - SSEs financed and assisted and number ofjobs created.
The SAR and the project design, however, did not address the need to monitor these
enterprises over time to assess the impact of the assistance being provided and to draw
lessons and feedback for their sub-loan appraisal criteria and methodology. Given that this
was a financial intermediation project, neither an ERR nor an FRR was calculated. A
comprehensive and rigorous impact assessment of the series of SSE loans in Ecuador is
currently underway in the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
25.    The project was affected by a period of significant macroeconomic developments and
changes in economic policy. On the positive side, the economic reforms reduced the
effective rates of protection and market distortions that had earlier benefited large industries,
creating a more level playing field for SSEs. But SSEs also lost access to the subsidized
credit offered through the previous projects. During 1992-96, the high level of liquidity in
the banking system because of the government's stabilization program induced private banks
and financial institutions to use their own resources first, instead of FOPINAR's funds.
Additionally, during 1993-96, the economy experienced very high real interest rates and a
recession in the productive sector undermining overall demand for investment loans. All
these factors acted to slow disbursements and led to an increase in the rate of arrears.
26.    Other factors affecting implementation were within the control management of the
implementing agencies. Internal CFN organizational changes after its restructuring in 1992


﻿9
and reduction in the TA staff eroded institutional capacity and focus on TA programs. The
TA program was also impacted by the cancellation of the IDB funds and this gap was not
addressed. Though the cancellation of funds was not the key constraint to the TA program.
The intermediation program was also impacted by the constraint on the spreads charged by
the PFIs, when there were high real margins in the financial system. This may have denied
SSEs credit as PFIs preferred to lend to the more profitable larger clients. This factor could
have been addressed as part of the project implementation.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   From the point of view of sector policy, there are several factors in this project over
its predecessors that augur well for greater sustainability. In particular, the policy
environment for industrial development is improved with policy initiatives in trade, tax
reform and the financial sector. The project also made significant progress with the
introduction of market determined interest rates, allowing it to overcome the most
significant shortcoming of SSE-III identified by the report of the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) - the considerable foreign exchange losses incurred by the Government.
Nevertheless, the economic and political uncertainty of early 1997 and growing problems in
the financial sector may impact on the sustainability of continued on-lending through PFIs.
28.   Regarding FOPINAR, the OED Audit Report for SSE-IlI commended the level of
institutional development of FOPINAR. FOPINAR has also located additional sources of
financing from the Andean Development Corporation (CAF), KFW, FMO (Netherlands
Financial Cooperation) and potentially IDB which will allow continuation of its operations.
Nevertheless, FOPINAR's negative net worth are worrisome for its financial sustainability.
As part of their response to this ICR, CFN management outlined several measures to
recapitalize FOPINAR and to put in place measures to correct the internal practices that led
to the financial deterioration of FOPINAR. These are outlined in a letter from CFN
management included in Appendix A and include: (i) A decision by CFN's Board to
recapitalize FOPINAR, (ii) A change in the system of allocating overhead costs by the size
of portfolio in each fund, (iii) Adoption of a new policy to ensure better match between the
terms of the sources and uses of each fund, (iv) Establishment of a current account for
FOPINAR to allow it to manage all its financial operations independent of other funds and
to be able to invest its short term liquid cash. These measures go a long way in making
FOPINAR's true costs and income more transparent and facilitate a more appropriate
strategy focusing on the business rationale for each activity undertaken. Nevertheless, the
Bank has urged CFN to continue in greater depth its analysis of FOPINAR's financial
problems. FOPINAR also needs to be more pro-active in the continual monitoring of the
PFIs it works with and ensure compliance with its eligibility criteria with greater stringency.
29.    The TA component of this project financed a substantial number of activities, but did
not meet the country's need for a system of market driven technical assistance. TA
interventions largely formed a series of activities rather than integrated strategy that
identifies the responsible institutions, puts in place a medium term strategy for financing and
identifies goals to be accomplished. As a result, the impact of this component is likely not to
be sustained without significant effort in developing a more market driven, cost recovery


﻿10
strategy and the development of a network of service providers. The Bank has also urged
the Government to invest some efforts in developing a more pro-active and demand driven
system for technical assistance services in Ecuador.
30.   Little information is available on the sustainability of the project impact at the level
of beneficiaries in terms of employment and income creation. FOPINAR maintains a
database on the enterprises assisted and annually supervises a percentage of the enterprises
assisted and gather information on employment, raw material and wages and salaries. But
there is little capacity to analyze this information and it is not designed to allow an analysis
of the impact of the project as it does not monitor specific enterprises over time.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.    Identification and preparation of this project benefited considerably from the
experience gained in previous loans. The Bank provided qualified staff and consultants in
the preparation and appraisal of the project. The Bank team's contributions were
particularly beneficial in the introduction of market based interest rates, the introduction of
enhanced risk management procedures adopted by FOPINAR and the introduction of
greater decentralization of sub-project appraisal and decision making to PFIs. One of the
main appraisal mission accomplishments was to provided FOPINAR with a set of well
designed information system to monitor financial statements and projections, staff analyses
and other managerial matters. The Bank team also helped identify the need for a more
comprehensive set of TA activities focusing on developing the production and marketing
capabilities of SSEs. Macroeconomic risks of reduced loan demand and possible slow pace
of commitments and disbursements were anticipated and stated by the appraisal mission.
32.    The SAR also recognized past problems of apportioning overhead costs between
FOPINAR and CFN and required that these be made explicit and presented to the Bank, but
did not set explicit guidelines or standards for the spread or management fees that CFN
should charge FOPINAR. The SAR was also less effective in identifying a medium term
TA program. The planned TA strategy was largely supply driven interventions,
implemented by a small group within a largely financial intermediation institution, and did
not go far enough in converting CFN into a second tier TA institution. In retrospect, such a
design had few prospects of a very large or fundamental impact. The project was also less
pro-active in the development of institutional capacity for meaningful monitoring and
evaluation systems within FOPINAR. FOPINAR supervision remains limited, with virtually
no analytical or evaluation capacity.
33.   Loan supervision was effective in monitoring project disbursements and in assisting
the Government in developing a dissemination strategy to promote the line of credit.
Supervision was less effective in the following areas:
(a)   In monitoring and providing constructive feedback on FOPINAR's annual
budget and financial statements, in identifying the deterioration of
FOPINAR's financial condition and in the resolution of the excessive charges
of overhead costs by CFN and the inter-fund borrowing practices.


﻿11
(b)   Correcting the reduced institutional capacity for the TA component after the
reorganization of CFN and the cancellation of the IDB funds;
(c)   Reviewing and advising on the appropriateness of the 6% cap on PFI spread.
This may have reduced the demand for the line of credit and undermined the
objective of demonstrating to the PFIs the viability of SE lending.
(d)   In assisting FOPINAR in reviewing continually the financial strength and
capacity of PFIs and their eligibility for participation in the program.
G. BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE
34.   Borrower performance was satisfactory in some aspects of the loan. In particular,
the adoption of the market rate of interest was undertaken a year before the target date. The
Borrower and the Implementing Agency, complied satisfactorily with loan covenants during
project implementation. However, there were some delays in submission on special account
audits, and in presentations of FOPINAR's annual budget, including the charges by CFN for
administrative support. As mentioned above, the most significant shortcoming of the
Implementing Agency was on the financial management policies of FOPINAR.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   Partially Satisfactory. The project has been satisfactory in achieving the objectives of
employment creation and in strengthening capacity for the preparation and appraisal of sub-
loan applications. It also partially achieved its objectives of promoting PFI lending to SSEs,
though arguably it may have been more effective if there had not been a cap on the spreads
charged by PFI as it would have demonstrated more effectively to PFIs that lending to SSEs
can make good business sense and would have led to a more effective integration of SSEs in
the normal operations of financial institutions. Project outcome was not effective in setting
up a sustainable system of delivery of technical assistance to SSEs. It was also not
satisfactory in assuring the financial sustainability of FOPINAR with a clear and transparent
business strategy.
I. OPERATIONAL PLAN
36.   Regarding future plans, CFN has put in place a new internal organization to
strengthen itself as a second tier institution, and to develop new procedures to enhance its
risk management capacities and decentralize even more authority to PFIs. It is also likely to
maintain its focus on the small and micro-enterprise sector and FOPINAR is requesting
financing from other bilateral and multilateral sources. As mentioned above in paragraph 26,
CFN's management has also outlined a series of measures to recapitalize FOPINAR.
CFN's Board has also approved a policy to recapitalize CFN so that its net worth to assets
ratio reached 9% and to put in place measures that allow FOPINAR to manage its own
financial transactions independently and effectively and to allocate CFN's overhead costs
across funds based on the actual size of the portfolio in each fund. When implemented,
these measures will greatly contribute to the sustainability of FOPINAR. The Bank will


﻿12
supervise the implementation of these measures as part of its overall dialogue with CFN
through the complementary Private Sector Development project (Ln. 3609-EC) and
continue dialogue with CFN on any additional measures that may be needed.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
37.   Enhanced risk management control with stringent eligibility criteria for participating
financial institutions are very important to safeguard the health of the portfolio. But the case
of BNF reveals that these need to be monitored continually rather than a one time decision
at project inception.
38.   The principles of transparency and accountability that necessitated the creation of a
separate fund (FOPINAR) for project implementation need to be reiterated continually so
that the rationale is understood well within the Implementing Agency. If such principles are
not followed, there is little justification for the creation of a separate fund with its own
procedures and accounts within the apex agencies.
39.   Bank supervision needed to have been much more effective in monitoring the
financial management and accounting practices within CFN/FOPINAR and taken immediate
steps to raise this issue with the Borrower.
40.    TA interventions should be well articulated, demand driven and lodged in an agency
with a clear mandate for providing TA services rather than lodged in a small department of a
financial institution.
41.   PFIs are often reluctant to lend to SSE because of high perceived costs. Training
and dissemination activities at the level of PFIs are important, as is the demonstration effect
of successful lending to SSEs with repayment rates comparable to the general portfolio. In
SSE-IV these barriers were also overcome by the mobility of staff between FOPINAR and
the private sector.
42.    Caps on margins charged by the PFIs can be counterproductive and may have
discouraged PFI participation in lending to SSE. Margins should be allowed to respond to
market conditions.
43.    A good evaluation system requires more than a monitoring database. Adequate
resources and institutional capacity are needed if it is to provide useful inputs to readjusting
project design.


﻿13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial  Paial  Negliible    Not Aplicable
Macro policies             .x
Sector policies                  x                   El             C3
Financial objectives             x                   El             El
Institutional development                  El                       El
Physical objectives                             El                   x
Poverty reduction                El        El        El              x
Gender issues                              E         El              x
Other social objectives          El        x                        El
Environmental objectives                                             x
Public sector management                   El        El              x
Private sector development       x                   [J l
B. Project Sustainabil.t             Likly           Unlik*1         Uncerain
x               El               E
C. Bank Performance              Hi&hl Satisfactor      Satis&cto1y          Deficient
Identification                       x                   El                 El
Preparation assistance               x                   El                 E
Appraisal                                                x
Supervision                                                                  x
D. Borrower Performance              Hig l        Stfacto          Paialy      D   int
C.  an Pefomace           igySatisfactory           SatisfactorQDfcin
Preparation ass                                     x itn  x
Implementation                     El               El1             x           E]
Covenant compliance                El               x              El           El
Operation                          xl El                            x           El
Highly     Partially     Unsatisfactoiy       Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         Satisfa  Satisfactor Unaiatga
Prepartionl


﻿14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/                                                         Year of
Credit Title                         Purpose                    Approval       Status
Preceding operations:
1879-EC/First SSE Project   Creation of FOPINAR                         06/1980     Closed
222 1-EC/Second SSE Project  FOPINAR consolidation and expansion         12/1982    Closed
2672-EC/Industrial Finance  Hybrid credit line                          10/1986     Closed
Project
2673-EC/Third SSE Project   Expanding Fopinar's institutional capabilities  04/1986  Closed
Following operations:
2897-EC/Financial Sector    Sector Adjustment Loan                      06/1990     Closed
3609-EC/Private Sector      Credit Line for multisectorial purposes     06/1993     In execution
Development Project


﻿15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned               Actual Date
Identification                                                1/11/88
Preparation                                                    10/88
Appraisal                            1/9/89                   1/15/89
Negotiations                        7/10/89               9/11/90-9/15/90
Board Presentation                                            2/1/90
Signing                                                       3/29/90
Effectiveness                       6/29/90                   10/26/90
Midterm Review                        n.a.                      n.a.
Project Completion (2 extns.)       12/31/94                  3/31/96
Loan Closing (1 extn.)              6/30/95                   6/30/96
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY                   90    91    92     93    94    95    96
Appraisal Estimate                  0.5   6.0   13.5  12.5   11.5  6.0    --
Actual                              --    6.7    8.1   7.2   9.9   8.6    9.5
Actual as% ofEstimate                --   112    60    58    86    143    --


﻿16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                       Actual Date Accomplished
1.- Key Operational Indicators
- Loan Disbursements                    Reported Annually (Appendix B, Table
2))
- SSEs Financed                         Reported Annually(Appendix B, Table 2)
- SSE Assisted                          Reported Annually
- Jobs Created                          Reported Annually (Appendix B, Table
2.- Key FOPINAR Indicators
- FOPINAR Selected Ratios               Reported Annually (Appendix B, Tables
16 & 18)
- FOPINAR Loans Arrears                 Reported Annually (Appendix, Table 7)
3.- Reporting Requirements
- FOPINAR Operations                    Reported semi-annually
- Advance reports on TA Activities      Reported semi-annually
- FOPINAR's Audited Financial Statements  Reported annually
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(See Table 5)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study
Preparation of 5 product oriented studies of markets and marketing  not undertaken
procedures.
Preparation of 5 studies of regional investment opportunities.  not undertaken


﻿17
Table 8A: Project Costs
Apprais I Estimat (US$M)       Actual (US$)
Local  Foreign           Local   Foreign
Item              Costs    Costs   Total   Costs    Costs    Total
Investment Projects           33.0     50.0    83.0    64.5     50.0     114.5
Total Project Cost         33.0     50.0    83.0    64.5     50.0    114.5
Technical Assistance Program   1.0     0.6      1.6     0.6      --       0.6
Total Program Costs         1.0     0.6     1.6      0.6      --      0.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         34.0    50.6    84.6     65.1     50.0    115.1
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Actual (USSM)
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
Source          Costs    Costs     Total    Costs     Costs   Total
IBRD & IDB               --       50.6     50.6      --       50.0    50.0
CFN (through Fopinar)   10.0      --       10.0     13.3      --       13.3
Financial Intermediaries  7.0     --        7.0      7.3      --       7.3
SSE Beneficiaries        17.0     --       17.0     44.5      --      44.5
TOTAL                 34.0     50.6      84.6     65.1      50.0    115.1
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.


﻿18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section   Covenant Present  Original  Revised             Description of             Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment          covenant
date       date
Loan        2.02 (b)    I       C       3/29./90              Borrow to open in dollars an account
I _(the Special Account) in Central Bank
2.03                 C      3/29/90               Closing date June 30, 1995        Closing date June
30, 1996
extended
3.01(bXiii) 2       C       3/29/90   8/03/90     CFN to pay interest on principal
amount of subsidiary loan... at a rate
per annum equal to 2/1/2 percentage
points below the rate charged by CFN
to PFls for FOPINAR loans
3.01(bXvi)  5        C      3/29/90               BCE to act as agent of CFN for the
collection of payments.. .and charge a
fee equivalent to one-eighth of one
percent per annum of the principal
amount of each FOPINAR loan.
4.01(c)     1        C      3/29/90               The Borrower should cause BCE to
furnish to the Bank no later than April
30 audit report of the Special Account.
6.03        5        C      3/29/90    10/26/90   Effective Date October 26, 1990.
Schedule I  1        C      3/29/90               Bank resources to finance 85% of the
amounts disbursed under a FOPINAR
loan.
2        C       3/29/90              Payments for expenditures before
03/29/90, but after 12/13/89 not to
exceed US$5 million.
Schedule 2           C      3/29/90   06/95       Completion Date December 31, 1994  Completion date
extended to
December 31,
1995
Schedule 5  1        C      3/29/90               Authorized Allocation of US$2 million
in Special Account.
Project     2.04        5       C       3/29/90               CFN to undertake that subloans shall
be made in accordance with
FOPINAR's Statement of Policy and
Operating Procedures
2.06        5        C      3/29/92               CFN to present for Bank review and
comments proposed annual budget of
FOPINAR no later than November 30
of each year.
2.07        5        C      3/29/90               CFN to strengthen and expand the
powers of its Technical Cooperation
Committee under terms, conditions
and operations and financial condition
of FOPINAR.


﻿19
Agreement    Section   Covenant Present  Original  Revised             Description of             Comments
type    status fulfillment fulfillment           covenant
date       date
2.09(a)     5        C      3/29/90               CFN to furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and
financial conditions of FOPINAR.
3.02(a)     1        C      3/29/90               CFN to furnish to the Bank no later
than April 30, following audit reports:
(i) CFN's Financial Statements, (ii)
FOPINAR accounts including the
Project Account.
3.02(b)     1       C       3/29/90               Audit of SOEs to be included in the
audits referred to in 3.02(a).
Schedule 1  2        C      3/29/90               Subloans to be made for no more than
10 years including a grace period of no
more than 3 years.
2        C       3/29/90              For subloans made after July 1, 1990,  CFN will soon
PFIs to offer a repayment system in  implement
constant amounts in real terms, during indexation
the life of the loan.             mechanism.
2        C       3/29/90              Subloan amount not to exceed 72% of
the Investment Project or US$85,000.
2        C       3/29/90   4/01/91    Free-limit subloan shall not exceed the
amount of US$85,000.
5        C       3/29/90   12/28/94   Commitment End Date June 30, 1994  Commitment End
Date December
31, 1995.
Covenant Types:                                                       Present Status:
1 = Account/audits                                                    C = Covenant
5  = Management aspects of the project or executing agency                 complied
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9                  with


﻿20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
N.A.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                         Revised        Actual
Project Cycle                ___      ______
Week    US$ Week      US$
s
Preparation to Appraisal                        62.2   103.0
Appraisal-Board                                 24.6   47.9
Negotiations through Board Approval             23.0   50.6
Supervision                                     69.9   224.9
Completion                                      14.8    21.2
TOTAL                                          194.5  447.6


﻿21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized     Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/        of        Days in        Staff Skills     tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field        Represented       Status       Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal      6/88           3
10/88
Appraisal through      11/89
Board Approval
Supervision            4/90           1            5           Economist
5/91           1            4           Economist           1              I
6/92           1                        Economist           1              1
9/93           1            7          Fin.Analyst          2              2         Disburs. Lag
3/94           1            11         Fin. Analyst         2              2         Disburs. Lag
1/95           1           13          Fin. Analyst         I              I
11/95          1            6          Fin. Analyst         1              1
Completion (from Res.  na.        n.a.        n.a.          n.a.                  -              -
mission)


﻿22
APPENDIX A: 1. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.-    DATOS GENERALES DEL PROYECTO               BIRF 3162 EC     (CUARTA    LINEA   DE
PEQUEÑA EMPRESA).
Objetivo del proyecto     Fomento de la Pequeña Industria y Artesanía del País.
Prestatario         :     Gobierno del Ecuador.
Organismo Ejecutor        Corporación Financiera Nacional.
Fecha de suscripción
del Contrato de Préstamo:  29 de marzo de 1990
Monto del Préstamo        US $ 50.000.000
Contraparte CFN para
Asistencia Técnica  :     US $ 1.000.000
Plazo para la utilización
del Préstamo              Hasta junio 30 de 1994
- Primera ampliación: Hasta diciemb. 31 de 1995
- Segunda Ampliación:Hasta marzo 31 de 1996
II.- EL PRESTATARIO Y EL ORGANISMO EJECUTOR
a).    Uso de los fondos del Préstamo.
Los recursos del Préstamo BIRF 3162-EC tuvieron utilización efectiva a partir de diciembre
01 de 1990; incluyéndose el desembolso por los subpréstamos que habían sido otorgados a
partir del 29 de marzo de 1990, fecha de la suscripción con Convenio de Préstamo.
En el año 1991, los desembolsos de la CFN a los OFP's con cargo al préstamo, tuvieron un
notable crecimiento respecto al año 1990. La disponibilidad de recursos justificó desplegar
una gran campaña de promoción y capacitación con empresarios y con los OFP's, dando
como resultado una dinamización de la demanda de crédito para financiar la inversiones en
la pequeña industria y artesanía.


﻿23
En el año 1992, los desembolsos en moneda nacional tuvieron un crecimiento de un 44%
respecto al año anterior, crecimiento que no fue suficiente para compensar la elevación del
tipo de cambio que se incrementó en un 47% entre 1991 y 1992, por lo que los desembolsos
en dólares sufrieron una leve caída respecto a 1991. Esta situación se explica por cuanto
1992 fue año de elecciones presidenciales, que en un primer momento generaron
incertidumbre en la inversión y, luego con las medidas de ajuste dictadas por el nuevo
régimen en septiembre de 1992, deprimieron la economía, situación que se mantuvo hasta
fines de 1993.
En el año 1994 representó una reactivación para la economía ecuatoriana, luego del proceso
de ajuste a la que fue sometida durante el último cuatrimestre de 1992 y todo el año 1993;
consecuentemente, las inversiones también se reactivaron y los desembolsos crecieron en un
39% respecto a 1993.
Para 1995 se estimó un crecimiento de un 25% en los desembolsos, respecto a 1994; sin
embargo debido a los efectos del conflicto bélico con el Perú y la crisis energética, decayó el
crecimiento de la economía ecuatoriana del 4,3 % que se registró en 1994, al 2,3 % en
1995. Los desembolsos de la CFN a los OFP decrecieron en un 20% respecto a 1994, en
dólares. La reducción de los desembolsos FOPINAR se atribuye también a que, los niveles
altos de liquidez en el sistema financiero debido a la poca demanda de crédito, obligaron a
los bancos y financieras a colocar crédito en el sector utilizando sus propios recursos y, a no
utilizar recursos del FOPINAR.
Los inconvenientes señalados obligaron a requerir ampliaciones del plazo para la utilización
de los recursos hasta que, finalmente, se cumplió en marzo de 1996, año en el cual se daría
el proceso electoral, con las mismas implicaciones negativas para la inversión y la demanda
de crédito registradas en el año 1992.
b).    Cofinanciamiento del Proyecto.
El Préstamo permitió la realización de inversiones en la pequeña industria y artesanía por un
monto total de US $ 114,5 millones, las que, además del Préstamo fueron financiadas con
recursos del empresario, del OFP y de la CFN en las siguientes proporciones:


﻿24
US $             %
Inversión Total            114.496.044,38       100
Aporte Empresarios          44.530.384,16       39
Aporte del OFP               7.300.808,48       6
Aporte CFN                  12.664.851,74       11
Préstamo BIRF 3162-EC       50.000.000,00       44
c).    Efectos generados por el Proyecto.
La ejecución del proyecto generó innumerables resultados en beneficio del organismo
ejecutor, de los intermediarios financieros, de los beneficiarios finales y del país.
La CFN como entidad ejecutora, consolidó y especializó el mecanismo de crédito
FOPINAR en beneficio de la pequeña industria y artesanía y sentó las bases para que la CFN
establezca esta misma estructura en los demás mecanismos de crédito. Mantuvo su imagen
institucional ante los Organismos Financieros Internacionales, ante los OFP's y ante el sector
empresarial a través de la programación de asistencia técnica.
La Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF) se ha interesado en el Programa y ha ofrecido
un crédito de US $ 40 millones para el FOPINAR. El Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(BID) trasladó al FOPINAR recursos inicialmente administrados por el Banco Central, para
el financiamiento a la microempresa.
Los OFP's tuvieron a disposición recursos para financiar al sector y adquirieron tecnología
de análisis y supervisión de crédito que les permitió controlar el riego.
Los beneficiarios finales del crédito, por intermedio del sistema financiero contaron con
recursos aptos para financiar sus inversiones, en cuanto a plazos, períodos de gracia y
amortización. Contaron también con el apoyo a sus respectivos gremios para la realización
de sus propias actividades de asistencia técnica, investigación y capacitación.
El país en general, con la ejecución del Proyecto tuvo un sostenimiento de su economía,
expresado en el incremento y mejoramiento de las actividades empresariales a nivel de
pequeña industria y artesanía, generación de nuevos empleos, desconcentración del crédito,
etc, que se resumen en el siguiente cuadro.


﻿25
US $ 114.496.044,38
- Crédito otorgado                      US $    69.965.660,22
- Valor agregado                        US $   212.688.707,87
- Numero de operaciones                                5.719
Proyectos nuevos                                 1.333
Proyectos ampliación                             4.386
- Crédito promedio                          US $    12.233,90
- Nuevos puestos de trabajo                           18.422
- Inversión por empleo                          US $ 6.215,18
generado
- Organismos Financieros
Participantes                                          40
- Provincias beneficiadas con el                          20
crédito
Debemos destacar el alto impacto que ha tenido el Proyecto en la generación de empleo a
bajo costo y distribuido en todas las provincias del país, lo cual contribuyó con el control de
la migración a Quito y Guayaquil, ya que a estas ciudades se canalizó únicamente el 31% del
crédito.
El componente de cooperación técnica constituyó un apoyo a la gestión financiera del
Proyecto, mediante las actividades de promoción, capacitación y desarrollo de programas de
mejoramiento en la gestión empresarial.
Con la actividad de supervisión de la CFN se cubrió alrededor del 45 % de las
operaciones de crédito otorgadas con el Préstamo y, permitió reforzar en unos casos y en
otros poner los correctivos a las políticas crediticias del Fondo. La crisis económica de 1995
y1996 afectó significativamente a la situación de los beneficiarios de crédito y deterioró la
cartera de los OFP's, lo cual obligó a la CFN a diseñar con recursos propios, mecanismos de
reestructuración de pasivos y diferimiento de pagos para reactivar la actividad económica.
d).    Relaciones con el Banco Mundial.
Han sido positivas y favorables las relaciones entre el Prestatario, el Organismo Ejecutor y el
Banco Mundial, reforzadas de tiempo en tiempo por las visitas de las misiones de evaluación
que además de identificar los problemas en el desarrollo del proyecto, permitieron reorientar
las actividades del mismo.


﻿26
III. EL ORGANISMO EJECUTOR Y LOS ORGANISMOS FINANCIEROS
PARTICIPANTES.
La participación de 40 organismos financieros en la canalización de los recursos del Préstamo, da la
medida del interés de éstos en el Programa y, de cómo se han manejado las relaciones entre la CFN
y los OFP's. Estas relaciones se han basado en una comunicación transparente, "personalizada" y
cercana, permitiendo agilidad y fluidez en los trámites y entendimiento a pesar de representar
intereses distintos.
Periódicamente se realizaron actualizaciones a la normativa y a los procedimientos del FOPINAR,
para facilitar el acceso de los beneficiarios al crédito y de los organismos financieros al descuento.
-      Descentralización.
En febrero de 1991 se descentralizaron los desembolsos del FOPINAR en las Sucursales y
Agencias de la CFN con cuentas independientes y, en febrero de 1994 se adecuó la
normativa para operar con la modalidad de "cuenta única" en el Banco Central.
-      Procedimientos.
En enero de 1992, se amplió los límites de crédito FOPINAR a 80 millones de sucres (la
Cuarta Línea empezó en diciembre de 1990 con 60 millones de sucres de crédito) y, el límite
de activos fijos para la calificación como sujeto de crédito se amplió a 150 millones de
sucres.
En agosto de 1992, se amplió el crédito FOPINAR a 120 millones de sucres y, el límite de
activos fijos para la calificación como sujeto de crédito se amplió a 250 millones de sucres.
En esta fecha también se eliminaron las restricciones al financiamiento de las actividades de
panificación, plásticos y fabricación de calcetines.
En abril de 1993, se amplió el crédito FOPINAR a 170 millones de sucres y, el límite de
activos fijos para la calificación como sujeto de crédito se amplió a 350 millones de sucres.
En esta fecha también se abrió la posibilidad de participación (con recursos del FMO para la
microempresa) de las cooperativas de ahorro y crédito que están bajo el control de la
Superintendencia de Bancos.
En mayo de 1995, se amplió el crédito FOPINAR a 200 millones de sucres y, el límite de
activos fijos para la calificación como sujeto de crédito se amplió a 420 millones de sucres.
Se abrió el financiamiento FOPINAR en Unidades de Valor Constante (UVC's) y, se amplió
la participación de la cooperativas de ahorro y crédito hasta un monto máximo de crédito de
200 millones de sucres.


﻿27
En enero de 1996, se estableció la Tasa Pasiva Referencia del Banco Central del Ecuador
como tasa base para determinar la tasa de interés del FOPINAR.
c).    Autonomía.
En enero de 1992, se amplió la autonomía de aprobación de crédito FOPINAR de
sucursales y agencias de la CFN y, de los organismos financieros se amplió de 20 a 40
millones de sucres.
En septiembre de 1992, al ampliar la autonomía de aprobación de crédito FOPINAR de
sucursales y agencias de la CFN se amplió también la autonomía de los organismos
financieros de 40 a 60 millones de sucres.
En abril de 1993, se amplió la autonomía de aprobación de crédito FOPINAR de sucursales
y agencias de la CFN y de los organismos financieros se amplió de 60 a 100 millones.
En junio de 1995, al ampliar la autonomía de aprobación de crédito FOPINAR de sucursales
y agencias de la CFN se amplió también la de los organismos financieros de 100 a 200
millones de sucres.
La positiva relación establecida entre la CFN y los OFP's para el manejo de la linea FOPINAR,
favoreció para la implementación del Programa Global de Crédito Multisectorial como mecanismo
de segundo piso a partir de julio de 1993.
IV.    CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES.
Como organismo Ejecutor hemos identificado las siguientes fortalezas y debilidades del Proyecto:
Fortalezas.
-     Durante la vigencia del Proyecto se contó con los fondos suficientes para atender la
demanda de crédito.
-      Adecuadas condiciones de plazo, período de gracia y amortización del Préstamo.
-      Integró el Proyecto componentes de crédito, asistencia técnica y supervisión.
-      Misiones de evaluación del Banco oportunas y beneficiosas para el Proyecto.
-      Adecuadas relaciones entre el Banco, el Prestatario y el Organismo Ejecutor.
-      Adecuadas relaciones entre el Organismo Ejecutor y los Organismos Financieros
Participantes
-      Se aprovechó la capacidad de gestión y recursos de la CFN.
-      El Proyecto formó parte de los planes y programas nacionales de fomento a la pequeña
industria y artesanía.


﻿28
Debilidades.
-      Inadecuado manejo de las finanzas del Fondo (aplicación de costos indirectos, no
capitalización, acumulación de pérdidas), por parte del Organismo Ejecutor.
-      Algunas condiciones no afines con la realidad del estrato de pequeña industria y artesanía del
país (presentación de tres proformas, seguro de bienes financiados). En los sectores
beneficiarios se opina que las altas tasas de interés del crédito aniquilaron a las empresas.
-      La aplicación de la tasa de interés de libre contratación generó problemas en la aplicación y
complicó la operatividad del reajuste.
-      No se dará continuidad al Proyecto con nuevos recursos del Banco Mundial, aunque
permitió que se interesen otros organismos internacionales como la CAF y el BID en el
financiamiento al sector. La pequeña industria y artesanía seguirán requiriendo
financiamiento y, los recursos propios de la CFN no serán suficientes para cubrir la
demanda.
Es recomendable por tanto:
1).    Adecuar el manejo financiero del Fondo por parte del Organismo Ejecutor (capitalización
del Fondo, reestructura de costos y gastos).
2).    Con los recursos de recuperación de las líneas del BIRF, el Organismo Ejecutor pueda
financiar a la pequeña industria y artesanía, con mecanismos que permitan la reactivación y
modernización del sector.
3).    La tasa de interés debe establecerse con base a una tasa referencial única.
4).    Será necesario por algún tiempo mantener mecanismos de reestructuración de pasivos, en
condiciones de plazo y período de gracia adecuados.
5).    Se requiere reforzar las actividades de entrenamiento y actualización para los funcionarios
del Organismo Ejecutor y de los OFP's.
6).    Incursionar en el financiamiento de nuevas actividades a nivel de pequeña empresa, dando el
carácter de multisectorialidad a los fondos.


﻿APPENDIX A:
II. BORROWER'S LETTER WITH ANALYSIS OF
FOPINAR'S FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
OPERATIONAL PLAN


﻿
﻿29
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
08280
Señora Econ.
Jyoti Shukla
Public Sector Modernization and
Private Sector Development
Country Department Ill
Banco Mundial
Washington - USA
De nuestras consideraciones:
Conforme lo solicitado durante su visita de supervisión, adjunto al presente remitimos el
informe de evaluación financiera del Fondo para la Pequeña Industria y Artesanía
"FOPINAR", el cual resume la situación actual del mecanismo, medidas implementadas
y a implementarse por la Administración inmediatamente, así como las proyecciones
financieras del Fondo hasta el año 2001.
Atentamente,
n. Mauric*  ea Ar egui              Ma o A. S   ¡a M  ínez
Gerente de la Divisi n Financiera  Geren   e Con   dad y resupuestos


﻿30
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
Fondo de la Pequeña Industria y Artesanía (FOPINAR)
JL    Antecedentes
Este documento describe los resultados del análisis financiero del Fondo para la Pequeña
Industria y Artesanía (FOPINAR) entre enero de 1991 y agosto de 1996, las medidas
recomendadas e implementadas por el Directorio de la CFN desde octubre de 1996 y las
proyecciones financieras para FOPINAR entre junio de 1997 y diciembre de 2001.
I    Resultados del Análisis del FOPINAR (1991 - agosto /1996)
La evolución de resultados del FOPINAR 1991-agosto 1996 (Anexo 1), revela la
existencia de un margen financiero positivo hasta el año de 1993, año a partir del cual se
toma negativo como resultado del registro creciente del costo financiero interno asumido
por el FOPINAR con el FOGEN (Fondo de Operación General) particularmente desde
1994 como puede observarse en el cuadro que se presenta a continuación:
FOPINAR : Composición Porcentual del Costo Financiero
1991       1992      1993       1994      1995     31.AGT.96
Int. Pgdos. c. Externo  5,959,330  12,436,179  16,025,196  23,562,545  34,513,194  31,273,127
Int. Pgdos. FOGEN  76,457   200,977    227,402   3,082,570  9,412,423  4,700,125
Total            6,035,787  12,637,156  16,252,598  26,645,115  43,925,617  35,973,252
Porcentajes:
Int. Pgdos. C. Externo  98.73%  98.41%  98.60%   88.43%     78.57%    86.93%
Int. Pgdos. FOGEN
Total             100%       100%       100%      100%       100%   -  100%
Durante ese año (1994), la cartera FOPINAR tuvo un incremento neto muy significativo
con respecto a su fuente normal de fondeo (crédito externo) razón por la cual fue
necesario la utilización de recursos del FOGEN como se aprecia en el cuadro que sigue:


﻿31
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
CONCEPTOS                1993               1994             FUENTES             USOS
ACTIVO                        An 221. 71       1ij. 9W.704
Fondos Disponibles             788,966           5,141,185                            4,352,219
Cartera de creditos           48,137,065         97,739,057
Por cobrar FOGEN              6,305,308             0               6,305,308
Otros activos                 4,990,332          8,019,462                            3.029,130
PASIVO
Creditos a favbr de otras Inst.  53,088,712      77,256,743
Por Pagar FOGEN                  0               26,045,228
Otros Pasivos                 5,720,700          11,734,126         6,013,426
PATRIMONIO                    1.412.2B0          l4. 1.3911
Capital Pagado                1,737,503          1,765,828           28,325
Reservas                       598,512            (7,600)                              606,112
Otros aportes Patrim.
Reexpresion Monetaria
Resultados                    (923,755)          (5,894,622)                          4,970,867
La utilización de estos recursos incrementó significativamente el costo financiero para el
FOPINAR de SI. 227 millones en 1993 a S/. 3.082 millones en 1994 incidiendo
directamente en la pérdida de S/. 5.894 millones, la más alta del período (1991-agosto
1996), conforme información contable disponible.
Desde 1994, el FOPINAR ha requerido un monto significativo de recursos FOGEN, SI.
16.330 millones al cierre de 1995 y SI. 19.423 millones al 31 de agosto de 1996, aunque
la cartera de créditos no ha crecido al mismo nivel, lo cual sugiere que sumas importantes
de los recursos provenientes del fondeo del FOPINAR se canalizan al pago de las
obligaciones con el FOGEN y/o a cubrir las pérdidas patrimoniales, como lo demuestra el
siguiente cuadro:
FOPINAR: incremento Neto Fondeo y Colocación de Recursos
<~.nm fmm    -~ FOP:N:                1992         193         1994         1995        31.AGT.9
Colocación:
Cuentas por Cobrar FOGEN                    0         6,305,308       0            0             0
Cartera de creditos                     14,122,170   12,561,895   49,601,992    8,770,664    5,844,989
Fondeo:
Creditos a favor de otras Inst.         13,837,164   17,460,738   24,168,031   17,127,270    14,845,085
Cuentas por Pagar FOGEN                  331,594         0        26,045,228   (9,714,615)   3,093,346
2


﻿32
CI3N              CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
Lo anterior se evidencia más claramente cuando se examina la composición de los
recursos captados del FOGEN por parte del FOPINAR:
Movimiento de la Cuenta por Pagar al FOGEN (Millones de S/.)
Saldo  Desembolsos Gtos. y Costo  Monto          Saldo   Intereses
Período   Inicial  FOPINAR    Financiero Adeudado Amortiz.  Final   Pagados
Ene-Jun. 1994  0       23,169      3,637    26,806   20,654    6,152    488
Jul-Dic. 1994  6,152   31,882      7,739    45,773   19,728   26,045    2,595
Ene-Jun. 1995  26,045  13,226      6,612    45,884   29,018   16,866    5,075
Jul-Dic. 1995  16,866   18,337     12,681   47,884   31,553   16,331    4,337
Ene-Agt. 1996  16,331  19,453     28,163    63,947   44,523   19,424    4,700
Como se observa, los desembolsos FOPINAR efectuados con recursos del FOGEN
representan cada vez un porcentaje menor del total adeudado, notándose lo contrario
respecto a la evolución del gasto y costo financiero. Esto significa que los recursos del
FOGEN se invierten cada vez menos en activos productivos (cartera especialmente).
Asimismo, es notorio que la totalidad de los recursos FOGEN convertidos en cartera
FOPINAR a plazos de entre 3 y 10 años es amortizado (repagado al FOGEN)
inmediatamente lo cual conlleva dos claras implicaciones:
1.    El fondeo del FOPINAR a través del FOGEN es un fondeo de corto plazo que se
utiliza en montos significativos para otorgar crédito a mediano y largo plazo. Entre
el 63% y el 70% de los recursos generados y captados por el FOPINAR se
transfieren al FOGEN como resultado de la amortización acelerada de las
obligaciones con dicha fuente de financiamiento, conforme el siguiente cuadro:
(1)          (2)     (3=1+2)       (4)        (4/3)
Recuperaciones  Crédito    Total    Amortización    %
Periodo     FOPINAR      Externo    Fondeo      FOGEN
Ene-Jun. 1994   16,245      14,619     30,863      20,654     66.9%
Jul-Dic. 1994  22,248       9,053      31,301      19,728     63.0%
Ene-Jun. 1995  31,571       11,552     43,123      29,018     67.3%
Jui-Dic. 1995  38,428       6,457     44,884       31,553     70.3%
Ene-Agt. 1996  54,200       13,341     67,541      44,523     65.9%
3


﻿33
CORPORA CION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUT - ECUADOR
2.      La   amortización     acelerada    de   este   fondeo    produce     un  gravísimo     descalce
("mismatch") de corto plazo con implicaciones en la liquidez y rentabilidad del
FOPINAR.
(1>           (2)          (3=1+2)          (4)           (3-4)
Recuper.       Crédito         Total        Amortiz.      Recursos     Desembolsos
Periodo        FOPINAR        Externo        Fondeo        FOGEN        Disponibles       ¡Fis         Déficit
Ene-Jun. 1994      16,245        14,619         30,863        20,654         10,210         26,303        (16,094)
Jui-Dic. 1994     22,248         9,053         31,301         19,728        11,573         32,678        (21,104)
Ene-Jun. 1995      31,571         11,552        43,123        29,018         14,105         18,888        (4,783)
Jul-Dic. 1995     38,428         6,457         44,884         31,553        13,331         27,007        (13,676)
Ene-Agt. 1996      54,200        13,341         67,541        44,523         23,018         27,972       (4,955)
En nuestra opinión, estas dos situaciones explican en gran medida el deterioro financiero
presentado en los balances del FOPINAR particularmente desde 1994, el cual se
visualiza mejor si observamos la reducción paulatina del spread generado por el
mecanismo y el estado de fuentes y usos que se presenta a continuación:
Evolución del Spread del FOPINAR
1q1          1992         1993          1994          1Q9       I1AflT.9
INTERESES GANADOS           7,289,881     14,256,168   17,941,147   23,877,447    43,661,927     34,492,268
Cartera de creditos         21,453,000   35,575,170    48,137,065   97,739,057    106,509,721   112,354.710
V. D. FOGEN                  323,732          0         6,305,308        0            0              0
INTERESES PAGADOS           6,035,787     12,637,156   16,252,598   26,645,115    43,925,617    67,246,380
Creditos a favor de otras Inst.  21,790,810  35,627,974  53,088,712  77,256,743   94,384,013-   109,229,099
V.A. FOGEN                      0          331,594         0         26,045,228   16,330,613     19,423,959
Spread                        5.78%         4.93%        2.34%        -1.36%         1.32%        -21.57%
4


﻿34
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUTO - ECUADOR
EVOLUCION FOPINAR 1991- AGT. 1996
CONCEPTOS         FUENTES SI.  %      USOS Si.    %
ACTIVO                      0.7%               85.3%
Fondos Disponibles   562,547   0.5%
Cartera de creditos                    90,901,710  76.6%
Por cobrar FOGEN     323,732   0.3%
Otros activos                        10,306,771  8.7%
PASIVO                     96.5%
Creditos a favor de otras inst.  87,438,289  73.7%
Por Pagar FOGEN     19,100,087  16.1%
Otros Pasivos      8,058,128  6.8%
PATRIMONIO                   2.7%                14.7%
Capital Pagado     1,665,828  1.4%
Reservas                            13,228,618  11.1%
Otros aportes Patrim.                   450,000    0.4%
Reexpresion Monetaria  1,561,961  1.3%
Resultados                           3,823,473  3.2%
TOTALES SI.       118,710,571        118,710,572
Con relación al período 1991 a 1993 (tramo anterior a la utilización agresiva de recursos
del FOGEN), el FOPINAR mantuvo un margen financiero creciente y suficiente que
lamentablemente es afectado por la aplicación del costo indirecto en base de encuestas
(método que a juicio de la Gerencia de Control Financiero no fue el más adecuado) al igual
que por la inclusión de un componente contable como lo es la reexpresión monetaria,
factores que producen las pérdidas reportadas en el estado de resultados.
Finalmente, de acuerdo a conversaciones mantenidas con funcionarios de la unidad de
Contabilidad, los desembolsos atendidos con recursos del FOGEN por cuenta del
FOPINAR se registran en el balance del FOPINAR como un monto por pagar al FOGEN
y viceversa. Los registros en cuestión incluyen desembolsos y recuperaciones de cartera
FOPINAR, transferencias de recursos entre fondos, registro de gastos y costos indirectos,
y una liquidación mensual de intereses sobre los saldos adeudados al FOGEN. Al final de
cada mes, se realiza un neteo contable entre los saldos por cobrar y pagar de los Fondos
lo cual origina, en nuestra opinión, una amortización acelerada de los recursos FOGEN
utilizados por FOPINAR en el período, para conceder crédito a mediano y largo plazo.
5


﻿35
CiN            CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUT0 - ECUADOR
1L   Conclusiones
En base a lo mencionado anteriormente, concluimos que durante la administración de las
operaciones del FOPINAR se ha ignorado la relación fundamental entre fondeo y
colocación de recursos. Esto ha producido el deterioro paulatino del margen financiero y
la necesidad creciente de recursos FOGEN por parte del FOPINAR alcanzándose el punto
donde los recursos captados cada vez en menor porcentaje se destinan a activos
productivos (cartera de crédito).
El margen financiero por la tasa de interés de fondeo y colocación de fondos, debería ser
siempre positivo. Sin embargo, las distorciones causadas por la amortización acelerada
de las obligaciones con el FOGEN ( resultado del descalce mencionado anteriormente)
y la iliquidez que esto produce, obligan al FOPINAR a demandar en forma creciente
nuevos recursos del FOGEN generando un costo financiero elevado que impide la
generación de un margen suficiente para cubrir otros costos incurridos por el FOPINAR
(gastos de personal, operación, costo indirecto, etc). El "spread" de este Fondo ha sido
afectado también por la imposibilidad legal de invertir temporalmente los excedentes de
liquidez en el sistema financiero nacional a fin de atenuar el costo financiero.
Otro factor que ha originado las pérdidas del Fopinar es el elevado costo de operación que
incluye en su mayor parte la asistencia técnica que se otorga a través de capacitación a
microempresarios y personal, equipamiento de talleres, y asistencia para realización de
ferias dirigidas a los pequeños empresarios, estos egresos se realizaron para cumplir la
contraparte local del préstamo BIRF-3162 y alcanzaron 63.9 millones en 1992, 222.3
millones en 1993, 424.2 millones en 1994, 655.7 millones en 1995 y 97 millones hasta
agosto de 1996. L.a asistencia técnica otorgada representa en promedio un 63% del total
de gastos de operación desde 1991.
Las provisiones de cartera también incrementan las pérdidas en los años 1995 y lo que
va de 1996, por S/. 2.142.8 y SI. 597.8 millones respectivamente. Estas provisiones no
estuvieror consideradas en el margen pactado en el préstamo BIRF 3162.
IZ   Medidas Implementadas
Luego de conocido el resultado del presente análisis, el Directorio de la Institución en
sesión del 15 de octubre de 1996, resolvió implementar lo siguiente:
6


﻿36
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
1)   Proceder a la capitalización del Fopinar hasta alcanzar una relación Patrimonio a
Activo Total del 9%.
Acorde con lo dispuesto en la Ley General de Instituciones Financieras; y, en
concordancia con el articulo 36, literal a), de la Ley de la Corporación Financiera
Nacional que dice: "Los recursos del Fondo se constituyen: Con el aporte de la
Corporación de Cincuenta millones de sucres y con los aportes que en adelante
ordene su Directorio;..."; se sugiere la aplicación de las siguientes medidas:
A la fecha, ya se han capitalizado las acreencias registradas con el FOGEN al 31
de agosto de 1996 por S/. 19.423.9 millones. La diferencia hasta alcanzar la
relación porcentual mencionada al inicio, se efectuará en efectivo con recursos de
la nueva desinversión de la participación accionaria de la CFN,
2)   Implementar el costeo por actividades a fin de reflejar más adecuadamente los
costos y gastos involucrados en el FOPINAR.
3)   Adoptar el mecanismo más idóneo para realizar el "matching" correspondiente
entre el fondeo adicional que requiera a futuro el FOPINAR y la concesión de
crédito a mediano y largo plazo lo cual contribuirá a proteger el spread entre
ingresos por activos financieros y deuda contratada.
4)   Concentrar los recursos del FOPINAR en una cuenta corriente en el Banco Central
con el propósito de administrar separadamente todas las operaciones que este
mecanismo genere. El objetivo central de esta medida es tener una cuenta de giro
para las operaciones del Fondo y evitar costos financieros por el uso de la cuenta
corriente del FOGEN la cual permite ejecutar todas las operaciones que necesita
realizar FOPINAR. La apertura de esta cuenta está para aprobación de la oficina
del Banco Mundial en Ecuador.
5)   Insistir a la Junta Monetaria la autorización para invertir temporalmente en el
sistema financiero los excedentes de liquidez que el FOPINAR mantenga en cuenta
corriente, en base a lo estipulado en los contratos de préstamo FOPINAR suscritos
por el Estado Ecuatoriano, en cuyas partes pertinentes se autoriza a la CFN a
"administrar los flujos de fondos y los recursos de la Cuenta del Proyecto a fin de
acrecentar al máximo la rentabilidad financiera neta de FOPINAR."
BIRF 1879- EC  Artículo 1II, sección 3.02, literal v), acápite C).
BIRF 2221-EC   Artículo III, literal vi).
BIRF 3162-EC   Artículo II, sección 2.08, literal b).
7


﻿37
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUTO - ECUADOR
Mediante Resolución JM-0092-97 97 00401 de enero 21 de 1997, la Junta
Monetaria, luego de varios requerimientos realizados desde 1990, autorizó
finalmente a la CFN a realizar inversiones temporales en sucres o en dólares hasta
por un monto de S/. 120.000 millones. Esta decisión permitirá mejorar el margen
financiero de la CFN y del FOPINAR.
V.   Medidas Colaterales
En forma adicional a lo anterior, el Directorio aprobó una nueva metodología para la
fijación de las tasas de interés de las operaciones de crédito de la CFN, la misma que
busca costear adecuadamente los distintos Programas de Crédito actualmente en
ejecución. Asimismo, el Directorio aprobó la Norma Operativa que regula la inversión
temporal de los excedentes de liquidez de la CFN e incorpora los criterios básicos de
liquidez, seguridad y rentabilidad en las operaciones.
Vi.  Situación Actual de las Medidas Aprobadas por Directorio
A la fecha se encuentran en proceso de implementación las siguientes acciones:
1.-  Aporte de recursos frescos al FOPINAR. Hasta la primera mitad de 1997, la CFN
no ha realizado una nueva desinversión de su participación accionaria, lo cual ha
retrasado el aporte en efectivo al Fondo. Sinembargo, desde el 17 de octubre de
1996, la CFN implementó una línea de financiamiento denominada "FOPINAR
Recursos Propios" que produce una capitalización del mecanismo, pues las
operaciones de crédito son financiadas con recursos disponibles del FOGEN
(Fondo de Operación General), eliminándose paralelamente el costo financiero
interno que deteriora la situación del FOPINAR. La administración solicitará al
Directorio formalizar la capitalización del FOPINAR por el valor de las operaciones
desembolsadas bajo la línea "FOPINAR Recursos Propios" pues la d'sinversión
de la participación accionaria tomaría algunos meses más.
2.-  Implementar el costeo por actividades a fin de reflejar más adecuadamente los
costos y gastos involucrados en el FOPINAR. La CFN mantiene entre sus
objetivos de corto plazo realizar el costeo no sólo de las actividades del FOPINAR
sino de las relacionadas con sus otros Programas. El principal elemento que ha
demorado el estudio para la implementación de esta acción ha sido el proceso de
reestructura institucional, el cual fue aprobado finalmente por Directorio en el mes
de abril de 1997.
8


﻿38
CNNI           CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUTO - ECUADOR
3.-  El manejo contable-financiero no ha sido solucionado completamente puesto que
falta la aprobación de la norma que reglamente los términos del financiamiento del
FOGEN al FOPINAR para resolver el problema de fondo que es el descalce actual
entre activos y pasivos, lo cual permitirá al Fondo recuperar paulatinamente su
liquidez y proteger el margen financiero. Este retraso ha incidido en el desempeño
del FOPINAR durante 1997.
Al momento, han entrado en vigencia disposiciones internas sobre el manejo de
la liquidez del FOPINAR, el cobro de intereses innecesarios y reexpresión
molhetaria que tienen un efecto positivo en el futuro del Fondo.
No obstante lo anterior, las proyecciones indican que luego de la capitalización en
efectivo del FOPINAR, el mecanismo autofinanciará sus operaciones, no siendo
necesario por lo tanto, el financiamiento del FOGEN al FOPINAR.
YL Proyecciones Financieras Mayo 1997 a Diciembre 2001
En Anexo 2 se presentan los siguientes cuadros:
1.   Flujo de Caja Comparativo junio 1997 a diciembre 2001.
2.   Estado de Resultados mayo 1997 a diciembre 2001.
3.   Balance General proyectado mayo 1997 a diciembre 2001.
4.   Supuestos utilizados para efectuar las proyecciones financieras.
Aspectos relevantes de las proyecciones efectuadas son los siguientes:
1.   La generación de flujos positivos y el autofinanciamiento del mecanismo hasta
diciembre de 1997. A partir de 1998 se espera un incremento importante de la
demanda de crédito, lo cual obligaría a la CFN a buscar los recursos necesarios
para atender operaciones.
2.   La generación de utilidades a partir de noviembre de 1997. Es necesario resaltar
que las pérdidas contables reflejadas entre mayo y octubre de 1997 se explican
por la presencia de las provisiones de cartera que representan más del doble de
la cartera vencida.
3.   El fortalecimiento patrimonial del FOPINAR resultado de la capitalización en
efectivo y de la generación de utilidades.
9


﻿39
CPN              . CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
Anexo 1
ESTADO DE SITUACION FOPINAR
En miles de sucres
CONCEPTOS                     1991         1992         1993          1994         1995       31-08-96
ACTIVO                       26.767,219  44.081.846    60.221.671   110.899.704  118.084.313  127.089 421
Fondos Disponibles           2,381,795    3.158,920      788.966      5.141,185   1.142.555    1 819.248
Cartera de creditos         21.453,000   35,575,170    48,137.065    97,739,057  106,509 721  112 354 710
Por cobrar FOGEN               323.732           0      6.305.308            0           0            0
Otros activos                2.608.692    5.347.756     4.990.332     8,019.462  10432.037    12.915 463
PASIVO                      25.029,717   42,316,017    58.809.412   115.036,097  126.910.887  139 626.221
Creditos a favor de otras Inst.  21.790,810  35,627.974  53,088,712  77,256.743  94 384.013  109.229.099
Por Pagar FOGEN                     0      331.594             0     26.045.228  16.330.613   19 423959
Otros Pasivos                 3,238.907   6.356.449     5.720,700    11.734,126  16.196.261   10.973 163
PATRIMONIO                    1,737.502   1.765,830     1,412.260    (4.136,393)  (8.826.574)  (12.536.800)
Capital Pagado                 100.000    1,737.503     1,737.503     1.765.828   1,765.828    1 765.828
Reservas                      1.074.254   1.110.264      598,512         (7.600)  (6.828.256)  (12 154 364j
Otros aportes Patnm.           450.000
Reexpresion Monetaria                                                               926.035    1 561 962
Resultados                     113,248   (1.081.937)     (923,755)   (5,694.622)  (4.690.181)  (3 710 225)
EVOLUCION DE LOS RESULTADOS DEL FOPINAR
En miles de sucres
CONCEPTOS              1991         1992         1993          1994         1995       31-08-96
INTERESES GANADOS            7,289,881   14,256.168    16.907,625    23.877.447  43.661.927   34 492 268
INTERESES PAGADOS            5.959,330   12,436.179    16.025.196    23,562.545  34.513.194   31 273 127
COSTO FINANCIERO INTERN         76,457     200,977       (806,120)    3,082.570   9.412.423    4 700.125
INTERESES NETO               1,254.094    1,619,012     1,688.549    (2.767.668)   (263.690)  (1 480 984)
COMISIONES PAGADAS             137.293     212.079       133.615       165.845      115 226       71 230
MARGEN FINANCIERO             1.116.801   1.406,933     1,554.934    (2,933.513)   (378.916)  (1.552.214)
OTROS INGRESOS (EGRESOS        125.715      14,014        90,916       508,904      135.964     (385 642)
GASTOS DE PERSONAL             238.587     379.355       436.089       483.137      584.094      395.933
GASTOS DE OPERACION             46,474     103.192       280,000       535,143     818.781       218 587
COSTO INDIRECTO                844.207     910.073      1.283.330     1.975,596    901.545       560 000
REEXPRESION MONETARIA                     1.110,264      570,186       476,137
PROVISIONES                                                                       2.142.809      597 849
RESULTADO DEL EJERCICIO        113.248   (1.081.937)     (923,755)   (5.894,622)  (4.690.1811  (3 710.225)
Según instrucciones de la Superintendencia de Bancos la Reexpresión Monetaria a partir del año 1995 se afectó
directamente al Capital por la suma de SI. 926.035 miles.


﻿ANEXO 2
FLUJO DE CAJA COMPARATIVO
FOPINAR
(millones de sucres)
JUN 1997  JUL 1997   AGO 1997  SEP 1997  OCT 1997  NOV 1997   DIC 1997        1998      1999       2000       2001
INGRESOS
Recuperación de cartera                 4,566.3    3,882.6   3,854.1   3,792.0   4.241.6    4,424.0   3,998.6  35,826.5   20,745.3   11,620.4   6,588.1
Recuperación de cartera Nuevos Préstamos                                                                       10,140.7   29,170.7   51,178.5  75,679.2
Utilización Crédito externo                                                                                                          75,000.0  45,000.0
Capitalización y Emisión de Obligaciones          12,000.0   1,500.0   3,500.0 (1)                             55,000.0   75,000.0 |(2)
Ingresos por intereses                  3,084.4    2.722.4   2.416.0   2,417.9    2,814.7   2,964.2   2.583.2   21,844.8  11,977.3   6,289.2    3,024.8
Ingresos por intereses Nuevos Préstamos                                                                         14,298.3  32.087.8   46.060.6  68,111.3
TOTAL DE INGRESOS                       7,650.7   18,605.1   7,770.0   9,709.9    7,056.3   7,388.2   6,581.7  137,110.2  168,981.0  190,148.7  198,403.4
EGRESOS
Desembolsos                             7,243.3    7,243.3   7,243.3   7,243.3   7,243.3    7.243.3   7,243.3  95,150.2  110,038.8  122,503.7  134,786.3
Servicio deuda externa (Capital)                   4,183.8               258.1     421.9                        9,727.4   16,324.0   16,198.1  16,072.2
Servicio deuda externa (Intereses)                11,415.5               580.6   1,101.9                       24,526.9   27,963.3   23,682.1  19,424.0
Servicio deuda externa (Comisiones)                   0.3                                                           0.5       0.4        0.2       0.1
Servicio deuda externa (Capital) Nuevos                                                                                                            0.0
Servicio deuda externa (intereses) Nuevos                                                                                                       7.027.5
Servicio deuda externa (Comisiones) Nuevos
Gastos de Personal                         71.4      71.4      71.4      71.4       71.4      71.4      71.4    1,000.0    1,201.9   1,382.2    1,589.6
Gastos de Operación                        24.7      24.7      24.7      24.7       24.7      24.7      24.7      345.5     414.6      476.8     548.3
Servicio Deuda Interna (Capital)                     70.0      70.0      70.0       70.0      70.0      70.0    1,000.0    1,200.0   1,460.0    1,750.0
Servicio Deuda Interna (Intereses)                                                                                        10,450.0   19,500.0  19.500.0
TOTAL DE EGRESOS                        7,339.4   23,008.9   7,409.4   8.248.0   8,933.2    7,409.4   7,409.4  131,750.4  167,592.9  185,203.1  200,698.0
FLUJO INICIAL                           5,202.0   5,513.3    1.109.4   1,470.1   2,931.9    1,055.1   1,033.9    206.2    5,566.0    6,954.1   11.899.8
AUMENTO (DISMINUCION) FONDOS              311.3  (4,403.9)    360.6    1,461.9  (1,876.9)    (21.2)   (827.7)   5,359.8   1,388.1    4,945.7   (2,294.6)
FLUJO FINAL                             5,513.3    1,109.4   1,470.1   2,931.9   1,055.1    1,033.9    206.2    5,566.0   6,954.1   11.899.8    9,605.2
(1) Capitalización
(2) Las obligaciones se emitirán a cuatro af5os plazo y con pago de principal al vencimiento


﻿ANEXO 2
ESTADO DE RESULTADOS
FOPINAR
(millones de sucres)
MAY 1997  JUN 1997  JUL 1997  AGO 1997  SEP 1997   OCT 1997  NOV 1997  DIC 1997        1998     1999       2000      2001
Intereses Ganados                  15,625.7  18,352.4  19,870.5  21,378.5  24,331.7  27,754.9  31,511.1  34,325.0  35.349.5  48,080.2  55,819.0  77,684.1
Intereses Pagados                 13.763.0  16,870.0  18,977.7   21,085.4  23,193.1  25.300.8  27,408.4  29.516.1  26,462.0  23,299.3  21,560.2  32,401.9
Costo Financiero Interno y Obligaciones (3  1,070.0  0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   10,450.0  19,500.0  19,500.0
Interes neto                         792.6   1.482.3     892.8     293.1    1.138.6   2,454.1   4,102.6   4,808.8   8.887.5  14,330.9  14,758.8  25,782.2
Comisiones Pagadas                     2.9       2.9       3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2       0.5       0.4        0.2       0.1
MARGEN FINANCIERO                    789.8   1.479.5     889.6     289.9    1.135.4   2,450.9   4,099.4   4,805.6   8,887.0  14,330.6  14,758.6  25,782.1
Otros ingresos (egresos)             141.1     141.1     141.1     141.1     141.1     141.1     141.1      141.1      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Gastos de Personal                   297.3     368.7     440.1     511.4     582.8     654.1     725.5     796.9    1,000.0   1,201.9   1,382.2   1,589.6
Gastos de Operación                  102.8     127.5     152.2     176.9     201.5     226.2     250.9     275.6     345.5      414.6     476.8     548.3
Costo Indirecto                      350.0     420.0     490.0     560.0     630.0     700.0     770.0     840.0    1,008.0   1,209.6   1,451.5   1,741.8
Provisiones de cartera (4)         1,535.8   1,535.8   1,535.8    1,535.8   1,535.8   1,535.8   1,535.8   1,535.8   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0
RESULTADO DEL EJERCICIO           (1,355.1)   (831.4)  (1,587.3)  (2,353.1)  (1,673.6)  (524.2)  958.3    1,498.5   5,033.6  10,004.4   9,948.1  20,402.4
(3) En junio de 1997 se revertirán los intereses intemos registrados por considerar la capitalización de acreencias al Fogen. Desde 1999 se pagan intereses por emisión de obligaciones.
(4) Las provisiones de cartera a mayo de 1997 representan más del doble de la cartera vencida.
GERENCIA DE CONTABILIDAD Y PRESUPUESTOS


﻿ANEXO 2
BALANCE GENERAL
FOPINAR
(millones de sucres)
MAY 1997  JUN 1997  JUL 1997  AGO 1997  SEP 1997  OCT 1997  NOV 1997  DIC 1997       1998     1999       2000       2001
ACTIVO
Fondos disponibles                5.202.0   5,513.3   1,109.4   1,470.1   2,931.9   1.055.1   1,033.9    206.2   5,566.0   6,954.1   11,899.8   9,605.2
Cartera de creditos             135,383.6  138,060.6  141,421.3  144,810.6  148,262.0  151,263.7  154,083.0  157,327.8  205,010.8  263.633.6  321.838.4  372,857.3
Otros activos                     9,956.0   9,598.3   8,394.0   7,486.0   8.021.2   8,629.7   9,421.8  9,652.5   8,858.9  12,874.1   16,343.2  22.891.3
Total de activos                 150,541.5  153,172.2  150,924.7  153,766.7  159,215.1  160,948.5  164,538.7  167,186.5  219,435.7  283.461.8  350,081.4  405,353.8
PASIVO
Creditos a favor de otras Inst.  106,591.6  106,591.6  102,407.9  102,407.9  102,149.8  105,627.9  105,627.9  105,627.9  97,300.5  78,476.6  137,278.5  166,206.2
Préstamos FOGEN y obligaciones   28,596.6      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  55,008.0  130,017.6  130,009.2  130,001.0
Otros Pasivos                     14,942.5  16,979.5  7,671.7   9,779.4  11,306.5   8,412.3  10,520.0  12,627.7  13,162.7  10,998.7   8,876.8  14,827.2
Total Pasivos                   150,130.8  123,571.2  110,079.6  112,187.3  113,456.3  114,040.2  116.147.9  118,255.6  165,471.3  219,492.9  276,164.4  311,034.4
PATRIMONIO
Capital Pagado (5)                1,765.8  30,432.4  42,432.4  43,932.4  47,432.4  47,432.4  47,432.4  47,432.4  47.432.4  47,432.4  47,432.4  47,432.4
Reservas                            273.6   1,034.4   2,095.2   3,193.5   4,379.3   5,565.1  6,750.9   7,936.7  19,889.7  28,901.9   36.016.7  43,131.6
Reexpresion Monetaria              (273.6)  (1,034.4)  (2,095.2)  (3,193.5)  (4,379.3)  (5,565.1)  (6.750.9)  (7.936.7)  (19,889.7) (28,901.9)  (36,016.7)  (43,131.6)
Resultado ejercicio anterior                                                                                     1,498.5   6,532,0   16,536.5  26,484.5
Resultados                        (1.355.1)  (831.4)  (1,587.3)  (2,353.1)  (1,673.6)  (524.2)  958.3  1,498.5   5,033.6  10,004.4    9.948.1  20,402.4
Total Patrimonio                    410.7  29,601.0  40,845.1  41,579.4  45,758.8  46,908.3  48,390.8  48,930.9  53,964.5  63,968.9  73,917.0  94,319.4
Total Pasivo y Patrimonio       150,541.5  153,172.2  150,924.8  153,766.7  159,215.1  160,948.5  164,538.7  167,186.5  219,435.7  283,461.8  350,081.4  405,353.8
(5) El incremento de capital responde a la capitalización de las acreencias al Fogen y aportes registrados en 1997 en el flujo de caja.
GERENCIA DE CONTABILIDAD Y PRESUPUESTOS


﻿ANEXO 2
1998      1999       2000       2001
INFLACION                                                                                                         25.2%     19.0%      15.0%     15.0%
COTIZACION DEL DOLAR AL FINAL                                                                                   5,174.4    6,054.0   6,841.1    7,730.4
COTIZACION DEL DOLAR PROMEDIO                                                                                   4,687.2    5,614.2   6,447 6    7,285.7
DEVALUACION                                                                                                       23.2%     17.0%      13.0%      13.0%
1997      1998      1999       2000      2001
DEMANDA                                194,340 0  257,796.0  368,854.5  479,698.5  612,094.3
DESEMBOLSOS PROY, PLANEACION           50,703.3   95,150.2  110,038.8  122,503.7  134,786.3
INFLACION                                 32.0%     25.2%     19.0%      15.0%     15.0%
TASA LIBOR                                 6.0%      6.1%      6.3%       6.5%      6.6%
c TASA BASICA                                24.0%     23.0%     23.0%      19.0%     19.0%
TASA ACTIVA FOPINAR                       35.0%     28.2%     22.0%      18.0%     18.0%
TASA PASIVA obligaciones                  32.0%     25.2%     19.0%      15.0%     15.0%
TASA PASIVA CREDITO EXTERNO NUEVO    LIBOR MAS 2.75
GERENCIA DE CONTABILIDAD Y PRESUPUESTOS


﻿44
~,~'IJCO RPOR FAEDCON4 FINANI41ERA NJADCONAL
EVOLUCION DE LOS RESULTADOS DEL FOPINAR
en miles de sucres
CONCEPTOS              1991         1992         1993        1994         1995          1996
INTERESES GANADOS           7,289,881   14,256,168   16,907,625   23,877,447   43,661,927   51,623,805
INTERESES PAGADOS           5,959,330   12,436,179   16,025,196   23,562,545   34,513,194   44,170,663
INTERESES NETO              1,254,094    1,619,012    1,688,549   (2,767,668)  (263,690)     2,034,093
COMISIONES PAGADAS           137,293     212,079       133,615     165,845      115,226       73,904
MARGEN FINANCIERO           1,116,801    1,406,933    1,554,934   (2,933,513)  (378,916)     1,960,189
OTROS INGRESOS (EGRESO      125,715       14,014       90,916      508,904      134,092       84,831
GASTOS DE PERSONAL          238,587      379,355      436,089      483,137      584,094      639,922
GASTOS DE OPERACION          46,474      103,192      280,000      535,143      8118,781     271,291
COSTO INDIRECTO             844,207      910,073      1,283,330    1,975,596    901,545      810,213
REEXPRESION MONETARIA                    1,110,264    570,186      476,137
PROVISIONES                                                                    2,140,937     758,149
Nota: Según instrucciones de la Superintendencia de Bancos la Reexpresión Monetaria a partir del año 1995 se afectó
directamente al Capital por la suma de S/. 926.035 miles.


﻿45                       A K    í-V U
C. F. N.
CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Juan León Mora 130 y Av. Patria  QUITO  ECUADOR  Apartado Postal: 17.21-01924
Conm. Troncal: 564-900                      FAX: 562-519
Télex: 2193 - 2444                         Cable: Corfinal
17 de octubre de 1996
Señora Ingeniera
Constanza Calderón Acosta
Gerente General
Corporación Financiera Nacional
Presente.-
Señora Gerente General:
Cúmpleme comunicar a usted que el Directorio de la Entidad, en sesión de 15 de
octubre de 1996, aprobó las Normas Operativas y Procedimientos del Fondo de
Fomento de la Pequeña Industria y Artesanía ( FOPINAR ) con recursos de la
Corporación Financiera Nacional , en los términos del documento adjunto.
Atentamente,
Dr.. Eduardo Holgu' Padovani
SECRETARIO G ERAL (E)
mda.
Copia: Gen. Num. Legal, Actas, Ger. Div. de Operaciones, Auditoría, Gerencias de
División, Ger. de Desarrollo Organizacional, Sucursales y Agencias CFN.


﻿
﻿APPENDIX B: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATISTICS


﻿
﻿TABLE: I
FOURTH SSE: LOAN CHARACTERISTICS
(Million sucres)
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROJECT      6,937.01 23.655.74  31,696.11 28,071.67  50,381.14  53.806.59  13,543.12
TOTAL: LOAN APROVED           4,418.58  13,662.67  19,484.00  17.385.79  31.495.87  32,823.46  8,322.48
TOTAL: DISBURSED              3,928.77  12.134.71  17,529.52  15,526.17  28,160.19  29,446.72  7,819.73
NUMBER OF LOANS                    509      1071       904       563      1149     1229       294
PURPOSE:
1.- EXPANSION                 2,744.82  8,733.56  13,122.64  13,670.24  22,488.61 24,075.67  7,218.91
EXPANSION (AVG. CREDIT)        7.65     11.75      20.67    30.38     24.66     23.49    27.55
EXPANSION (DISCOUNT)        2,445.05  7,647.51  11,634.55  12.092.50  19,850.01 21,340.71  6,324.69
EXPANSION (AVG. DISCOUNT)      6.81 .   10.29     18.32     26.87    21.77     20.82     24.14
NUMBER OF LOANS                 359      743        635       450      912      1025       262
2.- NEW                        1,673.76  4,929.10  6,361.36  3,715.54  9,007.25  8.747.79  1,103.57
NEW (AVG. CREDIT)             11.16     15.03      23.65    32.88     38.01     42.88    34.49
NEW (DISCOUNT)              1.427.81  4,244.98  5,589.45  3.268.53  8,046.34  6,994.37  888.21
NEW (AVG. DISCOUNT)            9.52     12.94      20.78    28.93     33.95     34.29    27.76
NUMBER OF LOANS             .   150       328        269      113       237       204       32
AVG. DISBURSMENT PER'LOAN         7.72     11.33     19.39     27.58    24.51     23.96     26.60
NEW JOBS CREATED                  2087     4280       3386      1982     -3248     2779      660
INVESTMENt PER EMPLOYMENT        3.32      5.53       9.36     14.16    15.51     19.36    20.52
VALUE ADDI                   13,771.89  42,355.59  106,380.24  60,120.59  86,505.81 94,546.72  27,673.40


﻿TABLE: 2
FOURTH SSE: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS BY TENOR
(Million sucres)
6           0                    1            1.79     0            0.00     0           0.00     0            0.00     1          36.00     0            0.00
12          1            0.99     1           0.45      1           5.40     4           62.99    12         131.15    10          148.36     1           0.99
18          0                     0              0     0            0.00     1            4.96    17         186.42     4           58.21     3          28.02
24         22           87.89    61          405.51    57         618.45   168         1,674.82  322        3,801.86  435         5.969.05  103        1,273.58
30          3            6.84     3          22.90      1           1.28     3           17.46    10          130.01    5          101.38     1          72.00
36         77          375.56   170        1,939.91   131        2.958.29  104         3,488.70  184        4,569.72   172        3,129.92   45         913.21
42         11           38.31     5           31.99    2           53.82     0            0.00    21          327.43    7           68.85     0           0.00
48         43          193.52   140          886.77   130        1,549.62   80         1,721.00  191        3,577.00  230         4,475.58   41        1,353.67
64         16           73.10     5          29.38     2           36.58     2           51.75    13         346.43     8          303.69     3          38.03
60         97          647,19   303        2,643.49   298        5.138.92  129         4,912.86  232        7,367.90  265         8,579.23   64        2.211.47    -P
66          1            7.20    12          107.59    8          129.32     0            0.00     0           0.00     1           27.00     0           0.00
72         58          534.79   109        1,350.94   93         2,057.58   31         1,062.70   41        1,920.54   39         2,039.54    8         454.88
78          5           50.40     2          21.78      1          10.37     0            0.00     0           0.00     5          403.92     0           0.00
84         84          927.49   130        2,248.64   114        2,979.12   37         1,703.27   65        3.752.23   60         3,532.45   10         489.04
90          0            0.00     0              0      1          54.00     0            0.00     1          46.92     0            0.00     0           0.00
96         42          563.22    55        1,380.02    29        1.024.73   12          473.98    10         360.71     6          592.83     2          133.38
102          0           0.00     0               0     0           66.51     0           0.00     0            0.00     0           0.00     0            0.00
108          2          14.71     6          141.48     2            0.00     0           0.00     1           45.00     1          132.30    0            0.00
114          0           0.00     1           27.00     1           17.10    0            0.00     0            0.00     0           0.00     0            0.00
120         30         357.59    51         1,056.42   35          937.74    9          437.58    14         1,240.65    6         356.55     0            0.00


﻿49
xN                  N
x                  -4
Ii ý5ii   E
dO åfO O- ! d  li  o oo o d  ;dd  dC
-     ø      a*g ,
Su        58C   ga  a g   3
'  <t
van un a
y a n ~
- a 0 --
-na'i
se a sasegaas a  as  aas n  i


﻿10 1||'        ll'Il'l'lll"|[
sisis  gillislllg!sssls
91191,1111ipofi m  Wll.  iiii y itiiiiiii
s  s a   r s  is    l!!Í !s- is
1~~ 1i            1
*0- ooooe  - eow-. *  u --c 2s .....  ..U8  ~*
i Eg  '29 u88  3 !41 i. ý9E M0  å00i4 9 >492
lliiiiiiiiiiiiii*                  - 9 I
0-.. . 0000c9e-e-m 2 o :  ... .  -$9k .92... idk~
404
å15IIM i  iyltýlýpilyig i iili 15i19i
-  g
illilliilii92*»1"95i*22 12*lliI99 i§lil   iII52iiiiiiiiii
09


﻿TALE: 5
FOUTH SSE: LOAN DISURSEMENTS BY SIZE
( Million suaresi
1990                        *aum                         tas0                        las       .                  'f9'                        iMI                        tas
. PE~ AMOLMT                                             AMOIDfl                    AM~UN                         AMUL%T                      AM~UNT                      AM~UN7
..,.L9AN,E ,  ,  sM0  0 JK   %,,  Is  D    Naf i-D   %4      D.,,D     U8ED              I    D0  Ul         ,%       a.  hf.P..|        % !6.        DIS8UR«0       t p. oS~Ea                 I
FROM          0,00 TO     50.00  500     3.92877   100.00%  1035     10.389.11    85.81%  809     11,524.40  65.74%  466      8793.48     43.76%   962    13,424.06   47.67%   1081    16.586.48   56.26%  256     3,731.20    47.72%     U1
FROM         S0,00 TO    10.00    0            0        0    36      1,745.60    14.39%   88      5258.12   30.00%   61      4.129.19    26.60%   115     7,862.19   27.92%    M8      8,820.14   22.48%   24     1.815.0    23.22%
FROM        100,00 TO    180.00    0            0        0     0         0.00      0.00%    7       747.00    4.26%   19      2.070.90    13.34%    29     3,323.64   11.60%    31      3,333.24   11.32%    8     1,028.24     13.15%
FROM        150.00 TO              0            0        0     0         0.00      0.00%    0         0.00    0.00%   17      2.632.60    16.31%    23     3550.29    12.61%    19      2926.86    9.94%     7     1244.70     15.92%
Mm~
FROM          0.00 TO      0.00  50     3.928.77  100.00%   949     8.0009       66.9%  703      9.099.02  61.91%  403      6,867.78    37.79%   851     11.014.48  3.11%    897     13.136.08   44.61%  214     3,370.91    43.11%
FROM         60.00 TO    100.00    0            0    0.00%    98      3.19.11    26.34%  127      4.642.78  25.91%   00      3.180.21    20.48%   147     6,163.72   21.9%     181     8.861.77   19.91%   39     1.46.4       18.76%
FROM        160.00 TO    160.00    0            0    0.00%    22       792.81      6.53%   63      2,513.43  14.34%   37      1,974.47    12.72%    64     3,667.67    12.99%   60      3.121.21   10.60%   21     1,14.23     14.86%
FROM        150.00 TO    200.00    0            0    0.00%     2        65.70      0.64%   21      1.374.30   7.84%   54      4603.72     29.01     87     7324.32    2601%     91      7327.69    2468%    20     183M.86     2349%


﻿TABLE: 6
FOURTH SSE: AVERAGE LOAN SIZE PROVIDED BY BNF AND OTHER PFI*S
(Sucres)
YEAR                    BNF                                        OTHER PFis                                       TOTAL
Loans      Credit       Average     Avg. In US$  Loans     Credit        Average    Avg. In US$  Loans    Credit      Average   Avg. In US$
1990     227  1,545,619,714    6,808,897.4    8,956     282    2.872,961.600  10,187,807.1   13,400     509  4,418.581,314  8.680,906.3  11.418
1991     635  4,844.405,052    7,628,984.3    7,338     436    8,818,260,710  20,225,368.6   19,455    1071 13,662,665,762  12,756.924.1  12,271
1992     595  8.247,189,635   13.860.822.9    9,062     309   11.236,815.200  36,365,097.7   23,774     904 19.484,004,835 21,553,102.7  14,090
1993     338  5.047,675,788   14,933,952.0    8,754     225   12.338,109,600  54.836,042.7   32.145     563 17,385.785.388  30.880,613.5  18.102
1994     791 14.301,360,417   18,080,101.7    8,144     358   17.194,505,833  48,029,345.9   21,635    1149 31,495,866.250  27,411,545.9  12,348
1995    1042 21.934.175,478   21,050,072.4    7,204     187   10,889,284,021  58.231,469.6   19,929    1229 32,823,460,299  26,707,453.5  9,140
une 1996    249  4,445,745,946   17,854.401.4    5,712      45    3,876,730,000  86,149,555.6   27,559     294  8,322,475,946  28,307,741.3  9,056


﻿--------------------―·：·
C됴


﻿TABLE: 7
FOLIRTH SSE LOANS IN ARREARS ANO PERCENT OF TOVAL LOANS FOR FOPINAR LIDANS AND TOTAL PORTF0110 (CONT)NUED)
(Sucres and %)
1993                                                          1994                                                  11991
FOPINAR               TOTAL                                    FOP;NAR              TOTAL                           FOPINAR             TOTAL
DOMESTIC BANKS           LOANS_          -    LOANS       --   1    - -   _             LOANS                LOANS                           LOANS              LOANS
DOMESTIC BAN-                                               DOMESfiC BANKS
AMAZONAS                  65,3330     00    87,213.976 2    50 AMAZONAS                   3,3330    00    172,979,801 0  2 9 ALBO BANCO           00              38,778 5  131%
A DES                    361.6810     3 8   186.105,908 7   42 AUSTRO                 14,582,864 0  16    170,010,849 0  4 9 AMAZONAS             20     0 00%.   252.184 e  .71%
AUSTRO                 1,695,3600     09    109.059,297 1   30 AZUAY                      2,529.0  85 1    81.972,213 0  88 AUSTRO            15.901 0   460%     247,1070  1040%
AZUAY                     35,9540    27 1   39,697,087ý3    92 SOLIVARIANO              844.7500    0.1   133,340,382 0  1,5 AZUAY                00   IM00%      127,7976  960%
236,2920     00     813,8(19,1510 7  1 3 LiToRAL                     0 0    00      1.272,4820  159 BOLIVARIANO         4876    0 00%    is7,a28 8  390%
LITOR.N1                      00      00      1,465,3890    87 CAJA DE CREDITO         1.176,4710   0 2    55,742,783 0  119 C DE CREDITO      1,005 3   503%     510,577 8  1586%
CAJA 0 CREDITO            8,2090     366    33,068,478.5    5 9 MANAM                        00     00     17,221,668 0  32 C DE MANABI           00              20.7115   416%
COOPERATrVAS              2,0010     87 3      132,220 1   94.1 DE COLOMBIA             246,971 0   78     58.876,672 0  29 COFIEC              m3o     1249%     W.7381    226%
~   81                        0.0     00     9,800.7212     1,1 CONTINENTAL           2,867,511 0   2 9   763,151,651 0  2 7 CONTINENTAL       2.3757    211%   1.104,373 5  525%
CONSOLIDADO DEL ECUADOR  281,3880     7 9   51,494,017 5    46 DE CREDITO                    10     00    137.979,088 0  33 DE COLOMBIA         1721     595%     119.6416  854%
CONTINENTAL            1,888,6000     3 5  212,593,352 5    30 UNISANCO                      00   1000     11,699,629 0  150 DE CREDITO           00              210,5420  6 71%
CREDITO E HIPOTECARIO         00      00    71,287.175 6    22 FILANBANCO             9,733,951 0   63   1.122,879,220 0  38 FILANBANCO        9,8,155   82^    1,650,0792  598%
FILANBANCO             5,076,61U      31   487,766,835,9    3 7 GUAYAQUIL               819,2340    48    326,947,215 0  25 FINAGRO             595 1   1448%     222.8V5 5  378%
GUAYAQUIL              1,119.102.0    56    117.620.042 4  111 INTERNACIONAL              3,5000    00     77,365,880 0  12 FINANCORP             00              77.1193   357%
INTERNACIONAL             11,5830     00    47,580.916 9    3 9 LOJA                    758,8960    58     32,620,114W0  65 Ft%Ec              2.3019    027%     96.9935   153%
LOJA                    208.7590      58    20,276,879 9    7,2 mAcHALA                 116,071,0   1 3    73,255,254 0  80 0 RUMIÑAHUI           00   10[100%    69,1725  1779%
MACHALA                  105,%8.0     6 4   44,072,022 9    7 1 PACIFICO              3,827,328.0   4.8   875,271,673 0  lý8 GUAYAQUIL          7523     514%     506,278 6  426%
PACIFICO               2.900,8740     2.8  413,370,812 7    3 2 PICHINCHA             3,983,394.0   36    748,558,180,0  2 8 INTERNACIONAL        00              114.7809  085%
PICHINCHA              3.503,1930     3 0  439,578,211,12   3 2 PopuLAn                  20,8830    0 0   343,512.324,0  1 3 LITORAL              00               6,6721   362%
POPULAR                  43.855,0     16    137,379,193 3  20 1 PRESTAMOS               629,200,0  101    270,918,529 0  4 4 LOJA               6510    ion%      45,234 7  1130%
PRESTAMOS                681,9880     6 6   134,224,288 6   4 7 PREvisoRA             12,911,772 0  4 9   265,446,026 0  55 MACHALA              870    1856%     114,4528  598%
PREVISCRA              1,175,5750    172    118.549,440.0  11 5 PRODUCrION              170.5830    1 1   160,795,407 0  12 PAciFico           2.9160    407%   1, 142,3W 2  572%
PRODUCCION              404,2450      2 1   95.064,890.9    1 4 PROGRESO              5,287.9810    27    631,018,574 0  09 PICHINCHA          2,6400   1196%   1,091,58,119  572%
PROGRESO               1,215,0390     15   387,442,287.0    18 SOC GENERAL DE CREDITO        00     0.0    70,410,170 0  19 P~                   131    1866%     71S.M9 7  096%
SOC GENERAL DE CREDITO        00      00    50,324,077.9    17 GENERAL RUMINAHUI          1.2800   576     40,867,602 0  108 PRESTAMOS          Swi     1171%     412.552 2  518%
GENERALRUMINAHUI           5,2480     00    22,277,576.6    61 TERRITORIAL                   00     0.0    17.059,593 0  17 PREvisoRA         11.2" 6    785%     373,1318  829%
TEFtRiTORtAL                  00      00     12,133,493,4   34 TUNGURAHUIA             1.646,9350   00     92.915.6610   30 PRODucciý            796     0 ^      262,0507  197%
TUNGURAHUA               175,7860    255    37,536,254 6    10 AL130 BANCO                   00     00     20,283,700 0  02 PRoGREso           8.4385    554%   1,2311,07,10  127%
Subtotal 21,202,364.0   4.4 3,514.004,531.5   4.7 SUDAMERICANO                  00     00            00    00 5 G CREDITO           00              114,3715   568%
FINANCORP                    00     00     13,885,662 0  12 TERRITORIAL         2380     000%     26,6581   313%
CITIBANIK                     0,0   0,0    409226190     45 TUNGURAHUA         1.5530    189%    184.7651   504%
FORDON 8~                                                       ABNI AMRO                    0.0    0.0   1 40:322:404,0  1,4 uNia~               00              28,0198   429%
CITN~                         00      0.0   20.503,289.0    80 111>YDS OANK                   0.0   Q0     50 . 712 , 632,0  39 suBToT^L      00.274.1          10.11(19.1114.7  4.91%
HOLANIDES UNIDO               00      0.0   84,191.491 9    3,7              S.btt.1 511,635,437.0  3.8 7,020,215,M.O    3.0 FORE101,1 ~ S
LONDRES                       00      0.0   47,240.144 6    76                                                               ASN AMRO             00              222,8135 9  36^
Subtotal        0.0     0.0   151,934,925.5   5.5                                                              CITIBANK             00              135.9234   872%
LLOYOS BMK           00              inO.52    1115%
FI~    CO..                                                     FI~  E CO .                                                  SUBTOTAL              0              460.3 0     7%
AMERAFIN                405,4940    44     49,113,491,0  33 TOTAL             40.274.7          11. 369.475.7  4.11,11%
COFIEC                    88,960,0    1.1    19,457.81X) 3  1,1  COFIEC                 935,2620    14     59.391,258 0  0 8 FINANCIE Co.
ECUFINSA               1,920.2760     00    21,497,711.0   1 3  COMODITI               1,360,0000   00     33,069.226 0  30 AMÉRAFIN            1014    25 W%      43,0248  800%
FIDASA                   122,9730     72     3.086,716.0   80   CONFIANZA               160,ow 0    0.0    15,784,814 0  00 AMERCA                00               W.229 1  ?u%
AMERAFIN                 645,569.0    02      6.203,729.8  5.6  ECUFINSA               2,197,6170   26     82,449,554 0  21 ASERVAL               00               20.1 le 8  296%
FINEC                    151.4540     00     10,871.495 8  2.8  Fi~                     187,6330    134     6.045,9MO    7 6 BANICREDIT           00               41.39130  55^
FIRESA 11                     0,0     0.0   14.080,071 7   18   FILASA                  1 00,5w 0   00      9.910,9370   17 11ANUNION             00              11,9720   133%
PILABA                   36,BW 0      00     13.357.018 9  0 3  FtNAGRo                 902,993,0   60    116.809,516 0  25 cONTiANZA           3298     0 00%    40,0521   332%
FINAGRO                  653,7560     13    64,071,702 4   1 8  FINAN DE LAS AMERICAS         00    00      4.723,5950   2 8 CONSULCREDITO        00               21,6511  563%
COMOOITI                      00      00     11,889,111 6  44   FINANC DEL OCCIDENTE    327.9160    00     21,860,424 0  04 CORFINSA              00              12,7838   071%
FINAN DE LAS AMERICAS         00      00       728,5761    01   FINANCIERA CONTINENTAL 11     00    00             00    00 CREDINERO             00              10.505    096%
FINANC DEL OCCIDIENTE         oýo     00       538,6365    00   FINANCIERA DE LA RESERVA      00    00     23,440,0610   1 3 CREDINSA             00               2.0800   000%
FINANCIERA, CONTINENTAL       00      00     2.958,512,1   0 3  FINEC                  2,214,9280   00     (37,0815,8010  10 DEL OCCIDENTE      "04      156%     87.3959   958%
FINANCIERA DE LA RESERVA      00      00      5,5115.2061  0.3  FIRESA                    5,8380   65 1    13,887.296,0  09 ECUACAMBO             00               2,41711  1515111%
MANAFINSA                     0,0     00      1,808,1044  00    INCA                          Q1)   00     32,965,519 0  0.1 ECUACORIP            00              20," 4    514%
Subtotal 3.619.788.0    0,6   176,065.452 8  19   INVE~                    60,0000     0.0   61,304,806 0  13 ECUAFACTOR            00               22.5099   311%
INTERIMIL                32,000 0   10     14,693.207,0  6 5 ECUFINSA          1.0636   2094%     115,0619  1100%
TOTAL GENERAL S-F,P.  24,822,152A     4A  7,204,074,5152   4.7  MANAPINSA                20,2970    0,0     5,078.2950   6 0 ENLACE               00                5,8572  $90%
Subtotal 8,910,478.0   2.1   617,614,787.0  1.9 FIDASA             3607     883%      7.5499  15011%
.9 F:LASA              883     163%      27,2978  837%
TOTAL GENERAL S.F.P.  68,545,915.0  3.6 7,637,830,470.0  2   F NAMBATO            00               25,2097  876%
0 0   0 0 F:NANCAPITAL.        00              14 * 7120  000%
B~   DEFOMENTO li     18,363,000.0   15,5  578,079.4512    10,3 BANCODEFOMENTO 11     18,363,000,0  0.0                      F NANNOVA            00               3.5911   577%
1_1 No se dispone de infomiación.                               11 No se dispone de infomiación                              FINANPAIS            00              12.0576   325%
FINANFIED            00                7.5215 0  077%
FIRESA               00               17.6323   243%
GLOBAL               00                1,5763  2005%
HEMISFERIO           Do                7,~ 9    boe%
IBIERCIANIEACANA,   00                1.3558  9578%
INCA                 00               W, 115 7  339%
INVESPLAN           2841    000%      91.1155 2  456%
LEASINGCORP          00               17.8759   3 SB%
MANAFINSA           664     282%      35.030 9  303%
METROPOLITANA        00               32.5557  1124%
MM J ARTEAGA         00               45,1585  1885%
PRINCIPAL            00               20,4734   873%
PROINCO              00               94.3190   984%
~   ERiCA            00               12.2895   454%
SERFINSA             00                 4e2 4  4713%
SOL.INVERSIONES      00               41,7527   755%
TECFINSA             00              16.33211   3 72%
UNIFINSA             00               20.2929   209%
UNO (INNIOEC)        00                8.685 3  1043%
VALORFINSA           00               12,6744  20 85%
SUBIOTAL          2.n4.1   12.07%   1.114.012.6  7.10%
TOTAL            62^37      6.0%  12,4014.011,11.32  12.09%
BNIF ij                             w5,675 00  21576%
l-    di.~  d.


﻿TABLE: 7
FOURTH SSE: LOANS IN ARREARS AND PERCENT OF TOTAL LOANS FOR FOPINAR LOANS AND TOTAL PORTFOLIO (CONTINUED)
(Sucres and %)
FOPINAR    %H         TOTAL                                  FOPINAR     %W         TOTAL        %                          FOPINAR   %m       TOTAL
LOANS     Ann       LOANS        AA                          LOANS      n,.,      LOANS       Anta                         LOANS    AWAA     LOANS       *ntEA
DOMESTIC BANKS                                                 DOMESTIC BANKS                                                 DOMESTIC BANKS
AMAZONAS                 38,193.7   0.0     17,714.710.0   4.7 AMAZONAS               23,337.5    1.3     34,593,013.8    4.4 AMAZONAS               66,700.0  0.0   65,957,327.8  6.0
ANDES                   100,457.3   1.3     20,531,623.4   5.3 ANDES                 219,605.0    0.9     30.847.824.6    6.3 ANDES                 476.751.0  1.4   69.231.513.2   8.2
AUSTRO                   32,536.9  12.5     19,179,070.9   5.2 AUSTRO                 35,435.0    8.9     26.355,852.1    4 5 AUSTRO               1.568.352.8  0.2  60,368,075.7   5.4
AZUAY                   170,611.7   2.8     10,899,316 5  10.1 AZUAY                  146,930.7   2.7     14,101,180,8   118 AZUAY   1j                  0.0   0.0   16.760,313.8  18.2
BOLIVARIANO              73,492.0   0.0     16,221,976.2   3.5 BOLIVARIANO           108,240.0    0.0     19,541,328.1    3.2 BOLIVARIANO           290,449.0  0.9   64,275,196.4   4.2
LITORAL                      0.0    0.0        196,614.5   5.3 LITORAL                    0.0     0.0        655,241.0    1.2 LITORAL                    0.0   0.0    1,090,015.8  11.4
CAJA DE CREDITO          36,994.8  25.1      4,743,301.2  16.4 CAJA DE CREDITO        43,469.1   304        7,753,085.4  12.1 CAJA DE CREDITO        13,535.7 29.6   11,883,075.5   6.8
COOPERATIVAS             44.666.9  35.9        374.875.9  74.9 COOPERATIVAS           96,296.0   42.0      1.365,012.0   73.0 COOPERATIVAS            3,560.0  77.6    249,728.4   89.4
Conercial de Manab          0.0    0.0      2,232,215.3   0.6 ComecIal de Manabi          0.0    0.0      3.508,756.1    1.3 MANASI                     0.0   0.0    5.139,046.5   2.1
CONSOLIDADO DEL ECUADOR  286,487.1  0.3      8,749,779.2   6.5 CONSOLIDADO DEL ECUADO  447,966.2  0.0      11,046,475.9   9.3 CONSOLIDADO DEL ECUADO  352,421.8  5.9  27.354.312.8  4.5
CONTINENTAL             521,457.1   1.4     44,621.199.6   3.2 CONTINENTAL           879,6587     1.5     64,273,510.1    3.7 CONTINENTAL          2,028.372.6  2.5  126,293,724.9  4.5
CREDITO E HIPOTECARIO        0.0    0.0     14,093,344.8   4.3 CREDITO E HIPOTECARIO       0.0    0.0      17.519,346.6   6.9 CREDITO E HIPOTECARIO      0.0   0.0   36.555,825.4   6.8
FILANBANCO              590,984.1   3.0     70,925,314.7   4.3 FILANBANCO           1,232,294.7   1.6    107,467,545.5    5.1 FILANSANCO           4,377,282.2  1.9  252,757,941.2  4.1
GUAYAQUIL               812,502.1   1.5     49,780,419.3   9.3 GUAYAQUIL            1.009,223.6   2.4     58.406,911.9    8.2 GUAYAQUIL            1,108,337.5  3.1  77,151,567.0   8.1
INTERNACIONAL            85,499.9   0.0     14.352,460.6  11.2 INDUSTRIAL Y COMERCIAL                                        INTERNACIONAL           15,666.6  0.0   29,805,743.7   6.8
LOJA                    212,552.9   1.0      5,672,672.7   99 INTERNACIONAL           68,166.5    0.0      17,912,218.4   9.2 LOJA                  333,990.3  1.3   11,012,725.4  12.5
MACHALA                 102.236.6   1.0     14,407,764.5  10.4 LOJA                  334,112.4    1.1      7.895,091.1   104 MACHALA                111,863.8  4.7   38,426,364.5   8.0
PACIFICO              1,785,674.4   1.2     95,085,631.1   3.6 MACHALA                97,742.0    0.6      21,216,172.6   9.6 PACIFICO             3,025,850.9  2.4  249,900,140.8  3.1
PICHINCHA              1,350,143.9  1.2     74,545.729.8   6.9 PACIFICO             2,277,559.7   1.6     135.909,154.0   2.9 PICHINCHA            2.990,400.8  3.7  195.853,239.8  7.0
POPULAR                  99,446.2  12.7     53.083,848.7   7.2 PICHINCNA            1,558,381.8   1.8     115.045,149.5   5.3 POPULAR                52,448.3 10.0   88,346,429.6   4.2
PRESTAMOS               555,784.9   2.1     21,881,914.3   9.3 POPULAR                92,659.2    7.4      75,268,550.2   4.4 PRESTAMOS             683,389.6  5.3   65,759,622.3   4.3
PREVISORA             2,974.135.4   2.6     43,003,095.9  10.8 PRESTAMOS             589,914.6    3.4      25,042,644.5   4.4 PREVISORA            1,419,349.7 12.5  72.603,770.4  134
PRODUCCION              323.198.2   3.8     18,037,935.0   8.5 PREVISORA            1.730,676.1   4.0      57,659,155.7  10.7 PROOICCION           587,241.5  1.2   64.520,997.9   2.6
PROGRESO                181,085.9   1.8     31,843,065.7   3.0 PRODUCCION            257,948.7    2.5      30,144,817.2   5.3 PROGRESO             1,037,352.4  0.6  149.909,044.7  2.4
SOC. GENERAL DE CREDITO  22,500.0   0.0     10,622,805.6   1.9 PROGRESO              322,069.8    0.3      47.956,247.3   1.9 SOC GENERAL DE CREDITO  3,666.7  0.0   35,641,995.6   1.6
GENERAL RUMINAHUI            0.0    0.0      2,800,097.2   0.2 SOC GENERAL DE CREDITO  18,000.0   0.0     14.446,423.3    1.6 GENERAL RUMINAHUI      36,400.0  0.0    7,697,173.6   9.1
TERRITORIAL                  0.0    0.0      4,861,171.1   9.0 GENERAL RUMINAHUI           0.0    0.0       3,114,013.3   1.4 TERRITORIAL                0.0   0.0    8,935,005.2   4.8
TUNGURANUA               33.173.2   1.3      1.582,451.2  11.2 TERRITORIAL                 0.0    0.0       5,401.609.7  10.5 TUNGURAHUA            170,395.7  4.5   12.466,172.3   1.9
Subtotal 10,433,815.2  2.4    672,044,405.1   6.5 TUNGURAHUA             19,279.2    2.?      3.142,160.4   4.1             Subtotal 20,753,778.9  3.2 1,845,946,090.1  5.5
Subtotal 11,608,966.5  2.5     957,588,491.5   5.5
FOREIGN BANKS
AMERICA                      0.0    0.0        145,362.8  70.6 FOREIGN BANKS                                                  FOREIGN BANKS
CITIBANK                     0.0    0.0     19,875,476.4   5.3 AMERICA                     0.0    0.0             0.0         CITIBANK                   0.0   0.0   27,621,105.5   6.2
HOLANDES UNIDO               0.0    0.0     15,055,478.5   0.4 CITIBANK                    0.0    0.0      26.159,560.4   6.3 HOLANDESUNIDO              0.0   0.0   47.950,547.6   02
LONDRES                      0.0    0.0     10,607,641.8   8.0 HOLANDESUNIDO               00     00       21,365,086.1  10.2 LONDRES                    0.0   0.0   34,632,772.7   4 9
Subtotal       0.0     0.0     45,683,959.5   5.0 LONORES                    0 0     0 0     15.205,943.9   4.8             Subtotal        0.0  0.0   110,204,425.8  3.3
Subtotal       0.0     0.0     62,730,590.4    7.2
FINANCE CO.                                                    FINANCE CO..                                                  FINANCE CO.
COFIEC                   77,067.0   4.7     18.506,102.0   6.1 COFIEC                 72,946.0    5.2      17,977,686.0       COFIEC                 93.375.0  0.0   19,457,860.3  2.7
ECUFINSA                114,710.0   0.0     14,030,500.0   2.4 ECUFINSA              438,704.0    0.4      16,174,376.0   2.7 ECUFINSA             1,267,665.6  0.3  21,497,711.0  1.3
FINANOUL                 49,077.0   2.5     12,858,906.0   9.4 FINANSA                                                    1.5 FIDASA                163,084.2  7.0    3,086,716.0  5.7
FIDASA                   96,616.0   0.1      1,616,475.0   0.9 FINANGUIL              44,224.0    5.4      14,853,150.0       AMERAFIN              614,307.2  0.0    6,203,729.8  1.2
AMERAFIN                 20,088.0   0.0      1.961,439.0   0.6 FIDASA                   118765    0.8       2.171,965.0   6.1 FINEC                 162,451.3  0.0   10,871,495.6  0.6
FINEC                    64,441.0   0.0      2,217,789.0   0.0 FINIBER                                                    0.8 FIRESA                 16.075.5 25.3    4,640,780.7  15.4
FIRESA                   27,913.0   0.0      3,102,335.0  14.9 FINANDES                                                       FILASA                 18,900.0  0.0    2,039,461.1  3.2
FILASA                   23,500.0   0.0      1,068,479.0   1 4 AMERAFIN               18,612.0    0.0       1,997,409.0      FINANDECO                   0.0   0.0           0.0  0.0
FINANDECO               107,897.0   0.0      3,632,572.0   0.2 FINANSUR                                                   0.4 FINAGRO               132,920.3 36.1   26,316,796.7  0.6
Subtotal  581,309.0    0.9     58,994,597.0   5.5 FIMASA                                                        COMODITI                    0.0  0.0    11,889,111.6  8.2
FINEC                  70,443.0     0.0      5,924,840.0                   Subtotal 2,468,779.1  3.8  106,203,663.0  3.0
TOTAL GENERAL S.F.P.  11,015,124.2  2.3  776,722,961.6   6.3 FIRESA                 26,314.0    5.2      4,188,299.0    1.0 TOTAL GENERAL S.F.P.  23,222,558.0  3.3 3,798,095,843.2  5.4
FILASA                  22,667.0    0.0      1,330,394.0  17.1
FINANDECO              115,897.0    0.0      4,807,629.0   3.7
Subtotal  928,572.0    1.1     69,425,748.0    0.6
3.6
TOTAL GENERAL S.F.P.  12,537,538.5  2.4  1,089,744,829.9
5.5
BANCODEFOMENTO(1)                       156,138,600,000.1  11.6 BANCODEFOMENTO(i)                      176,591,800,000.1  11.6 BANCODEFOMENTO 11         0.0   0.0  401.379,325.0   7.1
Nota: (1) Prestamoas a vencer Onginales y Renovados.           Nola: (1) Pr6slamos a vencer Originales y Renovados.           iI No s dispone de infomaci6n de La Cartera FOPNAR


﻿TABLE: 8
SUB-LOAN SUPERVISION: 1990
(AMOUNTS IN 000, SUCRES)
DISCOUNT FOR
LOANS          EMPLOYMENT        EMPLamENTI         WAGES AND SALARIES                       RAW MATERIALS                             SALES
DENERATIN SO                                                                                                                CAP
PROWICE         No. %      EST.   ACTUAL    DI.      SUCREs     EST.        ACTUAL   DIP             EST.     ACTUAL       DIF             EST.     ACTUAL      DIF           UTIL
CARCH             10   1.49    22       10     -6    525,017.3     8,222.9     9.09.0      873.1     42,303.2     22,420.0   (19,893.2)    84,0580     48.892.0    (15.708.0) 45.5
IMBASURA          16   2.38    34      114     80    531,879.3    45.484.1   83.509.5    38,025.4    211,022.6    435,748.9   224,726.3    427,951.3    773.294.0   45,342.7  48.7
PICHINCHA        139  20,71   737      931    194    760,725.0   618,103.1  865,083.4   246,980.3   3.220.158.5  4,100.531.1  934,372.6  6,518.364.0  7.943.689.8  1,425.305.2  48.7
COTOPAXI          40   5.98     43     124     bi    854,0531    47.5728    105,910.0   58,343.4    376,736.5    735.523.3   358,798.8    845,321.0  1,121,224.0    475,903.0  48.3
TUNGURAAM        56   8.34    210     328    107    820,543.4   150,233.7   288,503.2   118,289.5   809,292.9   2.382.540.0  1.553,247.1  1,471,184.5  4,032,200.0  2,561.015.5  64.6 1
BOLIVAR            4   0.59     8       21     13    209,594.4     3.194.0    10,740.0    7,546.0     19,337.8     41,200.0    21,882.2     31,800.0    70,800.0     38,904.0  77.5
CIMBORAZO        20   2.98     31      48     17  1,064,326.5    27,710.0    44,371.2   16.661.2    205,227.0    413,915.7   208,688.7    314,327.3    502.056.8    187,729.5  62.7
CAAAR              7   1.04     9       10      1    822,8100     5,196.0    14,676.0    9.480.0     23,316.7     28,428.6     8,111.9     38,177.0     52,000.0     14,423.0  49.2
AZUAY             50   7.45    229     285     so    457,300.7   129,513.0   274,668.2   145,355.2   379,292.0    979,964.5   800,872.5    850,321.2  1,756.68.7   906,317.5  84.2
LOJA              71 1058      160     205     45    508,320.1    73,682.3   155,592.0   81,809.7    388,018.3    622,260.0   234,241.7    690,153.2   907,430.0    307,276.8  70.0
ESMERALDAS        24   3.57    92      108     16    75.066.5    01,197.1   89,492.0     8,294.9     70,922.5    105,610.0    34,687.5    291,308.2    401,582.0    180,273.8  67.7
MANABI            64   9.53    330     380     30   806.382.8    187,9000   357,180.6   109,280.2  1.369,0008.  1,438.90338   89,907.0  2.150,836.1  2.387,079.7   230,843.8  58.7
LOS RIOS          24   3.57    123     122     -1  1,080,004.0    51,703.1   80,265.7    28,562.6    984,542.1   1,105.351.8  120,809.7  1,36.8500.6  1.55.072.6    186,560.0  71.2
GUAYAS            99  14.75    007     768    101  1,019.623.0   474,882.4   743,719.8  208,837.4   2,712.305.8  5.740,800.8  3,028.495.0  5,713,R32.3  10.150.9401  4,437.007.8  71.5
EL ORO            44   655    107     112    -55  1.442,958 3   104,639.7   124.799.4   20,159.7    741,513.0    381,876.0  (356,637.0)  1.283.864.1  1.075,945.7  (207.918.4) 70.0
ZAMORA             2   0.29      1       4      3    548,291.2      412.8      1,980.0    1,87.2       108.0       2,520.0     2,412.0      2,063.2      9,0000     6,036.8  80.0
GALAPAGOS          1   0.14      4       0     -4         0.0      6,900.0    9,00.0     2,700.0      2,124.0     24.000.0    21.876.0     41.280.0     00,000 0    18,720.0  92.0
TOTAL            871  99.92  2,810    3,554   738  1,036.267.2  1,9008547.4  3,219 393.2  1 222.8458  ii 581,227.5  l8601,684.3  7,040,458.8  0.0  32,909,625.4  32,999,625.4  58.3


﻿TABLE: 9
SUB-LOAN SUPERVISION: 1991
(AMOUNTS IN 000. SUCRES)
oSCOuJWr Fol
PROVINCE                  LOANS          EMPLOYMENT        sumomms             WAGES AND SALARIES                      RAW MATERIALS                                 SALES                  %
oW    louW IN                                                                                                                   CAP.
No.   %     EST.  ACTUAL     DIF.  sucRes            EST.      ACTUAL        DIF         EST.       ACTUAL          DIF           EST.     ACTUAL          DIF     UTIL.
CARCHI                     8   1.18    21        13     -8    1,947,654.6    17,271.9    28,790.8     11,518 9    180,638.8    145,185.8   (35,453.0)    248,200.0    242,925.0    (5.275.0)  46.6
IMBABURA                   8   1.18     21       36     15    1,795,543.7    39,859.5    55,520.4     15,660.9    220,842.1    26314.2     65,472.1     368,854.8    456.00.4     89,435.8  87.2
PICHINCHA                 92  13.62    399      731    332     858,220.6    715,594.3   990.606.7   275,012.4   3,057.904.3   3.995.737.7  937,833.4   5,592.088.8   8.389.263.4  2,797,174.6  44.7
COTOPAXI                   7   1.03     17       29     12     759,052.8      5,749.5    17,530.0     11,780.5     37,218.8     34,400.0    (2,818.8)     74,030.0     86,000.0    11,970.0  51.4
TUNGURAHUA                40   5.92    203      251     48    1,047,679.1   258.443.9   338,052.4    79,608.5   1,215,412.4   1.823,625.0  608.212.6   2,221,493.1   3.345,050.9  1.123,557.8  68.3
BOLIVAR                    5   0.74      5        8      1      371867.9      2,704.0     9,720.0     7,0160       8,380.0     15,600.0     7,220.0      18,504.0     30,600.0    12,096.0  74.0
CHIMBORAZO                29   4.29     46      131     85     850.540.0     42,964.7    85,057.3     42,092.6    419.896.6    381,019.8   (38,676.8)    726.830.1    714,250.3   (12,379.8)  66.3
CADAR                     14   2.07     25       26      1    1.437,820.2    22,693.0    36.672.0     13,979.0    131.005.8     64,498.0   (66,507.8)    230,502.0    131,458.0   (99,044.0)  77.5
AZUAY                     76  11.25    263      302     39    1,007.8380    322,439.9   486,868.4    164,428.5   1,073,257.4  1,857,645.2  784,387.8   2.139,420.8   3.462.227.0  1,322,808.2  74.7
LOJA                      84  12.44    190      225     35     759,085.7    111,768.3   789,446.0   677,677.7     467,270.6    648,980.0   181,709.4     899,364.8  1,111,260.0   211.895.2  70.2
ESMERALDAS                42   6.22    104      128     24    1,192,839.3    84,411.2   124,035.0    39,623.8      28,182.6     47,100.0    18.917.4     443,421.2    501,580.0    58,158.8  48.6
MANABI                   103  15.25    597      517    .80    1.039,272.7   586,352.9   419,562.7   (166,790.2)  1,111.409.8   620,412.7  (490.997.1)  2.896,227.5   1,934,748.5  (9M3,48l.0)  48.3
LOS RIOS                  15   222      42       46      4    1,170.381.9    32,424.0    40,374.3      7,950.3    296,340.7    228,137.0   (70,203.7)    534,3837     432,540.0   (101,843.7)  53.0
GUAYAS                    76  11.25    347      320    -21    1.460,536.3   364.9891   354,918.6    (10,070.5)  1,934.821.4  1,565,366.5  (369,254.9)  4.282.800.3  3.531,071.4  (751,728.9)  57.8
EL ORO                    51   7.55    117      162     45    1.324,551,4   161,025.3   211,239.1    50,213.8     317,886.9    474,776.4   156,889.5     892,942.5   1,228,133.1  335,390.6  808a
NAPO                       6   2.92      6       27     21     847,4536     17,288.0    31,380.0    14,092.0     818.799.9    479,280.0  (339.519.9)    913.759.7    68,6810.0  (245,079.7)  53.3
PASTAZA                    6   0.88     10       7      .3    1,530,083.7     6.271.0    11.300.0     5,029.0       5,197.2     12.260.0     7,062.8      22,748.0     34.200.0    11,452.0  53.3
ZAMORA                     3   0.44     14       13     -1     65.831.1      6,324.0     6.520.0     2,196.0      18.689.6     26.400.0     7,710.4      35,112.0     43,440.0     8.328.0  80.0
GALAPAGOS                  1   0.14      5        6      1    1,.8000000     12,4030     14.000.0     1,597.0          0.0          00           0.0      43,200.0     54,000.0    10800 0   50.0
TOTAL                    666  99.89  2,432    2,982    550    1,036,267.2  2,810977.5  4,053,593.7  1.2426162  11,344,754 9       0.0 (1,344754.9'         0.    2,3977T6.0  263977160    630


﻿TABLE: 10
SUD-LOAN SUPERVISION: 1992
(AMOUNTS IN 000. SUCRES)
PROVINCE       LOANS        EMPLOYMENT      U1SCOUNT FOR     WAGES AND SALARIES                      RAW MATERIALS                              SALES
EMPLOYMENT$
GENERATION                                                                                                           CAP.
No.  %    EST. ACTUAL   DIF. SUCRES        EST.       ACTUAL      DIF       EST.       ACTUAL        DIF         EST.       ACTUAL        DIF     UTIL.
CARCHI          5   0.86   13      16     3   473.937.1    7,455.4    6.468.0     (987.4)    5096.0    13,594.0     7,698.0    22,380.0    23,660.8     1,280.8  36.0
IMBABURA       15   2.60   17      39    22  1.685.116.1  41,039.2   44,972.0    3,932.8   300.829.7   438,640.0   137,810.3   527.033.0   671,397.2   144,364.2  40.3
PICHINCHA      69  12.00  368     533   165  1.148.298.8  741,733.1  927,871.3  186,138.2  2,075,600.6  2,973,950.0  898.269.4  4,219,512.7  5,975.647.0  1.756.134.3  47.1
COTOPAXI        8   1.39   52      84    32   738.453.2   25,170.7   83168.5    57.989.6  156,514.3  1,375,377.5  1.218,863.2  345,787.4  1,789,397.5  1,443.610.1  53.7
TUNGURAHUA     43   7.47  256     $17   261   643.092.1  322,470.7  1,191,182.3  868.711.6  1.475.334.6  5.143,905.2  3.668.570.6  2,465,508.6  9.317,696.4  6,852,189.8  58.1
BOLIVAR         2   0.34    1       3     2  1.157.651.6    636.0     3,760.0     3,124.0    3,159.8     9.800.0     6,640.2    10,447.0    16.500.0     6.053.0  65.0
CHIMBORAZO     22   3.02   58      70    12 1,196,664.5   56,526.0   86990.4    30.464.4  530,709.2  1.206,252.0  675,542.8   976,296.0  1.935.170.0  958,872.0  63.1
CAAAR           4   0.69    4       9        1,554.000.0   5.220.0   22,840.0    17,620.0   12,070.6    22,372.0     9,501.4    42.125.0    57.200.0    15,075.0  70.0
AZUAY          53   9.21  356     526   170   540.943.6  284,692.7   740,433.7  455.741.0  641,454.3  2,743,967.0  2,102,512.7  1,235,335.6  5,447.597.9  4,212,262.3  73.7
LOJA          103  17.91  259     338    79   793.521.0  235,4696    386,9600   151,490.4  931,072.7  1,399,600.0  468.527.3  1,597,218.4  2,361,627.4  784,409.0  71.6
ESMERALDAS     30   5.21   78      98    20   700,451.5   84,324.0  2,093.280.0  2,008,956.0  11.119,5  84,520.0    73,400.5   202175.0   288,500.0    66.325.0  38.5
MANABI        109  18.95  348     437    89  1,317,954 1  646,150.7  649,330.0    3,179.3  501.431.4   641,101.6   139,670.2  2.147,534.2  3.118,985.1  971,450.9  41.5
LOS RIOS       10   1.73   47      45    -2 2.097.475.3   37,037.6   54,542.9    17,505.3  229,260.5   486,321.9   257,041.4   564.150.3   705.100.0   140,949.7  30.0
GUAYAS         76  13.21  220     512   292  1,033,626.2  648,229.5  758,134.2  109,904.7  1.273,484.6  3.900,076.2  2.634.591.6  4,440.456.3  7.113,201.7  2.672,745.4  53.7
ELORO          20   3.47   43      45     2 2.600.817.0   80,374.4   00,676.0      301 6   406,720.6   492,002.2    B5.281.6   720,800.0   086,346.7   165,546.7  79.5
PASTAZA         4   0.69    5       6     1   977,695.1   10,648.8    11,896.0    1,247.2    7,628.0     8.200.0      572.0     13,711.2    25,400.0    11,688.8  67.5
ZAMORA          2   0.34    8       7    .1   432,739.2    2,652.0    4,224.0     1,572.0   17.507.1    22,800.0     5,292.9    25,485.6    33,600.0     8,114.4  80.0
TOTAL         575 99.89 2133     3285 11 '    952.235.3  3,229.838.4  7.146,729.3  3,916,890.9  8.580,693,5  20,970,479.6  12,389,766.1  19,555,950.3  39,787,029.7  20,231.071.4  57.1


﻿TABLE : 11
SUB-LOAN SUPERVISION: 1993
(AMOUNTS IN 000, SUCRES)
DISCOUNT FOR
PROVINCE         LOANS        EMPLOYMENT      EMPLOYMENTS         WAGES AND SALARIES                      RAW MATERIALS                                SALES                   %
GENERATION IN                                                                                                                 CAP.
No. %     EST.  ACTUAL DIF.      SUCRES      EST.        ACTUAL    DIF           EST.       ACTUAL      DIF              EST.    ACTUAL        DIF          UTIL
CARCHI            4 63.00    16     13    -3    4,871,459.0   24,320.0     20,400.0   (3,9200)    120,015.5    104,656,0    (15,359.5)  206,160.0     227,040.0    20,880.0      52.5
IMBABURA         49   7.81  146   167     21    2,645,617.1  355,828.0    428,387.0   72,559.0   2,216,706.5  1,907,559.0  (309,147.5)  4,114.292.3  3,944,968.0  (169,3243)    55.6
PICHINCHA       131 20.89   495    737   242    2,623,689.4  2,120,886.6  3,256,047.5  1,135,160.9  8,413,592.2  11,983,7880  3,570,195.8  17,426,688.8  23,392.822.7  5,966,133.9  37.5
COTOPAXI          4 63.00     5     10     5    1,605,969.0    7.458.0     10,000.0     2,542.0    70,770.0     58,5000    (12,270.0)  106,000.0      91,000.0   (15.000.0)     40.0
TUNGURAHUA       55   8.77  322    418    96    1,588.082.3  561,410.1  1,037,184.8   455,774.7  2.386,526.6  7,227,3957  4,840,869.1  3,076,763.7  11,752,827.3  8,676,063.6   66.6
BOLIVAR           3   0.47    3      2     -1   1,181,322.0    4,850.0      9,702.0    4,852.0     12,920.0     14,100,0     1,180.0      7,964.0      29,000.0    21,036.0      60.0
CHIMBORAZO       31   4.94  148    151     3    2,437,408.3  187,676.7    384,845.4   197,168.7  1,099,275.2  1,113,0795    13.804.3  2,543.225.2  3.093,151.3   549,926.1      60.9
CABAR             8   1.27    7     17    10    3,214,021.1  322,249.7     53,180.0  (269.069.7)   142,692.3   147,800.0     5,107.7    317,723.0     330,400.0    12,677.0      56.2
AZUAY            26   4.14   80     78     -2   1,989,242.3  196,091.5   5,922,240.0  5.726,148.5  2.605,422.3  21,191,253.0  18.585.830.7  3,924,142.3  41,114,594.0  37,190,451.7  75.3
LOJA             73 11.64   196    164    -32   1,863,857.4  325,952.6    389,982.0    64,029.4   937,383.3   1,114,356.6   176,973.3  2,084,226.1   2,133,704.0   49,477.9      58.1
ESMERALDAS       15   2.39   69     43    -26   2,490,031.2   78,956.1     80,134.0    1,177.9    150,552.0    108,063.0    (42.489.0)  441,141.5     371,963.0   (69,178.5)     52.6
MANABI           93 14.83   296   309     13    2,319,557.9  601,360.2    630,421.8   29,061.6    744,255.5    977,958.0   233,702.5  2.528,798.8   3.380,780.0   851,981.2      59.2
LOS RIOS         13   2.07   11    28     17    2,613,482.5   34,953.0     62,430.0   27,477.0    215,961.0    255,700.0    39,739.0    435,709.0     513,000.0    77,291.0      52.6
GUAYAS          102 16.26   419    546   127    2,639,928.2  1,527,367.7  1.996,261.0  468,893.3  4,868,368.8  7,522,581.0  2,654.212.2  17,910,421.0  19,014.068.0  1,103,647.0  68.5
ZAMORA           19   3.03   35     40     5    1,453,011.3   24,819.0     44,080.0    19,261.0    94.374.2    125,080 0    30,705.8    214,887 0     251,220.0    36,333 0      74.7
GALAPAGOS         1   0.15    0     0      0          0.0      2,200.0      3,600.0    1,400.0     12,000.0      5,000.0    (7,000.0)    76,038.4      22,500.0   (53,538.4)     60.0
TOTAL           627 99.92  2248   2723   475    2,354,294.2  6,396,379.2  14,328,895 5  7,932,516.3  24,090,815.4   0.0 (24,090,815.4) 55,414,181.1  109,663,036.3  54,248,857.2  57.1


﻿TABLE: 12
SUB-LOAN SUPERVISION: 1994
(AMOUNTS IN 000, SUCRES)
DiSCOUNT FOR
PROVINCE       LOANS     EMPLOYMENT        EMPLOYMENTS       WAGES AND SALARIES                   RAW MATERIALS                              SALES                 %
GENERATION IN                                                                                                          CAP.
No.  %    EST. ACTUAl DIF.     SICRES     EST.      ACTUAL       DIF       EST.        ACTUAL        DIF         EST.      ACTUAL        DIF      UTI..
CARCHI           5  1.18   18     10    .8   6.349,824.0  20,598.4   26,000.0   (3.598.4)  177.009.0   159.000.0    (18,009.0)  2,834,400.0  314,200.0 (2,520,200.0)  40.0
IMBABURA        20  4.75   98    90     -6   7,122.935,4  350,879.6  525,636.0  174,756 4'  3,250,631.9  2,078,400.0  (1,172,231.9)  5,280,178.3  4,935,705.0  (344,473.3)  78.6
PICHINCHA       71  16.86  252   423   171   5,031.742.7  2,600,159,8  3,690,487.8  1,090,3280  9,409,482.4  12,820,902.0  3,411.419.6  19,910,761.1  24,240,654.0  4,329,892.9  59.8
COTOPAXI         2  0.47    7     16     9    915.916.7    9,920.0    14,600.0   4,660.0    90,595.8    28,800.0    (61,795.8)  144,120.0    72,000.0  (72.120.0)  25.0
TUNGURAHUA      28  6.65   99    181    82   2.360,011.8  428.484.4  635,496.0  207,011.6  2.836,051.7  4,957,400.0  2.121,348.3  6,227.726.8  8,005.000.0  1,777,273.2  64.4
BOLIVAR          2  0.47    2      3     1    708,000.0   3.480.0     7,000.0    3,5200      7,652.0     7,200,0      (452.0)    8,167.0    21,000.0    12,833.0   80.0
CHIMBORAZO      11  2.61   50  .  43    -7   2L626,062.5  118,160.8  282.960.0  164,799.2  572,261.6   514,200.0   (58,061.6)  1,184,280.0  1,045,600.0  (138,680.0)  57.2
AZUAY           17  4.03   83    230   147    ,297,913,0  523,911,6  1,113.990.9  590,079 3  2.605,373.6  3,576.274.9  973,901 3  5,787,785.1  6.417,033.2  629.296.1  64.2
LOJA            37  8.78   123   96    -27   3,260,437.7  276,437.7  346,669.1  70.231.4  1,138.284.4  1,372,816.4  234,5320  2,193.506.7  4,697.208.0  2,503,701.3  71.8
ESMERALDAS      27  6.41  130    58    -72   3,543,181 6  213.811 8  215,429.3   1.017.5    80.165.1    75,665.0    (10.3001)  1,061.010.6  852,873.7  (208,136.9)  47.2
MANABI         104  24.7  346   434     88   3,174,248 2  796.888 3  1,373,050.0  576,161.7  1,645,325.2  2,503,361.0  858,035.8  4,654,014.0  7,177,440.0  2.523,420.0  52.3
LOS RIOS        4   0.95   11     4     -7   3,376.486.0  .  60,155.3  66.960.0  6,804.7   873,319.0  1,010,000.0  136,681.0  2.423.210.0  1,650,000,0  (773,210.0)  60.0
GUAYAS         66  15.67  303   445    142   5,142,709.2  1,709,0685.3  2,508.645,0  708,959.7  8,055,272 4  10,080.057.4  1,124,785.0  23.906,687.7  24,822,052.2  015,364.5  68.3
EL ORO          6   1.42    7    16      9   2,046,712,5  50,954.0  106,500.0   57,546.0   129.3!1.8   200,000.0    70.668.2   445,244.0   540,000.0    94,756.0   61.6
ZAMORA          6   1.42   16     14    -2   2,719,679.1  13.308 6   28,400.0   15,091.4   140,036.8   134,802.2     (5,234.6)  214,209.3  254,715.0   40,505.7    70.0
GALAPAGOS       15  3 56   27    30      3   2,900,428.8  175,961 0  170,250.0  (5,711 0)   18,281.0   183,400.0   i5 1190    2,650,220.0  613,000.0 (2.037.220.0)  51.6
TOTAL          421  99.93  1570  2003  523   4.121,333.3  7,361,700.6  11,114,074.1  3,752.277.5  31,935,053.7  39.702,478.9  7,767,425.2  78.925,520.  85,658,531.1  6,733,010.5  58.1


﻿TABLE: 13
SUB-LOAN SUPERVISION: 1995
DiscouT_FOR(AMOUNTS IN 000                    CRESI
]DISCOUNT FOR
PROVINCE        LOANS        EMPLOYMENT       EMPLOYMENTS        WAGES AND SALARIES                    RAW MATERIALS                            SALES                    %
GENERATION IN                                                                                                             CAP
No.   %    EST ACTUAL    DIF     SUCRES       EST       ACTUAL        DIF       EST         ACTUAL        DIF         EST        ACTUAL        DIF       UTIL
PICHINCHA       56 16.81 239.0    558.0   319   4.036.222.8 2.120.182.7  4.530.398.0 2,410.215.3  9,576,610.2  12.334.852 0  2.758,241.8  21.799.578 6  35,581.182.0  13.761.603.4  58.5
COTOPAXI         6   1.80  12.0    260     14   2,040.850.0  26.460.0    52,440.0   25960.0   1.075,189.8  1,097,00.0   22.610.2  1.210.980.0  1.512,000.0  301,020.0    48.3
TUNGURAHUA       5    1.5  7.0     15.0     8  12,158,008.0  64,500.0    50,1400    (14.360.0) 2.036,663.0  1,512.0000  (524,663,0)  493800.0  2,140.000.0  1.646.200.0  42.0
CHIMBORAZO      20     6  63.O    105.0    42    365,155.1  438.721.2    320.5840  (118,137.2) 2.035.252.8  2.271.800.0  236.547.2  4,673.224,6  4,255,400.0  (417,824.6)  65.7
CAFAR           1    0.3  0.0      60      6   4.500.000.0   6.120.0     20,000.0   13,880.0    14,081.0    18,0000      3,919.0     58,678.0    65,620.0     6.942.0    70.0
AZUAY           22    6.6 37.0     60.0    23  14,848.500.0  391,604.0   651,652.6  260.040.6  1,519,951.0  1.497.7370   (22,214.8)  3.279.21 0  3.852.971.8  573,750.0  67.6
LOJA            34 10.21 68.0      95.0     7   6.793.521.3  370.092.0   443,9600   73,068.0  1,928,755.4   996,170.0  (932,565.4)  3.679,!490  2,385.701.5  (1.293,447.5)  61.9
ESMERALDAS      22    6.6 105.0    31.0   -74  13.453,072.2  353,300.5  293,9050    (69,395.5)  499,805.6   751.4000    251,594.4  2,434.550.0  1.539,2000  (695.350.0)  48.1
MANABI          57 17.11 149.0    179.0    30   6.185,8984  563,514.4   899,3400  335,625.6  4.364.005.7  3.025.100.0  (1,330,005.7)  4,955,160.6  6,815.040.0  1,859,879.4  50.9
LOS RIOS        14    4.2 63.0     82.0    19   9.273.731.7  468,805.9   556,322.0  87,516.1  1,604,477.5  1,826,000.0  221,522.5  5.773.210.5  4,339,0000  (1,434.2t0.5)  54.6
GUAYAS          84 25.22 363.0    395.0    32   7.974.250.6 2.716,234 4  3,822.999.1 1,106.764.7  11,252.959.1  10,481,315.0  (771.644.1) 40.374.603.5  32.976.544.4  (7,398,0591)  692
ZAMORA           3    0.9  5.0      7.0     2   3,318,4800   21,720.0    23,4000    1,680.0    59,970.0     28,0000   (31,970.0)   132,0000     60,000.0   (72,000.0)   56.6
GALAPAGOS        9    2.7  250     42.0    17  3,158,454 8  140.400.0   109,8000   (30.600.0          0     121,000.0    58,808.0    5132000     410,000.0  (103,2000)   455
TOTAL          333 99.95  1156     1601   445   3.945.657.5 7.681,655.1  11,764,940.7 4,083,285.6  36,029.833.9  35.961,174.0  (68,659.9) 89,377.3558  95,932,659.7  6,55,303.9  57.6


﻿TABLE 14
FOPINAR
STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS
(SUCRES)
(1)       (2)                              (3)
1987          1988          1989                            1990          1991          1992      1993       1994       1995       1996
Cash & Due from Banks                103,559        64,863        21,204                         806,438     2,381,796      3.158.920     779       5,141      1,143      6,321
Short-term investments                    0        300,000            0                               0             0             0         0          0          0          0
Interest Due From                    359,417       709,599       789,495                       1,495,098     2,471,409      5,089,349    6,375        73         94         10
Loans                              8,141,858    10,250.918     11,620,366                      13,854,973    21,775,609    35,886,996   48,419     97.751    108,661    114.457
Loans loss provision                  10.000        55,163       441.473                         441,473       322,609       311,827      281         12       2.152      2,750
Net loans                          8,131.858    10.195.755     11,178,893                      13,413.500    21.453,000    35,575,169   48,138     97,739    106.509    111,707
Premises & Equipment                                13,455        23,412                          77,294        78,267       160.385      160        160         160        160
Other Assets                         284,181        27,447          864                          441,818       382,747        98,022     4,770      7,786     10,178     11,651
TOTAL ASSETS                       8,879,015     11,311,119    12,013,868                      16,234,148    26,767,219    44,081,845   60,222    110,899    118,084    129,849
Deposits and Loans                 7,319,670     8,967,405      9,478,715                      13,472,715    22,151,809    36,337,451   53,089     77,257     94,384    120,425
Interest Due to                     503,334        476,006       696,362                       1,117,893      2,867,251     5,628,288    4,813     36,777     31,433     19,261
Other Liabilities                      6,138       307,361       521,870                          19,286        10,656       350,277      907       1,002      1,093      1,164
Capital Subscrption                 550,000       641,291       641,291                         550,000       550,000      1,737,503    1,738      1,766      1,766      1,766
Retained Earnings (Losses)           499,873       919,056       675.630                       1,074,254     1,187,503        28,326      (325)    (5,903)    (10,592)   (12.767)
Equity Capital                     1,049,873     1,560,347      1,316,921                      1,624,254     1,737,503      1,765,829    1,413     (4,137)    (8,826)    (11.001)
TOTAL LIABILITIES+PATRIM           8,879,015     11.311,119    12,013,868                     16,234.148     26,767,219    44,081,845   60,222    110,899    118,084    129,849
(1) Since 1992, by law, patrimony reexpression is charged to Income Statements
(2) Since 1993 expessed in millons sucres
(3) Statement up to June 30, 1996


﻿TABLE 15
FOPINAR
STATEMENT OF INCOME
(1)     (2)              (3)     (4)
1987          1988       1989       1990       1991        1992     1993    1994    1995     1996
Interest Income                 1,148,278     2,200,452  2,700,811  4,579,350  7,499,851  14,303,883  16,907  23.877   43,662  25,402
Non-Interest Income                6,719        10,726     21,702      24,166    125,715      14,014   1,125     450     136        6
TOTAL INCOME                    1,154,997     2,211,178  2,722,513  4,603,516  7,625,566  14,317,897  18,032   24,327  43,798  25,408
Interes Expenses                 848,078      1,458,142  2,113,616  3,375,829  6,383,049  12,896,950  16,253  26,716   43,926  26,100
Salaries & Benefits               37,593        64,241     96,239     153,667    238,587     379,356     436     483     584      284
CFN Management Fees                75,256      214,418     334,472    563,092    844,679     910,643   1,563    2,511   1,720       0
Loan Loss Provision                    0        45,164     386,310         0          0    1,110,264     571     346    2,141     598
Other                               9,816       10,030      35,302    112,304     46,002     102,622     133     166      117     601
Total Operating Expenses          122,665      333,853     852,323    829,063  1,129,268   2,502,885   2,703    3,506   4,562   1,483
TOTAL EXPENSES                   970,743      1,791,995  2,965,939  4,204,892  7,512,317  15,399,835  18,956   30,222  48,488  27,583
NET INCOME                        184,254      419,183    (243,426)   398,624    113,249   (1,081,938)  (924)1 (5,895)  (4,690  (2,175)
(1) Since 1992, by law, Patrimony monetary reexpresion, Is charged to Income Statement (included In Loan Loss Provision
(2) Since 1993 expressed In millon sucres
(3) In 1995, Loan Loss Provisslon is effective and not Include monetary reexpresslon
(4) Statement up to June 30,1996


﻿TABLE 16
FOPINAR
SELECTED RATIOS
1987       1988       1989       1990       1991      1992       1993      1994       1995      1996
EARNINGS PERFOMANCE
Return on Assets (%)             2.08%       3.71%    -2,03%      2.46%      0.42%     -2.45%     -1.53%    -5.32%    -3.97%     -1.68%
Return on Equity (%)             17.55%     26.86%    -18.48%    24.54%      6.52%    -61.27%    -65.39%   142.49%     53.14%    19.77%
INTEREST MARGIN
Interest Spread (%)              3.54%       6.62%     4.90%      8.03%      4.65%      3.45%      1.20%    -2.90%    -0.25%    -0.62%
Net Interest Margin(%)            3.69%      7.24%      5.05%     8.69%      5.13%      3.92%      1.35%    -2.90%    -0.24%    -0.61%
OPERATING EXPENSES
Oprtng Exp's to Income
(net Interest + Other Inc.) (%)  39.97%    44.33%    139.98%     67.53%     90.89%    176.14%    151.94%  -146.76%  -3564.06%  -214.31%
Personnel Exp. to Op. Exps (%)   30.65%     19.24%     11.29%    18.54%     21.13%     15.16%     16.13%    13.78%     12.80%    19.15%
CFN Fees to Op. Exps (%)         61.35%     64.23%     39.24%    67.92%     74.80%     36.38%     57.82%    71.62%     37.70%     0.00%
ASSET QUALITY______                                                                                                                                     ____
Reserve to Loans (%)             0.12%      0.54%      3.80%      3.19%      1.48%      0.87%      0.58%     0.01%      1.98%    2.40%
Provision to Loans (%)            0.00       0.44       3.32      0.00%      0.00%      3.09%      1.18%     0.35%     1.97%     0.52%
CAPITAL ADEQUACY
Capital to Assets (%)            11.82%     13.79%    10.96%     10.01%      6.49%      4.01%      2.35%    -3.73%     -7.47%   -8.47%
Loans to Capital (X)               7.76       6.57      8.82       8.53      12.53      20.32      34.27    (23.63)    (12.31)   (10.40)


﻿TABLE 17
CFN AND FOPINAR
FINANCIAL STRUCTURE, LOANS, PORTFOLIO AND DISBURSED LOANS
Real Growth Rates (1990 prices)
(Million Sucres and Percentages)
Item              Dec.1990       Dec.1991           Dec.1992          Dec.1993           Dec.1994            Dec.1995
Nominal Real Nominal Real G,Rate Nominal Real G.Rate Nominal Real G.Rate Nominal Real G.Rate Nominal  Real G.Rate
A.- FOPINAR
ASSETS           16,234 162 26,767   180    11 44,082 185      3 60,222   193     4 110,899  283    47   118,084  245  -13
LIABILITIES      14,610 146 25,030   168    15 42,316 177      6 58,809   188     6 115,036  293    56   126,910  264  -10
PATRIMONY         1,624  16   1,738   12   n.a.  1.766   7   n.a.  1,413    5   n.a. -4,137,. -11  n.a.   -8,826  -18  n.a.
LOANS            13,855 139 21,776   146     5 35,887 150      3 48,419   155     3  97,751 249     61   108,661 226   -10
Loans Loss Prov.   441    4    323     2   n.a.   312    1   n.a.    281    1   n.a.     12    0   n.a.   2,152    4   400
NETLOANS         13,414 134 21,453   144     7 35,575 149      3 48,138   154     3  97,739  249    62   106,509  221   -11
DISBURS.LOANS     5,374  54  12,714   85    59 20,077   84    -1 24,012    77     -9  58,981  150   96    45,896  95   -37
B.- C. F. N.
ASSETS           82,141 821 134,805  905    10 337,597 1414   56 538,725 1723    22 800,034 2041    18 1,169,026 2427   19
LIABILITIES      57,129 571 91,469   614     7 132,992 557    -9 266,062 851     53 448,925 1145    35  702,110 1458    27
PATRIMONY        25,012 250 43,336   291    16 204,605 857    195 272,663 872     2 351,109  896     3  466,916  969     8
LOANS            55,899 559 80,990   544    -3 121,539 509    -6 321,123 1027   102 601,208 1534    49  954,409 1982    29
Loans Loss Prov.  3,911  39   4,101   28   -30   4,524  19   -31   7,415   24    25  28,635   73   208   50,797  105    44
NET LOANS        5  8   520 76889    516,   -1,117,015 490    -5 313,708 1004   105 572,573 1461    46  903,612 1876    28


﻿TABLE 18
FOPINAR
Administrative and Indirect Costs to Outstanding Portfolio
(Million Sucres)
1987     1988    1989     1990     1991     1992    1993     1994     1995
Loans                  8,142   10,251   11,620   13,855  21,776   35,887   48,419  97,751  108,661
CFN Mngmt.Fees            75     214      334      563      845     911     1,563   2,511    1,720
Total Optng.Expenses     123      334     852      829    1,129    2,503    2,703   3,506    4,562
Tot.Op.expl Loans       1.51     3.26     7.33     5.98    5.18     6.97     5.58    3.59     4.20
CFN M.Fees/ Loans       0.92     2.09     2.87    4.06     3.88     2.54     3.23    2.57     1.58
% CFN Fees/Total Op.E  60.98    64.07    39.20   67.91   74.84    36.40    57.82   71.62    37.70


﻿TABLE 19
FOURTH SSE: DEBT SERVICES AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE SUPERHABIT
(Million Sucres Million US Dollars)
GOVERNMENT DEBT           CFN/FOPINAR TRANSFERENCES
YEAR   PRINCIPAL INTERES TOTAL PRINCIPAL INTEREST         TOTAL      DIFFERENCE
US$                       SUCRES     US$      US$
1991                 0.20   0.20             932.00     932.00   0.90        0.70
1992                 0.90   0.90            4890.20    4890.20   3.20        2.30
1993                 1.50   1.50           10910.00   10910.00   6.40        4.90
1994                 1.90   1.90            12921.00  12921.00   5.82        3.92
1995        2.50     3.00   5.50   2945.70  23181.90  26127.60   8.94        3.44
1996        4.40     3.00   7.40   7609.70  32071.60  39681.30  12.70        5.30
6.90    10.50  17.40  10555.40  84906.70  95462.10  37.96       20.58


﻿
﻿IBRD 28022
81°              80°               79°               78°              77               76°
Son LorenzoI
ESMERALDAS                                                C 0   L 0  M   B l A
ESMERALDAS
----^K,MBABUR    j  Bonita...
- ABUR IBAR \-
Zårate     -  --\O
a-a Agi
o.-
0.                                                       Cayame   7    - ----       &     Carmend 0
-0°PICH INumayo
Santo Domingo                           S_       t n1
de los Coardos
m  A  A                   -tro Francisco
Bahia de Caråquez                                                         d  rellana
COT   x                                                    Nuev~
Manta          Clceta                     L   UNGA      Archidona                       o   Rocafuert4
-.                      loob&orra.  uevedo                     TENAs-
OR IJO -
L ~AHLIA
Sucre /0565
RIOS                A        e a~
GUI A  A
BO        iOB MBA Paora             P A S T A Z A
Mangleralto  ABAH              cmP-
-              G u A y  s                                                                                   2
-Naran
Salinas         GUIA  lIm
MACAS
Sucuaý MORONA-
SA N SALADO NENTA 0ONARE
cEA A R   -            SANTA 
PosoriT aranjonda de.                                                      7 , d    a
General L.
-°UA                              Ec       Plaza Gutiérrez f        3ý-
MACHAL                                                                   UAD
K E  R-GALAPAGOS ISLANDS                   -   - PAVED ROADS
A'   R     91    (ARCHIPIll.AGO DE COLÖN)    --OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
Ttacocha                         ARISA MARCHENA                  R AIRORAS
lO  A z  ORA                        ISLA GENOVESA   .L     PORTS
0°     rIA c,iFiý  O'EAN       0°.RvS
ISLASANSALVDORPROV)NCE BOUNDARIES
SLA SN SAVADO       ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
P E R U                       ISLA
FERNANDINA ISLA SANTA CRU
ISLA                              The boundaries, colors, denominations
-5ý                          IABELAand any other information shown on
-°   0  25  50  75  100     5-SABLAISLA SAN CRIS1ÖDAL                            this map do not imply, on the part of
L                          1                                         1-     The World Bank Group, any judgment
K|LOMET ERS                               ISLA                          on the legal status of any territory, or
0  2  5075 00SANTA MARIA    aSAnSAÑy "cbenorsement or acceptance of
81 80°                                KILOMETERS  91°            90°
MAY 1996


﻿
﻿
﻿IMAGING
Report No.:        18802
Type:     ICR


