Docunerit ot
The World Bank
iFOR OFFRIIAl. I SF ()ON.
Al.  c 3        a         g-    c                 Report N.. 7691-FC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
FOTJRTH SMALL SCALE ENTE.iPRISE PROJECT
January 9, 1990
Country Department IV
La-in America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Ihis docunient has a rc%tricted distrib ht ion ard ma% he used h! recipien ts onti  in the perlortiance of
their official duties. Its ceefn;rt% nias noit othvr-Aiw  he diveowvd NNithouti %Norld Hanik authori,atin j



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNlTS
Country:         Ecuador
Currency Unit:  Sucre (S/.)            = 100 cents.
US$1.00 (at appraisal - Jan. 1989)  = S/. 461.29 (Official Rate)
= S/. 520.00 (Free Market Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
ABBREVIATIONS
BCE      Banco Central del Ecuador (Central Bank of Ecuador)
BEDE     Banco Ecuatoriano de Desarrollc (Ecuadorian Development Bank)
BEV      Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
BNF      Banco Narional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
CD       Certificate of Deposit
CCT      Comite de Cooperacion Tecnica
(Technical Cooperation Co;mmittee)
CEFE     Centro de Formaci6n Empresarial (Center for Entrepreneurial
Development)
CENAPIA  Centro Nacional para la Promoci6n de la Pequefta Industria y la
Artesania Nacional (National Center for Promotion of SSEs and
Artisans)
CENDES   Centro de Desarrollo industrial (Industrial Development Center)
CFN      CorporaciSn Financiera Nacional (National Finance Corporation)
CONADE   Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Council)
FENAPI   Federaci6n Nacional de CAmaras de Pequefios Industriales
(National Chamber of Small Scale Industrialists)
DFC      Development Finance Company
FOPINAR  Fondo de Fomento para la Pequefia Industria y la Artesania
(Development Fund for SSEs and Artisans)
,NEC     Instituto Nacional de Estadistica (National Institute of
Statistics)
IESS     Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social (Social Security
Institute)
INSOTEC  Instituto de Investigaciones Socio-Econ6micas y Tecnol6gicas
(Institute for Socio-Economic and Technological Research)
MICIP    Ministerio de Industrias, Comercio, Integraci6n y Pesca (Ministry
of Inoustry, Commerce, Integration and Fisheries)
SECAP    Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitaci6n Profesional (Ecuadorian
Professional Training Service)
SSEs     Small Scale Enterprises
TA       Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



- i -                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Table  of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY .iii
I. THE  INDUSTRIAL  SECTOR ...........................................                              1
A.   The Economic  Setting .......................................                            1
- Macro Performance ........................................                            1
- Issues and Reform ........................................                            1
B.   Manufacturing  Industry .....................................                            2
- Nature of Manufacturing Growth ...........................                            2
- Exports  of Manufactured Products .........................                           2
C.   Small  Scale  Industrial  Sector ..............................                          3
- Role  of  SSEs  ............................................                          3
- Policy Environment .......................................                            4
- Effects  of an  Improved Policy  Framework ..................                         6
- Technical Assistance  to SSEs .............................                           6
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR                                       ..                                    7
A.   Institutional  Structure  and Development ....................                           7
- Mdin  Institutions ........................................                           7
- Background ...................  7
- Recent Developments ......................................                            8
B.  Interest  Rate  Policy  ......................................                            8
- Background ...............................................                            8
- Recent Developments ......................................                            9
TII. PRIOR BANK tECTOR INVOLVEMENT .10
A. Lending Strategy .10
B. Prior Bank Lending .10
IV. THE PROJECT    ..12
A.  Project Preparation ........................                                             12
- Project Origin  and  Status  of Preparation .................    12
B.   Project Objectives  and Descriptior .........................    12
- Project Objectives .......................................    12
- Project  Descriptior ................                 ......................    12
C.   Project  Execution ..........................................    13
- Participating  Institutions .............................                            13
- Executing Agency .............................                                       15
This report was prepared by Ines Garcia-Thoumi, LA4TF, Mauricio Carrizosa,
LA4TF, Ivan Rivera, LATTF, Fernan Ibanez (Consultant) and Jav:er Nogales
(Consultant) based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Ecuador
in January 1989. The mission comprised Mrs. Garcia-Thoumi, LA4TF, Messrs.
Carrizosa, LA4TF, and Rivera, LATTF, and Messrs. J. Campos, L.A. Fuenzalida and
F. Ibanez (Consultants). Ms. E. Cubillas assisted in the production of the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont.)
D.  Project Cost and Financing Arrangements ....................  15
- Project Cost and Financing ............................... '
- Onlending Arrangements ...................................  16
- Terms and Conditions of Financing ........................  17
- Procurement ..............         ..........................  18
- Disbursments .18
- Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .18
S. Project Benefits and Risks .19
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMENDATION .19
ANNEXES
I. Manufacturing Industry
-Table 1: Decomposition of Industrial Growth Rates, 1965-82
-Table 2: Distribution of Firms, Employment and Value Added in
Manufacturing, 1965-87
II. Small Scele Industry
-Table la: Capital Intensity among Micro and Small-Scale Industries
in 1984-CENAPIA (Size defined by Value of Output)
-Table lb: Capital Intensity among Micro and Small-Scale Industries
in 1984-CENAPIA (Size defined by Fixed Assets)
III. SSE Survey Results
-Table la: Type of Firms that Compete with Those Surveyed by Sector
-Table lb: Source of Inputs by Sector
-Table lc: Main Problems in Input Purchases
-Table id: Financial Sources for the Last Investment Made, by Size of Firm
-Table le: Marketing Channels by Size of Firm
-Table lf: Form of Production by Sector of Surveyed Firms
IV. Banking System Credit
-Table 1: Banking System Credit to Small versus Medium and Large
Enterprises. 1981-87
V. Fondo de Fomento para la Pequefna Industria y la Artesania (FOPINAR)
-Chart 1: FOPINAR: Organizational Structure
-Table 1: FOPINAR's Key Financial Indicators
-Table 2: FOPINAR: Cash Flow Balance
-Table 3: FOPINAR: Balance Sheets
-Table 4: FOPINAR: Income Statements
-Table 5: FOPINAR: Geographic Distribution of Subloans (1981-6/30/89)
-Table 6: FOPINAR: Distrib. of Subloans by Fin. Intermediaries (1981-6/30/89)
VI. Technical Assistance (TA)
-Figure 1: FOPINAR's Future Activities
-Table 1: Estimated Costs and Financing for Technical
Assistance (TA) Program (1990-91)
VII. Projected Investment in Manufacturing 1990-92
VIII. Interest Capitalization Scheme
IX. Estimated Schedule of Disburserients Under the Proposed Loan
X. Bank Monitoring of Project Implementation



-iii -
ECUADOR
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Ecuador.
Beneficiaries:          Private Small Scale Enterprises (SSEs) involved in
manufacturing (including agro-industry), industry-related
services. fisheries and tourism.
Amount:                 US$50 million equivalent.
Terms:                  Repayable over 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate and charges.
Relending Terms:        The R?public of Ecuador, using the Central Bank (BCE) as its
agernt, would onlend the proposed loan resources in Sucres to
the Nationai Finance Corporation (CFN) on the same maturity as
the Bank's loan (17 year repayment period, including 5 years of
grace). CFN, using the Development Fund for SSEs and Artisans
(FOPINAR) as a second-tier mechanism, would rediscount all
subloans made by financial intermediaries to eligible SSEs.
The onlending rate has been set initially at the 90-day
certificate of deposit rate. Beginning on July 1, 1990, it
would be adjusted in uniform steps every six months to reach
the market-determined commercial bank lending rate by June 30,
1992. The onlending rate would include a maximum spread cf 6z
p.a., for financial intermediaries, depending on the size of
the subloans, and a spread of 2.5Z, p.a. for FOPINAR to cover
its operating costs and part of the technical assistance
activities. CFN would pay in turn a service fee of .1252 p.a.
to the Central Bank.
Proiect Obiectives:   The proposed operation, would help enhance the contribution of
SSEs to industrial development. Specifically, the loan would
help modernize and expand production by: (a) facilitating the
access of SSEs tc formal credit; (b) promoting lending to SSEs
by participating financial intermediaries (PFIs); (c) providing
more focused an. ntegrated technical and managerial assistance
support to increase the productivity of eligible SSEs and
reinforce coordination among organizations that provide
technical and financial assistance to the small firms; and
(d) further strengthening the management and technical skills
of participating financial institutions that provide credit to
SSEs.
Project Description:  To achieve these objectives, the proposed project would
comprise: (a) a credit component of US$50 million to finance
SSE fixed assets, permanent working capital (both associated
and free-standing), and subproject related technical and
managerial expenditures; and (b) a technical assistance progra7.
of US$1.6 million equivalent, of which US$1 million would be
financed by CFN and by a grant from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB), and US$600,000 by local counterpart
funds.



- iv -
Protect Benefits:      The proposed project would help integrate the SSEs more
effectively into industrial developmevt by increasing their
productivity and competitiveness. The coordinated package of
financing and technical assistance would stimulate production
and provide the needed term financing. On the basis of
experience under the previous three SSE loans, the proposed
project is expected to finance some 4,500 investment
subprojects, costLng about US$83 million and generating about
14,500 new jobs. It is Llso expected that about 4O0 of
subprojects financed would be in the industrial centers of
Pichinch& and Guayas, which contain a high concentration of the
urban poor in Ecuador. Better servi-es to SSEs, as well as
efficient subloan and subproject implementation, woe ld result
from the institutional support provided to POPINAR. More than
1.000 enterprises would receive direct technical and managerial
assistance. A further 1,500 firms would benefit from training
and extension activities.
Project Risks:         One main risk can be identified: that high inflation and
continued recession, coupled with the introduction of market-
determined interest rates on subloans, could reduce loan demand
and cause a slower pace of commitments and disbursements under
the proposed operation than in the previous three SSE loans.
The Government's commitment to stabilizing the economy and its
success in reducing the fiscal deficit and inflation augurs
favorably for a resumption of economic growth with relative
price stability in the medium-term. The expected strengthening
of the economy combined with the favorable outlook for SSE
development should sustain strong demand for financing under
the loan.
Estimated Costs:               Local    Foreign    Total
----US$ Million--
Investment Projects            33.0       50.0       83.0
Total Project Cost         33.0        50.0       83.0
Technical Assistance Prog.    0.6          1.0        1.6
Total Program Costs         6.0         1.0        1.6
Financing Plan:
Bank                            -         50.0       50.0
CFN (through FOPINAR)           9,0         -         9.0
Financial Intermediaries        7.0         -         7.0
Subloan to Borrower        16.0        50.0       66.0
SSE Beneficiaries              17.0         -        17.0
Total              33.0        50.0      83.0



ECUADOR
FOURTH SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. The Economic Setting
1.01     Macro Performance.  Ecuador has enjoyed average GDP growth of about
5S a year over the past twenty-five years, a record exceeded only by Brazil
among the Latin American countries. This growth, more dynamic in the 1970s
than in the 1980s, was mainly associated with the rapid development of the
petroleum sector during 1973-82. The expansion, however, could not be
sustained when oil revenues dwindled, external credit dried up and various
other shocks (the 1983 floods, the 1987 earthquake, the collapse of the
Andean Market) hit the economy. As a result, GDP grew by an average of only
0.62 p.a. from 1982-87.
1.02     Ecuador's economic performance has been hampered by the country's
misguided development strategy during the 1973-82 oil boom phase. Oil
export revenues and large scale external borrowing led to an appreciation of
the real exchange rate. which undermined the development of agriculture and
export-oriented manufacturing. The stock of external debt expanded without
a commensurate strengthening of Ecuador's non-oil export capacity.
Similarly, public sector finances w?re allowed to become excessively
dependent on petroleum revenues while tax concessions and subsidies
expanded. Under these conditions, a.djustment to reduced external credit and
oil price shocks of the 1980s has bEen particularly difficult.
1.03     Issues and Reform.  Facing in expected fiscal deficit of 102 of GDP
in 1988 and inflation running at an annual rate of 80 to 90Z, the Government
(which took office in August 1988) acted quickly to introduce fiscal
measures and restrict monetary growth. These policy measures, aided by a
rise in international oil prices in late 1988, allowed the Government to cut
the 1988 fiscal deficit to about 5.1% of GDP, about half of what had been
projected at mid-year. Further measures on interest rates and exchange
rates have been taken during 1989; gasoline prices have been raised monthly
during thne year. Indications are that the stabilization is succeeding.
Preliminary figures for 1989 show that the consolidated non-financial public
sector deficit was contained to about 32 of GDP in 1989. As a result of
stabilization, GDP growth slowed down to between 0 and 1X and inflation was
reduced to 54Z in 1989 from 89% in 1988. Other performance criteria under
the IMF standby were also met in December. For 1990, the targets are a
fiscal deficit equivalent to about 2% of GDP, growth of 3 to 3.5Z of GDP
p.a., and inflation at 40% p.a. or less.



- 2 -
1.04     Ecuador's medium-term strategy calls for a more diversified
structure of production and exports to protect the country against
fluctuations in the international prices of oil and other traded
commodities, and to establish a base for the post-oil era. At the core of
Ecuador's structural problems is the need to shift resources from the
production of non-tradeables, including public sector activities, into the
efficient production of exports and competitive import substitutes. A step
in this direction has already been taken with thp substantial increase in
the real exchange rate of the last two years. By late 1989, the gap between
the official and free market rates had closed to within 5 percent. If
Ecuador's potential in the medium-term is to be achieved, a strong and
permanent trade reform, including basic industrial and labor policy changes,
would be needed. To this end, the Government, after having addressed first
fiscal and financial issues, is now implementing an income tax reform (which
would align the cost of equity and the cost of debt capital) and preparing a
trade and industrial policy strategy.  The Bank is assisting the Government
in the design of these reforms. The forthcoming Industrial Sector Study
(ISS) currently under preparation by the Bank, will provide the basis for
the policy dialogue.
B. Manufacturing Industry
1.05     Nature of Manufacturing Growth.  Value-added by Ecuador s
manufacturing industries expanded faster than Gross Domestic P;.oduct (GDP)
until the early 1980s. Figh oil revenues and external credit financed both
the expansion of domestic demand for manufactures and production capacity,
while the expansion of the Andean market provided the basis for growth in
industrial exports from less than US$50 million in 1975 to US$250 million in
1981.  As a result, the manufacturing sector increased its share of GDP from
about 16.2Z in 1972 to a peak of 19.42 in 1983. However, following the
1982-87 drop in GDP growth, the average growth rate of manufacturing output
also dropped to 0.3Z p.a. compared to 8.4? p.a. over the preceding five
years. Consequently, Ecuador's level of industrialization fell from a 19.3?
share of GDP in 1983 to 16.82 in 1988.
1.06     Manufacturing growth haa been essentially inwerd-oriented and
capital intensive. A decomposition analysis suggests that between 1975 and
1982, 53.1? of industrial growth resulted from import substitution, 36.7Z
from domestic demand expansion, and only 10.2Z from export growth, which, in
turn, was concentrated almost entirely in the initial processing of fish,
shrimp, cocoa and wood (see Annex I, table 1). Manufacturing sector
investment in machinery and equipment increased sharply during the 1970s,
doubling its real value between 1973 and 1977, while labor absorption lagged
behind. Whereas the share of industrial va'ue added in GDP rose by 5
percentage points between 1973 and 1983, the share of the industrial labor
force remained constant.
1.07     Exports of Manufactured Products.  Rapidly expanding oil-exports,
rising from virtually zero in 1970 to 70? of total exports in 1983,
permitted the country to support an impozt-substituting industrial policy.
The joint effect of oil export revenues, foreign debt sales and import
protection on the real exchange rate discouraged the growth of manufactured
goods exports. Though the real exchange rate has since depreciated in
response to reduced oil revenues and external credit, a wavering exchange
rate policy has created uncertainty among potential exporters. Three



-3-
subsectors (food, textiles and wood products) account for about 95? of
manufactured goods exports. The remaining subsectors supply mu, than 99Z
of their production to the domestic market. With domestic demand slowing
and possibilities for import substitution being nearly exhausted, renewed
industrial growth will critically depend on export development.
C. Smal. Scale Industrial Sector
1.08     Role of SSEs.  The June 1989 SSE decree defines SSEs as firms with
fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) of 50 million sucres
(approximately US$S00 thousand equivalent), valued at their acquisition
value. Eligible enterprises for the proposed operation would comply with
the legal definition for SSEs. SSEs, also defined as establishments with
less than 50 employees, accounted for 74Z of manufacturing employment in
1987. Available statistics indicate that SSEs create employment at only a
sixth to a quarter of the costs in large firms of similar industries. Thus,
because the cost of SSE employment creation is relatively low, SSEs have
generated virtually all of the additional manufacturing employment during
the eighties.  SSEs' production is largely concentrated in labor-intensive
goods, which comprise much of the country's comparative advantage. SSEs
account for an important share of production of goods for domestic
consumpticn, particularly in the garments industry, wood processing, ard
metalmechanics. During the 1980s, the share of SSEs in total indust7y value
added increased, however, from about 362 in 1980 to 422 in 1987. SSE's
larger share in employment than. in value added is due to the SSEs larger
average labor intensity.
1.09     A comparison of the evolution of industrial structure by size
duiing the years of high industrial growth (1965 to 1980) reveals the more
dynamic growth of the large capital intensive enterprise vis-a-vis small and
microenterprises.  Large-industry share of value added increased from 53.32
to 63.62. See Arnex I, table 2. Available information also shows that
labor productivity increases sharply with enterprise size. Productivity in
the smallest firms (1-2 workers) is only 16? of productivity in firms with
200-500 workers.
1.10     The reason for the variance in labor productivity is explained by
economies of scale and differences in capital intensity. The Industrial
Sector Study has estimated a strong effect of scale on total factor
productivity. On the other hand, a recent survey 1 shows a clear positive
correlation between capital intensity, (assets per worker) and firm size,
(fixed assets, excluding land and buildings) or value of production. The
capital stock per job of the large enterprises varies between six and four
times the cost of that of the small enterprises, depending on the
measurements of size. These findings are confirmed by the annual industry
survey, Encuesta Anual de Manufactura y Mineria, which includes
manufacturing enterprises cmploying ten or more workers. This survey shows,
for manufacturing as a whole and at the subsector level. a decreasing ratio
of the wage bill to value-added as the size of enterprise, measured by the
value of output, increases. See Annex II, tables ia and lb. The largest
increase in labor productivity occurs in moving trom microenterprises to SSE
production. Since the investment cost per job in SSEs is only a sixth to a
1/ The most comprehensive survey of the SSE sector was done in 1985 by the
National Center for the Promotion of SSEs and Artisans (CENAPIA).



quarter of that in the large enterprisps, while labor productivity is about
16Z-582, there appears to be ample room for a growth in the small enterprise
sector in manufacturing.
1.11     A recent bank sponsored survey of the microeconomic characteristics
of the business environment of the SSEs, covering the four industrial
subsectors (food, wood, tertile and metalmechanic products) where SSEs are
most important, shows that these firms compete mainly with other small
enterprises. The labor market for SSEs shows high flexibility: annual
reductions of 172 in temporary employment were reported as normal
adjustments to cyclical fluctuations in demand. Production processes seem
flexible; most SSEs produce more than five different products. Very few
SSEs (three out of 194) export on a permanent basis, mainly because the
production volumes are small, and the quality of inputs is not adequate for
the requirements of foreign markets. (Details of the results of the survey
are given in Annex III, tables la to lf.)
_.12     SSEs have an important role to play in Ecuador. Given Ecuador's
factor endowments, and the flexibility and dynamism of the small scale
sector, SSEs should continue to provide a pool of potential entrepreneurial
talent. The Government attaches high priority to the development of the SSE
sector because of its contribution to efficient industrial development and
socio-economic objectives: entrepreneurial development, upgrading of labor
skills, and employment creation. The proposed project would provide a
specific line of long-term credit to SSEs, that coupled with a more focused
and far-reaching program of technical assistance, would support the
Government's SSE growth objectives.
1.13     Policy Environment.  The industrial policy framework has been
characterized by a h.gh level of import protection and by policies that
subsidize the cost of capital and raise the cost of labor. The tariff code
and the industrial promotion law (which grants tariff exemptions from import
duties for industrial inputs and capital goods, and gives income tax
deductions for investment purposes), have resulted in major deviations in
the rates of effective protection among sectors. Industrial protection has
been widespread and pervasive, with the typical cascading pattern--higher
for consumer goods and lower for intermediate and capital goods.2
Subsidized interest rates significantly lowered the cost of capital to
business enterprises and, coupled with high taxation of dividends,
encouraged theqp enterprises to become highly leveraged. Labor costs have
been raised by legislation that sets minimum wages above market clearing
levels and that increases the cost of labor mobility, thus exacerbating the
factor price distor*ions implicit in financial and trade policies.
1.14     Ecuador's abundant labor factor endowment provides for a
compar3tive advantage in labor intensive manufacturing. A large percentage
of firms in labor intensive domestic resource based sectots are SSEs.
2/  Consumer goods are the most protected, with the highest average tariff
('.C.72) and the high'.st Quantitative Restrictions (QRs) coverage (36Z
of all consumer goods' tariff positions). Intermediate goods have an
average tariff of 20.5Z; 27.6Z of all intermediate goods' tariff
positions are covered by QRs. Capital goods have a higher average
tariff than intermediates (33.72), but a lower QR protection (14.6Z).



-5-
Larger enterprises generate more value added per unit of labor because they
use more physical capital or more skilled labor. Thus, lending to SSEs
supports enterprises that absorb the less skilled segments of the
manufacturing labor force, a key source of the country's comparative
advantage.
1.15     Ecuador traditionally has pursued strong protectionist policies.
Rates of effective tariff protection of manufacturing average about 63Z with
a standard deviation of 90.6, using fairly aggregated sectors. However,
key sectors with a high percentage of SSEs (food processing, textile and
leather products, wood and fturniture, metal products) have relatively low
average rates of effective protection (between 20? and 30I). Quantitative
restrictions (QRs) apply to about 25.02 of import items, principally
consumer goods. Protection is less of a factor for SSEs than for large
enterprises because: first, (a) a higher proportion of SSEs use little or no
imported inputs; vb) SSE products are relatively poorer substitutes of
imported goods; and (c) SSEs are less concentrated than LEs. Those
enterprises that do not use imported inputs cannot benefit from the
promotion laws that exempt imports from tariffs when these imports are not
produced domestically. Therefore, enterprises that do not consume imported
inputs will bear the cost of protection of domestically produced inputs,
without benefitting from the tariff exemptions that are granted by
industrial promotion laws which enhance the protection of enterprises that
consume imported inputs by frequently exempting those inputs from tariffs
that are not produced in the country. SSEs, typically import only a small
traction of their total inputs including capital goods, and therefore do not
benefit from exemptions on input tariffs.
1.16     Second, protection has a greater effect on the prices of LE
products because these products arc closer import substitutes. Most large
firms produce goods that use similar technologies and inputs as those of
imported manufactures. On the other hand, most SSEs produce goods geared
exclusively for domestic markets, with no effective competition from
imports. Third, protection provides many LEs with monopoly power. Value
added in manufacturing is highly concentrated. For manufacturing as a
whole, the largest 500 establishments, a large number of which are owned by
a handtul of interlocked shareholders, account for about 74Z of
manufacturing value added. In contrast, the high degree of competition
among SSEs is relatively impe;vious to protection.
1.17     Factor market policies, in the aggregate, also would seem to have a
less distortionary effect on SSEs. Subsidized credit and the tax incentives
that encourage indebtedness and capital intensity have a significantly lower
bearing on small enterprises, which have obtained less access to credit. On
the other hand, enforcement of employment stability legislation, which
requires employers to insure the employment at their enterprises, is applied
more effectively to LEs. SSEs avoid stability regulations through temporary
contracts or outright disregard that the Government is unable to control and
the employee is often unwilling to denounce. Minimum wages are lower for
SSEs than for LEs. In sum, interest rate and tax incentives to indebtedness
and stiff restrictions on termination of employment, which encourage
products and technologies with a higher capital intensity than is warranted
by the country's factor endowment, are less important for SSEs than for LEs.
Past subprojects by the Development Fund for SSEs and Artisans (FOPINAR)
exhibit economic rates of return which average 40.1Z.  These evaluations
allow for the past overvaluation of the Sucre and overpricing of labor.



1.18     Limited funding, coupled with the high cost of credit delive:y,
high perceived risk, inadequate collateral and accounting information are
the main constraints in lending to SSE9; this situation has been aggravated
by the ownership structure of the financial sector in Ecuador which has
shown a close relationship between banks, development finance companies
(DFCs), and large industri-1/commercial groups. The SSE share of the
banking credit system has been declining from 7.72 in 1981 to 4.52 in 1987.
See Annex IV, table 1. The other sources of financijg include the
entrepreneurs' own resources plus loans from suppliers and street-lenders.
In fact, a majority of the small companies visited by the appraisal mission,
admitted Periodic use of street-lenders at rates of interest around 102 per
month. The Bank survey confirmed that in the past five years, 44? of the
firms were created and developed with financing limited to their own
resources, and that bank credit made a significant contribution to their
grcwth in only 242 of the SSEs compared to 67? in large firms. These
constraints have resulted in a higher cost of credit for SSEs than for large
industry. The lack of term credit for SSEs has been partially
counterbalanced during the 1980s through formal SSE term lending, provided
by FOPINAR.
1.19     Effects of an Improved Policy Framework.  The Government is
planning to reform the industrial incentive system with the support from the
Bank. An improved policy framework would liberalize trade and reduce factor
market distorsions. Under such a framework, the relative price of capital
and the real exchange rate would be higher than they are today. These
changes would encourage those sectors with low capital intensities.  Many
SSEs would be enLcouraged because a high percentage of firms in labor
intensive sectors are SSEs. These firms would be in a better position to
grow and thereby reap economies of scale in a more rational incentive
environment that would support their edge in labor intensive production.
Reduced protection would increase the prices of non-traded products relati-e
to the prices of protected products, including tradeable inputs produced
domestically. The removal of labor market constraints and of subsidies to
capital would lower the relative price of labor, w-hich would mostly benefit
labor intensive LEs. Any transmission to the SSEs in the form of higher
labor costs, however, will take time. On the other hand, removal of the
present subsidies would allow SSEs to grow without having to face the high
costs of labor laws that are mandatory for the larger enterprises.
1.20     Technical Assistance to SSEs.  At present there is no active and
coordinated TA program for small enterprises. Several private and public
institutions have been established in the last two decades to provide such
services (e.g., the National Center for Promotion of Small Scale Industry
and Artisans - CENAPIA; the Socio-economic and Technological Research
Institute - INSOTEC; private foundations; the Ecuadorian Professional
Training Service - SECAP,etc.), but their coverage has been very limited
both in quantity and quality. Moreover, their efforts have been scattered
and uncoordinated and the results have been meager mainly because of
insufficient financial resources and of the resulting lack of continuity in
their TA programs. Similarly, FOPINAR's TA activities in the past have
mostly concentrated on a small number of nonreimbursable contributions to
other institutions, and particularly on promotional meetings and seminars
dealing with preparation and appraisal of subloan applications. The
proposed project would go beyond the previous three SSE loans in that the
Bank would assist FOPINAR in the design and implementation of a TA program
to finance the small entrepreneur's needs for technical assistance. While



-7-
the program would be financed entirely by the Corporacion Financiera
Nacional (CFN), which houses FOPINAR, and by a grar.t from the Inter-American
Development Bank, the Bank expects FOPINAR to play an important role in the
coordination of the activities.
1.21     Recent studies, including a Bank study of the food-processing
industry, as well as mission interviews and the Bank survey in October, have
identified a strong demand for TA. Indications are that more focused
assistance to SSEs would have allowed more effective use of equipment and
more effective stock management. The majority of SSEs is far behind in
product design, quality control, marketing techniques, and basic production
management. The present SSE needs will require not only technological
support but also a massive diffusion of information and training about basic
techniques and procedures. Thus, an important SSE issue is the design of a
TA strategy that focuses in improving the management, productivity and
efficiency of existing small enterprises.
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Institutional Structure and Development
2.01     Main Institutions.  The main institutions in Ecuador's financial
system are the Central Bank (BCE), 31 private commercial banks with about
285 branches; three state banks--the National Development Bank (BNF), the
Ecuadorian Housing Bank (BEV), and the Ecuadorian Development Bank (BEDE);
and 12 development finance institutions (DFIs), including the publicly
owned Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN). There are also 11 savings and
loan associations (SLAs), more than 28 insurance companies, and various
currency exchange offices and securities markets in Guayaquil and Quito.
The Social Security Institute (IESS) is also a major depository for
financial savin6s. As a group, commercial banks dominate Ecuador's
financial system, and their outstanding loan portfolio represents 75Z of
total lending to non-bank borrowers. Policy-making agencies include the
Monetary Board, BCE, and the Superintendency of Banks (SB). The Monetary
Board sets exchange rates, interest rates, and other financial policies
implemented by BCE and the Superintendency of Banks. BCE also provides
credit to financial intermediaries, including special discount credit
lines. The SB supervises and audits financial intermediaries (FIs) and
publishes statistical information on the banking system.
2.02     Background.  The performance of the financial sector in Ecuador
from the point of view of resource allocation, institutional strength, and
mobilization of domestic resources for long-term lending reveals several
weaknesses. These date back to the 1970s, when the financial system grew
rapidly, mainly because of the availability of external financing which
d'mestic banks intermediated charging high margins for providing exchange
rate guarantees for foreign loans to the private sector. Additionally,
negative real interest rates charged to final borrowers and attractive
margins and commissions provided to intermediaries stimulated lending
growth. This environment provided little incentive for financial
institutions to mobilize domestic resources on their own, who became
increasingly dependenL on BCE credits and foreign borrowings for resources.
The ensuing structural weaknesses of the financial system were compounded
by easy granting of bank licenses, which in turn led to the establishment
of many small, undercapitalized banks.  Between 1973 and 1984, the number



of private banks increased from 21 to 32 and finance companies from 2 to
13. The system suffered grave liquidity problems beginning in 1983 as
foreign resources dwindled and economic conditions deteriorated. Combined
with the devaluation of the sucie, these factors combined to diminish the
ability of borrowers to meet dollar-denominated obligations guaranteed by
the banks. To help financial intermediaries, the Government carried out a
'sucretization" program under which BCE assumed foreign debts, with the
participating institutions obligated to repay BCE in sucres over a period
of up to seven years. The program enabled the imiediate liquidity crisis to
be managed and the financial system regained stability.
2.03     Recent Developments.  Substantial improvements have occurred in
Ecuador's financial sector regulatory system over the past two years. In
particular, the office of the Superintendent of Banks has noticeably
strengthened its supervisory capability. Through the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (para. 2.06), the Bank has been providing technical and
institutional support to the SB. Previously, the SB had concentrated its
efforts on the formal aspects related to compliance with the Banking Law
but had neglected the need to carry out a thoroug't financial analysis of
the financial institutions. It also did not undertake critical reviews of
the existing regulations vis-&-vis the new needs of the community and the
financial institutions. The deficiency had become a serious obstacle to
the institutional development of the banking system, especially because
many financial institutions began to show signs of serious financial
stress.
2.04     The primary new mechanisms in place are: (i) new rules relating to
how financial institutions should classify their loan portfolio, reflecting
degree of risk, that is normal, above normal, deficient, with doubtful
recovery prospects, and declared loss; (ii) a new system to estimate
provisions to cover possible losses based on the new portfolio
classification; (iii) a new system that does not allow banks to accrue
interest on problem loans or to roll over loans in arrears and capitalize
on overdue interest; (iv) stricter rules requiring banks to maintain
minimum equity levels in proportion to the risk assets they carry;
(v) tight and continuous supervision of institutions with serious
difficulties; and (vi) liquidation of institutions that pose a serious risk
to the financial community.  To implement the new system, the SB now relies
mo-e on independent external audits of the banks and financieras but
carried out under new and more stringent regulations. As a result of the
new system and procedures, the financial information available from the SB
is now more accurate and reliable.
B. Interest Rate Policy
2.05     Background.  In the mid-1980s, the Government initiated  a far-
reaching program of financial reform to spur domestic resource mobilization
and to strengthen financial institutions by allowing them to intermediate a
larger volume of financial resources efficiently. Among the most important
measures taken were: (i) creating a Certificate of Deposit with a freely
determined interest rate; (ii) introducing adjustable rates on loans with
resources from the BCE or international institutions; (iii) subsequent
freeing of the interest rate on all deposit instruments, and freeing of
interest rates on all lending instruments except BCE lines of credit and
adjustable rate lending; and (iv) increasing the interest rates on BCE
credit to align them more closely with market interest rates.
l



-9-
2.06     Recent Developments.  During the past two years, the Bank has
supported a strengthening of the banking system and a rationalization of
the interest rate regime through the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(2897-EC, FSAL). The Bank approved the US$100 million FSAL in December
1987, released the first tranche (US$50 million) in January 1988. and the
second tranche in (US$50 million) in September 1989. The present
Administration has demonstrated a strong commitment to the objectives of
the FSAL program, which is focussing on: (i) strengthening financial
institutions (FIs) through improvements in the regulatory framework.
upgrading the performance of the Superintendency of Banks (SB) and
gradually restoring tht capital adequacy of these institutions; (ii) more
efficient intermediation by restraining the growth of BCE rediscounts to
FIs and by linking the interest rate on BCE funded credit to market-
determined rates; and (iii) development of the capital market by improving
the conditions for variable interest rat? lending, for the establishment of
short-term and long-term market-determined interest rates, and for
promoting the issuing of equity finance by companies.
2.07      In August 1988, the new Government established a maximum spread of
19 percentage points on the passbook savings interest rate paid by each
financial institution to determine the institution's maximum lending rate.
This measure was the result of efforts to reconcile the Government's
earlier political commitment to control interest rates with the objective
of encouraging efficiency in financial intermediation. However, this
system resulted in discrimination against foreign banks and development
finance companies which by law are prevented from capturing savings
deposits.
2.08     In April 1989, the Government introduced interest rate reform by
modifying the maximum spread provision and by establishing a new interest
rate regime, which allows the domestic conmnercial banks to set their
lending rates at 15 percentage points above a reference base equal to the
arithmetic average of the 90-day CD rate and their respective passbook
savings rate. Other financial institutions, which de not issue savings
deposits or certificates of deposit, would set their lending rates at up to
17 percentage points above the arithmetic average of the reference base of
all domestic commercial banks. This provision met a key condition for the
release of the second tranche of the FSAL, increased the flexibility of the
system, and made it more responsive to market forces.
2.09     The changes in the interest rate regime, which tne Government had
introduced in the context of the second tranche release of the FSAL, have
resulted in positive deposit and lending rates. The interest rates for
certificates of deposit (CD) have been positive since April 1989, when
interest rate reforms were introduced which increased the flexibility of
the system and made it more responsive to market forces. Real interest
rates for CDs are 4Z at present. Also, ceilings on internationally funded
loans to large scale industry have- been removed--a measure that goes beyond
the requirements of the FSAL program. Furthermore, the Government has
coim.'itted itscif in a letter to the Bank to move the various sector
specific interest rates, in uniform steps every six months, to the leval of
the market based commercial bank lending rate within less than three years.
These adjustments are the result of a dialogue on financial matters between
the Government of Ecuador and the Bank which started in the early 1980s.
The Government's commitment to raise the interest rates for small scale
industrial and agricultural lending to levels determined by the market goes
significantly beyond the understanding reached under the FSAL.



- 10 -
III. PRIOR BANK SECTOR INVOLVEMENT
A. Lending Strategy
3.01     The Bank's strategy over the coming years is to support the
Ecuadorian Government in the design and implementation of a medium-term
program of adjustment and growth, including a viable external financing
package. In doing so, the Ba.k has initiated a strong program of economic
and sector work that shouja lead to a combination of policy-based sectoral
adjustment and traditional operations, thereby allowing the Bank to respond
with flexibility to policy initiatives. To realize Ecuador's medium-term
potential, the policy agenda to be supported by the Bank encompasses the
following main themes: (i) fundamental reform of public sector finances and
institutions, including measures to raise non-oil income, stabilize oil
revenues and improve resource allocation and effectiveness of public sector
institutions; (ii) reorientation of petroleuim development strategy;
(iii) export development and economic diversification by improving
international competitiveness through trade reform, structural change in
the productive and financial sectors, and removal of bottlenecks;
(iv) effective debt management; (v) poverty alleviation and human resource
development, with special emphasis on protection of the poor from the cost
of adjustment; and (vi) effective management of renewable and non renewable
natural resources. These goals would be reinforced by future lending
(para. 1.04) to reorient the industrial sector. The proposed operation is
designed to tackle the third and fifth areas outlined above.
B. Prior Bank Lending
3.02     To date, the Bank has approved three SSE loans to Ecuador, for
US$90 million equivalent. The first Bank loan (Loan 1879-EC) for
US$20 million was approved in June 1980; it helped establish FOPINAR. A
second Bank SSE operation (Loan 2221-EC) for US$40 million was approved in
December 1982; it helped FOPINAR consolidate and expand its operations. A
Project Completion Report (PCR), dated June 29, 1988, prepared by LA4TF,
shows that both loans were effective. More specifically, the loans
generated significant employment and promoted regional development, in
accordance with the project objectives of both loans.
3.03     The third SSE loan (Loan 2673-EC) for US$30 million was approved
in April 1936. Subproject characteristics and geographical distribution
have followed the same employment anc regional development tendencies shown
in the first two Bank loans (para. 3.1'). About 20,000 new jobs have been
created but only about 45Z of subprojects financed have been in the largest
industrial centers of the country: Pichincha (Quito) and Guayas
(Guayaquil), thus promoting regional development. Also, during joint loan
negotiations of the SSE III loan and the Industrial Finance loan, agreement
was reached with the Ecuadorian Government to establish a variable interest
rate regime for subloans, and to maintain interest rates on all loans to
the industrial sector, with maturity exceeding two years, at positive
levels in real terms, and which after July 1, 1987 were also adequate
relative to a 90-day certificate of deposit (Polizas de Acumulacion and
Certificados Financieros)), as measured by criteria agreed with the Bank.



- 11 -
However, the positive interest rate objectives were not fully accomplished
because changes in the onlending interest rates were not automatically
linked to the market reference rate. Instead, changes were discretionary,
requiring issuance of regulations by the Monetary Board.
3.04     In addition, the Bank has provided six loans for development
finance companies (DFC)in Ecuador. These loans total US$270 million, net
of cancellations. The first five were DFC loans: Loan 721-EC, approved
December 1970; Loan 930-EC, approved June 1973; Loan 1359-EC, approved
December 1976; Loan 1731-EC, approved June 1979; and Loan 2096-EC, approved
April 1982. A PCR, dated June 11, 1985, for the third and fourth DFC
projects, shows that by September 1983, devaluation, recession, reduced
consumer demand, and public sector investment had reduced industry's
ability to meet debt-service payments on projects fir:anced by DFCs. This
was aggravated by inadequate financial sector policies and inadequate
supervision by regulatory authorities along with weaknesses in DFCs'
appraisal and supervision procedures. This caused the financial statements
of DFCs to show a sharp decline in revenues and income. The
profitability, liquidity, and financial structures of DFCs weakened as
portfolio problems mounted. These problems were also found in the Fifth
DFC project, as shown by the main findings of a recent PCR, dated June 30,
1989. On the positive side, a dialogue on financial matters between the
Government of Ecuador and the Bank was o ened during the Fifth DFC loan.
However, progress on the dialogue did not materialize until the sixth
operation in the sector (Industrial Finance - Loan 2672-EC approved in
July 1986), which was a hybrid operation consisting of a US$50 million
policy component to finance essential imports in support of policy reforms.
This loan was disbursed after the Government introduced a revised import
tariff structure, removed about 201 of then-prevailing import prohibitions,
and shifted from fixed rates to variable interest rates for industrial
sector lending. There was also a US$65 million credit portion. The loan
progressed well until March of 1988 when, due to noncompliance with
interest rate covenants, a suspension of commitments went into effect.
Upon establishment of the new interest rate regime (para. 2.08), the
suspension was lifted in May 1989.
3.05     The agenda of the new Government in Ecuador heavily emphasizes the
need to generate productive employment and to tackle socioeconomic
imbalances, particularly in major and medium-size urban centers. Also, the
Government appears willing to consider steps to reduce some of the
distortions and inefficiencies in the industrial and financial sector and
to increase the productivity and competitiveness of small industrial firms.
Such firms are the foundation of the industrial sector in Ecuador. In this
regard, the proposed SSE project is particularly timely in that it provides
the needed resources for SSE financing. In addition, by launching a
technicai assistance program and consolidating FOPINAR's role as the
coordinating TA institution, the project would provide an integrated
package of support to SSEs. Some of the non-credit obstacles to
entrepreneurial development, among SSEs, will therefore be systematically
addressed.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Preparation
4.01     Proiect Origin and Status of Preparation.  In November 1987, given
the faster-than-expected pace of commitments and disbursements under the
third SSE loan, and the lack of term financing, the Government requested
the Bank to begin processing a fourth operation in time to be effective by
mid-1989. The project was identified by the Bank in January 1988, pre-
appraised in June 1988, appraised in January 1989, negotiated in September
1989, and prepared by FOPINAR with the help of Bank staff.
B. Project Objectives and Description
(i) Project Objectives
4.02     The proposed operation would help enhance the contribution of SSEs
to industrial development. Specifically, the loan would help modernize and
expand production by: (a) facilitating the access of SSEs to formal credit;
(b) promoting lending to SSEs by participating financial intermediaries
(PFIs); (c) providing more focused and integrated technical and managerial
assistance support to increase the productivity of eligible SSEs and
reinforce coordination among organizations that provide technical and
financial assistance to the small firms; and (d) further strengthening the
management and technical skills of participating financial institutions
that provide credit to SSEs.  Efforts will also be made to promote actions
toward improving the environment and enhancing the role of women in
business activities. Environmental safeguards will be built into FOPINAR's
Statement of Policy and Operating Procedures. Specifically, approval of
subprojects related to wood processing with potentidlly damaging effects
from deforestation would require a satisfactory ernvironmental assessment.
With regard to the role of women, the Bank will, during execution of the
project, pay particular attention to identifying barriers to women's
opportunities to participate mcre fully in SSE activites, and to developing
action plans to improve their access to credit and to technical assistance.
(ii) Project Description
4.03     To achieve these objectives, the proposed US$50 million Bank loan
would consist of: (i) a credit component of US$50 million to finance SSE
fixed assets, permanent working capital (both associated and free-
standing), and subproject relatel technical and managerial expenditures;
and (ii) a technical assistance component of US$1.6 million, of which US$1
million would be financed by the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN) and
by a gr2nt from the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), and US$600,000
by local counterpart funds. The characteristics of these components are
explained below.
4.04     Credit Component.  The lending componert (US$50 million) would
finance: (i) subloans to cover fixed assets and related permanent working
capital needs (both associated and free-standing) for the creation,



_ 13 -
expansion or modernization of new or existing viable enterprises; and
(ii) specific technical assistance expenditures related to preparation or
operation of subprojects (e.g., product design, market studies, and
managerial consulting).
4.05     Technical Assistance Component.  This component (US$1.6 million)
would complement the provision of credit by financing specific sub programs
and proposals originating both in the private and public sectors. To
ensure efficient execution and proper control in the use of the resources
under the component, the institutional set-up within FOPINAR would include
strengthening CFN's Technical Cooperation Committee. The TA component
would include: (i) preparation and execution of programs to support
development of a small entrepreneur's capabilities (e.g., training in
financial and production management, booklets, and audio-visual aids for
self-training of entrepreneurs, preparation of in-plant enterprise
diagnosis and advisory services, inventory control, group ("clusters")
actions for bulk purchases or joint sales, market studies by regions and
subsectors to identify new sales and industrial opportunities, studies for
the creation of trading companies, and/or other group marketing mechanisms;
(ii) staff training programs and upgrading credit monitoring and internal
information systems of FOPINAR and the PFIs to ensure a sustained quality
of their credit delivery; and (iii) strengthening the TA delivery
capabilities of participating institutions, including project-related
training needed to provide a more focused assistance in the areas of
enterprise management and production processes.
C. Project Execution
(i) Participating Institutions
4.06     Second-Tier Mechanl m - FOPINAR.  The Fondo de Fomento para la
Pequena Industria y la Artesania (FOPINAR) would be the main responsible
unit in CFN for the credit component. FOPINAR was es-3blished .n, May 1980,
under the Bank's First Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project, as
permanent fund owned and operated by CFN, otherwise a first-tier 1 ,der for
large industry only. Under the previous three Bank projects, it has
rediscounted over 7,000 subloans made by financial intermediaries to small
industry, reaching over 5,000 beneficiaries. These have shown a high
repayment record, as only 3Z were in arrears at the end of 1988, compared
with 1OZ for the large-industry portfolio.   In practice, as described in
Annex V, FOPINAR has been working very effectively within CFN with its own
staff and separate financial resources and accounts. Under the proposed
project, CFN would continue to operate FOPINAR as a second-tier institution
through the network of qualifying financidl intermediaries. However, while
in the prior three projects a total of 36 financial intermediaries
(24 commercial banks, 11 Development Finance Companies (DFCs), and the
Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF)) signed participation agreements with CFN,
more stringent qualifying conditions may reduce the number of FIs to about
25. Agreement was obtained during negotiations on a new Statement of
Policy and Operating Procedures for FOPINAR.
4.07     FOPINAR's ManaRement and Administration.  CFN/FOPINAR have
succeeded in organizing and maintaining a compact group of highly motivatea
and well-trained professionals which have gained respectability vis-a-vis



- 14 -
the financial intermediaries and the entrepreneurial community. During
appraisal, FOPINAR and the Bank agreed that, with respect to credit
operations, FOPINAR has now reached an appropriate level of professional
staffing. Any further efforts should concentrate on improving productivity
by streamlining procedures and searching for a more satisfactory balance
between its basic activities of appraisal and supervision. Other needs
would be in the area of technical assistance, which is being strengthened
under the proposed project (see Annex VI). Administrative costs as a
percent of outstanding portfolio were expected to reach a low of 1.22 by
year-end 1986 on the basis of indicators available at the time of appraisal
of the Third Loan. However, the opposite occurred due to a very large
increase in overhead charges by CFN, which caused FOPINAR's administrative
costs to reach a high of 3.02 in 1985 and 1986. Following a Bank review,
costs were reduced to 1.92 in 1987. CFN's management has agreed to reduce
its charges f'Arther so as to reflect only the real cost of those support
services required by FOPINAR for efficient operation. Under such
conditions, administrative costs (including staff for financial management
assistance) are expected to reach a level cf no more than 1.52-1.8Z of
average portfolio by 1989. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the procedur2s to determine FOPINAR's operating L,Idget and, in particular,
the amounts charged by CFN for administrative support to FOPINAR would have
to be reported to the Bank, in conjunction with FOPINAR's budget, by
November 30 of each calendar year.
4.08     Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs).  Commercial banks,
DFCs, and BNF would continue intermediating FOPIN4R subloans to SSEs. To
qualify, they would be required to sign a Particilation Agreement in which
they commit themselves to maintain an administratire unit staffed with at
least two qualified professionals to carry out subproject appraisals and
supervision work along FOPINAR guidelines. CFN/FOPINAR would also enforce
PFIs to comply with reporting requirements, especially on yearly
supervisions, established in the Agreement. In the previous projects, PFIs
were also required to meet criteria on portfolio quality and debt-to-equity
ratios, and to contribute 102 of the lending resources from their own
funds. It was agreed during negotiations that, in view of the recent
bankruptcy of two DFC's and a commercial bank, the financial intermediaries
would, in addition, be required to be in good standing with the SB which
is better equipped than CFN/FOPINAR to judge the banks' and DFCs' financial
situation. Financial institutions under the BCE's rehabilitation plan,
would be excluded from participation. Twenty-two commercial banks, ten
DFCs and BNF participated in the Third SSE Bank Loan. BNF was the most
active intermediary, particularly with microenterprises, and financed
nearly 5,000 operations (762 of the total) since inception of the program,
using 452 of the resources. Agreement was obtained during negctiations
that CFN will enter into Participation Agreements with BNF and with at
least two other financial intermediaries by loan effectiveness. Among the
other banks and DFCs, only four institutions have used more than 5? of
resources each: Banco del Pacifico (8.52), Banco Pichincha (7.5Z), Banco
La Previsora (6.72) and Filanbanco (5.12). The remaining PFIs are all
evenly distributed around 1-32 of total FOPINAR credits. By comparison
with BNF, which has concentrated its efforts on the microenterprises
(average loan size of US$7,300), banks and DFCs have targeted small
industries (average loan size around US$25,000). While for FOPINAR it has
been important to stimulate the active participation of private banks and
DFCs, it has also been beneficial to encourage the participation of BNF,
which has the infrastructure to reach the microenterprises, especially
those located in remote areas of the country.



- 15 -
4.09     Technical Assistance Institutions.  CFN/FOPINAR would be
responsible for the administration of resourcesi and overall coordination of
project execution. It would strengthen its Technical Cooperation Committee
(Comite de Cooperacion Tecnica - CCT), to advise CFN/FOPINAR in the
selection of activities in support of small enterprises to be executed
through CFN/FOPINAR's sub-contracting of established private and public
institutions (CENAPIA, INSOTEC, CEFE and others) as well as consultants.
Through its present infrastructure and its TA Unit personnel, CFN/FOPINAR
would operate in conjunction with local industrial associations in
selecting beneficiaries and proposing specific TA activities to satisfy
already identified needs. FOPINAR would supervise the execution of the
resulting programs. The alternative of creating an extension service as a
part of CFN/FOPINAR was considered during project preparation. However, it
vas discarded in favor of supporting existing institutions whose past
operations can be enhanced through tighter coordination and providing
closely managed additional resources through FOPINAR. CFN/FOPINAR is
expected to run the TA program with the same efficiency displayed in the
operation of the credit scheme. While the TA component would still be
considered a pilot project experience, safeguards have been agreed with CFN
to ensure that the new TA activities are complementary to the credit
activities presently being carried out by FOPINAR. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with CFN/FOPINAR on a detailed budget, describing the
TA component's main activities and costs, and on the implementation program
for the first year of operation of tbe TA component (Annex VI, paras.
8-10). During execution of the TA program, its activities and costs would
be reviewed and agreed by the Bank and the Borrower on a semi-annual basis.
It was also agreed during negotiations that the basic CFN/FOPINAR TA team
responsible for implementation of the TA component would be employed or
assigned by loan effectiveness and that the program would be carried out
under terms of reference and according to a budget and tiJLetables
satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii) Executing Agency
4.10     CFN/FOPINAR would be the executing agency for the project's credit
and technical assistance components.
D. Proiect Cost and Financing Arrangements
(i) Project Cost and Financing
4.11     The appraisal mission estinated that total costs of new
investments by SSEs in the next three years (1990-92) would be about
US$180 million equivalent (Annex VII), of which about 461, or US$83
million, may be the total cost of projects rediscounted thrcugh FOPINAR.
Of the US$83 million, it is likely that 60? may represent foreign exchange
costs. Thus, iAitially a Bank loan for US$50 million, covering 1002 of
foreign exchange costs, is proposed. Total project costs would be financed
as follows: SS_s 20Z, the PFIs 8Z, Bank resources 602, and CFN--through
FOPINAR--the remaining 12%. The subloans should finance a maximum of 80?
of total project cost. The Bank and CFN resources (FOPINAR loan) should
finance a maximum of 72Z of total project cost. Of the FOPINAR loan, 85%
would be financed by the Bank and 15? BY CFN. The TA component cost would
be about US$1.6 million, of which US$l million would be financed by CFN's



- 16 -
own resources and a grant from the Inter-American Development Bank, and
US$600,000 by local counterpart funds. Of these, about 502 would be
contributed by the beneficiaries. Since the Bank's Third SSE loan
(Loan 2673-EC) was fully committed by mid-1988, and in view of the lack of
alternative long-term resources in Ecuador. an amount not exceeding US$5
million (equal to 102 of the loan amount) would be available retroactively
for financing expenditures made after December 13. 1989.
(ii) Onlendina Arrangements
4.12     The Republic of Ecuador, using the Centzal Bank (BCE) as its
agent, would onlend the proposed loan resources in Sucres to CFN on the
same maturity as the Bank's loan (17 year repayment period, including 5
years of grace). CFN, using FOPINAR as a second-tier mechanism, would
rediscount all subloans made by fi.1ancial intermediaries to eligible SSEs.
The onlending rate has been set initially at the 90-day certificate of
deposit rate. Beginning on July 1, 1990, it would be adjusted in uniform
steps every six months to reach the market-determined commercial bank
lending rate by June 30, 1992. The onlending rate would include a maximum
spread of 6Z p.a., for financial intermediaries, depending on the size of
the sublcans, and d spread of 2.5%, for FOPINAR to cover its operating
costs and part of the teLhnical assistance activities. CFN would pay in
turn a service fee of .1251 p.a. to BCE. The spreads are to remain fixed
during the life of the subloan. It was agreed during negotiations that an
interest capitalization scheme, to be offered as an option to the final
borrower to avoid the adverse effects on cash-flow management of high
nominal interest rates, would be fully operational by July 1, 1990.  (see
Annex VIII). CFN will approve the design of the system by loan
effectiveness. The Bank would work closely with the Superintendency of
Banks and would proUide technical guidance to CFN/FOPINAR during the
implementation process. The signing of an agency contract between the
Government and BCE and a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank
between the Government, acting through BCE, and CFN, on behalf of FOPINAR,
will be a condition of effectiveness.
4.13     While the onlending rate to final beneficiaries of the loan would
be positive, there would initially be a difference of 11 percentage points
compared to the corrmercial bank lending rate for large industries. This
difference will be reduced in line with the schedule of adjustments towards
the market-determined commercial bank lending rate; it will be eliminated
at the latest by June 30, 1992 and considerably earlier if the present
trend of declining inflation, and consequent decline in nominal interest
rates, continue.3 The Central Bank would cover the exchange risk; this is
justified because the small scale entrepreneurs do not have revenues in
foreign exchange and because of the movement towards market oriented
interest rates unuder the loan in the context of a freely floating exchange
rate.
3/  Lending at the CD rate will, under current circumstances, imply a
subsidy by the Central Bank if measured against its cost of funding and
the intermediation spreads. This subsidy cannot be calculated with
precision in v:ew of uncertainties about future exchange rate
adjustments (inflationary expectations apparently are below present
rates of inflation). The subsidy will eventually be eliminated in line
with the adjustments towards a market-determined lending role.



_ 17 -
(iii) Terms and Conditions of Financing
4.14     Nature of Enterprises and Eligible Expenditures.  The proposed
project would orovide credit and TA for subprojects of enterprises involved
in manufacturing (including agro-industry), industry-related services,
fisheries and tourism. Eligible enterprises would be those with a maximum
asset size (excluding land and buildings) of US$200,000 equivalent. The
criteria of "number of employees" would not be applied in this Project
since it would penalize SSEs capable of creating an even larger number of
jobs within the fixed limits of investment. Under t;ze present operation,
industrial cooperatives and credit unions would also be eligible as credit
beneficiaries through the PFIs. Financing to be provided for fixed assets
would include new and used imported machinery and equipment; installation
costs; building construction; handling and storage facilities; civil works;
improvements of product; and quality and design. Free-standing working
capital needs financed with loan proceeds would include raw materials,
spare parts, other physical production inputs, work in process, and
inventories of finished products. Under TA, SSEs might use credit to hire
technical institutions or consulting firms to obtain advice and services in
the fields of management, technology, finance, production, marketing, and
subproject preparation.
4.15     Limits and Terms.  Under the credit component, FOPINAR subloans
would be made on terms which would take into account the economic life of
assets to be financed and the repayment capacity of sub-borrowers.
Subloans would have a maximum maturity of 10 years, including a grace
period of up to 3 years, and would carry market determined rates, as agreed
with the Bank. Collection of interest payments to the intermediaries and
FOPINAR would be made semi annually. To foster an increased share of
lending by PFIs, the onlending rate would include a spread of 5X and 6?,
which would depend on the size of the subloans, with the larger spreads
applying to the smaller (less than US$10,000 equivalent) but more costly
subloans. This spread would include all charges to the final
beneficiaries, including a 21 commission p.a., established under the
current interest rate regime, as an optional charge for the PFIs. In
addition, the onlending rate would include a spread of 2.5%, which would be
credited to FOPINAR to cover its operating costs and part of the TA
activities.
4.16     Under the proposed loan, the maximum cumulative amount of
subloans per sub-borrower would be US$85,000 equivalent. This maximum is
based on the actual average size of subloans to SSEs under the three
previous loans. All subprojects will be appraised by the financial
intermediaries in accordance with FOPINAR's appraisal requirements
established under the prior three SSE loans. FOPINAR will be required to
furnish to the Bank for review all subprojects (ex-ante for subloans above
US$50,0CO equivalent and ex-post for those below such amount). The
adequacy of this free limit would be reviewed from time to time and
modified by agreement between CFNIFOPINAR and the Bank, as necessary.
Furthermore, it was agreed during negotiations that FOPINAR would carry out
an analysis of the soundness of the individual subprojects above the free
limit. FOPINAR has performed, since the Third SSE loan, a screening of
economically unviable subprojects which includes exclusion of subprojects
in highly distorted sectors, as Provided for in FOPINAR's Statemeint of
Policy and Operating Procedures.



- 18 -
(iv) Procurement
4.17     Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
proposed project would be done through contracts requiring three price
quotations from at least three suppliers. No international competitive
bidding (ICB) is envisaged because of the low maximum limit of US$85,000
for subloans. Evidence of the three quotations requested would be required
for the ex-vost review, mentioned below, for procurement orders above
US$60,000 equivalent. Imported used machinery could be financed by the
Bank loan, provided that a satisfactory technical evaluation report has
been provided by an expert, belonging to a roster selected by CFN/FOPINAR,
which has been found acceptable to the Bank. The Bank's Procurement
Guidelines would be applicable to contracting of consultants financed by
subloans. All subproject appraisals would include a discussion of
procurement procedures used and criteria for selection of suppliers of
goods and services. As part of project supervision, ex-post review would
be made of procurement procedures and documents.
(v) Disb rsements
4.18     To facilitate project execution, a Special Account, to be opened
and mainained in US dollars, will be established in the Central Bank with
an initial deposit of US$2 million, based on four months' estimated average
disbursements.  The Government agreed during negotiations that CFN will be
the Borrower's representative for managing withdrawals under the Loan,
inclu,.ing the Special Account. CFN will: (i) maintain records and
appropriate documentation of the subloan expenditures; and (ii) request to
the Bank, under Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures, replenishment
of the Special Account. Compliance with auditing requirements of the
Special Account will be the Borrower's responsibility. Only expenditures
made no more than 180 days prior to the day of receipt by the Bank of the
corresponding financing request would be eligible for reimbursements under
the proposed loan. This 180-day limit is justified in view of the
arrangements involving participating financial institutions, CFN and
FOPINAR. Although it is expected that the project will be completed by
December 1994, if disbursements take place at the average rate for IDF
loans in the region, it would take until June 30, 1995 to disburse fully
the proposed loan (Annex IX). The final date for submission of subloans to
the Bank for authotization or approval would be June 30. 1994, and the
Closing Date June 30, 1995.
(vi) Accounting, Auditing. and Reporting
4.19     CFN would maintain separate accounts for FOPINAR and adequate
records to reflect FOPINAR's and the project's operations and financial
situation in accordance with sound accounting principles consistently
applied. CFN's accounts, FOPINAR and the Project's Account, and the
Special Account would be audited annually, as in the three previous
operations, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
report, with scope and format satisfactory to the Bank, including opinion
regarding the supporting documentation for disbursements based on SOEs,
would be subimitted to the Bank no later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year. The Government shall cause BCE to submit to the Bank
monthly statements of the transactions of the Special Account. CFN/FOPINAR
would provide, at the Bank's request, reports on: the overall status of the
project, including credit and TA matters; on the project financial
situation and portfolio quality; and on the operations (statistical
information) and their expected impact.



- 19 -
E. Proiect Benefits and Risks
4.20     Benefits.  The proposed project vould help integrate the SSEs more
effectively into industrial development by iacreasing their productivity
and competitiveness. The coordinated package of financing and technical
assistance would stimulate production and provide the needed term
financing. On the basis of experience under the previous three SSE loans,
the proposed project is expected to finance some 4,500 investment
subprojects, costing about US$83 million and generating about 14.500 new
jobs. It is also expected that about 402 of subprojects financed would be
in tne industrial centers of Pichincha and Guayas, vhich contalr a high
concentration of the urban poor in Ecuador. Better services to SSEs. as
well as efficient subloan and subproject implementation, would result from
the institutional support provided to FOPINAR. More than 1.000 enterprises
would receive direct technical/managerial assistance. A further 1,500
firms would benefit from training and extension activities.
4.21     Risks. One main risk can be identified: that high inflation and
continued recession, coupled with the introduction of market-determined
interest rates on subloans, could reduce loan demand and cause a slower
pace of commitments and disbursements under the proposed operation than in
the previous three SSE loans.  The Government's commitment to stabilizing
the economy and its success in reducing the fiscal deficit and inflation
augurs favorably for a resumption of economic growth with relative price
strbilily in the medium-term. The expected strengthening of the economy
combined with the favorable outlook for SSE development should sustain
strong demand for financing under the loan.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
5.01     During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the following:
(1)      With the Government on:
(a)  The proposed project's objectives and description (paras. 4.02 to
4.05);
(b)  The roles of the different participating institutions and the
conditions and arrangements, including the support for the TA
Cooptration Committee (para. 4.09);
(c)  The proposed project cost and financing, loan amount, onlending
arrangements, and terms and conditions of financing (paras. 4.11 to
4.16);
(d)  The establishment of the initial onlending rate for SSE lending at the
90-day certificate of deposit rate to be adjusted in uniform steps
every six months commencing on July 1, 1990 and reaching the market-
determined commercial bank lending rate by June 30, 1992 (para. 4.12);
(e)  The subloans would contemplate an interest capitalization scheme, to be
offered as an option to the final borrower to avoid the adverse effects
on cash-flow management of high nominal interest rates. It was agreed
that the scheme should be fully operational by July 1. 1990. The Bank
would work closely with the Superintendency of Banks and would provide
technical guidance to CFN/FOPINAR during the implementation process
(para. 4.12); and



- 20 -
(f) The adequacy of spreads for the participating financial intermediaries
and for FOPINAR (para. 4.15).
(2) With CFN/FOPINAR on:
(a) Revisions of FOPINAR's Statement of Policy and Operating Procedures
(para. 4.06);
(b) Revision of the procedures to determine FOPINAR's operating budget
and, in particular, the charges by CFN for administrative support to
FOPINAR. Such procedures and the resulting amounts would have to be
reported to the Bank, in conjunction with FOPINAR's budget, by November
30 of each calendar year (para. 4.07);
(c) Requirement that financial intermediaries be in good standing with the
Superintendency of Banks (para. 4.08);
(d) The procedures and structure of tne TA Cooperation Committee (TCC)
(para. 4.09);
(e) A detailed budget and implementation program for the first year
of operation of the TA component, including the training activities
for FOPINAR personnel. The program for subsequent years would be
carried out under terms of refereace, budget and timetables
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.09);
(f)  An analysis of the soundness of individual subprojects above the free
limit, and exclusion of subprojects in sectors with very high rates of
protection (para. 4.16); and
(g)  The project's procurement, disbursements and accounting, auditing, and
reporting matters (paras. 4.17 to 4.19).
5.02     As Conditions of Loan Effectiveness, the following matters should
be presented in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) The Government and BCE should enter into an agency contract,
and the Government, acting through BCE, and CFN (on behalf of FOPINAR),
should enter into a subsidiary loan agreement, for the operation of the
project (para. 4.12);
(b) That CFN has strengthened and expanded the Technical Cooperation
Conmnittee and employed or assigned, to the satisfaction of the Bank, a
core team responsible for the implementation of the TA component
(para. 4.09);
'c) That CFN has entered into Participation Agreements with the Banco
Nacional de Fomento and with at least two other financial
intermediaries (para. 4,08); and
(d) That CFN approve the interest capitalization scheme (para. 4.12).
Recommendation
5.03     With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitu:e a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$50 million to the Republic of Ecuador
on the terms and conditions shown in Chapter V.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Table 1
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Decomposition of Industr'Il Growth Ratoo. 1965-82
I~ ~ ~ 1
1 Annuall              Growth Rate Decomposition                      j
GCrowth  1 1976 - 82                               a1965 - 82
Rat*          I                                III
__________________       ___   j_ _- _ _ D         IS   I      E        D           IS        E
|Total Industry (09-20)              8.8      36.7 |     3.1      10.2       77.4       11.0       11.6
Food Products (09-14)             16.2      25.6      14.9      59.6  j   3.6          6.4  j   67.6
j(09)  Fish Products               |6.4   1(76.8)1  24.6         1 61.3  |  38.3   |  6.8  | 129.6  !
|(10) Bakery and Cereals             8.7      96.6      15.9     (11.9) |  89.9   |   7.6           2.7
1(11) Sugar                          1.2   1888.7 1 (149.3) 1 (817.4) j 255.1    j -31.3  1 -123.8
1(12) Other Food Products          I 5.9   j-22.4    1 6.0    10 10.4   | -29.3    j   3.7  | 133.0
1(13) Beverages                      7.1   | 86.8       13.4       0.8      102.6       -3.0        0.6
1(14) Tobacco                      j 9.6      68.  1   36.6  j    6.8  j   19.0   j 79.3  t    1.7
|(15) Textile Products             110.7      95.8 |    7.2  |   -3.0  |   75.9   | 22.7  |    1.4
I~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ I   I                               I          I           I    I   
1(16) Wood and Furniture             7.1      e7.0      6.6       32.4       68.7        1.;  j  30.2
j(17) Paper Products               j 7.3   j 37.4 I  60.0          2.6       67.6   j 40.9          1.6
1(18) Chemicals A Plastics         111.3       652.2 |  47.4  j   0.4  1   65.9   1 44.4  |   -0.3
1'19) Non-metallic Products        114.2   i32.9 |  86.4  |    1.7  |   49.6    | 49.4  |    1.0
1(20) Meta] Products               118.4    1 0.4 1   97.8  1    1.8  1   39.1    1 60.2  1   0.7
Note: D = domestic domand; IS   import substitution; E = exports.
Source: Banco Central, Cuentos Nocionales



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
ECUAOOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISES PROJECT
Distribution of Flr m, Emploment and VOlue Added in Manufacturing
Size                  196                            1980                       1987
(Nc. of    Firma   Employ-    Value       Firms   Employ-   Value    Firms   Employ-   Value
Workers)             ment       Added               Ment     Added               Ment     Added
Self       81.0X      61.7X   17.2X      74.3X      34.8      10.0X     84.3X    47.7X    16.1X
1-9        18.7X      27.1X   16.3X      24.3X      26.9X    13.6X      14.9X    19.3X    17.3X
10-49       0.2X       6.8W   13.2X       1.1       9.8X    12.7X       O.6X      7.3X    10.2X
50+         0.1X      14.4X   63.3X       0.4X      29.6X    63.6X       0.3X    26.7X    67.4X
Total      100.0X    100.0W  16.0W    100.0%        196.0W   100.0W    1ff.0W   100.0W   100.0W
Source: Estimatos from Industrial, Population and Employment censuses.



- 23 -
ANNE= I1
Table ia
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Capitrl Intenisity among Micro and Small-Scale Industries, in 3984 - CENAPIA
(Size defined by Value of Output)
Business size measured   Frequency   Average firm size   Total assets per
by value of output         of Firms    (total number of    worker (inclusive
(millions of S/.)                      workers including   of occassional
occassional ones)       workers)
in each stratum      (Thousand of S/.)
0.0  -    0.49              1,130             5.1                 240
0.5  -    0.99                417             5.3                 244
1.0  -    4.99              1,304             9.8                 373
5.0  -    9.99                487            16.6                 434
10.0  -   19.9                 308            21.7                 578
20.0  -   29.9                 107            31.1                 640
30.0  -   39.9                  62            36.0                 608
40.0  -   49.9                  33            36.0                 801
50.0 or more                    86            45.3               1,001
Source: Encuesta Nacional a la Pequefla Industria, CENAPIA, 1985, Quito, Ecuador.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Table lb
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Capital Intensity among Micro and Small-Scale Industries, in 1984 - CENAPIA
(Size defined by Fixed Assets)
Business size measured   Frequency   Average firm size   Total assets per
by fixed assets            of Firms    (total number of    worker (inclusive
(millions of S/.)                      workers including   of occassional
occassional ones)       workers)
in each stratum      (Thousand of S/.)
0.00  -      0.49          1,622             7.3                 255
0.50  -      0.64            174             7.9                 182
0.65 -       1.19            412             9.2                 232
1.20  -      3.59            778            12.1                 336
3.60  -      4.99            258            14.9                 494
5.00  -      9.99            392            18.9                 614
10.00  -    18.99             198            24.9                 862
19.00  -    49.99              91            34.3              1,165
50.00  or more                  9            56.1               1,576
Source: Encuesta Nacional a la Pequefa Industria, CENAPIA, 1985, Quito, Ecuador.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Table la
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Type of Firms that Comnete with Those Surveyed by Sector
Food    Texti.les    Wood        Metal
Mechanics
Only firms with less than       35%        512       501        44Z          (86)
30 workers
Only firms with more than       15Z        10o        72        16%          (23)
30 workers
~-oth types                     50Z       39Z        432        40%          (82)
100%      lO0       100o       100%         (191)
(52)      (66)       (30)       (43)
Source: World Bank SSE Survey, October 1988.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Table lb
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Source of Inputs by Sector
Domestic    Mostly   Imported    Mostly
Only     Domestic    Only        Imported
Food                            612        27Z          6Z        6Z           00oZ
(54)
Textiles                         652       22Z          1Z       12Z           100Z
(68)
Wood                             67Z        332          -          -          1007
(30)
Metal Mechanics                  17Z        332        26Z       24Z           100i
(42)
(104)       (54)       (15)       (21)         (194)
Source: World Bank SSE Survey, October 1988.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Table ic
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Main Prcblems in Input Purchases
Food    Textiles    Wood         Metal
Mechanic 3
High Price                       482        55Z       492        61Z          (143)
Irregular Supply                38Z        312         30        25Z           (85)
Low quality                      12Z        122       17Z          7Z          (32)
Without major problems            2Z         2Z         4Z         7Z          (10)
al
100?      100?       100?       100?          (270)
(77)      (90)       (47)       (56)
a/ The surveyed firms provided more than one answer.
Source: World Bank SSE Survey, October 1988.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Table id
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Financial Sources for the Last Investment Made,  by Size of Firm
Micro-    Very Small    Small          Medium
Enterprise  Enterprise  Enterprise  Enterprise
(1-4)      (15-19)      (20-49)      (50-75)
100? Own Resources             642          402         392            82        (62)
'ostly Own Resources            92           62          62           25Z        (12)
Loans and Own Resources          -          142          9Z             -        (17)
Mostly Loans                   182          26Z         32?           67Z        (20)
1002 Loans                      92          142         142             -        (20)
TOTAL                   1002         100?        100Z          1002       (159)
(11)         (92)        (44)         (12)
Source: World Bank SSE Survey, October 1988.



- 29 -
AMNEX III
Table le
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Marketing Channela by Size of Firm
M,.ro-    Very Small    Small          Medium
Enterprise  Enterprise  Enterprise  Enterprise
(1-4)      (15-19)      (20-49)      (50-75)
Direct Sales                   67Z          34Z         302           18Z        (62)
To Other Firms                 27;          162          82            92        (31)
To Wholesalers                  62          44Z         432           64Z        (75)
To Supermarkets                  -           62         192            9Z        (12)
TOTAL                   1002         100Z         100Z         100Z       (180)
(15)        (107)        (47)         (11)
Source: World Bank SSE Survey, October 1988.



- 30 -
ANNES III
Table If
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Form of Production by Sector of Surveyed Fimsc
On          Small   Automatic
Demand       Lots       Orders   Combination
Food                           171          302       3S?         14Z          100?
(54)
Textiles                       25?          172       29Z        29?           100o
(68)
Wood                            50?           -        10?        402          100?
(30)
Metal Mechanics                 65Z         12?         7Z        16?          1002
(43)
TOTAL                    (69)        (32)       (47)       (47)         (195)
Source: World Bank SSE Survey, October 1988.



- 31 -
ANE( IV
Table I
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bsnkina System Credit to Small versus Medium *nd Large Enterprises - 1981-67 */
(Millions of Sucres)
(1)              (2)             (3)            (4)       (5)         (6)               (7)
Year  Credit to        X of Total  Credit to Medium-  X of Total  CPI         Credit to   Credit to Medium-
Small-Scale      Credit to     Large-Scale        Credit to         Small-Scale    A Large-Scale
Enterprise        Industry      Enterprise         Industry           Enterprise      Enterprise
(Current Prices)               (Current Prices)                       (1980 prices)   .i80 prices)
1980                                                                 121.3
1981     2,243.9            7.7        27,026.1           92.3       136.9      2,002.8         24,121.0
1982     2,876.7           7.4         36,186.3           92.8       168.1      2,206.4         27,762.6
1983     3,026.2            4.8        69,720.8           95.2       234.6      1,564.7         30,878.6
1984     6,061.9           6.2         76,247.1           93.8       307.8      1,990.9         30,048.0
1985     5,736.3            4.7       117,387.7           95.3       394.0      1,786.7         36,139.9
1986     6,006.6           3.9        149,654.4           96.1       484.7      1,653.2         37,427.2
1987     9,848.8           4.5        207,960.2           96.6       627.7      1,903.2         40,1 86.4
r/ Includes Central Bank (Direct Credit); Private Banks and Banco Nacional d- Fomento.
Source. Boletin Anuario No. 10 de 1987. Banco Central del Ecuador.
Estadisticas de FOPINAR.



- 32 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 7
ECUADOR
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Fondo de Fomento para la Peguefta Industria v la Artesania (FOPINAR)
1.       _ackround.  FOP!NAR was established in May 1980, under the Bank's
First Small Scale Enterprise Project, as a permanent fund owned and
operated by the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN), otherwise a first-
tier lender for large industry only. CFN in turn, was established in 1963
as a wholly government-owned financial institution. It is the oldest and
largest Financiera in Ecuador and the major provider of medium- and long-
term credit to the industrial sector. CFN was authorized under its charter
on 1962 to discount loans made by financial intermediaries to small-scale
industries. Thus, the establishment of FOPINAR required no changes in
CFN's charter and has been operating smoothly within CFN with its own staff
and separate financial resources and accounts. FOPINAR is under the
tutelage of the Development Department of CFN, which also supervises
operations of a special exp t credit facility (FOPEX) and CFN's other
first-tier industrial operations (FOGEN). Under the previous three Bank
small scale projects, FOPINAR has rediscounted over 7,000 loans, reaching
over 5,000 SSE beneficiaries, with a total of US$90 million in Bank loans.
FOPINAR was recently identified by the Bank's Industry Development Division
which conducted a world-wide study of 70 Bank-supported Small and Medium
Industry (SMI) projects as a 'model SMI refinancing program, one of the
best of the SMI credit operations the Bank has supportcd." A more detailed
review of FOPINAR by the proje.t preparation missions has identified a few
areas were improvements can be made. However, FOPINAR is indeed an
efficient organization (para. 2); CFN/FOPINAR would be the executing agency
for the proiect's credit and technical assistance components.
2.       FOPINAR's Management and Administration.  CFN/FOPINAR have
succeeded in organizing and maintaining a compact group of highly motivated
and well-trained professionals which have gained respectability vis-a-vis
the financial intermediaries and the entrepreneurial community.
CFN/FOPINAR's management have been receptive to new ideas and strive to
continue improving efficiency over the medium- and long-term. Under the
Third SSE Loan, CFN/FOPINAR agreed to increase the FOPINAR staff from
22.3 person-year in 1984, to 32.3 by year-end 1986. By the proposed
project's preappraisal, in mid-1988. CFN's personnel assigned to FOPINAR
amounted to 32.6 staff-years, plus personnel support from CFN in areas such
as Financial Management, Data Processing, Portfolio Management, Legal
Counsel, etc., amounted to about 20.0 staff-years. CFN/FOPINAR and the
Bank agreed that, with respect to credit operations, FOPINAR has now
reached an appropriate level of professional staffing. Any further efforts
should concentrate on improving productivity by streamlining procedures and
searching for a more satisfactory balance between its basic activities of
appraisal and supervision. Other needs would be in the area of technical



-33 -                         VANNEX
Page 2 of 7
assistan:e, which is being strengthened under the proposed project (see
Annex VT). To deal with these matters, CFN/FOPINAR would provide
additional training to its professionals to develop the capability for
interchangeability of role between appraisers and supervisors and to
enhance feedback, which should facilitate technical assistance to SSEs
(both technical and managerial) by drawing on the skills of itv own
personnel as well as consultants when needed (para. 10). Administrative
costs as percent of outstanding portfolio were expected to reach a low of
1.2X by year-end 1986 on the basis of indicators available at the time of
appraisal of the Third SSE Loan. However, the opposite occurred due to a
very high increase in overhead charges by CFN, which caused FOPINAR's
administrative costs to reach a high of 3.0I in 1985 and 1986. Following a
Bank review, costs were reduced to 1.92 inT 1987. CFN's management has
agreed to reduce its charges further so as to reflect only the real cost of
those support services required by FOPINAR for efficient operation. Under
such conditions, admin_strative costs (including staff for financial
management assistance) are expected to reach a level of no more than
1.5Z-1.3Z of average portfolio by 1989.
3.       FOPINAR's Organizational Structure within CFN's headquarters in
Quito comprises three sections: (i) evaluation; (ii) training and credit
preparation (TA); and (iii) supervision. In addition, there is one
regional group in Guayaquil (six staff) doing mostly appraisal and a small
amount of supervision, and seven regional units, composed of CFN personnel,
in each of the CFN regional branches, which contribute part of their time
to FuPINAR's activities. While this structure (with a few variations) has
served well during the initial stages of FOPINAR's development, some
adjustments were recommended during appraisal to handle FOPINAR's present
and expected levels of operations and to respond to the growing
requirements of assistance to SSEs. The mission discussed with CFN/FOPINAR
some alternative structures that would differentiate operational activities
(e.g., appraisal and supervision of subprojects), which can be divided
regionally, from support and policy-making activities (e.g., policy
formulation, budgetary allocations, programming, promotion and technical
assistance management, information processing), which should remain
centralized. Under the proposed scheme there would be a central group in
charge of the overall management of FOPINAR, physically located in Quito,
while Quito would also have a regional office reporting to the central
office, just as Guayaquil and other regional or subregional offices do. In
particular, the new structure would ensure a unity of operational
guidelines and procedures between the offices of Quito and Guayaquil, which
now present coordination problems, as well as a more active monitoring of
all FOPINAR activities in all regions of the country. Detailed functions
for the central nucleus and for the regional offices appear in Chart I of
this Annex. The relationship of FOPINAR to the supporting units of CFN was
also discussed during appraisal. Supervision missions during the execution
of the Third Bank SSE Loan detected an incursion on FOPINAR's autonomy
which took the form of dispersing some of FOPINAR's responsibilities within
the operational departments of CFN. The subject was discusced with CFN
authorities and an agreement reached to ensure a proper relationship
between FOPINAR and CFN, as well as to reinforce FOPINAR's capabilities to
cperate as the executing agency for the proposed Bank loan.



- 34 -
ANNIt V
Page 3 of 7
4.       FOPINAR's Financial Condition.  FOPINAR's financial performance
has been satisfactory, allowing it to maintain a sound financial position.
At the end of 1988. FOPINAR's equity was S/. 1.3 billion in real terms.
While paid-in capital by law has been fixed at S/. 550 million, showing a
decrease between 1984 and 1988. retained earnings have been increasing in
real terms from S/. 526 million in 1984 to S:. 810 million by 1987, to a
projected value of over S/. 6,600 million for 1992. Equity in US dollars
shows a decrease from 1984 onwards mainly due to a drastic devaluation--
from S. 68 - US$1 in 1984 to S/. 500 - 11S$ 1 at the end of 1988. However,
comparisons in US dollars are not necessarily representative, since FOPINAR
liabilities are in sucres. As of December 31, 1988, FOPINAR's capital
structure was still adequate (Debt/Equity ratio of 7.8:1). This ratio had
a rapid increase from its 1986 value (2.6:1) due to a grrwth of FOPINAR's
portfolio and liabilities at a pace much faster than expected at appraisal.
In fact, disbursements under the Third SSE Loan went so fast that, in spite
of a slow start in 1986, by the end of 1987 they reached US$20.6 million,
or the appraisal's estimate for June 1989. This rapid disbursement pace is
expected to continue under the proposed project, but because of the
anticipated increase in retained earnings, the ratio is projected to remain
at a level of around 6.0:1, which is very conservative for a second-tier
mechanism (Table 1). As for results, FOPINAR's income varied between 82
and 172 of average equity, reaching an amount of S/. 242 million
(US$600,000) in 1988. Financial margins have remained around 4-52 of
average loan portfolio in spite of a reduction of FOPINAR's spread under
the Third Loan to 2.5 percentage points. FOPINAR's financial projections
show that its financial condition and performance could be maintained at
satisfactory levels over the next few years (Tables 2 to 4).
5.       Collections and Portfolio Quality.  The financial intermediaries'
(FIs) collection record for FOPINAR discounted subloans, under the first
three loans has been quite satisfactory. As of June 30, 1989, arrears
represented only 2.62 of the bank's portfolio with FOPINAR and 2.3Z of the
DFC's portfolio. Both compare favorably with 10.62 and 10.72 for the
arrears on the overall portfolio of the same institutions. The only bank
which does not carry separate statistics for the FOPINAR financed
portfolio, Banco de Fomento, has an overall arrearage of 10.32 on its
overall portfolio but claims that only a minimal portion of its arrears can
be attributed to its FOPINAR-financed clients. Under the Third Loan, some
of the banks and financieras with higher cumulative arrears along the
program (Banco Amazonas, Credito Hipotecario, FINANSA, and FIDASA) did not
register any operations; this element alone should even further reduca the
arrears under the program. The risk to CFN/FOPINAR is low with respect to
beneficiaries because financial intermediaries are expected to repay
CFN/FOPINAR regardless of repayments by SSE's. However, during 1988/89
FOPINAR was partially affected by the insolvency and intervention of one
DFC (FINANSA) (in November 1988) and one Bank and two DFCs (BANINCO,
FINANDES and FIMASA) (January 1989). Although total exposure in these
cases is comparatively low (52 of total portfolio), and while CFN/FOPINAR
stand a good chance of recovering most of the potential losses, the
proposed project would have more stringent eligibility criteria for
financial intermediaries. Collections would continue to be made through
automatic debiting of tha financial intermediaries' accounts with BCE. It
was agreed during negotiations that Participation Agreements as well as
FOPINAR's Policy Statement reflect these arrangements, but eligible banks
and DFCs would need to be approved by the Superintendency of Banks as well
as comply with additional CFN/FOPINAR technical and financial requirements.



- 35 -
ANNhX V
Page 4 of 7
6.       Lending Volumes.  As of December 31, 1988, and since inception of
the program in 1981, FOPINAR had approved a total of 7,467 subprojects,
representing a total investment of S/. 25,684 million and credit
commitments for S/. 14,056 million (61.52 of total investment). The yearly
evolution of operations is presented below:
Number of Operations and Volume of Disbursements
Years                 Operations           Disbursements (S/.)
(in millions of sucres)
1981                      180                     332.5
1982                      548                     536.4
1983                      781                     611.4
1984                    1,150                   1,050.5
1985                    1,425                   1,986.0
1986                      503                   1,490.5
1987                    1,859                   4,565.3
1988                    1,021                   3,483.8
TOTAL                   7,467                  14,056.4
The orly discontinuities in FOPINAR's growth occurred in 1986 and 1988.
The first resulted from several difficulties (e.g., delay in effectiveness
of the Third Loan and di.sagreements about the type of legal documents
necessary to establish variable interest rates on the subloans and
rediscounts), and affected the pace of approvals and operations. In 1987,
after the legal obstacles had been settled, and in spite of the uncertain
political climate preceding the early-1988 presidential elections,
operatiois regained their original momentum.  The second, in 1988, resulted
from the delay in obtaining a new Bank loen and limited FOPINAR's
capability to respond to a sustained credit demand. The Third Bank SSE
Loan (2673-EC) was fully committed by May 1988. Thus, during most of 1988
and 1989, FOPINAR has been operating with recoveries from previous loans.
During 1988 alone, subloans financed through recoveries amounted to
S/. 2,306 million (US$5.5 million) but left a good number of subprojects
unattended. In this context the proposed operation would be essential to
maintaining the flow of resources to the small industry sector in Ecuador.
7.       Subproiect Characteristics. Subproject characteristics and their
geographic distribution have followed the same tendencies along the three
previous Bank loans, with the exception of the average size of subloans,
where a steady increase has been observed over the years. Such increases
are due in part to inflation but also to a growing sophistication in small
enterprises, averaging about US$11,500 per subloan up to 1985, and
increasing to US$20,500 for all subloans under the Third Loan, and to
US$32,480 if microenterprises are not included in the average (financed



- 36 -
Page 5 of 7
mostly through Banco de Fomento). In spite of these increases, the average
size of subloans and beneficiaries has been considerably below expectations
at time of appraisal. The main reason for such size difference can be
traced to the ceiling for eligibility of small enterprises established by
the Ministry of Industry's legislation (Ley de Fomento de la Pequefia
Industria). Up to June 1989, the ceiling to claim benefits as an SSE was
S/.25.0 million in fixed assets. After successive devaluations of the
sucre, the ceiling had been reduced to the equivalent of less than
US$50,000 with a very stringent size limit imposed for SSEs. A decree
issued in June 1989 raised the eligibility to S/.50.0 million or US$100,000
equivalent. As for their other characteristics, subprojects have been
concentrated (although not very heavily) in five branches of industry:
textiles and garments (15Z), food products (15Z), metallic products (9.1Z),
fishing (11.7Z), and wood products (6Z). CFN/FOPINAR subloans have
contributed to decentralization b; supporting no more than 52Z of
subprojects in Quito (Pichincha) and Guayaquil (Guayas). See Table 5.
Concerning the use of financing, 1,565 subloans (21Z) went to new
encerprises, which required nearly 35Z of the subloan's amount. A high
percentage of the credit funds (902) were used to finance fixed assets,
showing a lack of medium-term resources earmarked for free-standing,
working capital financing.
8.       In terms of participation of FIs, the program (Third Loan
included) has been quite successful, since nearly 40 banks ard DFCs have
channeled the program's funds to SSEs. Although Banco de Fomento, the main
state-owned development bank, has channeled nearly 42? of the funds to
about 76Z of the subborrowers, such operations have been concentrated in
the microenterprises with an average size of subloan during 1987-88 of
about US$6,000 to US$7,000. The remaining banks and DFCs have been more
active in the small enterprises, with an average subloan in 1987-88 of
around US$30,000. Operational volumes by individual commercial banks and
DFCs have been evenly distributed. The most active FIs have channeled from
5Z to 9? of total credit resources, with the majority channeling between
1? and 3? (Table 6).
9.       Subproject Appraisal and Supervision Activities.  CFN/FOPINAR's
subproject appraisals have improved consistently along the period of
execution of the three Bank loans. Moreover, through training seminars and
practice, these capabilities have been partially transmitted to most
participating FIs. Although frequent turnover of SSE officers in FIs
requires constant retraining, most FIs have been actively responsible for
preparing subproject appraisals which CFN/FOPINAR have regularly reviewed.
For the proposed operation, CFN/FOPINAR would aim at strengthening
processing procedures as follows: an element of price adjustability along
the period of processing the subloan would be introduced so that in spite
of inflation, disbursements would correspond with the initial needs of the
subborrowers; market projections are generally too vague, particularly in
export-oriented projeccs where country-wide statistics about foreign trade
are being used as market studies; engineering/technical assessments are
essentially based on machine supplier' information and not on practical
data about productivity and adaptability of specific requirement to the
Ecuadorian reality. The same is true regarding TA needs for specific
subprojeccs, which are often based on the entrepreneur's judgement about
his own weaknesses and not on a technical appraiser's opinion. Under the
proposed project, improved appraisal procedures would include a diagnosis



-37 -
Page 6 of 7
of the enterprises. The entrepreneurial capabilities--which for FOPINAR's
type of client could be more important than the project itself--should be
sufficiently assessed by the FI and described in the FI's report to
FOPINAR. Currently. FOPINAR reviews and approves every subloan
application, including those under the FI's free-limit. Up to the third
loan, FOPINAR had a system of preliminary approvals for subloans between
S/. 10 million and S/. 21 million (US$20,000 and US$42,000, respectively),
introducing an unnecessary delay in granting such subloans. Under the
proposed operation, FIs would have an effective free limit equivalent to
US$50,000.
10.      Supervision activities use nearly 20Z of the staff-years in
FOPINAR. In addition to the supervision forms received from some FIs, the
supervision section carries out a vast program of direct supervisions,
whereby in 1988 alone, 961 subborrowers were visited (529 in Quito and
Guayaquil and 432 in the seven other regional offices). The sample of
enterprises has been chosen, every year, to represent different sizes of
subborrowers, different regions and several branches of iniustry. The
results show a high degree of fulfillment, by subborrowers, of the expected
subloan appraisal goals, particularly in terms of employment (98.4Z) and of
sales (942). The visits have served, also, to identify new investment
requirements, as well as needs for managerial and technological assistance
(39Z of the borrowers in 1988). While supervision activities have achieved
a significant advance, they would, under the proposed project benefit from
s(ne strengthening and reorientation. At present, supervision is mainly
oriented towards verification of expenditure and towards a control of the
degree of fulfillment of some appraisal goals (e.g. employment, sales, use
of raw materials). It also checks on dates and amounts of disbursements by
FIs, as compared with initial estimates at appraisal. In addition, during
supervision visits, the entrepreneurs are asked to identify their needs for
TA. While the importance of the verifying function cannot be
underestimated, it should not overshadow the need for a more active
supervision intended to assess the evolution of each enterprise, to
ascertain the enterprise's future repayment problems and/or capabilities,
to review the owner's management abilities, and to identify, by the
supervisor, any technical assistance needs. In the future, CFN/FOPINAR
would rely more upon the FIs for verification of expenditures, requiring a
more strict fulfillment by FIs of the Participaticn Agreement. Such
agreement requires yearly submission, by FIs, of supervision reports
covering all FOPINAR subborrowers (a clause which has not been fulfilled by
most FIs). As a consequence, FOPINAR's own supervision would expand into
the more technical/managerial matters. Finally, and in order to ensure
better feedback between among subprojects, FOPINAR would reinforce the
contact, between personnel in its supervision and appraisal sections, to an
extent in which both activities could, in the end, be performed by the same
personnel (which should be trained to operate in both capacities).
11.      FOPINAR's Technical Assistance to SSEs. In the past, FOPINAR's TA
activities have mostly concentrated on a small number of nonrefundable
contributions to other institutions, and particularly on promotional
meetings and seminars, dealing with preparation and appraisal of subloan
applications. Within such self-imposed framework, FOPINAR attained, in
1989, very important results: (i) 49 promotional events, reaching an



- 38 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 7
audience of over 1,900 people including entrepreneurs (over 90Z) and credit
officials from financial intermediaries; (ii) 26 training seminars attended
by 626 participants from financial intermediaries and from small
enterprises and microenterprises, covering project appraisal concepts and
preparation of subloan applications. FOPINAR is now ready to step up its
technical assistance programs _nd move, either directly or through external
consultants, into the areas of industrial extension and on in-plant
managerial/technological assistance to small enterprises. Under the
proposed project, FOPINAR would coordinate the Technical Assistance Program
(see Annex VI).



- 39 -
ANNEX V
Chart I
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
FOPINAR: Organizational Structure
Existing:
ICFN
Special Fund  Dept.                    Regional
FOPINAR                       Branches
Director                    1 Support Services
(relation not
clearly defined)
Project      Training and             Supervision
Propoised:
r---------- T-------|   Special Fund Manager   CFN
I  ,                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CFN      -- -----------   FOPINAR         --------
Director                 TA Advisory Committee
Support            Credit Oper-ations           TA Operations
Budgeting      - Quito                       - Quito
- Guayaquil                  - Guayaquil
Policies                                     - Cuenca
L Other                       - Manta
Statistics        Regional                   - Ambato
Branches
Portfolio
a/ Includes appraisals and supervision of subloans.



STAllf API'.AISAL _P "WORT
FilJR!T. ',MAI t18 'DC,   WNI)PRC_'E PROJFECT
Y.., Fod-. Dg.-   31         2984             ivo              )986               L98719899                                                                             1
A~o.2.. .f Total _A#etp
A-..g. Aaa... L.7.97? 7.                        9.213 2           10.346 6           12.SOI 6             12,97? 8             13.168 6            17.916 3           25.629 2             38.014.7
T.t.l  1--..                   898 7   11 33  1.107 0  12 03  1.278 2   12 43  18071 9   15 03   2.265 9   17 5t   3.481 6   26 43   5.093 3  28 33    7.492.3   29 2    10,836..6   29.73
F,.--.>.   I.p....             492 4    6 23       732 0   7 93    8.. I0    8 319  1.374 5   11 03    1.690 4   13 Oil   2.6C9 I   19 in    3,539 7  19 73   5.322.4   20.     7.569.5   21 23
Ad..-, rt-... F.P....           43 2    0 53        4? 7.  0 53       7.9 s    0 83       76 8    C 63         13 9    0.63        81 3    0 63s        69 4   0 53        96.4    0 43        108.2    0 33
C684/FOPIF4AR (Imd,.-t)         48 5    0 6s       155 3   1 71      174 4      1 771    122 0    1 03       20  0    1 St        216 0    1.93       233 3   1.33        252 0     1 06       272.2    0.63
Pro-..o. -(24 8)  -0 33                           (25 8) -0 33      (21 01  -0 23       (16 2)  -C 1S       (55 2)  -0 43        (70 1)   -0 53       (76 2) -0 43       (82.4)  -0.26        (83 6)   -O 23
P.--..  a  M-9-.               406 27   5 is    374 94  4 13    421 I?   4 1in    497 42   4 0A              5,5 7.4   4 43       a71 86   8 63   1.553 58  6 63   2.169 114   1 56   3.049.09   0 5t
4.t P,of,t                    314 52   3 93       112 09  1 91      187 21   1 83    298 62  '.43           241 92   1 93        495 60   3 83    1.093 54  6 13   1.617.92   6.33   2.439,97   6 St
A-..g. Ca.-ty                1.877 5            2.178 3            1.910 3            1.758 I              1,509 7              1.549 2             2.277 6             3.570.11            S. 22. 5
Nat. P'.f.ot                   314 52  16 83       172 09  7 93      167 21   9 Sig   298 62  17 031         241 92  16 03        495 60  32 (13   1.093 5.4 48 0S   1.617 92  45265   2.439,97  44 23
F,.o......  Ma, g,.            406 3   21 63    374 9  17 234    421 2   22 01i    497 4   26 33             575 S   361 IS        71l9   56 33   1.553 6  6823    2.1690 9         0. M    3,069.1   55 23
I,,n.  It.-.. a
A--I,4. P., tf In            6.483 4            8.348 C            9.542 A           11.338 3             11.765 5             511910 1            16.510 1            23.822.S            33.734.7
I--n. F. -     o'              715 S    11 03  1.105, 7  13 23  1.275 9   13          1.65', 7   14 63s  2.27.2 2   19 1t   3.463 2   29 13   5. 073 9  30 73   7.4,6.1   31.43  10. Mg. 4   31,53
F....,... I I.o...            492 4     7 6it     732.10   a8 8s5s70          908l  1.374 5    I,1 3   1.690 4    14 43    2.6(197   21.93   3.539 7  21 43   5,322.4   2223S   7.569,5   22561
F...--.1 M-mg-                 406 3    6 33    3.14 9   4 53    421 2    4 411   497 4    A 43              57S 5    4 93        671 9    7 36    1.533 d   9.46   2,189.9         9.13   3.049.1       9 ON
lot.' D.2bt/f-,.t,              2r 5-                4 03              4 81.               7 46                 7 79                7 29                 6 64               5 89                 b 22
A ...       I~.6.b   a..                        7 '1 4                                2.5'                                     4 5                  2 4                2.5                  2.1
fq              A... C.         28 23              12. 13             11 1s               11I as              12 AS                12 1s                13 15              14.5                 16.13
8,   ,..,-...   A-,   R, . wP. . 11                               81  33               421 73              fly 43               91 33                92 23              93 St                94.73
TI..  o,,..'.            'I ~~~3          .~~.. 83              . S                  83 'gi               63               27 is               43 42               42.03                38 is
,,                       .s             -~~~         ~       ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~.1143           is ..:w's                            44 93                43 9                 40 03 
'1   ~~~~~1  .1  .1             '3                0-53               ''63                 '.153                '.283                  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c   Z
SS        as                      r~~~~-r
..i  >11.-                                                          .4.3               .:~~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'s6  48i03  as8   lb 



- 41 -
AISl V
Table 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
FOPINAR: Cash Flow Balance
(In million US8 Dollar)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------
Historical                 Projected
1968     1967     1968      1989    1990      1991       1992
Deflator                         435      435      435       436       436       435       435
Additions in period
Income from operations            6.29      7.42     7.62     12.65     17.36    23.73     33.67
Current Liabilities
BIRF                           6.92    14.61     6.84      6.66      6.oo      6.66      o.6
FMO                            0.33    0.74     o.66       1.11      1.11      6.oo      6.66
Other incomes                  7.22     3.51     6.16      0.60      1.49      6.63      0.38
Subtotal                      14.76   26.48    14.46      14.28     19.96     24.36     34.06
Substraction in Period
Expenses from Operations           7.14    17.10     8.40     11.66     19.96     26.79     36.80
Cucraet Loans                      s.28     e.20     2.60 e.8            2.39      4.23      4.97
Long Term L.ans                    0.00     0.60     2.76      4.24      4.67      4.94      5.19
Administrative Expenses            0.36     0.38     0.17      0.19      0.21      0.23      0.25
Other Expenses                     1.27     0.47     0.32      1.06      1.31      1.40      1.14
Subtotal                      14.13    26.65    14.34     19.01     28.63     37.59     47.36
Addition - Substraccion            0.64    (0.17)    0.12     (4.75)    (8.68)   (13.23)   (13.20)
Opening Cash Balance
(from previous period)            6.69     6.f8    6.24       0.30      6.44      0.41      6.30
Long Term Loan                     6.66     6.66     6.66     4.83       9.26     15.76    19.31
Initerest                          6.66    0..6     o.e       0.00J     6.86      2.58      6.68
Closing Cash Balance              0.72     0.39     0.36      0.44      0.41      0.30      0.23
Source: CFN.



ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
FOPINAR: Balance Sheets a/
(In million USS Dollar)
--------------------------------------------------------..---__---_________________________________________________________-
Historical                                     Projected
Year Ending December 31         1984     1986     1986      1987     1988      1989      Ing        1991     12
roreign Exchang                  436      436      436       436       435       436       486        436       43J
Assets
Current Assets
Cash                           0.81     0.11     0.72      0.39      0.36      0.44      0.41       e.ao      6.21
Current Loans                  2.89     2.86     3.91      6.82      4.31      6.06      7.e8       9.94     14.99
Interest recoiv.               0.59     0.81     6.sO      1.34      1.84      1.46      1.82       2.36      8.66
Other current assets           1.63     0.23     1.04      1.08      0.76      1.21      1.73       2.06      1.96
Lose Provisions               (0.08)   (0.08)   (O.0;)    (0.04)    (0.13)    (.16)    (.18)       (6.19)   (6.26)
Total Current Assets               6.77     3.96    6.61       8.67      7.14      9.61     16.86      14.46    20.63
Long Term Loans                   13.42    19.22    17.8i     24.61     19.46     24.95     37.83      54.08     76.49
Total Assets                      19.19   23.17    24.4'"    33.08      28.69     33.96     4e.69      69.14     96.62
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilitios           0.74      6.61    4.65i      2.96      1.30      2.02      4.44       6.90      9.36
Long Term Loans               13.06    18.06    15.6w     26.21     22.26     27.84     37.88      63.20    70.79
Paid in Capital                4.19     3.27     2.68      2.06      1.26      1.26      1.26       1.26      1.26
Retained Earnings              1.21     1.34     1.62      1.80      1.76      2.83      6.11       8.78     14.08
TAtal Equity                       6.40     4.81     4.11      3.91      3.03      4.10      8.37      10.04     16.36
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY      19.19    23.17    24..,  33.08        26.69     33.96     48.69      69.14     95.52
Source: CFN.



ECUADOR
STAFF AWPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
FOPINAR: Incom  Statweents /
(In milPion USI Dollar)
Pistorical                                       Projected_
Year Ending December 31          19814    1996      1986      1987      1988      1989        1990       1901      1992
Foreign Exchange                  436      436       436       436        435       436        436        436        436
Income
From Loans                      1.64     2.64      2.93      3.81       6.18      7.96      11.68      17.19     24.48
From Investments                0.42    06.0       6.61      0.60      0603      0604        0.04       *.64      6.68
Total Income                    2.07     2.54      2.94      4.30       6.21      8.06      11.71      J7.22      24.46
Expenses
Financial Expenses              1.13     1.68      1.97      3.18       3.89      6.oo      8.14       12.24     17.46
Financial Margin                    0.93     6.86      6.97      1.14       1.32      2.00       3.67       4."        7.61
Administrative Expenses             0.10     6.11      0.14      0.18       0.17      0.19       0.21       0.23      06.2
Loan Loss Provisions                0.00     0.00      0.611     6.00       0.10     0603       O.01        0.61       6.91
Indirect Costs                      6.11     0.36     0.4f1      0.28      0.46       06.5       6.54       O6.8      *.68
Other Adm. Expenses 2/              0.00     0.06      0.60      0.00      0603       0.16      6.36        6.45      6.61
Operating Expenses                  0.21     0.47      0. 64     0.46      0.77       0.86       1.06       1.27       1.4e
Net Profit (Loss)                   0.72     0.40      0.43      0.89       0.56      1.14       2.61       3.72       6.61
Source: CFN.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
Table 5
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
FOPINAR: Geographic Distribution of Subloans (1981-June 30, 1989)
Province            No. of Operations            Credit Amounts                  Z
(millions of sucres)
Azuay                        762                    1,091.9                     6.5
Bolivar                       48                        37.4                    0.2
Cafnar                        91                      100.0                     0.6
Carchi                        95                        48.2                    0.3
Chimborazo                   221                      317.4                     1.9
Colon                         10                        71.8                    0.4
Cotopaxi                     186                      381.2                     2.3
El Oro                       419                       705.2                    4.2
Esmeraldas                   301                      517.8                     3.1
Guayas                     1,187                    4,559.7                    27.0
Imbabura                     487                      673.9                     4.0
Loja                         704                      546.5                     3.2
Los Rios                     456                    1,242.7                     7 4
Horona Santiago               88                        72.7                    0.4
Napo                          67                      122.4                     0.7
Pastaza                       51                        65.1                    0.4
Pichincha                  1,545                    4,086.3                    24.2
Tungurahua                   507                    1,047.8                     6.2
Zamora                        38                       34.2                     0.2
TOTAL                      7,749                   16,872.9                  100.0
Total Quito-Guayaquil    1,889                          24.4Z                  40.0Z
Total Rest of Country    5,860                          75.6Z                  60.OZ



- 45 -
Table 6
ECUADOR
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
FOPINAR: Distribution of Subloans by Financial Intermediaries
(1981-June 30, 1989)
Financial                    No. of         FOPINAR Disbursements
Intermediaries             Operations       (millions of sucres)              Z
Banco de Fomento              5,843                6,284.6                  42.0
Banco del Progreso                51                 257.1                   1.7
Banco Amazonas                    23                  76.8                   0.5
Banco de los Andes                 8                  51.8                   0.3
Banco del Austro                  40                 120.1                   0.8
Banco del Azuay                   67                 325.9                   2.2
Banco Bolivariano                  5                  20.1                   0.1
Banco Continental                 72                 473.0                   3.2
Bco. Credito Hipotecario           3                   9.4                   0.1
Banco de Descuento                 5                  19.9                   0.1
Filanbanco                        80                 618.5                   4.1
Banco de Guayaquil               113                 435.3                   2.9
Banco Ind. y ComeLzial            35                 197.7                   1.3
Banco Internacional                5                  59.4                   0.4
Banco de Loja                     22                  44.1                   0.3
Banco de Machala                  17                  72.8                   0.5
Banco del Pacifico               319               1,366.8                   9.1
Banco del Pichincha              166                 868.0                   5.8
Banco Popular                     49                 207.7                   1.4
Banco de Prestamos                71                 335.4                   2.2
Banco La Previsora              215                  820.0                   5.5
Banco del Tungurahua              12                  64.9                   0.4
darnco de la Producciom           '. -                                       2.4
Bco  Caja de Credito Ag.          14                  78.0                   0.5
Banco de Cooperativas            47                  119.9                   0.8
Banco de America                   1                   8.3                   0.1
Bco. Consolidado del Ecuador    12                    89.1                   0.6
COFIEC                            14                  79.8                   0.5
FINANSA                           33                 115.2                   0.8
ECUFINSA                          13                 121.6                   0.8
Financiera de Guayaquil          27                  153.4                   1.0
Financiera del Austro             57                 100.2                   0.7
Financiera Iberoamericana         80                 370.5                   2.5
Financiera Andina                20                  100.2                   0.7
AMERAFIN                           2                  20.0                   0.1
FINANSUR                         55                  270.7                   1.8
FINANCIERA MANABI                83                  173.7                   1.2
FINANCERA DE LA REPUBLICA          3                  33.2                   0.2
FINEC CIA. FINANCIERA              6                  41.6                   0.3
FINANCIERA LATINA                  1                   4.5                   0.0
TOTAL                         7,749              14,965.2                  100.2



- 46 -                         Page 1 of 6
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE (SSE IV) PROJECT
Technical Assistance (TA)
A. Background
1.       Mission interviews during project preparation as well as recent
surveys revealed SSE needs for technological and managerial assistance.
The most comprehensive of such surveys, one conducted by CENAPIA in 1985,
covering nearly 4,000 small scale industries, as well as the most recent
one, carried out in October 1988 by a Bank consultant, identified at least
five areas of assistance perceived by entrepreneurs to be as important for
them as financial assistance: market studies, production processes,
marketing, management, and accounting. Mission meetings have shown that,
even in cases where basic technical knowledge seemed sufficient for the
entrepreneurs to produce reasonably good products, the managerial skills
leave ample room for improvemant. Frequentlv the main and only advice
about selecting the machinery cames from equipment salesmen. Similarly,
the amount of raw material stock needed is often based on suggestions
provided by local suppliers, which is frequently based on self-interest.
Accounting is developed in response to the limited requirements of
financial institutions and often is perceived more as a "necessary evil,
and a fiscal obligation than as a managerial tool. Sales, in turn, depend
more on the narrow possibilities of a network of personal acquaintences
than on a marketing strategy. A few training initiatives undertaken in
recent years by FOPINAR and some private SSE-oriented institutions
(para. 4) 'nave been welcomed bv entrenreneur P-rd menticned to the missilon
as an important contribution to improving their companies. Nevertheless,
the past failure to provide more massive assistance to SSEs has allowed
overequipment and overstocking in many small firms and left the majority
far behind in product design, quality control, marketing techniques, and
basic production management. The present SSE needs will require not only
highly sophisticated technological support but also a massive diffusion of
information and training about basic techniques and procedures.
B. Present Institutional Setup for Assisting SSEs
2.       There are several public and private institutions that have as an
objective to provide (or claim to be providing) some degree of assistance
to SSEs. The coverage and results so far appear meager and for the most
part, have been limited to the areas of general training and preparing
credit applications. Private and public programs tend to be uncoordinated
and limited in resources. As a result, they encounter difficulties in
reaching a critical mass and in producing any lasting impact. Even FOPINAR
has undertaken several technical assistance activities in the past but
these efforts have been restricted to assistance in preparing and
processing credit applications.



4 7 -                         Page 2 of 6
3.       Public Institutions Assisting SSEs.  The most visible public
institution in the field is CENAPIA (Centro Nacional do Promocion de la
Pequefia Industria y Artesania). CENAPIA is an autonomous institution,
related to the central government through the Ministry of Industry. It was
created to provide assistance to SSEs in matters related to feasibility
studies, to marketing, and to financial and accounting management. At
present, it has a staff of 47 professionals. Nevertheless, due to a very
limited budget (US$300,000) in 1987, and to bureaucratic restrictions, its
activities have been limited to surveys and economic studies for some
branches of industry, and to preparation of free subproject studies for a
limited number of small entrepreneurs. An indirect contributor to SSE
assistance is SECAP (Servicio Ecuatoriano de Capacitacion 1rofesional).
Its objective is to train workers for industry and services. It is well
equipped with the necessary infrastructure, consisting of 14 training
centers in different regions of the country, and a staff of 600 specialized
technicians. Its financial resources come from a 0.52 tax on the worker's
salaries, from government contributions from the national budget, and from
bilateral donations by several foreign countries. While SECAP has made a
substantial contribution in the field of training, most of its trainees are
already, or end up being, workers of large industries. SECAP's technicians
have reportedly very limited participation in activities outside their
training centers. Other related public institutions include: FONAPRE
(Fondo Nacional de Preinversion), responsible for promotion and preparation
of large investment projects; CENDES (Centro de Desarrollo Industrial),
which assists the private and public sector in preparing industrial
investment projects, and in exploring new industrial opportunities. Also
providing specialized technical assistance to large industries are DINATI
(Direccion Nacional de Asescria Tecnica), responsible, within the Ministry
of Industry, for coordination of foreign technical assistance programs
directly benefitting public sector institu*ions; and TNEN (Instituto
Ecuatoriano de Normalizacion), responsible for establishing and promoting
technical production standards and quality control procedures. While all of
the above institutions are, at present, only indirectly connected to the
reality of small entrepreneurs, they are all potential participants and
contributors in an SSE-tailored technical assi)ance program.
4.       Private Organizations and Banks Assisting SSEs.  Amcng private
institutions, assistance to SSEs 1 has taken two different avenues: (a) the
1/ The May 1983 SSE decree (Ley de Fomento de la Peguefta Industria)
defines SSEs as enterprises with a maximum asset size (excluding land
and buildings) of 25 million sucres (about US$50,000 equivalent) and
microenterprises as firms with a maximum asset size of 3 million sucres
(about US$6,000 equivalent). However, for purposes of the economic
analysis of the SSE sector, the mission has used a more widely used
criteria based on number of employees, and has defined SSEs as those
employing less than 50 employees and microenterprises as those
employing less than five employees.



AMX VI
- 48 -                           Page 3 of 6
smaller enterprises (microenterprises), including formal and informal
businesses, have been assisted through a host of private (in many cases
foreign-supported) foundations and, to a limited extent, by some banks
(e.g., Banco del Pacifico and Banco Nacional de Fomento); (b) the upper
segment of small enterprises (between five to ten workers) have been
assisted by the Chambers of Industry, and by INSOTEC (Instituto de
Investigaciones Socio-Economicas y Tecnologicas). The foundations, of
which over a dozen were visited by the mission, have no common pattern or
common methodology of action. Many have chosen a case-by-case approach
geared tovards poverty alleviation projects. The Government established in
1986 a special unit, UNEPROM (Unidad Ejecutora del Programa de
Microempresas) in the Ministry of Labor, whose purpose is to promote and
coordinate the creation of private 4.oundations and use them to channel
donations of the informal sector microenterprises. The program has had
little impact and few of the existing foundations were established as a
result of the program. USAID is trying a new approach and has reached an
agreement with FOPINAR and CARE/Fundacion Carvajal. from Colombia, to start
a new project in four or five secondary cities in northern Ecuador, with a
training/advisory/cradit approach. The project started in early 1988 so it
is still premature to assess the results. In the above context, the mission
believes that, in spite of their present limitations, some of the
foundations, if properly funded and guided, could become an appropriate
vehicle to reach the micro-entrepreneurs with technical assistance
programs.
5.       A few larger size SSEs have been assisted in technological and
managerial matters bv DISOTEC.  INSOTEC was established in the late 1970s
and is the only private technical assistance institution which specifical!1
addresses the small scale firms. INSOTEC was established with the
financial assistance of foreign private foundations and nominal
contributions by FENAPI (Federacion Nacional de Camaras de Pequefios
Industriales del Ecuador). Although it corstitutes a good embryo for a
technical assistance institution, its present activities are limited by the-
lack of financial and human resources (its present permanent staff is
limited to sevon people).  Its ri,ill ateas of activity are in technology and
training. In view of its relationships to FENAPI and of its nearly ten
years of involvement in the sector, INSOTEC could play an important role
among the private sector TA organizations. Among private training
institutions, the best known is CEFE (Centro de Formacion Empresarial),
established by ANDE, the National Association of Entrepreneurs for the
training of middle and large size entrepreneurs and their employees. CEFE
has recently started some training courses for small entrepreneurs and has
expressed great interest in participating in the TA subprograms.
C. The Proposed Project's TA Component
6.       The main objectives of the TA component would be to: (i) support
the growth and the increase ir efficiency and productivity of SSEs;
(ii) support the TA delivery capabilities of existing institutions and
encourage the creation and strengthening of an integrated and coordinated
system of support to SSEs; and (iii) increase the credit delivery
effectiveness of financial institutions and expand the vclume and range of
services they provide. A summary description of the TA component's main
activities and costs is given in the following paragraphs and is
schematically nresented in Table 1 (attached)



ANNEX VI
~ 49 -                        Page 4 of 6
7.       Assistance to SSEs--Technical Assistance Coordination.  The most
important new development under the TA component would be the establishment
of a coordinating mechanism for TA activities, and the reorientation of the
present TA and supervision units in FOPINAR towards a role closer to that
of industrial extension agents. Under the proposed project, FOPINAR would
be required to strengthen the Technical Cooperation Committee for TA to
small enterprises (Comite de Cooperacion Tecnica) The Committee would
operate as a "second-tier window' for TA, using private and public
institutions as well as consultants to execute TA activities in favor of
SSEs. Through FOPINAR, funds (from CFN's own resources, a grant from the
Inter-american Development Bank, and local counterpart funds) would be
channeled to participating institutions (e.g., INSOTEC, CENAPIA, SECAP,
CEFE, Foundations, Chambers of Industry) against presentation of bpecific
programs, to be agreed with the Bank on a semi-annual basis. Activities
identified so far, which are included in the cost estimate in Table 1 of
this Annex, include the following: training of TA agents, preparation of
extension brochures and booklets. enterprise diagnostics, surveys of
regional investment oportunities, training seminars for entrepreneurs, in-
plant assistance to eligible firms, studies on the establishment of joint
marketing schemes.
8.      Assistance to FOPINAR.  To fulfill its new role, FOPINAR would
require some institutional reinforcement including additional training to
its senior staff as well as additional equipment (e.g.,computers, vehicles)
for its regional offices and for headquarters. Such items are also
included in Table 1 and have been agreed upon during appraisal. In
addition FOPINAR would receive resources to reinforce the technical
assistance procedures and activities of other institutions through the
execution of TA programs, which would be assessed and coordinated under the
Technical Cooperation Committee (TCC).
9.       The TCC would include representatives from the Public Sector
(e.g., Ministry of Industry and Trade, CONADE, and CFN) as well as from the
private organizations (e.g. Associations of Banks and DFCs, FENAPI). The
Committee would operate at the initiative and under the coordination of
FOPINAR which would be the Committee's Sect?tariat. To fulfill its
responsibilities FOPINAR would restructure the functions of its existing TA
and Supervision units. At present, the TA unit is mainly concentrated in
delivering seminars about the preparation of credit applications, and the
Supervision Unit is geared towards expenditure verification tasks. In the
future, they would take a more active role in: (i) proposing
technical/managerial activities to satisfy the needs identified during
their visits to enterprises or through contacts with entrepreneurs
associations; and (ii) operating as a referral system for available
services in other institutions. Initially, and in order to maximize the
impact of financial and human resources available under the proposed
project, the TA programs would concentrate in not more than four to five
regions of the country. Those regions have been selected by FOPINAR in
view of their level of SSE activity as well and of the interest expressed
by the local Chambers of Industry (the proposed locations are Quito,
Guayaquil, Manta, Ambato and Cuenca).
10.      FOPINAR would operate with a basic team at Headquarters and one or
twr' staff in the selected regional offices, which would assist small



ANNEX VI
- 50 -                          Page 5 of 6
entrepreneurs, individually and in groups, to identify their TA needs and
programs. While about half of the agents would come from the reassignment
of existing FOPINAR staff, a few others would have to be specially
recruited for the program. Typically they would have an engineering,
accounting, or business administration background, with some previous
experience with small firms. Due to the specialized kind of functions that
they are expected to perfonm, the selection of candidates would require
rigorous screening tests to assess their motivation and personal
capabilities for establishing good relations with small entrepreneurs.
After recruitment, both existing and new staff would go through a training
program (six to eight weeks). The training would familiarize the agents
with local institutions providing technical and financial assistance and
with technical knowledge in areas such as: basic concepts of small
enterprise management, elements of project preparation snd appraisal,
industrial extension including techniques of group work, concepts of
financial accounting management of small business, market studies and
marketing techniques, etc. Previous to such training and in order to help
in the final program design, it is expected that two or three senior staff
members of the initial group would take two-week visits to some other
countries operating a successful extension service (e.g., Mexico, Spain,
Brazil). Initial training for the staff is expected to be completed by
loan effectiveness.
11.      In terms of delivery procedures, Lhe contact with entrepreneurs
would combine, from the beginning, the individual approach with the group
approach or 'clusters' approach. Through the later procedure, developed
and tried in Mexico during execution of three Bank-supportcl SSE projects,
small firms in the same geographic area and in the same branOhes of
industry (shoes, textiles, furniture, etc) are grouped togethe; to receive
technical assistance on their field of interest and to, eventually,
organize joint activities, such as: raw material purchases, group exhibits,
credit unions, and other forms of cooperation. In order to maximize the
impact of the program, the direct contact with entrepreneurs would be
complemented by the preparation/adaptation of self-learning guides and
audio-visual training aids, covering the essentials of production and
managerial techniques. The policies concerning payments for direct
services would, initially, follow other countries' experience which show
that while industrial extension services should, in the medium-term, be
expected to be self-financed, they have to start charging only nominal fees
and gradually increase the value of services as they became better known
and appreciated. The program would also receive additional financing
through the sale of brochures, seminars, and other standard products. As
for diagnosis of enterprises and for in-plant assistance, each entrepreneur
should be provided with a basic service (three to five days) free of charge
and, subsequently, be referred to local consultants or institutions for the
follow-up actions der'ved from the initial diagnosis. Such a procedure
would allow for a clear identification and qualification of subsidies and
for an identification of the sources to cover them. An essential element
for the success of the system would be to allow an important degree of
autonomy to the regional offices in proposing, and in executing, their
working program according to the local needs and realiti.es and, most
important, to the priorities perceived by the local groups of
entrepreneurs.



ANN= VI
-51 -                                    Page 6 of 6
Flou r  1 - FOPINAR'. Future Activitlee
FOPID's  Activities
I                                                  |   j Technical Cooperation
Credit              [ Tchnical Assistance                       Comittee s/
o Banks
o  Financing Companies
o BNF
1                        i Specialized
Direct Duties 2/                   Institutions !/ |
I                   I              I 
o  Identification of Noeds           o  Chambers
o  Supervision of Enterprises        o  CENAPIA
and Programs                      o  INSOTEC
o  Referral Services                 o  CENDES
o  Diagnosis of Enterprises          o  CEFE
o  Consultants
o Etc.
1/   Suggested initial composition: MICIP, Banks' Association, CFN, FENAPI.
2/ Through own staff at regional units In Quito and pilot regiono (Cuenca, Ouaysquil, Mionts,
Ambato).
3/   ProvIde services through own resources or through contracts with CFN/FOPINAR.



IV 9WKL 9W1 RNMIMS FlM=r
btimItd  our d flMEIIW trw Thedicml m_tmi.         e (V) Prr        (1990-91)
(tbectv 1im[too to be ffi_nd                                                        UD      LIn:l    118         lnf I ttiut [nal I bcted llwftets    Czl         of Owntton
(lRi  )        R~~peqpvthl I Itv
PIE?'~~~l  
of  WIJPV
Il) ftwide trs1n1ug for    Trw4w study trip to              InteemTttemil traellru  arl   Iis)M   3i.(m  I).Fi) Fi 1rlN                  Tr an   * taff         lot qmtr 1990.
uaff of RWlDw           csmtries with arcesful           .wp er
ad rIupp"s              inmistrtal extension Sevces
Owdinsti,E              (e.g. ?'aco. Orazl. 9pain).
oadttee.
RWm to be rVwl
tn pnrtitcntiuv        S%- w     tratnb* pragruu        Internal travel. OrMantzAtinnal
biwis (Pf).             InrludtiR thnretlcAl and        eapc,vw. lonntnx-tr- .1          Uf1,ME   10.CM     Y0*(f1   p'I INAP        lYaln 10 RPW           2id ')s,rter 1990.
prartical expert"" (e.R.       esteriala.                                                                    staff    uers ad
mx!umttng. prndwttu.                                                                                         Itl ntlwrs frm
m  - enmt. mrketrlg. legal                                                                                   riart1igstpmtl
IwmwIures. taw. etc.)                                                                                        Instittittnns.
(b) Astst P!INPAR In        pRwide reprwrws to RQPINM       IA TA staff ani sutsrlwtig         _    IRV.(      IX).(TW)   P*lW      I'TN    FAstabhiAi  a TA   1990-91.
ortattug tht pnF"       to lqlmint TA pYigrau.          versruwl.                                                                    dtlivery system
&1rtng firt thte                                                                                                                     and cn'rdinstuit
J_sU.                                                                                                                                |-elwn1 _
(c) mi.t IJRNlJBB           4 smdnars a-d  4 ftl."-'i       avaer,It.-lt.. tranlIlt< v.'.    I. ,M1   Mfty    40.VtI   I          -- IF .w  TWain fi) pnfe-P-  199(0:4 vnin.ar,
In strevgthwmlv        ca  study unrklu,1n-  f-r                                                                        IIrvani,uu Iu.  ,..,  S P.,.-..    cI.vculc ftm f. Id
q    lltttes In         staff frnrs RINIWINA .e hfenI',                                                                              14fl     eeW ,Wel KW*R.
rssaI  and               wiverlrv: aMpwarial nid
aqrvisIrM of            mWvrvqlon  f  wiq- jctfs.
pjjett5.
(d) Pt"=1s  tsuinn          A&"t devrInpal etetnnm   Fe         1 prerattnu.                 14.(X)   6.6(Xl      F       RwlNIIR        Ol ete 10             1990: 5 booklets
mtarials for inft-        tertals (btwnkets aumto-      audto-risil eqdulent.            24.(M)  II .(M               (thrnte outher bmkkts lea  ert       1991: 5 IbDoklets
_tto  ad  sdf-          visu) tsratnin  aids) In        foreign l1teratwre.               9.fMf   4.400    70,nXX)    Instlit'llos)  bWlc t__tt/
trsfhl of ete,-         senspant/aciunting/                                                                                          scoantintg topics.
1m'.                    prnckrtInn toptcs.
(e)  twide FnPQDI with    ft1pent.                        h6 ehtcles.                       132.ay)                       R, rNAR/rJN    Pidp H.Q. ad          1990.
n     ry eqdp-t                                         typing and rnpylr equd iPt.             ?20.(rm                              reglsl officns.
for Its initiAl TIA                                     13 nwiters wb/nsft'mre.
rtions.                                              nthtrrs.                         20.ftt            172 .ITl
L_7WWWA                                                                               2R7 .tA  241,tOM,   S) l0,1 t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ ___   .-                                                            _ ___   .  _  __   _______
>-5
I_   :



53                    ANNEX VI
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
E ~~   'C                     f E  f       
__ 3   -         -              t     ti
B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA
i   8   -  g8   &    8.  
d  E  <    i   S   S  8      ffi  8    i
s  |  l ! _|   8   12'  R8 B.- 3   5
Q i1 1  t1   1   ,,   Wt    i'~~~~
1 |!   {5   i   66  6    6$   |g  31    1 |~~~~~~~~~
I;ii !        l!ii git1i5ili |s.1it |



- 54 -
ANNEX VII
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Proiected Investment in ManufacturinR. 1990-92
(Millions of USS)
Number of Workers           1990             1991            1992
1-9                  13               13              14
10-19                   12              13               13
20-49                   32              34               35
50-99                   46              48               50
100-199                   56              59               61
200-499                   86              90               93
500 and More                   64               67              69
Projections are made undcr the assumption that valued added in manufacturing
will show an average growth rite of 4? per year. To translate value-added
figures to investment, the ratio of investment to value added in 1985 was
used.



- 55 -                         ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 4
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Interest Capitalization Scheme
Proposal to Minimize the Current Accelerated-in-Real-Terms
Debt-Servicing Requirements due to High Nominal Interest Rates
A. Introduc.ion
1.       When traditional loan repayment methods are used by the banking
sector and, at the same time, nominal interest rates are high, a distortion
is generated by which the actual debt-servicing of the loans ends up being
accelerated, when measured in real terms. Traditional debt-servicing
methods were originally designed for non-inflationary situations and have
proven to be inadequate for high inflationary environments, such as the one
prevailing in Ecuador. This distortion generates a negative impact on the
cash-flow of the borrowing enterprises, especially in the case of medium-
and long-term development loans.
2.       The resulting cash-flow problems not only tend to exaggerate the
deteriorating quality of the banking sector's portfolio, but also tend to
create the following additional problems to the private productive
borrowing enterprises: (i) higher collateral requirements; (ii) shorter
nominal maturities for new lending; and (iii) a damaging perception of an
exaggerated financial deterioration, usually misdiagnosed by most bankers
as a problem of profitability or insolvency of the productive enterprises,
that further erodes their creditworthiness. This, in turn, usually becomes
a self-fulfilling prophecy that can negatively affect the private sector
and seriously undermine the Bank's support to strengthen industrial
development through development finance projects.
3.       There is the need, therefore: (i) to fully understand the reasons
why high nominal rates together with traditional debt-servicing schemes
generate an accelerated-in-real-terms debt servicing problem; and (ii) to
design a new debt servicing scheme that can result in an evenly distributed
debt servicing burden to borrowing enterprises and eliminate, or at least
minimize, political problems to the government due to side-effects due to
"loan indexing" or complaints due to 'ever inflating debts".
4.       During negotiaticns, it was agreed that the Corporacion Financiera
Nacional (CFN) will offer--as an option--a system acceptable to the Bank,
that will allow final beneficiaries to have a level servicing of subloans
in real terms (zonstant prices). The scheme will have to be approved by
loan effectiveness, and become operational by July 1, 1990, to permit
authorizations for new commuitments under the Loan.



- 56 -                                 ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 4
B. Acceleration in Real Terms of Debt Servicing Requirements
S.         Table  1 below  shows as Case  I an example of a local currency,
10 year long-term loan (plus one year of grace), under a traditional debt-
servicing schedule. Inflation is assumed to be 802 while the lending
interest rate is assumed to be 70Z (negative in real termsl). It is
compared with Case II, that assumes that the proposed new debt-servicing
scheme will be in place.
Teble 1. Aelerated in *cI Term Debt Servicing
(in Sucres)
CASE I: Assumptions:   Loan size: S/.1 million; Lending Rate: 70p.a.;  Inflation x
90xp.a.; Terms = 1  years plus one year of grace; Traditional
Debt-Servicing Scheme.
Y.End       Boginning                            Total      D.Sorv.   Cum.D,S.
Price       Principal   Amort in    Interest  Debt           in Real   in Real
Year      Index        8a'anco      Period       Accrued   Service    Torms       Terms
1           1.86       1,0d0,600                 766,666   76w,o6e    388,889   388,889
2           3.24       1,660,6660   16 l,66      7W000,66    0,006    246,914   836,863
3           6.83         e00', ON    100,666     630,666   730,666    126,171   760,974
4          10.60         800,666   106,000    656,066    666,666        62,867   823,831
6          18.90         700,000 160,000         49,66696,666           31,217   856,048
8          34.01         606,o66    166,666      426,000   520,000       15,289   886,337
7          61.22         600,000   160,666       360,000   460,000       7,360   887,887
8         110.20         400,000   166,666       280,0M6   380,000       3,448   891,136
9         198.36         300,000   100,000       210,600    310,000       1,663   892,698
16        367.06         200,666   100,000       146,000   246,000         672   893,370
11        642.68         100,666   100,666        70,000   170,006         265   893,635
CASE II Axsumptions:  Loan Sizo: S/.1 million; Lending Rate sox p.c.;
Inflation = 80s  p.s.; Terms = 10 yeors plus one year
of grace; Now Festuro: includes voluntary
capitalization of interest (up to 100X of interest)
and annual amortization equal to new balance dividod
by numnbers of years left).
Accrued                              Nominal      D.Servics
e-ginn.      Interest      New           Yru.      Debt        in Real
Year   Balance       Period       Balance        Left    Service      Terms
1     1,666,666        366,666      1,666,666   11
2     1,8s6ee,6      1,440,666      3,246,600   16       324,000      160,666
3     2,916,066      2,332,800      6,248,800    9       583,206      166,666
4     4,666,666      3,732,480      8,398,686    8    1,649,766       100,600
5     7,34e,320      5,878,560    13,226,976    7    1,889,68e        100, 66
6    11,337,408      9,069,926    20,407,334    6    3,461,222        16O,o66
7    17,6066112    13,664,890    3.,611,002    6    6,122,200         106,666
8    24,488,861    19,691,641    44,079,842    4   11,619,961         100,000
9    33,0659,882    26,447,906    69,607,787    3   19,836,929        10066,6
l    39,671,868    31,737,488    71,409,346    2   35,704,672         166 666
11    86,764,672    28,663,738    64,268,410    1   64,268,410         166,666



- 57 -                        ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 4
Table 2: Cmrarison between Cases I and II
(in constant thousand S/. of year 0)
Year      CASE I    CASE II       Difference
1        388.9        0.0          388.9
2        246.9      100.0          146.9
3        125.2      100.0           25.2
4         62.9      100.0          -37.1
5         31.2      100.0          -68.8
6         15.3      100.0          -84.7
7          7.4      100.0          -92.6
8          3.4      100.0          -96.6
9          1.6      100.0          -98.4
10          0.7      100.0          -99.3
11          0.3      100.0          -99.7
----------------------------------------
TOTAL     898.2   1,000.0           101.8
6.       Table 2 compares Case I with Case II of the above example. Under
Case I, it is striking to see that its terms reflect the worst of all
possible situations, because : (i) in the first year --when it was expected
that the grace period would give some relief to the borrower-- over 402 of
the total repayments in real terms would need to be made, which would not
seem viable for the majority of subloans; and (ii) total payments in real
terms would not suffice to cover the loan's initial value, because of tFe
negative real interest rate level.  In other words, not only the Government
would lose by passing on the funds at nrgative real levels, but the
borrowers would get into difficulties by repaying about 40? of a 10-year
subloan's real value, during the first year alone. Case II shows that
under the proposed scheme, not only the subsidy would be eliminated but
also the debt-servicing pressure on the cashflow would be made even during
the subloan's lifetime.
C. Description of the Proposed New Scheme.
7.       The 'Original Subloan' would first be made in the traditional way
(i.e. as in Table 1 above, the subloan would have a grace period, level
amortizations and a nominal interest rate that would be applied to the
outstanding balance of the subloan). As a second step, at the end of the
first year, CFN would compute --in constant prices of the beginning of the
year-- the value of such a traditional debt-servicing.1 At the end of every
year, the difference between the debt-servicing under the traditional
method and the target amortization in real terms, would be equal to the
maximum eligible amount of 'new money' loans that could automatically be
used by the sub-borrower, at his option.2 As Table 4 (attached) shows,
1/ In our example, the first year was to be a grace period, and therefore
the target debt servicing for the first year would be equal to zero.
2/ The amount of the target amortization in real terms would simply be
equal to the original loan amount divided by the number of amortization
years.



- 58 -                       ANNEX VIII
- 58 -                          Page 4 of 4
total debt- servicing of the original loan will amount to S/. 388.889 in
constant prices at the end of the first year, while the target amortization
for that year is zero. Therefore, at the end of the first year, "new
money' loan No. 1 could be as high as S/. 388.889 in constant prices,
equivalent to S/. 700,000 in nominal terms.
8.       The 'new money" loan terms would be: (i) the interest rate equal
to the rate for the new subloans to SSEs, in line with the interest rate
agreement as defined in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement: and (ii) the
maturity equal to the number of years left under the original loan. Thus,
the maturity of 'new money' loan No. 1 would be equal to 10 years (11 years
minus one, at the end of the first year).
9.       Applying the criteria to our example, we find that the amount and
terms of the 'new money' loans would be as follows:
Table 3 'New Money' Loans
(In Sucres)                 (In Years)
End of                Amount of                   Maturity
Year          'New Money" Loans                  of Loans
1                  700,000                         10
2                1,036,000                          9
3                1,498,111                          8
4                2,067,915                          7
5                2,640,401                          6
6                2,879,641                          5
7                1,904,839                          4
8                         0                         3
9                         0                         2
10                         0                         1
Source: Table 4
10.      Table 4 shows in its 'summary of net total impact' that the
resulting servicing of the subloans would be level in constant prices until
the seventh year. From then on, it would start to diminish as a result cf
the subsidized interest rate in the example (inflation of 80Z p.a. and an
interest rate of 70Z p.a.). In case of positive real lending rates,
however, this would not be the case.
Conclusions and Recommendations
11.      In case a sub-borrower decides to use the full amount of the
ceilings for the 'new money' loans, the servicing of his/her subloans would
be level in constant prices.
12.      On the other hand, if the sub-borrower decides to borrow in 'new
money' loans less than the ceilings permit, the results would still be
attractive, because the system would allow to shorten up the maturities of
the subloans in constant prices, for sub-borrowers that can afford to pay
faster than originally foreseen.



ANNEX VIII
- 59 -                                  Table  ^
ECUADOR: Interest. Capitalization Scheme             Page-1 of 2
---_------.-.....--.-.-.,,.---..--.-..
Year-End   Beginning Original              Total      D.Serv.    D.Serv.    Loans in
Price      Principal Amort.     Interest   Debt       in Real   in Real    Nominal
Year Index      Balance   in Period  Accrued    Service   Terms       Tems       Terms
- -   -- -- - -     -- -- --  --- -- --  ................  .......... .....  ---- - -     ---- ----   *--.....--------.......... ... 
Original SiAbloan: S/l,000,000
1        1.8 1.000.000          a    700,000   700,000    388,889           0    700,000
2        3.2 1,000,000    100,000    700,000   800,000    246,914
3        5.8   900.000    100,000    630,000   730,000    125.171
4       10.5   600,000    100,000    560,000   660,000      62.672
5       18.9   700.000    l00,eOC    490,000   590.000      31,224
6       34.0   600,000    100,000    420.000   520,000      15,289
7       61.2   500,000    100,000    350,000   450.000       7,350
8      110.2   400.000    100.000    280,000   380,000       3.448
9      198.4   300.000    100.000    210.000   310.000       1,563
10      357.0   200,000    100,000    140,000   240,000         672
11      642.7   100,000    100,000      70.000   170,000        265
'New Money' Loan I 1: S/700,000
2        3.2   700,000     70,000    490,000   560,000    172.840    100,000  1.036,000
3        5.8   630,000     70,000    441,000   511,000      87,620
4       10.5  560,O0    70,000    392,000   462,000        44,010
5       18.9   490,000     70,000    343,000   413,000      21.857
6       34.0   -20,000     70,000    294,000   364,000      10,702
7       61.2   351,000     70,000    245,000   315,000       5,145
8      110.2   28L,000     70,000    196,000   266,000       2,414
9      198.4   210,000     70,000    147,000   217,000       1.094
10      357.0   140,000     70,000     98,000   168,000         471
11      642.7    70,000     70,000     49,000   119,000         185
'New Money' Loan J 2: S/1,036,000
3        5.8 1,036,000    115,111    725.200   840,311    144,086    100,000  1,498,111
4       10.5  920,889    115,111    644,622   759,733       72,372
5       18.9   805,778    115,111    564,044   679,156      35.942
6       34.0  690,667    115,111    483,467   598,578       17,599
7       61.2   575,556    115,111    402,889   518,000       8,461
8      110.2  460,444    115,111    322,311   437,422        3.969
9      198.4  345,333    1.5.111    241,733   356,844        1,799
10      357.0   230,222    115,111    161.156   276,267         774
11      642.7   115,111    115.111     80,578   195,689         304
'New Money' Loan I 3: S/1,498,111
4       10.5 1,498,111    187.264  1,048,678 1,235,942    117,736    100,000  2,067.915
5       18.9 1,310,847    187,264    917.593 1,104,857      58,471
6       34.0 1,123.583    187.264    786.508   973,772      28,630
7       61.2   936,319    187,264    655,424   842,688      13,764
8      110.2   749,056    187,264    524,339   711.603       6,457
9      196.4   561,792    187,264    393,254   580,518       2,927
10      357.0   374,528    187,264    262,169   449.433       1,259
11      642.7   187,264    187,264    131,085   318,349         495
*New Money' Loan # 4: S/2,067,915
5       18.9 2,067,915    295,416  1,447.541 1,742,957      92,241    100,000  2,640.401
6       34.0 1,772,499    295,416  1,240,749 1,536.165      45,165
7       61.2 1,477,082    295,416  1,033,958 1,329,374      21,714
8      110.2 1,181,666    295,416    827,166 1,122,582      10,187
9      198.4  886,249    295,416    620,375   915,791        4,617
10      357.0   590.833    295,416    413,583   708,999       1.986
11      642.7   295,416    295,416    206,792   502,208         781



- 60 -                                 ANNEX VIII
Table 4
ECUADOR1  Interest Capitalization Sch os  (Cont.)    Page 2 of 2
Target     Nev Money
Year-gnd   legUintig Original                Total      D.Sorv.    D.Serv.    Loans in
Price     ftricipal Airt.         Interest   Debt       in Real    in Real    Nominal
Year Index       BeLace   in Poriod  Accrued    Service   Terom          Torms       Ter m
...  I. ... ... O. .- . ;. ..  -- O  . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .  . .
New Mosey' Lom I 5  512 .40,401
6       34.0 2,640.401    440,0467  1,64.261 2,266.346        67,260    100.000  2,879,641
7       61.2 2.200.335    440,067  1.540.234 1,960.301        32.346
a      110.2 1,760,266    440,047  1,232,187 1.572.254        15.175
9      196.4 1.320.201    440,067    924,140 1.364,207         6.177
10      357.0   660.134    440,047    614.094 1.054,141         2.956
12      442.7   440,067    440,047    306,047   745,114         1.164
$New Mosoy' Loan 0 6O  S/2,679.641
7       61.2 2.679.641    575.926  2.015.749 2,591,677        42.332    100,000  1.904,839
a      110.2 2.303.713    575,928  1,612.599 2,.188,527        19.660
9      196.4 1,727,765    575.926  1.209,449 1,785.377          9,001
10      357.0 1.151.856    575.926    04,299 1.382.228           3.871
11      642.7   575.928    575.926    403,150   979.078          1.523
'New  ovnoy' Loan I 7: S/1,904,839
a      110.2 1,904,639    476,210  1,333.367 1,609.597        16,421    100.000            0
9      196.4 1.426,629    357,157  1.000,040 1.357.196          6,842
10      357.0 1.071,472    267.666    ?50.030 1.017,696          2.651
11      642.7   603,604    200,901    562,523   763,424          1.186
*New Money' Loan # 6: S/0.00
9      198.4          0           0          0          0           0    100,000           0
10      357.0          0           0          0          0           0
11      642.7          0           0          0          0           0
'New Koney' Loan f 9g  S/0.00
10      357.0          0           0           0         0           0    100.000           0
11      642.7          0           0           0         0           0
'New Money" Loin 0 lO  S/0.00
11      642.7          0           0           0         0           0    100.000           0
SUMMARY OF NET TOTAL IMPACT
Year-btd   8.gtning                           Total     Total       D.Serv.    D.Serv.
Price      Principal Amorti       Intaeeret   Debt      New Mouey  in Nominal in Real
Year Index       Salmce   ln Period  Accrued    Service   Loans          Terms       Terms
....  ......... ...*.....  .........   ......... .........  ......... .......... ..........
1        1.6 1,000,000            0    700,000   700,000    700,000             0          0
2        3.2 2.700,000    170,000  1,190,000 1.360.000  1,036,000    324,000    100,000
3        5.8 2,546,000    285,111  1,796,200 2,081,311  1.496.111    583,200    160.000
4       10.5 3.779,000    472,375  2.445,300 3,117,675  2,067.915  1.049,760    100,000
5       16.9 5,374.540    767,791  3,762,176 4,529.969  2,640,401  1,869,568    100,000
*       34.0 7,247.150  1.207.858  3,073.005 6,280,863  2,679,641  3,401.222    100,000
7       61.2 8,916.933  1.763,787  6,243,253 8,027,039  1.904.639  6,122,200    100,000
a      110.2 9,039,985  2,259,994  6.327,990 8,567,986              0  8,587,984      77,931
9      196.4 6,779,969  2.140.944  4.745,9S2 6,884,936              0  6,886.936      34,720
10      357.0 4,639,045  2,051,655  3,247,331 5.29,986              0  5296,966      14,841
L1      642.7 2,567,390  1,964,688  1.611,173 3,793,661              0  3,795,661       5,906



- 61 -
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements Under the Proposed Loan
IBRD FY and                                            USS'000
Quarter Ending On                           By Quarter            Cumulative
FY90
March 31, 1990                                       250            250
June 30, 1990                                        250            500
FY91
September 30, 1990                                 1,000          1,500
December 31, 1990                                  1,000          2,500
March 31, 1991                                     2,000          4,500
June 30, 1591                                      2,000          6,500
FY92
September 30, 1991                                3,750          10,250
December 31, 1991                                  3,750         14,000
March 31, 1992                                     3,000         17,000
June 30, 1992                                      3,000         20,000
FY93
September 30, 1992                                3,000          23,000
December 31, 1992                                  3,000         26,000
March 31, 1993                                     3,250         29,250
June 30, 1993                                      3,250         32,500
FY94
September 30, 1993                                3,250          35,750
December 31, 1993                                  3,250         39,000
March 31, 1994                                     2,500         41,500
June 30, 1994                                      2,500         44,000
FY95
September 30, 1994                                2,500          46,500
December 31, 1994                                 2,500          49,000
March 31, 1995                                       500         49,500
June 30, 1995                                        500         50,000



- 62 -
ANRM X
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Bank Monitoring of Proiect ImnDlementation
A. Key Operational Indicators                1990    1991    1992    1993
(i)   Loan Commitments                    302      302      302     10?
(ii)   SSEs fir-:iced
(iii)   SSEs assisted
(iv)   Jobs created
B. Key FOPINAR Indicators
(i)   FOPINAR Staff (person-years)
Admin. Costs/Avg. Portfolio
Indirect CFN Costs/FOPINAR costs
(ii)   Total Debt-Equity Ratio
Profitability/Equity
FOPINAR's Equity
(iii)   FOPINAR Commitments (US$ mil.)
FOPINAR's Portfolio Arrears
Banking System Arrears
C. ReportinR Requirements
(i)   FOPINAR Operation (semiannually).
Number of subprojects financed: total cost, FOPINAR/IBRD
participation (breakdown by participating FIs, by regions,
and by type of industry.
(ii)   FOPINAR's Outstanding Portfolio Arrears (semiannually).
Arrears by FIs and breakdown by micro and small enterprises.
Subprojects financed with loan proceeds and by rollover funds
from previous loans or FOPINAR's own resources.
(iii)   Advance reports on TA activities (semiannually).
Number of enterprises assisted, type of service rendered,
preliminary results obtained, and number of entrepreneurs trained.
(iv)   FOPINAR's Audited Financial Statements (annually).
(v)   Socio-economic aspects and Project Completion Report (PCR) type
information. FOPINAR will prepare annually a set of tables
summarizing overall project results.



