Report No. PIC4577
Project Name                             Kazakstan-Legal Reform Project (@)
Region                                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector                                   Institutional Development
Project ID                               KZPA46046
Borrower                                 Republic of Kazakstan
Implementing Agency                      Ministry of Justice
Contact                                  Mr. Andrei Dyomin
Head
Project Preparation and
Implementation Unit
Ministry of Justice
Almaty
Republic of Kazakstan
Environment Category                     C
Date this PID Prepared                   June 23, 1997
Date Initial PID Prepared                December 16, 1996
Projected Appraisal                      October 1997
Projected Board Date                     December 1997
Peer Reviewers                           Mr. Hans Juergen Gruss (LEGMN)
Mr. Gary Fine (PSD)
Background
1. Since independence, the Government has concentrated on
establishing an independent national economy, curbing inflation and
bringing the deficit under control and introducing systemic reforms
emphasizing liberalization and privatization. Considerable progress
has been made. Structural reforms are in hand, with price and trade
controls largely removed, privatization of small and medium size
enterprises nearly completed, most state farms privatized and many
oil, gas and mineral reserves awarded to foreign investors. Despite
this progress, modification of the existing legislative framework
has lagged behind the economic reform program and the current
system does not meet the needs of a market economy. Weak contract
enforcement provision has contributed to the perceptions of country
risk and acted as a constraint on private capital flows. The
development and strengthening of a modern legal regime that is able
to protect private property effectively, defend economic rights
against infringement and establish a secure environment for
investment and market relations is thus a high priority for the
Kazak Government.
Project Objectives and Description
2. The primary objective of the proposed Project is to



strengthen the legal and regulatory systems and institutions in
areas key to the functioning of a market economy. The Project is
expected to focus on four areas designed to achieve the basic goals
of strengthening institutional development in the legal sphere. The
activities described below provide a preliminary outline of areas
for support and will be further refined in the course of Project
preparation.
(a) Legal Drafting Component. This component would build upon
the ongoing efforts of the Government, with the assistance of
international donors, to improve the quality, efficiency,
transparency and effectiveness of the law-making process,
particularly with respect to economic enactments. The component may
finance, among other things, (i) training and continuing education
for government officials, particularly as they are engaged in the
preparation of legal enactments on economic and market reforms;
(ii) capacity and institution building within agencies involved in
the legal drafting; (iii) technical assistance to diagnose issues
of inter- and intra-agency coordination, leading to a more
streamlined and efficient process of legal drafting; and (iv)
technical assistance in the area of legal drafting.
(b) Legal Education, and Public Awareness Component. This
component would support the development of a comprehensive, market-
oriented, modern legal education system. Component objectives would
be to improve the quality of legal education and training. The
component would further support enhancement of public awareness and
understanding of the role of law and the legal reform process. The
Project may finance assistance for legal curriculum development,
law school and lawyer certification standards, methodological
improvements, standardization of testing, and direct technical
support to law schools and other academic institutions for outreach
training and re-training. Mass media campaigns to promote public
awareness might also be considered in addition to technical support
for complementary outreach activities for academic institutions,
non-government organizations, etc.
(c) Legal Information Component. This component would aim to
provide timely and broad access to reliable and comprehensive legal
information by legal practitioners, the private sector, government
officials, as well as the public at large. The legal information
covered under this component would include laws, decrees,
Government resolutions, ministerial and agency regulations,
possibly, selected court decisions, and selected decisions by
regional/local authorities. The component would seek to strengthen
traditional (non-electronic) and electronic means of organizing and
disseminating legal information. It could finance: (i) development
of a national legal information strategy; (ii) development of a
comprehensive program/system to implement the strategy; (iii)
possibly, implementation of all or part of the strategic plan and
system design, including goods and services related to
strengthening electronic and non-electronic means of legal
information organization and access; and (iv) classification and
codification of legal information.
-2-



(d) Judicial Strengthening Component. An independent, well
trained, and respected judiciary is an essential feature of a
thriving market economy. This component would support improvements
in the quality and efficiency of the judicial system. The Project
could finance training and equipment for officers of the court and
judges in the area of economic reform and applicable law.
Improvements in organization and processes -- i.e. court
administration and case management -- may also be supported.
Technical assistance for the development of alternative dispute
resolution mechanisms may also be considered. Development of
alternative dispute mechanisms involves establishing the necessary
legal and regulatory framework and capacity in Kazakstan that would
support a contractual dispute resolution system. This system would
complement, but not compete with or replace, the country's judicial
system. The Project could finance: (i) studies and comparative
analyses to further develop this topic; (ii) technical assistance
in drafting of appropriate legal and regulatory framework necessary
to support such a system; and/or (iii) support in actual
implementation of the alternative dispute resolution mechanisms -
training and re-training, study tours abroad, etc.
Financing
3. World Bank   US$10.0-15.0 M
Government   1.0 - 1.5 M
Total        US$11.0-16.5 M
Retroactive financing may be considered.
A project preparation advance of US$500,000 was approved in
March 1997. A PHRD Grant from the Government of Japan totalling
US$415,000 was also approved in April 1997.
Implementation
4. A Project Preparation Unit has been established under the
auspices of the Deputy Minister of Justice. MOJ will be the leading
agency in conjunction with other key agencies and ministries. Phase
I of project preparation which involved diagnostic assessments of
critical issues was completed by the MOJ with the assistance of
local legal experts. Consultants have been selected by the MOJ to
work on phase II of the preparation which is now underway.
Sustainability
5. The project is designed to support the efforts of the
Government to effect sustainable systematic changes in the legal
system designed, inter alia, to foster greater predictability and
stability in economic activities. Through increased access to laws
and greater transparency in their making and application, the rule
of law would be strengthened. The institutional changes to be
effected under this Project are expected to lead to greater
stability and predictability in economic transactions, and
ultimately to bolster the environment for investment, both foreign
and domestic. Judges, lawyers and legal education professionals who
-3 -



are trained under the project would serve as catalysts for change.
Project-financed outreach activities would have a demonstration
impact. Project sustainability would be enhanced through careful
selection of participants and participating institutions.
Lessons Learned
6. Reform of the legal systems in transition countries is a long
term endeavor encompassing a wide array of tasks. Experience has
shown that the impetus for legal reform must come from its own
constituency rather than outside sources if it is to be successful.
In the first instance, government ownership of the process is
critical to long term-sustainability. Such government ownership
exists in Kazakstan; the challenge will be to broaden its
acceptance among a wider range of potential beneficiaries, i.e.
legal practitioners and its academic circles, the business
community, and community and public interest groups. Through
appropriate prioritization of tasks and clearly defined objectives,
the agenda will be tailored to respond to country needs and link
with economic objectives. The project benefits from the lessons
learned in the design of legal reform projects in the Russian
Federation, Ukraine and other countries.
7. In Kazakstan, through the Technical Assistance, Petroleum
Technical Assistance, and Finance and Enterprise Development
projects, the Bank has supported the development of an initial
framework for economic management, and legal technical assistance
for the development of the oil and financial sector regulations.
Lessons to date are: (i) the legal system in general, and judges in
particular, has experienced difficulty in understanding and
interpreting increasingly complex economic transactions; (ii) with
the opening of the economy, the constituency for legal reform has
moved beyond a small cadre of government officials and legal
practitioners and the law has become a vital instrument in daily
economic life; and (iii) the lack of domestic institutional
capacity in the reform effort risks becoming a serious obstacle to
the process as a whole.
Poverty Category
8. Not applicable.
Program Objective Categories
9. The Project will build on ongoing initiatives of other
donors. During project development, consultations with a broad
spectrum of participants both within and outside the Government
will be undertaken. The Project will benefit from ongoing
discussions with concerned ministries, agencies, public interest
groups, private and public sector legal practitioners, the business
community and academia.
Benefits and Risks
10. The project is designed to support the efforts of the Kazak
- 4 -



Government to effect sustainable systematic changes in the
country's economic and legal systems. Respect for the rule of law
will be enhanced through greater transparency in lawmaking,
application and enforcement. The institutional changes to be
effected under this project are expected to lead to greater
stability and predictability in economic transactions, and
ultimately to bolster the environment for investment, both foreign
and domestic. Project design benefits from an intensive, first
stage involvement of local legal specialists. Its sustainability is
expected to be further enhanced through careful selection of
participants and participating institutions.
11. Project implementation may be affected by limited
institutional capacity of the MOJ and the relocation of the
Ministry to the new capital of Akmola. While it is possible that
there may be some intragovernmental differences on such issues as
legal education (certification, testing, budget etc.) or technology
requirements, the MOJ's efforts to promote intergovernmental
participation in the development of the project mitigate this risk.
The need for urgent reform of the legal system is clear and any
delays could have a deleterious impact on country prospects. During
project development, a broad spectrum of participants, both within
and outside the Government, will be consulted to ensure a consensus
on an understanding of the project objectives of strengthening
Kazakstan's capacity to meet the legal requirements of the new
economic realities.
Contact Point:           Nancy Cooke / Gennady Pilch, Task Managers
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-8727 / (202) 458-1868
Fax No.: (202) 477-3372 / (202) 522-1591
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 27, 1997.
- 5 -



