Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No: 18792-KZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
April 19, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04-09-1999)
Currency Unit = Tenge
US$1 = Tenge 115.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS              - Country Assistance Strategy
CQ               - Competitive Quotations
EBRD             - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FMS              - Financial Management Specialist
FSU              - Former Soviet Union
GDP              - Gross Domestic Product
ICB              - International Competitive Bidding
IS               - International Shopping
IT               - Information Technology
LAN              - Local Area Network
MOF              - Ministry of Finance
MOJ              - Ministry of Justice
NS               - National Shopping
NCLI             - National Center for Legal Information
PHRD             - Policy and Human Resources Development
PPF              - Project Preparation Facility
PIU              - Project Implementation Unit
SS               - Single Source Selection
TA               - Technical Assistance
USAID            - United States Agency for International Development
WAN              - Wide Area Network
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
ITask Team Leader: Sandra Bloernenkamp



Republic of Kazakhstan
Legal Reform Project
Table of Contents
A. Project Development Objective ............................................................1
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators.                       1
B. Strategic Context                  ..
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the Project.                                   1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.                                         2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices.                 2
C. Project Description Summary.6
1. Project components.                                                                 6
2. Benefits and target population.                                                     7
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements.                                      7
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................................  8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.                          8
2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed Project design.                           9
4. Indications of borrower commitrnent and ownership .10
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project .10
E. Summary Project Analyses .11
1. Institutional .11
2. Environmental assessment .11
3. Participatory approach .11
F. Sustainability and Risks .12
1. Sustainability .12
2. Critical risks .13
3. Possible controversial aspects .13
G. Main Loan Conditions .14
1. Effectiveness Conditions .14
2. Disbursement Conditions .14
R. Readiness for Implementation .14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .15



Annexes
Annex  1.               Project Design  Summary  ....................................................                                             16
Annex 2.                Project Description  .......................                            .............................                     18
Annex  3.               Estimated Project Costs .                    ...................................................                         26
Annex 4.                Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements    ............                                      ..................        27
Table A.                  Summary of Major Procurement Activities and Procurement Methods .    30
Table B.                 Consultant Selection  Arrangements  .........................                             .................           32
Table C.                 Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ........                                        ..........        33
Table D.                 Procurement Plan  ...........................                             .........................                   34
Table E.                 Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule  ................                                 ....................           37
Table F                  Training, Information and Development on Procurement ........                                         ........        38
Table D.                 Allocation  of Loan Proceeds   ................................................                                       39
Annex  5.               Project Processing Budget and Schedule    ................                                ....................           40
Annex  6.               Documents in the Project File                      ................................................                      41
Annex  7.                Statement of Loans and Credits  ................................................                                        42
Annex  8.               Country  at a Glance   ................................                             ....................                 43
Map IBRD 29325



Kazakhstan, Republic of
Legal Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Kazakhstan
Date: April 19, 1999                                 Task Team Leader: Sandra Bloemenkamp
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera                     Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Project ID:KZ PA 46046  Sector: Technical Assistance    Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:   []  Yes [ x ] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 16.5
Proposed terms:                        [    Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify US Dollars
Grace period (years):   5 years        []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed           [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:   20 years
Commitment fee:      0.75%
Front-end fee:       1.00%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                  2.0                                  2.0
IBRD                                                                          16.5              16.5
Total         2.0               18.5              18.5
Borrower: Republic of Kazakhstan
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Justice, Supreme Court
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     FY00        FY01      FY02    FY03   FY04
Annual       2.0         4.0        4.0       4.0    2.5
Cumulative       2.0         6.0       10.0     14.0   16.5
Project implementation period: 4.5 years  Expected effectiveness date: 8/1/99    Expected closing date: 2/1/04
OSD PAD Form: September 14, 1998



1
A.    Project Development Objective
1.     Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1)
1.    The Project's overall development objective would be to contribute to the strengthening of the
implementation of the Rule of Law system in Kazakhstan. Specifically, the Project goals would be to
strengthen the legal and judicial systems and selected institutions of the country in order to support and
deepen the ongoing economic reform program. Key performance indicators:
(a) improved quality and enforcement of legal enactments;
(b) more efficient, accessible, transparent, and effective judicial system (including improved
enforcement of judicial decisions);
(c) strengthened system of judicial education resulting in a more professional and
knowledgeable judges and court administrations;
(d) increased public awareness of legal rights and greater public participation in the legal
system; and
(e) improved access by government officials, judges, parliamentarians, legal professional, the
business community, and the public at large to more reliable, comprehensive and up-to date
legal information.
B.    Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: Report No. 16989-KZ   Date of latest CAS discussion: August 26, 1997
2.    Consistent with Kazakhstan's overall reform objectives, Bank Group assistance strategy during
FY98-00 will evolve around two organizing principles: i) promoting private sector-led growth, including
improving the legal and institutional framework necessary to the functioning of open and competitive
markets; and (ii) strengthening social protection. This Project supports the first objective.
3.    Issues of private sector development are of paramount importance for Kazakhstan at this stage of
the country's economic transformation. Hence, the Bank will help support the development of basic
building blocks to stimulate private sector development, e.g. the establishment of a conducive business
environment, the strengthening of the administrative capacity of the state, and the reform of key sectors.
4.     To help support the development of a private-sector friendly environment, the CAS identifies the
need to improve Kazakhstan's legal and institutional arrangements which underpin longer term
commitments, both between private parties and between the state and private sector investors. The CAS
emphasizes the need to support medium and long-term institutional reforms of the legal system.
Specifically, progress indicators would include stronger regulatory, legal and institutional framework,
improved public access to legal information, better trained judiciary and legal staff, improved
enforceability of contracts and greater public awareness of their legal rights.



2
2.     Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
5.     During the last five years, Kazakhstan has been among the stronger reformers in the Former
Soviet Union (FSU). The government has concentrated its efforts on maintaining macroeconomic
stability through further reductions in inflation and the fiscal deficit, and continued tight monetary policy.
On the structural side, significant results have been achieved, including price and trade liberalization,
privatization of most small and medium size enterprises and the banking sector, and enactment of a broad
framework of market-oriented legislation. The government's program envisages completion of the mass
privatization and accelerated privatization of the largest enterprises, including public utilities and selected
natural monopolies. Further emphasis will be given to improving the environment for Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI) and private sector development, completion of banking sector reforms, and the creation
of capital markets and a modem financial system. Finally, it stresses the importance of a medium-term
strategy for the social sectors, including the implementation of the new pension system.
6.     Development of a robust private sector remains a key challenge in Kazakhstan's efforts to
complete the transition to a market economy. The government has consistently emphasized the need to
develop the country's legal and judicial systems in parallel with the ongoing transition to a market
economy. During the first five years of its independence, Kazakhstan, similar to other former Soviet
Uniqn states, adopted numerous laws and regulations and tried to restructure its legal institutions to better
support on-going market reforms. In the short-term, these actions were sufficient, but as the country has
entered its second phase of economic reforms, it has become clear that short-term emergency measures to
reform the legal system are no longer sufficient. Modification of the existing legal framework, and in
particular the required comprehensive reforms of legal institutions have lagged behind the economic
reform program. Additionally, many legal enactments were adopted in an ad hoc manner and have
proved inconsistent and have been unevenly applied.
7.     During the same period, other donor agencies and countries have provided significant technical
legal assistance to Kazakhstan. However, this assistance has been primarily oriented toward the
preparation of specific laws and regulations, and short-term training of judges and other legal
professionals. Relatively little attention has been devoted to long-term institutional capacity building,
although in a young country such as Kazakhstan this is essential. To be sustainable, such capacity
building has to be locally driven and be developed over time. The Bank's and other agencies' sector
work confirms that a more reliable legal/judicial system is essential for continuing development of the
country's private sector.
3.     Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
8.    In general, Kazakhstan, similar to other countries in transition, especially those of the FSU, is in
the process of establishing the Rule of Law and requires both time and assistance in achieving this goal.
After extensive sector assessment, involving local and foreign experts, the government and Bank have
identified a number of serious problems in the legal/judicial area. Three areas of systemic problems in
Kazakhstan have been identified:
9.     Legal Enactments. There is a large body of economic legal enactments that have been adopted
since 1991. They deal with such important and diverse issues as the organization of the court system and
the legal profession, private property, business forms, commercial transactions, privatization, real estate
regulation, foreign investment, procurement, taxation, banking, environment, bankruptcy, natural
resources, pension, currency regulation, capital markets regulation, corruption, state borrowing and
guarantees, company law, arbitration, administrative procedures and regulations, licensing, pledges, etc.
10.    Many legal enactments are subject to continuous reconsideration and revision. This leads to
systematic problems in the implementation of the country's legislative framework, specifically:



3
(a)    new laws and regulations are not always harmonized or consistent with existing
enactments;
(b)    laws and regulations are not always coherent, comprehensive and clear; subsequent
regulations sometimes contradict laws pursuant to which they are enacted; there are cases
of broad interpretation, and unwarranted discretion; moreover appropriate administrative
standards do not exist for review of decisions to ensure their fairness;
(c)    in some cases, the new legislation is directly "imported" from Western countries, without
sufficient attention to its suitability to the Kazakhstan legal context;
(d)    a body of regulations and regulatory procedures required for a developing market
economy is only beginning to emerge; in some sectors such as banking regulation and
accounting, the regulatory enactments are more developed than in other sectors, such as
securities; and
(e)    in some cases (e.g. regulation and licensing of businesses), the regulations are excessive
and/or onerous -- this impedes the development of private business and invites
corruption.
11.   Legal Institutions. Several legal enactments passed in the last few years have sought to improve
the effectiveness of the executive and judicial branches in the administration of justice. The government
has adopted, among others, laws on the organization of the judiciary, legal education, prosecutor's office,
and the organization of the public administration. A number of weaknesses, however, remain in the
ability of legal actors to contribute to an efficient market-oriented legal regime. The key problems are:
(a)   judges and court personnel are not well trained both in substance of the new legislation as
well as in the policy rationale behind it, nor did they receive adequate training in
professional skills development;
(b)    courts lack funds and resources to process cases timely and effective manner;
(c)    the executive branch with its law enforcement agencies dominate the judicial and
parliamentary branches; as a result, an effective system of checks and balances is lacking;
(d)    law enforcement staff lacks sufficient training and resources to fight economic crimes, an
increasingly serious impediment to the effective functioning of the market;
(e)    ministry and agency legal staff are poorly trained and lack legal/regulatory drafting skills;
and
(f)   judicial associations and independent legal associations are only beginning to emerge.
12.   Legal Processes. Written laws and regulation alone will not yield a functioning legal system; the
system as a whole requires legitimacy. For this it is crucial that legal processes be transparent, accessible,
and fair. A new law on Normative Acts, regulating the process of drafting, coordinating, adopting, and
publishing of new laws was adopted in 1998. However, the following problems in legal processes still
compromise legitimacy of the legal system:



4
(a)    while the legal regime is relatively stable, the degree and scope of changes is not
absorbed by the general population (e.g. pension; tax law), especially since there is little
public discussion of or involvement in the legislative agenda; most legal enactments are
proposed and prepared by the executive branch-Parliament's role is minimal; there are
too few mechanisms for public comment on draft laws and regulations;
(b)    while by law legal enactments must be published to be effective, in practice, this does not
always take place (e.g. international agreements); general population's access to legal
informnation is limited; and not all regulations are being published;
(c)    the process of legal drafting is fragmented, subject to ministerial and agency influence, in
practice is poorly coordinated, and often takes place without the involvement of relevant
constituencies;
(d)    the effectiveness of legal enactments is minimized by problems in implementation and
enforcement; enforcement is not always consistent and objective; corruption or
perception of corruption undermines public confidence in the executive and judicial
branches; once a law is adopted, there is relatively little discussion of its meaning and
implications, or subsequent analysis of it effects;
(e)    foreign legal technical assistance (in kind and financial) is not well coordinated and
efficiently utilized; foreign and local legal consultants are poorly supervised by
responsible agencies; underlying policy directives are often absent or not taken into
account by them;
(f)    there is a disconnect between executive branch authorities responsible for legal drafting
and local authorities, who normally do not take any part in the legal drafting process; and
(g)    the system  of administrative law remains poorly developed; there are no general
guidelines for and effective constraints on rulemaking and adjudication by administrative
agencies.
13.    To address some of these problems, the government, with assistance of local and foreign
consultants, has identified three general areas for intervention by the proposed Project. They are: (1)
legal drafting and institutional strengthening; (2) judicial strengthening; and (3) legal information and
public awareness.
14.    First, in the legal drafting field, the quality and consistency of laws and regulations is still
inadequate, and their enforcement is weak. These laws are often too numerous and are subject to so many
amendments that they lose their force. In addition, agency interests often dictate the specific legal
provisions being proposed, sometimes to the detriment of national economic policies or a coherent
approach to the sector in question.
15.    Second, the judiciary, which is still in the process of obtaining full and real independence, is only
with difficulty assuming its new role in society as arbiter of rights and umpire of market disputes. There
are approximately 2200 judicial positions and many judges were recently recruited. An attestation test
conducted in 1997 showed that only 51% of the judges were able to achieve the passing grade. Although
eventually 81% of the judges were reconfirmed on the basis of additional tests, these results suggest that
significant efforts in both judicial education and in providing legal information to judges will be required
to remedy a problem that carries the risk of gravely eroding public and professional confidence in the
competence of the judiciary. Judges also are inadequately compensated and often do not have even basic
office infrastructure and support. Indeed, the courts continue to operate with cumbersome manual case



5
management and court administration systems carried over virtually unaltered from Soviet times, which
significantly retard the efficiency and effectiveness of the administration of justice.
16.   Third, access to a reliable system of legal information is inadequate, and this is adding to the
problems identified above. The problem of access is especially pronounced among judges, local
government officials, academicians, law students and business community. More generally, the public at
large is not adequately aware of its legal rights and responsibilities under the new economic and political
framework, and, consequently, its respect for the Rule of Law and legal institutions is lacking,
undermining the entire economic reform effort. (For a more detailed discussion of the three components,
problems within them, and proposed remedies to be supported by the Project see Annex 2.)
17.    Given the scope of and potential problems that exist in each of the three areas, the government
and the Bank have included in the Project only the most critical and urgently needed activities. This
selective process has also taken into account the current level of implementation capacity in the country
and the proposed loan amount. The Project would build on and collaborate with assistance provided by
bilateral and multilateral donors, as well as the government's own efforts. At the same time, the Project
would emphasize a more long-term, strategic approach to strengthening legal institutions and systems.
2.    Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
18.   The Project's main goal is to strengthen legal institutions and processes. Existing policy and
institutional framework in the legal sector in general are considered not to pose a risk of inhibiting Project
viability and sustainability. Indeed, during Project preparation, a number of key policy reforms have been
agreed upon. To improve the coordination of the legal drafting process, the government adopted a new
law on Normative Acts, and agreed to move the institute for legal drafting from the Ministry of Science to
the Ministry of Justice. In the area of judicial reform, the government agreed to give the judiciary
significantly greater role in determining the content and management of various training programs to be
supported under the Project. Judges will be in control of the curricula and faculty selection in the newly
established judicial training center (which for now will remain administratively under the MOJ). In the
area of legal information, the government agreed that all users, including the business community and
public at large, of legal information should have access to the information systems being supported under
the Project. During Project preparation, governmental agencies, ministries, and courts began to more
effectively coordinate their involvement in the Project design and, generally, legal reform process. The
Project components and implementation arrangements are designed to support and deepen this
collaborative process.



6
C.    Project Description Summary
1.   Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Component                Category   Indicative   % of    Bank-      % of
Costs    Total  financing    Bank-
(IJS$M)           (US$M)   financing
A. Legal Drafting and Institutional  Policy, and  $4,400,000   24.0  $4,200,000    26.0
Strengthening                        institution
building;
legal drafting                    learning
technical assistance for MOJ
functional review
training of government lawyers to
improve their drafting skills
B. Judicial Strengthening            Institution   $8,100,000   44.0  $7,000,000    42.0
building,
support of the judicial training institute  policy,
improvement of court administration    learning,
and case management                physical
C. Legal Information and Public      Institution   $4,935,000   26.0  $4,235,000    26.0
Awareness                            building,
physical,
support of electronic system of    policy
legal information
development of national legal
classificator
support of public awareness programs
and campaigns
D. Project Management and            Project      $400,000    2.0    $400,000     2.0
Implementation                    mgmt.,
superv.,
Implement
E. Repayment of the PPF Advance                   $500,000    3.0    $500,000     3.0
F. Front End Fee (1 percent)                      $165,000    1.0    $165,000     1.0
Total $  18,500,000   100   16,500,000    100



7
2.    Benefits and Target Population
19.   In general, an effective, market oriented legal/regulatory regime contains the following
characteristics: public participation, coherency, transparency, accessibility, non-discretionality,
predictability, checks and balances, and effectiveness (i.e. equitable and fair enforcement). While the
proposed Project will not, by itself, achieve all of the above goals, it is designed to advance them. The
Project will result in enhanced training, drafting and administrative capacity in key elements of the legal
system. The process of legal and regulatory enactments should also be improved through greater agency
coordination, better trained staff, and a public that is more informed about its legal rights and,
consequently, can be more engaged in the legal process. As a result of these initiatives, the developing
business community will have access to a legal system that is more responsive to their needs, more
transparent, and more predictable. Moreover, the public at large will benefit from the Project as its
realization will contribute to the establishment of a stronger Rule of Law system.
3.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
20.   Executing Agency: Given the Project nature and proposed scope of activities, as well as the role
afforded to the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) under Kazakhstan law, the MOJ will be the principal ministry
responsible for Project implementation.
21.   Project Coordination: An existing unit within the MOJ, called the Project Preparation and
Implementation Unit (PIU), will be responsible for day-to-day technical aspects of Project execution. The
PIU has been involved in all of the Project preparation activities and is well suited to serve in this
additional capacity. The PIU will provide technical day-to-day support to the MOJ and other agencies
and structures with overall responsibility for Project implementation. The PIU will be responsible for
carrying out all of the procurement functions, will maintain Project accounts and financial management
systems, and will accumulate and disseminate Project-related information. The PIU will furthermore
conduct a mid-term review of the Project implementation. The office of the PIlJ will be located within
the MOJ in Astana.
22.   The MOJ role will be especially important in the implementation of the Legal Drafting and
Institutional Strengthening Component and the Legal Information and Public Awareness Component
(since the National Center of Legal Information, the primary agency responsible for the electronic legal
information data base, is a part of the MOJ).
23.   A supervisory council has been established to direct the implementation of the Judicial
Strengthening Component. It includes MOJ officials and judges nominated by the Supreme Court and the
union of judges, with the judges having the majority. Among other functions, this body also has decision
making authority over the Judicial Training Institute (administratively under the MOJ).
24.   Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. Project records and accounts would
be maintained by the PIU to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources, and expenditures for each Project activity. The experience of keeping the accounts for the PPF
and the PHRD, that has been the responsibility of the same unit during the past one and a half years will
be most useful. Project records and accounts, including a special account, established for the PPF and the
PHRD, were audited over 1997 by an auditor accepted by the Bank, and were found to be satisfactory.
25.   An assessment of the Project's financial management system was carried out by a financial
management specialist (FMS). The assessment covered the financial management systems presently
existing in the PIU for the administration of the PPF and the PHRD, utilized for Project preparation. It
was concluded that while the current systems in place were generally satisfactory (and the PIU has



8
acquired useful experience in procurement, disbursement and simple accounting), both the systems and
staff will need to be expanded and appropriately modified to manage the greater volume and complexity
of transactions under the Project.
26.   It has thus been decided that the Project's financial management system is not yet adequate for the
Project to qualify for periodic disbursement based on regular submission of Project management reports.
However, the financial management structure is expected to be further strengthened over the coming year,
with the objective to converting the Project's disbursement system and switch to disbursements based on
quarterly project management reports (PMRs) by July 1, 2000. An action plan with the following steps
has been agreed upon to achieve this goal:
(a) The PIU will appoint within two weeks after Project effectiveness a financial controller (FC),
with qualification and experience acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for all financial
functions, including procurement, disbursement, auditing, and accounting.
(b) The FC will be supported by a procurement officer and an accountant specialist. Additionally,
a senior procurement advisor, with acceptable qualification and experiences acceptable to the
Bank; will be appointed no later than September 30, 1999, for a period of six to twelve months.
(c) The PIU will introduce a set of financial procedures capable of generating PMRs every three
months, within 2 to 3 months following the appointment of the FC.
(d) The  first  set  of  quarterly  PMRs  will  be  prepared  for  the  period  of
September/October/November of 1999, and these accounts will be submitted to and received
by the Bank within 30 to 45 days following this period; the format of the fmancial statements
shall be consistent with the samples presented in the LACI Implementation Handbook
(September 1998). The Bank will review this set of accounts and provide comments, if need
be.
(e) Once the PMRs are deemed acceptable to the Bank expected on or before July 1st 2000, the
loan agreement would be amended and the disbursement of the loan proceeds will be based on
PMRs, and the traditional disbursement requests based on Form 1903 and supporting
documents will be discontinued.
D.   Project Rationale
1.    Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
27.   At the initial stages of Project design, the Bank considered an alternative of supporting a more
narrow Project, which would primarily provide legal technical assistance to the government in the area of
legal drafting, as well as support for studies and possibly preparation for a future legal reform Project.
The benefits of such an operation would include quicker processing time, quicker and more defined
results and fewer risks. However, this alternative was rejected for the following reasons. Legal technical
assistance in the area of drafting specific enactment had already been provided by both the Bank (under
the Technical Assistance Loan - $2 million) and by many other donors and agencies (i.e., USAID, EU-
TACIS, EBRD, UK Know How Fund, SOROS). However, this limited TA was not addressing long-term
systemic and institutional problems facing the country. The government recognizes this problem. The
government requested the support of the Bank because of its unique comparative advantage and
objectivity in the areas of institutional strengthening, judicial education, judicial administration reform,
etc. The government also insisted on a more systemic and long-term Project. The Bank's management



9
agreed that the Bank should support a free standing Project that would help to strengthen the country's
legal infrastructure and institutional capacity.
2.   Major related Projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Sector issue                   Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed Projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress UP)   Objective DO)
Bank-financed
To develop policy, legal and    Technical Assistance Loan        S              S
institutional structure for  (3642 KZ)
attracting foreign investment
Attract foreign investment in    Petroleum TA (3744 KZ)          S              S
oil & gas sector
Establish national Real Estate   Pilot Real Estate Registration  S              S
Registration System          (41460 KZ)
Other development agencies    USAID                           Ongoing
Judicial education and court    commercial laws drafting
administration              judicial training
TA in court administration        New
reform
support to drafting and judicial  New
educational institute
curriculum development for        New
judicial education institute
SOROS:                            New
support of legal education
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3.    Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
28.   Reform of the legal systems in transition countries is a long term endeavor encompassing a wide
array of tasks. Experience has shown that the impetus for legal reform must come from its own
constituency rather than outside sources if it is to be successful. In first instance, government ownership
to the process is critical to long-term sustainability. Such government ownership exists in Kazakhstan;
the challenge will be to broaden its legitimacy and acceptance among a wider range of potential
beneficiaries. During Project preparation, this process has made significant progress. e.g. the judiciary
has become much more involved, which is demonstrated in the creation of a number of multi-agency
working groups and committees responsible for various sub-tasks under the Project.
29.   The Project also benefited from lessons learned in the design of legal reform Projects in the
Russian Federation and other countries. One lesson is that, if possible, implementation and coordination
mechanisms are better situated in existing agencies or ministries. Although a new agency might have the



10
benefit of neutrality, building a. new structure from scratch has a lot of start-up costs and bears the risk to
build a parallel structure instead of replacing the old one. Bank staff and consultants working on the
Project brought together experience of the Bank's Legal Department and the ECA region in law reform
Projects, and experiences with judicial reform in Latin America and Asia. Also, during Project
preparation, PIU staff visited the Russian Foundation for Legal Reform responsible for implementation of
the Russian Legal Reform Project. Since then they have been actively sharing experiences.
30.   Under four operations (Technical Assistance, Petroleum Technical Assistance, Finance and
Enterprise Development, and Pension Reform  Adjustment Loan), the Bank has supported the
development of the initial legal framework for economic management, oil sector, financial sector, and
pension regulations in Kazakhstan. Lessons learned are: (i) the legal system in general, and the judiciary
in particular, has experienced difficulty in understanding and interpreting increasingly complex economic
transactions; (ii) with the opening of the economy and the influx of foreign investments, the constituency
for legal reform has moved beyond a small cadre of government officials and legal practitioners; the law
has become more and more a vital instrument in daily economic life; (iii) the lack of domestic
institutional capacity in the reform effort risks becoming a serious obstacle to the transition process as a
whole; and (iv) the capacity of the government to design and execute implementing regulations is at least
as important as its capacity to draft the laws themselves.
31.    One area needs particular attention. In the above mentioned first Bank Projects, given the need
for quick action, virtually all legal drafting and reform work has been led by foreign consultants.
Increasingly, this has resulted in an adverse reaction from the Kazakhstan authorities, prefer to use
available local expertise and build upon that capacity in a sustainable way. To respond to this concern,
most of the initial analytical work for the Project has been carried out by local experts, and the loan
design envisages to support a number of local institutions (such as the Judicial Education Institute), and
aims to use local capacity (such as local academics to provide assistance to legal drafting) to the
maximum extent.
4.    Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
32.   The government has been quite keen to advance the legal reform agenda.  In 1996, the
government requested the Bank to help prepare a comprehensive Project for legal and judicial reform. To
accelerate the process, the government established an inter-agency group, led by the Ministry of Justice.
Subsequently, the government requested and obtained a PPF for the Project. In addition to a strong
support and ownership of the Project by the MOJ, other central governmental ministries (i.e., Ministry of
Finance, Education, Economy), the Procurator's office, and the judiciary (Supreme Court, oblast and
rayon courts) have expressed support for the Project, as well as the public and private law schools. The
Presidential administration has equally endorsed the Project concept, objectives, and components. The
government has utilized the PPF advance as well as the PHRD grant to assess, with assistance of local
and foreign consultants, areas of need and solutions. Strong government commitment to the Project is
also demonstrated by the fact that the government decided to maintain the Project's timetable and allocate
the required counterpart funding for it in the 1999 budget, even in a time of severe fiscal distress. The
government furthermore made an effort to discuss the Project with and to involve the public at large
through a first ever national conference on legal reform held in 1997. Several inter-agency working
groups have been established including i) a supervisory council on judicial strengthening; ii) a working
group to prepare the education grant program; and iii) a tender evaluation commission.
5.   Value added of Bank Support in this Project
33.   The Bank has an institutional advantage in the area of institution building, including in the area of
legal reform. Hence, the government has sought Bank's advisory and financial assistance to support the



11
required legal transformation. The Bank's experience in economic reform, both globally and region-
specific, institutional and judicial reform, and organizational effectiveness, is expected to contribute
significantly to the design of a program that is successful. By taking this approach, the government also
hopes to be in a better position to coordinate and utilize smaller (grant) programs from other donors.
E.   Summary Project Analyses
1.   Institutional
34.    The institutional capacity of the government to implement a comprehensive legal reform program
is fairly limited. That is the very reason that the government has requested the Bank's help through a
technical assistance Project. The Project intends to provide the necessary resources for technical
assistance, training and equipment to build up the required capacity in the government. The PIU will play
a central role in Project implementation is already fairly experienced in its coordination function and is
expected to strengthen further during next year. Other fairly new structures such as the Judicial
Coordination Council and the Legal Drafting Fund, supporting inter-ministerial working groups
responsible for legal drafts, will have to build expertise, assisted by resources provided through the
Project. And the new Judicial Training Institute as well as the National Legal Information Institute will
receive significant support through the Project, enabling them to grow into strong permanent structures
within the government. If all these institutional initiatives are implemented successfully, the Project will
have contributed significantly to the structural strengthening of the Government's capacity to design and
implement future legal and judicial reform programs.
2.   Environmental assessment
35.    Environmental Category   []A     [Il B    [X] C
As a technical assistance Project in the area of legal and judicial reform, no environmental
assessment is necessary.
3.   Participatory approach
36.    The government made a strong effort to involve non-governmental groups and specialists in
Project design and preparation. Local legal experts and academics, judges, and NGOs (i.e. the union of
judges), bilateral and multilateral donors, were consulted. In the summer of 1997, the government (MOJ)
organized a national legal reform conference. Conference participants (which included the media,
academics, government officials, judges, parliamentarians) discussed the overall status of legal reform in
the country, as well as specific activities that were being considered for inclusion in the Project.
Additionally, in preparing all three components, the government and consultants engaged by the
government took surveys, and otherwise solicited public information and input. Also, in the Spring of
1999, a judicial conference is planned to solicit further judges' views on judicial education. A survey
among oblast and raion judges is currently ongoing. And the PIU is planning to organize a public
education campaign, including a conference, in the context of the public awareness program.



12
F.   Sustainability and Risks
1.   Sustainability
37.    The specific programs that have been included in the Project reflect many months of extensive
consultation and went through a number of modifications during its preparation. However, as Project
preparation has been finalized, the base for government support for the Project activities has deepened
significantly. The government, at the highest levels, now clearly understands the necessity for
institutional capacity building and increased training for judges as the chief means for securing its legal
reform goals. Hence, the Project focuses on the development of long-term local institutions and
processes, such as the Judicial Training Institute, the legal drafting process, the National Center for Legal
Information (NCLI), etc., to sustain the process of legal reform. These institutions and processes will
serve to transmit and embody the new concepts, approaches, and ideas which the Project is designed to
foster.
38.    Fledgling institutions require concentrated support to establish themselves and gain sustainability.
Although the government would be unable given its present resources to provide the necessary kind and
level of support required in the first phase of institutional growth, it is committed to assuming increasing
and ultimately full responsibility for the operating budget of all the institutional beneficiaries of loan
assistance. Wherever possible, cost-recovery and self-financing schemes are being considered (e.g. fee
schedules for use of the services of the NCLI, or would-be judges).



13
2.     Critical Risks:
Risk                       Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
Government and Bank will not agree on list of      M        International consultant firm is
legislative priorities under the legal drafting             carrying out a legislative
component                                                   assessment and advising on priority
legislative interventions; annual
consultations are built into project
design
Needed laws are not adopted.                       M        Legislative fund only supports work
on drafts that are agreed upon in
principle between the government
and the parliament
Judicial independence is impeded upon and judicial  M       Judicial Training Institute has been
role in administration and education is minimized           established and judges have
principal responsibility for
curricula and faculty
Joined Supreme Court/MOJ
committee established to design and
implement court administration
program
Legal information - restricted access; procurement  M       Agreement on broad public access
delay                                                       to legal data base via internet and
public access points
(libraries/universities)
Comprehensive system design and
analysis performed during
preparation; bidding documents to
be prepared during first year of
implementation
Counterpart funds unavailable                      M        Project (and counterpart funding)
included in 99 budget.
Overall Risk Rating                                M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects
39.   Governance: The Project-while rather technical in nature-- is implemented in a highly political
environment, affecting the Role of the State, both internally -the relation between the executive, the
legislature and the judiciary-- as externally, in its relation with society at large. The lawmaking process
requires implementation of more transparent and coordinated procedures (following the new Law on
Normative Acts), allowing for a more open process and more possibilities for parties outside the
government to become involved. Extensive judicial training and implementation of new court and case



14
management techniques are helping to increase the quality, transparency, and accountability of the courts,
and may lead to a more independent judiciary, with significant political consequences. The legal
information activities are aimed to increase the accessibility of up-to-date legal information to both
private and public users, and the public awareness program aims to undertake active outreach programs to
the public on legal reform issues.
40.   Management Capacity: The Project design ensures that there is adequate capacity to manage the
overall Project via the PIU, under MOJ supervision. In addition, supplementary managerial capacity will
be provided for each of the individual components, either through augmentation of the consulting strength
of the PIU or through the hiring of consultants for specific activities.
G.  Main Loan Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions
41.   (i) In accordance with Section 12.01 of the General Conditions, the Loan Agreement shall have
been dully approved by Kazakhstan. This is a standard condition of effectiveness.
(ii) In accordance with Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall have appointed
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of the Loan Agreement. This is a Project-specific condition
of effectiveness.
2.    Disbursement Conditions
42.   No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures related to:
(i) Category (4) (b) of the loan agreement (roll-out of the court automatization program to all
courts), unless the Borrower has developed and implemented court administration and case management
techniques, and measures to improve enforcement of judicial decisions in the Supreme Court and the
courts in the three selected oblasts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and has prepared an action plan,
acceptable to the Bank, in which (i) the experiences in the first phase are evaluated, including an
indication how many cases are now processed using the new procedures, and (ii) an implementation plan
for national roll-out of these techniques and measures.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
Project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
Project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



15
I.   Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader: Sandra Bloemenkamp
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
[signature]
Acting Country Director: Nancy Cooke



16
Annex 1
Legal Reform Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance     Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Promoting private sector-  Modernize public     Progress on medium term   Macroeconomic, Political
led growth, including  administration           expenditure management,  & Social Stability
improving the legal and                         administrative
institutional framework    Strengthen Legal     restructuring and capacity  Continued commitment to
for open and competitive  Underpinnings of Market  building             transfornation towards
markets.               System                                           democracy and market
Progress in enforceability  economy
of contracts and access to
legal information       Public confidence in
judiciary improves
Project Development
Objective:
Develop legal and      1) laws and regulations  Surveys of judges, legal    Legitimacy of legal system
regulatory systems and    more consistent,      professionals, domestic    increased
institutions for market    comprehensive        and foreign businesses,    Corruption reduced
economy                2) improved enforcement  and the general public  Public sector management
3) more independent,   toward progress in legal   improved
transparent and qualified   and judicial reforms  Economic growth enables
judiciary               related to economic      govemment to retain
4) increased awareness of  reforms              quality civil servants and
public of its legal rights    Project Supervision  legal staff
5) Improved access to   Reports,
legal information       Analysis of judicial
performance
Project components:
1) Improve institutional   Timely implementation of  Project reports,   The new laws are adopted
capacity for legal drafting  an annual legal/regulatory  supervision missions, and   by Parliament and actually
and quality of legal   implementation plan;     evaluation (midterm and   implemented
enactments             MOJ organization         final) reports.
improved in accordance    Annual Report on the
with consultants'       completion of the
recommendations;        legislative program
more professional cadre of
government lawyers who
are responsible for legal
drafting



17
2) Develop the          Court administration      Analysis of court statistics  Courts function
institutional capacity of   Projects implemented on    Evaluation of first phase   independently, neutrally
the court system to     schedule for 3 out of 17  of court administration  and not corrupt.
implement and enforce    oblast-level courts and the  reform program
the economic and        Supreme court;            Analysis on records of
commercial legislative                            judicial training institute
framework for market    All sitting of judges     Surveys, interviews
economy                 trained for at least-50-100   Annual reports
hours per year via judicial  Surveys
training institute;      Supervision reports
all newly-recruited judges
trained for at least 120
hours via judicial training
institute
3) Improve the quality of  Legal database         Surveys                  Govemment continues to
and access to legal     strengthened and upgraded  Supervision             adhere to principal of
information of          in accordance with plan   Procurement plans        broad access to legal
govemment officials,    WEB page developed        implemented on schedule  information
judges, legal education  30 public access points
institutions, legal     established, well
professionals, the      functioning and X number
business community, and   of end users access to the
the public at large to up-   system
to-date legal information
& increase the awareness  Journalist and other media
of the public at large of    prepare educational
their legal rights      programs on legal issues;
workshops and
conferences are
undertaken



18
Annex 2
Legal Reform Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Legal Drafting and Institutional Strengthening Component
(Bank financing US$4.2 million or 26. 0% of total Bank financing)
1.    This component would support the efforts of the government at the national level, in improving
the quality, efficiency, transparency and effectiveness of the laws and regulations, and improving the law-
making process, particularly with respect to economic enactments. Support would be directed to
enhancing drafting capacity across principal government units with drafting responsibility and
strengthening the organizational and technical capacity of the MOJ and its Institute of Legal Drafting.
This component will consist of four principal activities: (a) legal drafting assistance to be provided to the
MOJ and other government agencies by local and foreign legal consultants ($4.2 million); (b) an
assessment of the functional, organizational, and management aspects of the MOJ (to be financed by
donor funding or counterparts funding) and (c) training of government lawyers from the MOJ, MOF,
National Bank, and other agencies in the area of legal drafting ($200,000).
Specific activities:
A.     Legal Drafting Fund (US$4, 000, 000)
2.    This sub-component will finance legal and regulatory drafting technical assistance, to be provided
by local and international consultants. Each year under the Project, the government (MOJ) will submit to
the Bank, for no objection, an annual plan describing the over-all level of proposed legal TA, specific
legal/regulatory areas in which assistance would be required, problems that would be sought to be
resolved through this TA, general qualifications and skills that would be required, and proposed outputs.
On the basis of this plan, qualifying consultants will be ask to submit proposals for competitive review by
the PIU, e.g. comparison of CVs and fees. Proposals for the first year have been put forward, and will be
further refined during the "Legal/Regulatory Economic Review" that, financed by the PHRD, is being
carried out by an international consultant firm. This study will also provide guidance for the use of the
funds in the second and third years. The sub-component will be implemented and supervised by the MOJ
(the Department of Legal Drafting), with day-to-day technical assistance provided by the PIU. At the end
of each year (1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003), the MOJ will provide a report to the Bank describing the
results of assistance financed from the fund, summarizing the expenditures made from the fund, etc.
B.    Institutional Strengthening of the MOJ
3.    The role of the MOJ has been significantly transformed over the past seven years. The ministry
has emerged as a major source of legal policy guidance and legislative drafting expertise, in addition to its
other functions. Not all of the features of its new role are currently reflected in its organizational and
managerial structure, which thus requires reform. The MOJ has now assumed a number of new functions,
including:



19
*  as a service agency, responsible for the legal quality of all drafts of government legislation and
regulation, including economic laws, providing advise to the government and its departments
and agencies (including advise on the legal aspects of all operations of the government) and the
regulation and the conduct of all litigation on behalf of the government;
*  as a central agency, providing coordination among government departments enduring
government-wide consistency in the application and implementation of the law, helping to
protect against abuse of the judicial process, abuse of criminal law power, inappropriate
exclusion of the jurisdiction of courts, and infringement of basic legal precepts, such as
expropriation without compensation etc.; and
*  as a policy department, the Ministry should carry out a general responsibility for policies
related to the administration of justice, including the responsibility for criminal justice policy,
as well as a leading role in human rights law, family and youth law, administrative law, and the
executive's mandate with respect to judges and courts.
4.    The MOJ in the exercise of these new functions would clearly benefit from technical assistance
focused on professionalizing and modernizing its structure. Therefore, an assessment of the functional,
organizational, and management aspects of the MOJ, both at the central level in Astana and in the
regional justice administrations will be carried out as part of the Project. This review would include
assessing the lines of decision-making and reporting and the establishment or reorganization of MOJ
departments and a redefinition of their roles. The MOJ will be in charge of implementing this activity.
The MOJ, with the assistance of the PIU, will attempt to identify donor funding to finance the review
during the 1999. If successful, terms of reference for this study will be prepared by January 1, 2000 and a
qualified consultant will be selected by March 31, 2000. If donor funding cannot be identified in time,
loan funds will be reallocated to fund the study from loan proceeds.
C.    Training of Government Lawyers in Legal Drafting (US$200,000)
5.    The sub-component will fund training programs in legislative drafting to respond to training
needs of government lawyers from the MOJ, MOF, MOE, MOL, the National Bank and other central
government agencies responsible for legal and regulatory drafting in the economic and regulatory sphere.
Training courses may also be open for legislative drafters in Parliament. The MOJ will be in charge of
implementing this activity. Each year during the implementation, approximately 10 lawyers from the
MOJ and legal departments of other agencies and ministries will be trained locally or abroad in drafting
skills.
Project Component 2 - Judicial Strengthening Component
(Bankfinancing US$7.0 million or 42.0% of total Bankfinancing)
6.    The role of the judiciary in a market economy is fundamentally different and substantially greater
than the role of the judiciary in a planned economy of the type that existed in Kazakhstan. The judicial
strengthening component sets forth a program for assisting Kazakhstan in its continuing efforts to develop
the institutional capacity of its court system to implement and enforce the legislative-regulatory
framework required for the operation of a market economy.
7.    Kazakhstan's judicial system consists of three-tiers: (i) the Supreme Court; (ii) Oblast and
equivalent courts; and (iii) raion and equivalent courts. Supreme Court judges are ratified by the Senate,
at the proposal of the President upon the recommendation of the Higher Judicial Council. Judges of other
courts are appointed by the President, at the recommendation of the Higher Judicial Council. The
Supreme Court has its own budget, other courts receive their material and financial support through the



20
MOJ. While there has been periodic discussion of modifying this system of budget, financial and
material support, no major changes are envisaged for the short or medium term. Quite a significant effort
and time might be needed to convince both the government and the judiciary of the benefits of more
judicial leadership (and independence) on these issues.
8.    On the basis of local and foreign consultancy reports, two areas stand out as the highest priorities
for assistance under the Project: (A) the need for a comprehensive judicial training program, with
particular emphasis upon areas of law relating to the legal/regulatory system for a market economy; and
(B) the equally important need for modernization of court administrative systems, including both court
management and case management, with the introduction of appropriate techniques and technologies to
permit effective and efficient administration of justice and to supply the judiciary with legal information
necessary for the competent and efficient performance of its duties, especially all current laws and other
normative acts and the most important jurisprudence. Also, under this sub-component capacity-building
in the area of enforcement of judgements; publication of court decisions and other measures to enhance
the autonomy of the court system and enhance its role and influence can be financed.
2A. Judicial Education Program: (US$3.5 million)
9.    In August of 1997, a Judicial Training Center (the Center) was created as a separate legal entity,
with its own charted. In March 1999, it was renamed as the "Judicial Training Institute for improving the
qualification level (Institute). The Institute is responsible for training newly appointed and sitting judges,
as well as judicial support personnel and justice officials. The Project will fund a comprehensive program
for modernizing the Center, including both institutional development (infrastructure, administration,
faculty) and program development (curriculum, pedagogy, materials).
10.   While ultimately the Institute should place control over judicial education completely in the
hands of the judiciary-both to comply with the concept of judicial independence and to ensure judicial
support-in the interim a supervisory council has been established to control the curriculum and faculty
of judicial education. This interagency supervisory council is composed of nominees from the MOJ, the
Supreme court and the judges' union, with the judges in the majority. The training of others than judges
and judicial support staff will be conducted separately The Center will develop and articulate wider and
more specific objectives of judicial education to support an impartial, independent, competent, efficient,
and effective judiciary. The training provided by the institute will go beyond discussions of substance
and procedural law, and will put emphasis on ensuring that judges understand the philosophy behind the
new laws, teaching judges new intellectual approaches and inspiring attitudinal/behavior change.
11.   The Institute at present consists of a minimal administrative and instructional staff at antiquated
premises with exceeding limited resources and commensurately limited capacity to deliver programs.
Under the loan, the Center will be the beneficiary of a comprehensive program of institutional capacity-
building, including administrative reorganization, instructional programming development, and necessary
infrastructure improvements, including renovation of a new central site and seven regional centers to
enable cost-efficient delivery of training at the regional level together with procurement of necessary
equipment.
12.   At the start of the program, a senior administrative position at the Director of deputy Director
level will be created as a consultancy with external funding (USAID), and thereafter, possibly from loan
funding. Several other positions, recommended by international experts might be funded as well,--for the
function of librarian, staff adult educator and others.
13.   The judicial education component will help finance three major support programs:



21
Providing technical support to the initial operation of the Institute and its seven regional
centers (US$800,00)
This will include support for administration and instruction of the Institute (including a
deputy director, technical assistance on administrative matters, and an adult education
specialist, and some instructional staff), and will fund temporarily incremental operating
costs to upkeep the central Institute and its regional affiliates. Such assistance could be
provided by twinning with a western judicial training institute, an academic institute or a
regular, specialized consultant firm.
* Providing support to the creation of courses, training material, and actual delivery of the
courses to new and existingjudges (US$1,600, 00)
This part of the program aims to provide support to program development, methodology and
teacher training, and the creation of course material adequate for adult education. It could
also finance part-time trainers, travel and other related expenses for participants.
*  Rehabilitation and equipment of the regional center and its affiliates (US$1,100,00)
It is estimated that architectural plans and construction for minimum rehabilitation of the
eight buildings will amount to $650,000, and equipment and furniture will amount to
$450,000
14.   The preparation of a long range (3 year) judicial education plan to be discussed at donor
coordination meetings will offer bilateral and private foundation donors the opportunity to choose to
support areas in which they have a comparative advantage or particular interest. It will also allow
multilateral and other donors to adopt a coordinated approach in supporting judicial education. Already,
USAID and the SOROS foundation expressed interest in close collaboration.
2B. Reform of Court Administration (US$3.5 million)
(A) Court Administration and Case Management (US$900, 000)
15.    The existing system of court administration is in need of substantial improvement. As the
caseload and complexity of cases increase, judges must make do with case and court management
systems which are antiquated: for the most part manual, carried over largely intact from Soviet times, and
generally inadequate to the demands of courts operating in a market context and on a radically altered
legislative landscape. The system at present often impedes the administration of justice rather than
facilitates: judges spend far too much time engaged in clerical tasks, information about cases is not
always available and timely, case documents are difficult to find or access and are prepared, processed,
and stored almost entirely by hand
16.   The court administration program  is designed to remedy the above problems, modernize
administrative systems, and provide for efficient and effective administration of justice. The program is
based on the current assignment of responsibilities for judicial administration in Kazakhstan. The lower
courts are managed by the Ministry of Justice. The Supreme Court is responsible for its own budget and
administration. The MOJ will be the lead agency, but the Supreme Court will also play key a role in
implementation.
17.   The planned improvements and activities are based on an analysis of regular court administration,
and containing recommendations for reforms. The strategy contemplates implementation of proposed



22
activities for an initial period for all courts in threeoblasts or oblast-equivalents, as well as the Supreme
Court. Based on the success of implementation of proposed improvements at these courts, a decision
would be made on the extension of the program to other courts. The proposed activities include
*  Court management: ($350,000) activities would include 1) administration of a survey of court-
users and officials on management issues, 2) technical assistance and training in improved
management (including public relations), 3) revision of the personnel system (including new job
classifications), and 4) enhancement of budgeting and planning capacity.
*  Case management: ($85,000) activities would include: 1) analysis of workload distribution (time-
management and efficiency study); 2) automation of control over case-flow; 3) development of
new records-management and archival system; 4) development of new index-statistical system.
*  Evaluation and other activity ($115,000): activities would include: 1) an evaluation of the
implementation of the court management and case management activities described above, with a
view to applying the lessons learned and extending the improvements to the other courts; 2) an
analysis on enforcement of court judgements, with recommendations focused on maximal
reduction of corruption incentives; 3) draft and incorporate changes in court administration
procedures on the basis of experiences in Y1 courts.
*  Component Management and' orientation training: ($350,000) activities would include: 1)
intensive training abroad; and; 2) court management training and work shops for budgeting and
planning, enforcement ofjudgements; and 3) consultant services to Oblast coordinators,
It is planned to select a consultancy firm that could take charge of the above mentioned activities,
involving as many local experts as possible.
(B) Automation and Information (US$2.6 million)
18.   Automation. This sub-component will be implemented in two stages. In the context of the
improvements to be put into place under this sub-component, court administration will be shifted from
manual to automated systems, in keeping with contemporary trends in judicial administration worldwide.
Automation will be financed as a means and not an end, with three discrete objectives in view: 1) access
to legal information systems that meet contemporary international standards for affording access to
existing law and such other information required for competent and efficient performance of its duties; 2)
electronic processing of court documents, including judicial decisions; and 3) automation of case and
court management functions, to permit re-allocation of personnel to substantive tasks and to maximize
administrative support to judges. The court automation program will be launched in the three selected
oblasts and gradually be rolled out to all court contingent on the success of the first phase.
19.   Access to Legal information for courts. This sub-component will finance the provision of needed
hard and software to provide access for all courts to the electronic database of legal information, which is
object of improvement under component 3. The Project will also finance the electronic publication of
judicial decisions. The information system that will be provided to the courts under this sub-component
must be of sufficient quality and quantity to meet the basic information needs of everyraion court, oblast
court and the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan. This component will be further developed in coordination
with the legal information work, supported under the Legal Information and Public Awareness
Component (see below).
20.   One critical element of the administrative reform program is procurement and installation of
computer equipment and software adequate to meet the automation needs, including access to legal



23
information, of the courts. This will be effected in conjunction with appropriate training of the judicial
and other personnel who will use these systems. While it is not practicable to provide a computer for
each and every judge, the Project will finance at a minimum that quantity of equipment necessary to
automate the YI courts as well as that quantity of equipment necessary to give every court in Kazakhstan
access to the legal information database. Procurement of additional computer equipment for automation
purposes will be contingent on the success of the administrative reforms introduced to the YI courts. A
schedule for computerization of the remaining courts would be prepared at the appropriate time.
Project Component 3 - Legal Information and Public Awareness Component
(Bankfinancing US$4.235 million or 26.0% of total Bankfinancing)
21.   The goal of the Legal Information and Public Awareness Component is to improve the quality of
and access to legal information for government officials, judges, legal education institutions, legal
scholars, practicing attorneys, businessmen and society as a whole, especially legal information
concerning economic and market reforms and corresponding regulations. It will include the financing of
some 30 public access points (at universities or libraries), and the creation of a WEB side making the
information available to the public at large. The Legal Information and Public Awareness Component
will also assist the government in determining the appropriate method of classification and codification of
legal information and to raise the degree of unification and systematization of legal information. Finally,
this component will finance public awareness programs, using mass media, and training programs for
journalists on legal topics.
3A. Electronic System of Legal Information (US$3.955 million)
22.    On the basis of an initial needs assessment by the MOJ with the assistance of local and foreign
legal consultants, state officials from other agencies and the Bank, a team of experts in the legal
information field has conducted a comprehensive analysis of existing electronic infrastructure for the
collection, organization, analysis, classification, and dissemination of legal inforrnation in Kazakhstan,
including computer hardware, software, and all peripheral equipment in executive agencies with legal
responsibilities (MOJ, Prime Minister's office & central ministries and agencies such as the Ministry of
Finance, Economy, the National Bank, etc), law enforcement agencies (General Procuracy), courts at all
levels (Supreme, oblast, raion), parliamentary structures, legal education institutions, bar associations, and
commercial and non-governmental entities.
23.    The legal information consultants have determined that the database maintained by the National
Center for Legal Information is modern, comprehensive and well-designed and can serve as a basis for
growth of the information system to meet future needs. While the current system has great promise, it is
in need of a number of improvements to attain truly national scope and stature. The component will thus
have three principal foci, designed to strengthen and augment the NCLI system of legal information but
not to replace it or alter it fundamentally: 1) enlarging the contents to include subsidiary regulations,
judicial decisions, and other forms of information not currently collected and disseminated, 2) improving
the functioning of the system: increasing the speed and efficiency with which information is collected and
disseminated, and 3) expanding the system's reach and increasing access to it, especially for the courts
and critical units of the legal system but also for other government offices and the public. Pending
finalization of the expert recommendations, the component will finance the hardware, software,
peripheral equipment, and training necessary to realize these improvements, via the establishment of a
Wide Area Network and a legal information WEB-site, accessible to non-govermnent users, possibly for a
fee. Also, the final system that will be established during Project implementation will encompass at least
30 sites at universities and public libraries throughout the country, to ensure that the public at large will
have access to the system in an affordable way.



24
24.   A draft final consultants report has been submitted, with recommendations as to the preferred
option for dissemination of the information, and a phased implementation plan to roll it out during Project
implementation. The government supports the broad trust of the recommendations, and is working out its
final position. Subsequent technical work on developing specific bidding documentation for the
appropriate system software and hardware, and peripheral equipment will take place during the
implementation period. Training needs for anticipated end-users of the system are being identified as
well. The costs of these activities will be financed from the loan proceeds.
3B. Design of National Classification and Codification System (US$100,000)
25.   No unified classificator of legal acts exists in Kazakhstan. Several systems have been designed
by various users of information, but there is great demand to further systemize the collection and
dissemination of legal information. This component will help finance technical assistance to analyze the
current system of classification of all legal enactments (laws, decrees, resolutions, and regulations) and
help design a model classification system that, subsequently, can be implemented in the classification
system in electronic format. The consultants recommended to have a close look at the new systems
recently implemented in neighboring countries (Russia).
3 C. Public Awareness Program ($150, 000)
26.   This sub-component will be implemented by the MOJ, with daily assistance from the PIU,
through the development of a public outreach program, including workshops, programs for journalists and
media organizations on legal topics, and other activities aimed at informing and involving the public in
the new legal system.
Project Component 4 - Project Management and Implementation
(US$0.4 million or 2.0% of total Bankfinancing)
27.   Given the nature of the Project and the proposed scope of activities, as well as the role afforded to
the MOJ under Kazakhstan law, the MOJ will be the principle agency responsible for overall
implementation. An existing unit within the MOJ, the PIU, will be responsible for day-to-day technical
aspects of Project execution. The PIU has been involved in all of the Project preparation activities, and
has been responsible for implementing the PPF and the PHRD Grant for this Project. The PIU is
therefore well suited to serve in this additional capacity.
28.   Currently the PIU consist of four local consultants: A Director, a legal expert, a procurement-
disbursement officer and a secretary/translator. The PIU is assisted by a foreign consultant. However,
the workload will expand significantly during Project implementation, since the PrU will provide
technical day-to-day support to a number of consultants and will have overall responsibility for Project
implementation. The PIU will be responsible for carrying out all of the procurement functions, will
maintain Project accounts and financial management systems, and will accumulate and disseminate
Project-related information. The office of the PIU is located in the MOJ in Astana.
29.   The PIUJ will require approximately 5 central full-time professional staff (the PIU director,
regular MOJ staff, a project coordinator, a financial controller, an accountant, a procurement officer) and
1 full-time secretary/interpreter. A experienced procurement advisor will be needed for the first 12
months. Additionally, I full-time professional position will be required to implement and monitor the
Legal Drafting Component and 2 full-time professional position will be required for the Judicial
Strengthening Component (one of which maybe financed by USAID and 1 (part-time internationally-
experienced position), to be financed under the judicial education sub-component. The 2 positions
required for the Legal Information Component will be filled with current staff members of the National



25
Center of Legal Information. Their salaries will continue to be paid by the center. They will work closely
with the PIU staff, and will be assisted in procurement, financial, contractual, and other similar areas by
such PIU staff.
30.    The above positions will be financed (unless otherwise indicated) by the bank loan for the first 24
months. After that period, the MOJ intends to transfer all PIUJ positions to regular MOJ positions,
financed by the budget. Based on the above discussions and taking into account equipment and other
operating needs of the PI1, the overall loan-financed two year budget for the PIU is approximately $0.4
million, with approximately $375,000 budgeted for consultants services and approximately $120,000
budgeted for equipment, auditing services, training, transportation, communications and other operating
costs of the PIU. It is expected that in addition to this budget, there will be in kind (office space) and cash
government contributions, as well as some limited USAID assistance, to the operations of the PIU.
31.    The proposed loan will finance the incremental activities to Project management, which are the
responsibilities of the PITJ under the MOJ. This will include the provision of all necessary incremental
office space, utilities, repairs and maintenance, advertising and promotion, PIU staff fees and training,
communication, and travel. Budgetary constraints are severe in Kazakhstan. Hence loan funding will
ensure that funds are adequate and continuously available for proper function of the PITS which is critical
for the success of Project implementation. This arrangement should not raise questions regarding
government commitment to the Project; local counterpart funding could be up to 20% of total Project
costs, exceptionally high for a technical assistance Project. Also, such an arrangement has been adopted
before in Kazakhstan.



26
Annex 3
Legal Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                    Local        Foreign        Total
---------------------US $ million-----------------
Legal Drafting and Institutional Strengthening         0.2            4.2        4.4
Judicial Strengthening                                 1.1            7.0        8.1
Legal Information and Public Awareness                 0.7            4.245      4.935
Project Management and Implementation                  0              0.4        0.4
Total                                                  2.0           15.835      17.835
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Cost (including repayment PPF and fee)   2.0           16.5        18.5



27
Annex 4
Legal Reform Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.   The procurement of goods, works and services of the Bank financed components would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and September 1997) and the Guidelines on Selection
and Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997).
The Project components not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with the national
procurement regulations or the co-financing institutions procurement regulations. All goods contracts
estimated to cost over US$200,000 equivalent each shall be subject to International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). Contracts estimated to cost between US$50,000 - US$200,000 each shall be through International
Shopping (IS) and contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each shall be concluded through
National Shopping (NS). Minor works (mainly renovation and refurbishing), of a total aggregated cost
not exceeding US$700,000 shall be procured through competitive quotations. Bank's standard bidding
documents will be used for procurement under the Project.
2.   The procurement of goods through ICB is estimated at US$5.6 million and procurement contracts
for a total of US$500,000 shall be through IS or NS (Table A). The selection of consulting firms or
training providers (approximately 22 contracts, costing about US$6.0 million) shall be through Quality-
and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), Quality Based Selection (QBS) and Fixed Budget selection process
(SFB), as defined in Annex 4, Table A. Selection of individual consultants (9 contracts, costing US$0.4
million) will be through competitive process in accordance with the Guidelines on Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. To ensure transparency in the selection process,
all assignments for local consultants will be advertised in local newspapers and consultants will be
selected on the basis of short list.
3.   Under the legal drafting component, in addition to the services of consulting firms, a panel of
individual national consultants will be selected for legal drafting (approximately 50 contracts over four
years). These are relatively small assignments and a group of two/three local consultants will be called
upon to draft or review a specific legislation. At the beginning of each year, the PIU will work out and
submit for Bank's review a list of legislation proposed to be drafted or amended by the consultants.
Selection of the panel will follow a competitive procedure, i.e. advertising in local newspapers, review of
the CVs from individual consultants who have expressed interests, and a review of their fees. The panel
will be updated every year following the same process. The consultants on the panel will be called upon
to assist as and when required and will be remunerated on the basis of actual time spent on an activity.
4.   The estimated incremental operating cost of $900,000 would be financed from the loan. This
category would include (i) the critical office supplies and other support (administrative and technical)
required for the consultants to be retained to assist PIU in implementation of the Project; (ii) the cost of
additional staff and consultants required during the Project implementation, who would be hired on
contract for a specific period to supplement the PIU's capacity, and (iii) critical office supplies and other
operating support for the Judicial training Institute.
5.   All ICB and the first two contracts under IS and NS, irrespective of the value, shall be subject to
prior review by the Bank. The consultants' contracts estimated to cost over US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals, as well as all sole source contracts, and all TORs and methods of selection of



28
consultant contracts, irrespective of the value, shall be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other
contracts shall be subject to ex-post review.
6.   The Project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Annex 4,
Table A and B, and the Bank's prior review thresholds is presented in Annex 4, Table C. A procurement
plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of major procurement actions is presented in Annex
4, Table D. The estimated loan disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 4, Table E. The General
Procurement Notice in Development Business will be issued in June 1999, and will be updated as
appropriate and published annually thereafter.   In addition, a Specific Procurement Notice in
Development Business will be required for consultant contracts of $200,000 or more. The Project launch
workshop is scheduled for September 1999 (Annex 4, Table F).
Institutional Arrangements
7.   The Bank has initiated the process to undertake a Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) and plans to complete it by August 1999. Some significant recommendations would emerge
from the CPAR, which would be included in an action plan directed to improve the procurement
environment and enhance the transparency and accountability of procurement actions and decisions. The
government has also launched an initiative in 1996 to reform the public procurement system in the
country. The legal and institutional framework to govern the public procurement was completed in
December 1998 and the introduction and enforcement of the system has started thereafter. An
independent agency to regulate and exercise oversight on public procurement was established in
December, 1998. The enforcement of a comprehensive public procurement system will introduce
discipline on public expenditure, as well as transparency and accountability of the procurement process.
It will also be an effective vehicle to combat corruption.
8.   During the past five years, the government agencies have acquired some procurement management
capacity and MOJ in particular has developed some procurement handling capability under the Bank
supported Real Estate Registration pilot project. The PIU for the proposed Legal Reform Project in the
MOJ has also acquired usefal experience in procurement and disbursement during project preparation and
management of the Japanese Grant. It will continue to have the overall responsibility to coordinate and
manage procurement under the Project. But the scope of the Japanese Grant was limited compared to the
proposed Project under which both volume and complexity of procurement will increase significantly.
About 100 consultant contracts and 27 contracts for procurement of goods and minor works will be
concluded, of which at least three would be major ICB contracts. Therefore, procurement handling
capacity would be critical to the success of the Project and procurement difficulties are likely to be
encountered during implementation, particularly in its first year of operation. To further strengthen its
procurement capacity, the PIU, in addition to the existing position of a procurement officer, should retain
the service of a qualified and experienced procurement consultant (national or foreign), in the first year of
operation to assist and advise the PIU and component implementation units on procurement processing
and contract management, including staff training. The procurement arrangement in the PIU satisfactory
to the Bank must be in place as soon as possible, and the procurement advisor will be on board no later
than September 1999.
Disbursement
9.   The loan is expected to be fully disbursed over four and a half years, closing in 2003. The Bank
would finance: (i) 100% expenditures for consultant services; (ii) 100% expenditures for study tours and
other training; (iii) for goods, 100% foreign expenditures for direct imports, 100% local ex-factory costs
for locally manufactured items and 80% local expenditures for other items procured locally; and (iv) 80%
expenditures for civil works. Annex 4, Table D gives the estimated Project disbursement schedule.



29
10.  Special Account. To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower would establish,
maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a
commercial bank. The initial allocation of the Special Account would be US$ 350,000 when the
aggregate disbursement under the loan have reached the level of US$ 2,000,000, the initial allocation may
be increased up to the authorized allocation of $1,000,000 by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting document.
11.  The commercial bank holding the SA would be chosen on the basis of open competitive bidding,
and would, as a pre-condition, be required to meet the following criteria:
(a) It should be financially sound as demonstrated by their latest accounts which would be audited
by an internationally recognized audit firm;
(b) Have significant foreign correspondence banking in all major currencies;
(c) Have some experience, or at least the capacity to acquire experience, in issuing letters of credit,
transacting direct foreign payments;
(d) Be a member of SWIIFT, or plan to use the facility to expedite payments;
(e) Be willing and able to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA would
not be set off, seized or otherwise attached to satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by
the Borrower;
(f) Be willing and able to adequately maintain accounts as required by the Bank, including regular
statements, and any other information that may be considered necessary; and
(g) Charge competitive rates for services and other transactions fees.
12.  Statement of Expenditure: Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) as follows:
(i)  goods: expenditures under contract costing less than $200,000 equivalent;
(ii)  individual consultants: contracts less than $50,000 equivalent;
(iii)  consulting firms: contracts estimated less than $100,000 equivalent;
(iv)  operating costs: expenses less than $50,000 equivalent;
(v)  works: contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and
(vi)  training: expenses less than $50,000 equivalent.
Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained at the PIU, and made available for review by
Bank supervision missions and auditors.



30
Annex 4, Table A
Summary of Major Procurement Activities and Procurement Methods
CATEGORY                         PROCURE-  # OF CONTR-   LOAN FUNDS
MENT             ACTS
METHOD
A. Legal Drafting and Institutional                                                       4,200,000
Strengthening
Al. Legal Drafting Fund
- consultants services for legal drafting    QCBS             8                           2,000,000
SIC              50                         2,000,000
A2. Institutional Strengthening of the MOJ
-  training of staff from economic ministries  SFB            5                            200,000
(seminars & local training course and study
tour abroad)
B. Judicial Strengthening                                                                 7,000,000
B 1. Judicial Education
- capacity building TA                       QCBS             1                           1,100,000
-creation of teaching materials              QCBS             2                            355,000
- continuing education of judicial staff     SFB              1                           1,000,000
- teachers' training                         SFB              5                            200,000
- equipment for training center              NS               9                            450,000
- small works (renovation of training centers)  Q             14                           650,000
B2. Court Administration
-automation of court administration          ICB              2                           2,500,000
-TA for capacity building                    QCBS             5                            245,000
- incremental operating cost of the training center                                        500,000
C. Legal Information and Public Awareness                                                 4,245,000
D 1. Electronic System of legal Information
- workshop on public awareness               SFB              1                            150,000
- consulting services on codification        SIC              1                            100,000
- preparation of bidding documents           QCBS             1                             80,000
- procurement of hardware & software         ICB               1                          3,100,000
- training                                   SIC               1                           350,000



31
-capacity building TA                                QCBS               1                                 415,000
-minor works                                         Q                                                     50,000
D. Project Management & Implementation                                                                    400,000
- Procurement Consultant                             SIC                 1                                 80,000
- Audit of the Project account                       LCS                 I                                100,000
- Incremental Operating Expense                                                                           220,000
E. Miscellaneous
-PPF repayment                                                                                         500,000
-Front-end fee                                                                                         165,000
Contingency
TOTAL                                                                                                  16,500,000
QCBS          - Quality Cost Based Selection
QBS           - Quality Based Selection
SFB           - Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS           - Least Cost Selection
SIC           - Selection for Individual Consultants
SS            - Sole Source Selection
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
IS            - International Shopping
NS            - National Shopping
Q             - Competitive Quotations



32
Annex 4, Table B: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                                        Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                                                 (including
Expenditure Category                                                                                              contingencies)
QCBS            QBS           SFB         LCS         CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                          4.1                          1.6         0.1                                           5.78
B. Individuals                                                                                  1.48                     1.48
Total   __  _  _ _  _     _ _  _  _     _ _  _ _                 _ _ _7.26
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ   Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.



33
Annex 4, Table C: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contracts Subject to
Prior Review / Estimated
Expenditure             Contract Value            Procurement           Total Value Subject to
Category               (Threshold)                 Method                 Prior Review
US $ thousands                                      US $ millions
1. Works
2. Goods                           50 or less                NS                       0.45
200 or less                IS                      0.5
200                       ICB                      5.6
3. Services
(Indiv.)  50                   Other                     2.40
(firm)  100                    QCBS                      3.50
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    12.15
'Thresholds generally differ by country and Project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for
guidance.



34
Annex 4, Table D: Procurement Plan
ESTIMATED DATIES
Invitation
Number of                                          GPN/SPN
slices/items/   Estimated   Procurement BD/RFP     Opening Eval &   Contract Contract
Description             Type    subpackages  cost         method        Preparation  recom. Award    signing    Completion
A. Legal Drafting and                          4,200,000
Institutional Strengthening
- legal drafting        CS       8            2,000,000   QCBS          06/99        12/99            02/00
50 (panel)    2,000,000   SIC         03/2000      05/2000           07/00
03/2001     05/2001           07/01
03/2002     05/2002           07/01
- training              TR       5              200,000   SFB           3/2000       06/00            8/2000    10/2003
10/2000     01/01            03/01      10/2003
3/2001      06/01             08/01
10/2001     12/02            02/02
3/2002      06/02             08/02



35
B. Judicial Strengthening                   7,000,000
- capacity building TA  CS      1            1,000,000   QCBS        6/99       9/99          11/99
- creation of training  CS      2             355,000   QCBS         3/2000     5/00          7/2000
materials
-teacher training      TR       5             239,000   SFB          9/99       11/99         12/99
5/2000     7/00          8/2000
9/2000     11/00         12/2000
5/2001     7/01          8/2001
- continuing education of   CS/TR   1        1,000,000               9/2001     11/01         12/2001
judicial staff
- equipment for training  G     9              45,000   NS           1/2000     3/00          5/2000
center                                                               5/2000     7/00          8/2000
10/2000    12/00         2/2001
- small works (renovating   CW  14            650,000   Q            9/99                     11/99
training centers)                                                    4/2000                   4/2000
-automation of court   G        2           2,500,000   ICB          12/99      5/00          8/2000
administration                                                       12/99      5/01          8/01
- TA for capacity building   CS  5            245,000   QCBS/SIC    06/99       12/99         2/2000
06/00      1/2001        3/01
05/01      8/01          10/01
12/01      2/01          4/01
06/02      09/02         11/02



36
C. Legal Information &                              4,235,000
Public Awareness
- preparation of bidding   CS        1                 80,000    QCBS            09/99        12/99            1/00         10/99
documents;
-TA for capacity building    CS      1                415,000    QCBS            08/99        11/99            11/99        1012003
- procurement of hardware   G        1              3,100,000    ICB             05/2000      9/00             11/00
& software
- training                 TR        1                300,000    SFB             5/01         8/01             10/01
-minor works               CW        1                 50,000    Q               3/00         6/00             8/00
-Codification              CS        1                100,000    SIC             03/2000      5/00            07/2000
D. Project Management &                               400,000
Implementation
-Procurement Adv.          CS        1                 80,000    SIC             06/99        08/99           09/99
-Audit of the Project      CS        1                100,000    LCS             6/2000       7/2000          8/2000
account
-Incremental Operating                                220,000
Expense
E. Miscellaneous
-PPF repayment                                        500,000
- Frond-end fee                                       165,000
QCBS         - Quality Cost Based Selection
QBS          - Quality Based Selection
LCS          -Least Cost Selection
SFB          - Selection under Fixed Budget
SIC         - Selection for Individual Consultants
SS          - Sole Source Selection
ICB         - Intemational Competitive Bidding
IS          - Intemational Shopping
NS           - National Shopping
CQ           - Competitive Quotations



37
Annex 4, Table E: Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements over 48 months (US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year     2000          2001          2002             2003            2004
Semester           1      2      3    -4       5       6       7        8        9
Per Semester (%)   10    10    15    15    12.5   12.5   11.5    10.0           3.5     _
Per Semester      1.65   1.65   2.48   2.48   2.06    2.06    1.90     1.65    0.58
Cumulative (%)    10.0  20.0  35.0  50.0   62.5   75.0   86.5    96.5    100.0
Cumulative        1.65   3.30   5.78   8.26   10.32   12.38   14.28    15.93    16.5    _



38
Annex 4, Table F: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date    Estimated   Indicate if there     Domestic Preference for Goods             Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable
of Project       date of      is procurement
Launch           publication   subject to
Workshop         of General   mandatory SPN         Yes                                       Yes
09/99/           Procureme   in Development
nt Notice    Business             No  x                                      No x
06/99
Yes x
_____No x
Retroactive financing                               Advance Procurement
No x                                                No x
To monitor the procurement the PIU, responsible for all procurement activities and give periodic overviews on
the progress. Project team in HQ will monitor the progress, assisted by a Project officer and a junior
procurement specialist in the field..
PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project: Lingzhi Xu Ext.32803
The Field Office is expected to facilitate and monitor the procurement process.



39
Annex 4, Table G: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount in
Expenditure. Category              US$million
(1) Goods                                         6.1
(2) Consultants' Services                         6.1
(3) Training                                      2.035
(4) Works                                         0.7
(5) Incremental Operating Costs                   0.9
(6) PPF Advance Repayment                         0.50
(7) Front-end Fee                                 0.165
Total        16.50



40
Annex 5
Legal Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                               Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$207,000          US$298,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the Project (months)    18-24 months          29 months
First Bank mission (identification)            07/04/1996          07/04/1996
Appraisal mission departure                    09/29/1997          09/29/1998
Negotiations                                   11/15/1997          12/18/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  08/01/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Justice
Preparation assistance: PPF, PHRD, USAID
Bank staff who worked on the Project included:
Name:                                    Specialty:
Sandra Bloemenkamp                       Team Leader
Gennady Pilch                            Legal Counsel, Co-Task Manager
Maria Dakolias                           Judicial Strengthening
Zhanar Abdildina                         Operations Officer
Linzghi Xu                               Procurement Analyst
Abdul Haji                                Financial Management Specialist



41
Annex 6
Legal Reform Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Description and Implementation Plan                December 98
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back-to Office Reports of Identification, Pre-Appraisal, and Appraisal  August 96
December 96
March 97
October 97
March 98
July 98
November 98
C. Other Reports
On legal drafting issues:
Khudiakov, Legal Drafting                                   January 97
Yanachkov, Legal Drafting                                   July 97
On Judicial Strengthening
Berchigorova; Judicial Strengthening                       March 97
Goldstein, Judicial Strengthening                          July 97
Oxner, Judicial Training Institute                          September 98
Newton, Court Administration                               November 98
Newton, Supplement on Judicial Training                     November 98
On Legal Education & Public Awareness
Manynovsky, Legal Education                                March 97
Ageeva, Shabarov, Report on preparation of Grants Program   September 98
One Legal Information
Podoprigora,    Judicial information                        March 97
ABT associates   Preliminary report on Legal Information    December 98
Other;
Proceedings of the National Legal Reform Conference,        September 97



42
Annex 7
Legal Reform Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Kazakstan
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 4
Active Projects
KZ-PE-8499      1999   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN            ROAD TRANSP. RESTRUC                    100.00        0.00         0.00            100.00         0.00        0.00
KZ-PE-34093     1998   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN             PUBLIC SEC. RES.MGT.                    230.00        0.00         0.00             75.00        75.00        0.00
KZ-PE-50780     1998   GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN                PENSION REF. SAL                        300.00        0.00         0.00            200.00       100.00        0.00
KZ-PE-8503      1998   REPUB. OF KAZAKSTAN               AG POST PRIV. ASST.                      15.00        0.00         0.00              14.69        -.22        0.00
KZ-PE-37960     1997   REP OF KAZAKSTAN                  TREASURY MODERNIZATI                     15.80        0.00         0.00              13.37       11.80        1.34
KZ-PE-45303     1997   GOVT. OF KAZAKSTAN                 PILOT WATER SUPPLY                       7.00        0.00         0.00               6.62        5.13        0.00
KZ-PE-46044     1997   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN             REAL ESTATE REG PLT.                     10.00        0.00         0.00               7.20        6.70        0.00
KZ-PE-8507      1997   REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN            UZEN OIL FIELD REHAB                    109.00        0.00         0.00            100.41        26.42        0.00
KZ-PE-8510      1996   REPUB. OF KAZAKHSTAN               IRRIG. & DRAINAGE                       80.00        0.00         0.00              67.25        5.86        0.00
KZ-PE-8506      1995   GOVT. OF KAZAKHSTAN               SOCIAL PROTECTION                        41.10        0.00         0.00             21.90          .30        0.00
KZ-PE-8508      1995   GOVT OF KAZAKHSTAN                FINANCE & ENT. DEVEL                     62.00        0.00         0.00             55.63        55.63          .03
KZ-PE-8501      1994   REP. OF KAZKHSTAN                 PETROLEUM TA                             15.70        0.00         0.00               4.36        4.35        0.00
KZ-PE-8504      1994   REPUB.OF KAZKHSTAN                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     38.00        0.00         0.00               4.83        4.82      -33.18
Total                                                                                          1,023.60        0.00         0.00             671.26      295.79      -31.81
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 352.34               578.96              931.30
of which has been repaid:                   1.58                0.00                 1.58
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,022.01               578.96            1,600.97
Amount sold                      :0.00                                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              671.26                 0.00              671.26
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



43
Annex 8
Kazakhstan at a glance                                                                9/28/98
Europa     Lower..
POERYaio,ScAlu                                          central  mnlidd11e- 
K)altta          Ai   ijricon~      Development diamond*
Population, mid-year (millions)      16.3      ~~476 ..2,285                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas m6thod~ US$)                     4       23,32     1.230
GNP (Atlas /Metoik us$ blos)                            I: 21,  1406     2818.
Population r/o)                    -O~~~~~~~~~S  0.2   1.~~~2   GNP                             Gross
Lalxwforce (96)                  -0.1       0.5       1.3    ~~~~~~~~~~per                    primary
Most recent estime (lts  eraalte  917                                               aita                        enrollment
Urbani population (96 of totappltin                     0
Life expectancyatbirt (yaa                              5        69        69
Infant motlt pi ,0  iebrh)24                                     25~       38
Child mtalnutitio ~%fcide  ne  )1                                  .         .Access to safe water
Access te safe wate 9  fpoain                                              84
Illiter,acyf (%o(pp/to ae 5..                                              1
Grosspiir  nolet(6o colaeppi t n                       0         9                         Kazakhstan
Male                                     ..       116             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.ower-middle-income group
1976~  198         199e      11997
Economic ratios*
GDP ((./S$ billions)  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .     .       21.0
Gross domestic investmentfGOP                  ..       .,      23.3
Exports of good[s and services/Gid            ..        .          0Trade
(Gross domestic s4vings/GbP                     .       .       20.c
Grs   atoa savngs/GOP       i i..                          21.8
aurnt accoun balance/GOP.                                      -.                  oetcIvsmn
InterstpaymentrslGDP.1                        ..        ..                                                     InvetSaving
Total detAlGDP                                                                     Saving1s.
TOta debt service/explorts                              .        4.8       6.6
Piresent value o dbt/ODP
Present valuve Of debt/exports      ~                    .      3.
Z.;                           ~~~~~~~~~~Indebtedness
197848  1974          99        997   4998-02
GOP                       .,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  0-Kazakhstan
GNP per capita       ..    -7.8       1.8       2~~~~~~2 Lower-middle-income group
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY____ ___________
(9/6 of GOP)I                               1976     1986      1998      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%/)
Agriculture                                                     12 .. 912.
Industry                                       .        ..      30.4                0
Manufacturing                                 .        ..      6.4        ..     .10     9           4
Services                                       .        ..      56.8
Private consumption                            .        .       67.8         .     3.
General govemment consumption                  .         .      12.3GDGP
Imports of goods and services                  .        ..      34.4GD                                    -- GP
(average anual growth)1976486  1987-97               1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports(%
Agriculture                                    .        ..       1.0              20-
Industry                                      ..1.2 -1.2
Manufacturing                                0.        .         .0
Services                                       .                -3.6        .. 
Private consumption                                                                       92 ..  17  ..  -1
General govemment consumption                  .        ..      10.3
Gross domestic investment                      .        ..      -3.8              .20-
Imports of goods and seyvices..                         .       11.9        -.Exports    -                      l-mports
Gross national product                         ..     -7.8       0.9       1.3    ___________________
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



44
Kazakhstan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                 1976      1986       1996      1997       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                               2,000
Consumer prices                                    ..       ..       28.8                1,500
Implicit GOP deflator                              ..       ..       38.9                1
Government finance                                                                        SW
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                                    o
Current revenue                                    ..       ..        13.2        ..               92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                                                                                   GDP deflator   ^  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..       ..        -3.2        ..                         d
TRADE
1976     1986        1996      1997       Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..       ..      5,480          .      000
Oil and gas                                       ..       ,.      1,022         .     5 Il                              l
Other metals                                     ..        ..       969                 4000
Manufactures                                      ..       ..       430          .        .
Total imports (cil                                  .        ..     5,166                3,ro  
Food                                                                                   2,000 + 9    9
Fuel and energy                                  ..        ..     2,324                1,.000
Capital goods                                     ..       ..         ..                  a
91   92   93   94   99   99i  97
Export price index (1995=100)                      ..       ..         98         ..
Import price index (1995=100)                      ..       ..        105         ..                  mExports       myImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..        ..        94         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                  1976      1986       1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                      ..       ..      6,966      7,611      0 o
Imports of goods and services                      ..       ..      7,546      8,279  |.   91   9
Resource balance                                                     -580       -668      2
Net income                                         ..       ..       -220       -315     -3
Net current transfers                              ..       ..         50         75       I
Current account balance                            ..       ..       -750       -909    |5
Financing items (net)                              ..       ..        773      1,388    15
Changes in net reserves                            ..       ..        -23       -480    |  -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             ..       ..          0          0
Conversion rate (DEC, local/lUS$)                  ..       ..        67.3      75.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986        1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..       ..      3,122      4,278
IBRD                                            ..        ..        490       648                     G:349      A:648
IDA                                              ..       ..          0         0
Total debt service                                  .        ..       322       499
IBRD                                            ..        ..         24        34    1
IDA                                              ..        .          0         0                                         c: 511
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 ..        ..         44        28
Official creditors                              ..        ..        332       434         F: 1,605 .1 1
Private creditors                               ..        ..        305       786
Foreign direct investment                       ..                1,137     1,321                                   9:7._
Portfolio equity                                ..        ..          0                                               :788
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                     ..        ..        385       247      A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..        ..        225       202      B- IDA     0 - Other multilateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                             -                    0         0      C - IMF                         G - Short-term
Net flows                                        ..       ..        225       202
Interest payments                               ..        ..         24        34
Net transfers                                   ..        ..        201       167
Development Economics                                                                                                         9/28/98



50~~~~~~~~ ~~60a                                                        T                                                    80,                                             90,
Tyomen'                                     0     100    200   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300    400 K(ilometers
To ChnlyabinskTOO
ETROPAVLOVSK  seals  To Omak  Novosibirsk    0  100          ~200 Miles
R   U   5   S   I A                                                                               TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
F   E   D   E   R  A   T  0    N                                                                             To Soma.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~V5
An~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT
4O~~'                                                                               -  ~~~KA ZAK  STA  ~~~~~'r        A 
Zhekcizag~    5
Bank The lansadadus. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Blkus
O    REGION CAPITALS  - nay nthar iafar,nntioa abase,,saryhaghn                                                 Bakasi
an sisia snap da ant anply~~ 055     a'                                          I
O    SELECTED CITIES     he pant af ike W0ld Bank                      ~1Toret,m
Groap, nay Icn~~~~~~~Qnanst an the  j~~~~~~~~ ~~   ~   -        a$Ta
'-'  of a,, tanita  an~~~~~n.                          ZHAMB           e                                                         CHINAa,o
YS TAoresyedoseetUr*                                                                                   0ay'
-.  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  nac~~~ptnace    sack                 AFGHANISTAN   70'                /                                                         80'~
en   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                               I               I                                                                          (5,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rVsb



