Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25342
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-27109; SCL-44670; PPFB-P3170)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
January 13, 2003
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of January 13, 2003)
Currency Unit = TENGE
1 Tenge = US$ 0.0064
US$ 1 = 155.75 Tenge
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           -      Adjustable Program Loans
CIS           -      Commonwealth of Independent States
CPPR          -      Country Portfolio Perfonrance Review
ECA           -      Europe and Central Asia
GOK           -      Government of Kazakhstan
HQ            -      Headquarters
JAC           -      Judicial Administration Committee
JTC           -      Judicial Training Center
MOE           -      Ministry of Economy
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
MOJ           -      Ministry of Justice
PHRD          -      Policy and Human Resource Development
PPF           -      Project Preparation Facility
PIU           -      Project Implementation Unit
SC            -      Supreme Court
QAE           -      Quality at Entry
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Dennis de Tray
Sector Director:  Cheryl W. Gray
Task Team Leader     Sandra Bloemnenkamp



KAZAKHSTAN
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 19
9. Partner Comments                                                                20
10. Additional Information                                                         21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  30
Annex 7. List of Supportmg Documents                                                31






Project ID. P046046                                       Project Name: LEGAL REFORM
Team Leader: Sandra Bloemenkamp                           TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type- Core ICR                                        Report Date: Janutary 14, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: LEGAL REFORM                                   L/C/TFNumber TF-27109;
SCL-44670;
PPFB-P3170
Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                           Region  Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Law and justice (100%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/24/1996                             Effective: 08/16/1999
Appraisal:  09/28/1998                                MTR: 11/15/2001
Approval.  05/13/1999                              Closing.
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  REP. OF KAZAKHSTAN/MINISTRY OF JUSTICE; REP. OF
KAZAKHSTAN/SUPREME COURT
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Countrv Manager      Dennis de Tray                             Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:       Cheryl W. Gray                            Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:  Sandra Bloemenkamp                         Sandra Bloemenkamp
ICR Primary Author:  Sandra Bloemenkamp
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outtcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Developmenit Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrv: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context
During the 1990s, Kazakhstan initiated one of the strongest macroeconomic reform



programs of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). The Government concentrated its
efforts on maintaining macroeconomic stability through fiurther reductions in inflation and the
fiscal deficit, and continued tight monetary policy. On the structural side, significant results were
achieved, including price and trade liberalization, privatization of most small and medium size
enterprises and the banking sector, and enactment of a broad framework of market-oriented
legislation. The Government's program in the late 1990s envisaged completion of mass
privatization and accelerated privatization of the largest enterprises.
In order to develop a robust private sector and complete the transition to a market
economy, the Govenmment recognized the need to develop and strengthen the country's legal and
judicial systems. During the first five years of its independence, Kazakhstan, similarly to other
CIS countries, adopted numerous laws and regulations and tried to restructure its legal
institutions to better support ongoing market reforms. Significant donor assistance was available
in the areas of drafting and training. However, this assistance, as well as the Government's own
initiatives, were not well coordinated, nor systematic and were aimed at short-term improvements.
Many legal enactments were adopted in an ad hoc manner and were considered to be internally
inconsistent and unevenly applied. As the country was entering its second phase of reforms, it
became clear that short-term emergency measures to reform the legal system were no longer
sufficient. After extensive discussions and a sector assessment, involving local and foreign
experts, the Government and the Bank identified a comprehensive legal reform Project to deal
with problems identified related to the quality of legal enactments, inadequacies in legal
institutions, and weak legal processes.
Fostering judicial independence was quite difficult during Project preparation. Judicial
independence, albeit embedded in Kazakhstan's 1995 Constitution, was clearly still a very new and
rather abstract concept in the country's political system and most judges were just not convinced
at the time that actual independence requires a different attitude and involvement by judges
themselves. Although many attempts were undertaken to involve the judiciary as much as
possible into the Project design and the implementation structure, in the end the Bank accepted
Kazakhstan's own pace of implementing judicial reforms.
Preparation of the Project was complex and time consuming; it took about three years to
complete it. Great care was taken to ensure that the Project would address country-specific
problems, that the legal community had ample chances to discuss legal reform priorities, and in all
areas local consultants were engaged to prepare the initial analysis. Simultaneously, skepticism of
some parts of the central Government, as well as in Parliament was growing about the wisdom of
borrowing World Bank funds, especially to finance foreign consultancy contracts.
Objective
The Project's development objective was to assist Kazakhstan in the development of legal
and regulatory systems and institutions in areas key to the functioning of a market economy.
Specifically, the Project aimed to: (a) strengthen the Governments' legal drafting capacity and
process, and improve the quality and enforcement of legal enactments; (b) support the
development of a more transparent, efficient, effective, and accessible judicial system; and (c)
improve the access by Government officials, judges, parliamentarians, members of the legal
-2-



profession and business community, and the public at large to more reliable, comprehensive and
up-to-date legal information, and to increase public awareness of, and involvement in, the legal
process.
Assessment
The Project was well designed to deal with the most critical problems in the legal area, as
they were seen both by the Bank and by the borrower. Project objectives were fully consistent
with the CAS. They were clear, realistic, and addressed key needs in the legal/judicial area. At
the same time, it must be recognized that reforms in each of these areas are complex and call for
major policy commitments and resources, and requires institutional reform to bear fruit.
Combining them under one Project complicated Project design and management. One alternative
approach could have been to have two operations, one for legal reforms and one for judicial
reforms (or to limit the Bank's support to just one area). This would have been particularly
appropriate if the Kazakhstani judiciary had the legal authority and institutional capacity with
respect to the organization and functions of the judicial branch. However, until 2001 the Ministry
of Justice (MOJ) was fully responsible for the administrative, organizational, and financial aspects
of the courts. Therefore, the decision to address the needs in one comprehensive Project was
justifiable. Moreover, at that time, the Government's commitment to this approach was very
strong, and the central role of the MOJ in each of these areas allowed for a relatively
straightforward management structure.
The stimulus for judicial reforms originated from the Presidential administration and the
MOJ, not the courts themselves. This added to the Project risks (see also the QAE report para.
3.5). However, given the importance of court reform for Kazakhstan, this risk was deemed
acceptable. After the adoption of major judicial reforms in 2001, and the courts gaining
significant more independence, the Project and its objectives were well suited and readily available
to support these important initiatives. In fact, in line with these reforms, the Supreme Court
assumed direct responsibility for the judicial strengthening component in 2001. Improved
ownership resulted in a much more successful implementation of the component than was the case
before.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project Objective was not revised during Project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the aims described above, the Project included the following components: (a)
legal drafting and institutional strengthening; (b) judicial strengthening; (c) legal education and
public awareness; and (d) legal information. During Project preparation, the Government
identified the area of legal education as a fourth area of priority, to be addressed by the Project.
However, although detailed preparatory and analytical work was undertaken and specific legal
education activities to be supported under the Project were identified, the Government decided,
shortly after negotiations, to drop this component from the Project. The Government justified
this decision by its plans to address the problems in the legal education area in the context of an
overall higher education reform program. Bank staff and management felt that the legal education
component would have fit into the overall Project design and was well prepared, but in view of
the Government's strong request, agreed, after extensive internal discussions and consultations
- 3-



with the Government, to drop this component from the Project.
Ultimately, the Government and Bank agreed to include in the Project only the most
critical and urgently needed activities. This selective process also took into account the then
existing level of implementation capacity in the country and the proposed loan amount. The
Project was designed to build on, and collaborate with, assistance provided by bilateral and
multilateral donors as well as the Government's own efforts. At the same time, the Project was
going to emphasize a more long-term, strategic approach to strengthening legal institutions and
systems.
Project Component 1: Legal Drafting and Institutional Strengthening Component (US$4.2
million). This component envisaged providing support to Government's efforts at the national
level to improve the quality, efficiency, transparency and effectiveness of laws and regulations,
and improving the law-making process, particularly with respect to economic enactments.
Support was to be directed to enhancing drafting capacity across principal Government units with
drafting responsibility, and strengthening the organizational and technical capacity of the MOJ and
its Institute of Legal Drafting. This component consisted of four principal activities: (a) legal
drafting assistance to the MOJ and other Government agencies by local and foreign legal
consultants; (b) an assessment of the functional, organizational, and management aspects of the
MOJ; and (c) training of Government lawyers from the MOJ, MOF, National Bank, and other
agencies active in the area of legal drafting.
Project Component 2 - Judicial Strengthening Component (US$7 million). Two areas stood
out as the highest priorities for assistance under the Project. The first was a need for a
comprehensive permanent judicial training program, with particular emphasis on areas of law
relating to the legal/regulatory system for a market economy. The second was a need for
modernization of court administrative systems, including both court administration and case
management, with the introduction of appropriate techniques and technologies to permit effective
and efficient administration of justice, and to supply the judiciary with legal information necessary
for the competent and efficient performance of its duties, especially all current laws and other
normative acts and the most important jurisprudence. Capacity-building in the area of
enforcement ofjudgements, publication of court decisions and other measures to increase the
autonomy of the court system and enhance its role and influence were also contemplated under
this component.
Project Component 3 - Legal Information and Public Awareness Component (US$4.235
million). The goal of the Legal Information and Public Awareness Component was to improve the
quality of, and access to, legal information for Government officials, judges, legal education
institutions, legal scholars, practicing attorneys, businessmen and society as a whole, especially
legal information concerning economic and market reforms and corresponding regulations. The
financing of some 30 public access points (at universities or libraries), and the creation of a
website making the information available to the public at large was envisaged. This component
was also to assist the Government determine the appropriate method of classification and
codification of legal information and raise the degree of unification and systematization of legal
information. Finally, this component was to finance public awareness programs, using mass
-4 -



media, and training programs for journalists on legal topics.
Project Component 4 - Project Management and Implementation (US$0.4 million). The
MOJ was initially the principle agency responsible for Project implementation. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) within the MOJ, established in the early stages of Project preparation,
was to be responsible for day-to-day technical aspects of Project execution. The PIU had been
involved in all of the Project preparation activities, and had been responsible for implementing the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and the Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD)
Grant for this Project. The PIU was, therefore, well suited to serve in this additional capacity.
The proposed loan was to finance the incremental activities to Project management, which were
the responsibilities of the PIU. This included the provision of all necessary incremental office
space, utilities, repairs and maintenance, advertising and promotion, PIU staff fees and training,
communication, and travel.
3.4 Revised Components:
The loan agreement was amended in 2001 to restructure Project implementation
arrangements, and allow the judiciary to implement the judicial strengthening component
independently from the MOF, but the original components were maintained throughout the
implementation period.
3.5 Quality at Enhy:
The quality of the Project design at entry was satisfactory. Project preparation entailed
extensive consultations with legal and judicial experts inside and outside of the Government, local
consultants, and other donors. In all aspects the Government was fully involved. Ultimately, the
scope of the project was realistic, focused on key priorities, while still flexible to accommodate a
spectrum of future needs. This view was shared by the "Quality at Entry Assessment,"
undertaken in February of 2000 (QAE3) by a team comprising Mr. Sherif Hassan, Judge Paul
Magnuson, and Mr. Hans Wyss, assisted by specialized reviewers (i.e. environment, financial and
social experts). The Project received a fully satisfactory (2) rating with respect to all aspects of
Project preparation. The review concluded that the quality of entry was fully satisfactory and
summarized its findings as follows: "Project objectives represent priority for the country. Its
components are well balanced and appropriate although commitment to judicial reform may not
be as strong as one would hope. Preparatory work was extensive. Risk assessment seems overly
optimistic and close supervision will be needed. Project performance indicators will need to be
subject to refinement in the course of Project implementation. A longer-termn program in support
of the Project's objectives is yet to develop. Overall the Project is fully satisfactory and the
Project team is to be commended for their work.
For successful Project implementation, it is suggested that, in addition to the areas
covered under loan agreement, the Bank's supervision mission focus attention on, and support to
the judiciary in, two critical areas: (i) the establishment of an adequate budget for the judiciary
system and ensuring that judges are actually paid their budgeted salaries, and (ii) case
management procedures be put in place so that judges may concentrate on making judicial
decisions while reducing their reporting functions in accordance with predetermined criteria".
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
- 5 -



4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of Project development objectives is rated overall unsatisfactory.
Throughout Project implementation, Bank management and the authorities of Kazakhstan have
held detailed discussions on the slow progress in Project implementation, the degree of the
borrower's commitment to the Project, and the overall Project future. The discussions intensified
around the July 2001 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) meetings. In the context of
these discussions, the Bank agreed to formailly split - through loan agreement amendment - the
Project implementation responsibilities between the MOJ (responsible for legal drafting
/institutional development component and for the legal information/public awareness component)
and the Supreme Court (responsible for the judicial strengthening component). This step was
mutually regarded as a very important step to establish a more effective implementation structure.
However, by the time the amendment was being finalized, the Government inforned the
Bank of its decision, as part its overall restructuring of foreign-financed loan portfolio, to cease all
borrowing for technical assistance, both for new as well as for ongoing projects. It requested the
Bank to terminate the Legal Reform Project, canceling all loan funds remaining undisbursed at the
end of year 2001. In its loan cancellation request letter, the Government emphasized its continued
commitment to the overall Project objectives and activities under the Project, and expressed its
intention to continue implementation of most Project activities during 2002 and beyond, albeit
financed from the national budget. The 2002 budget ultimately adopted by the Government and
Parliament in early December of 2001 indeed showed significant additional resources for technical
assistance in legal drafting, legal information and judicial training, court personnel,
court-automatization of lower courts and additional investments and operating costs. Early
indications for 2003 are quite positive as well.
However, at this time the development objective for this Project cannot be considered
achieved, given the premature cancellation of the loan, and the limited number of actual Project
achievements primarily resulting from delays in the first two years of Project implementation.
(a) Improved quality and enforcement of legal enactments. This perfornance indicator has not
been achieved because few activities have been implemented; therefore, it is rated unsatisfactory.
An overall assessment of deficiencies in Kazakhstan's economic legislation was prepared by a
team of consultants in 1999 and early 2000, but was deemed inadequate and obsolete by the
Government (MOJ). Bidding packages to procure technical assistance to help prepare economic
legislation included in the 2000 legislative drafting priority list approved by Parliament were fully
prepared, but never issued. Even a very flexible instrument such as the "panel" of local experts,
approved by the Bank based on the borrower's request, was used by the MOJ only in a few
isolated occasions. Furthermore, none of the longer term institutional strengthening activities
(institutional review of the MOJ, permanent training of legislative drafting specialists) have been
implemented at the time of Project closure, so expected contributions to develop long-term
institutional capacity of the Government to effectively ensure an adequate and consistent legal and
regulatory framework could not materialize.
(b) More efficient, accessible, transparent, and effective judicial system (including
enforcement ofjudicial decisions). This performance indicator is rated marginally satisfactory;
- 6-



progress has been made toward achieving these goals, although there were a number of factors
outside these project contributing as well. Major reforms in court organization and administration
were introduced in 2000 and 2001. The September 2000 Presidential Decree on court
administration reform transferred the MOJ's responsibility for court administration to a newly
created agency directly under the Supreme Court. This "Judicial Administration Committee"
(JAC) is now responsible for court administration, and for upgrading the qualifications for judges
and court personnel and for improved enforcement of judicial decisions. In addition, a new Law
on the Courts and the Status of Judges became effective in early 2001. Main conceptual changes
by that law included: (i) the judicial selection process (except for Supreme Court Judges, all new
judges will be selected on the basis of competition which will greatly increase democratization and
transparency); (ii) introduction of professional intemal training for new judges; and (iii) probation
periods before permanent appointments are confirmed. In terms of court organization, the new
law introduces court specialization (in 2001, the first economic courts started to function);
military judges will no longer be part of the military, and the Oblast level court will in most cases
become the highest Court of Appeal. The Supreme Court now deals only with cases that require
law interpretation and will issue judicial guidelines that have force of law.
The Bank supported the adopted judicial reforms, and welcomed the subsequent stronger
commitment and involvement of the judiciary in its parts of the Project. In line with these
responsibilities, the Supreme Court/Judicial Administration Committee (JAC) took over all
implementation responsibilities with respect to the judicial strengthening component, and
particularly with regard to the establishment of the Judicial Training Center (JTC) and the court
administration and case management reform program and related court automatization. By the
time of Project closure, the first investments in court automatization for the pilot courts (the
Supreme Court and one of the new economic courts) were completed, and an electronic database
of all Supreme Court decisions had been set up, contributing to enhanced transparency and
effectiveness of the court system.
(c) Strengthened system ofjudicial education resulting in more professional and
knowledgeable judges and court administrators). This performance indicator has been partially
achieved, and hence the performance indicator is rated marginally satisfactory. A permanent
Judicial Training Institute, to train and retrain judges and court administrators, has been
established in 2001 as a permanent budget-supported state institution. It is based on the concept
and strategy, business plan and detailed curricula that were prepared under the Project. For 2002,
26 staff positions were approved, a director appointed, and 35 million Tenge (approximately
US$226,000) from the state budget should cover the Institute's operating costs. Despite the
Government promise to identify a separate building for the institute in Almaty, which would be
appropriate for training purposes, as well as offer for boarding facilities, this has not been
accomplished. The Institute currently occupies part of the building of the Almaty city court,
which arrangement does not fully satisfy the needs of the Institute. The first course started only in
2002, so it is too early to assess its impact on the professionalism of judges and court
administrators, but first signs are positive. In addition, the Project financed a 3-week training
program for about 50 judges at the Russian Academy of Justice (which was highly appreciated by
the trainees). Moreover, the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan and this Academy have concluded a
Memorandum of Understanding, under which Kazakhstani judges will continue to be trained by
- 7 -



the Academy in the future, while Russian judges will visit Kazakhstan to learn about its judicial
reforms.
(d) Increased public awareness of legal rights and greater participation in the legal system.
This performance indicator is rated unsatisfactory. Although a few of the activities
contemplated under the Project have been implemented, including the establishment of a MOJ
website, there has been no measurable increase in public participation in the legal system. During
regular meetings between Bank supervision missions and representatives of the civil society, the
latter complained consistently about the lack of openness and transparency in the legislative
process, and the unwillingness of the Government to actively involve outsiders in the legal reform
process. The MOJ expressed interest in addressing public awareness and public relations more
effectively in the future, and, as a result, has created a PR/public awareness department in 2001.
(e) Improved access by Government officials, judges, parliamentarians, legal professionals,
the business community, and the public at large to more reliable, comprehensive legal
information. This performance indicator has partially been met, although mainly using budget
resources instead of loan funds; it is rated marginally satisfactory. During the implementation
period, the Republican Center for Legal Information (RCLI) improved the quality and the
completeness of the legal information database somewhat, although many recommendations
remain to be implemented. Some 750 state and court users are now connected to the database.
The Project financed a local consultant to help prepare the system design and technical
specifications of a further expansion of the legal information database. Parts of this report was
used in 2001 to connect all local MOJ offices to the database, using a WAN system, and 14 public
access points (universities, libraries) have been connected where free access is available. The
business community can access the database by subscription, but can also obtain the information
through other private providers, some of which have made significant progress over the past few
years to offer up-to-date, reliable legal information to its clients.
4.2 Outputs by conzponents:
The Legal Drafting and Institutional Strengthening Component (disbursement
US$140,268). This component financed: (i) part of the study to analyze Kazakhstan's economic
legislation and identify its remaining deficiencies; (ii) three individual consultant contracts to
assist in the preparation of specific legal drafts; and (iii) one initial seminar for legal drafting
specialists. All of these activities were helpful, but did not add up to sustainable improvement in
Kazakhstan's legal drafting capacity.
The Judicial Strengthening Component (disbursement US$385,245). This component
financed: (i) the business plan, curriculum and strategy for the Permanent Judicial Training
Program; (ii) training of judges; (iii) investment in court administration of Supreme Court and
economic courts; and (iv) an electronic database for judicial decisions. These activities, taken
together with other initiatives financed by other donors and the Government itself, contributed to
a substantially improved environment for further judicial strengthening in Kazakhstan.
The Legal Information and Public Awareness Component (disbursement US$159,582
). This component financed: (i) computers and office equipment for the MOJ; (ii) consultancy
- 8-



services to draft strategy and technical specifications for the legal information system; (iii) a
website for the MOJ; and (iv) consultancy services to prepare implementation of the public
awareness component. These activities were useful, but too limited to really affect access to legal
information and improve legal awareness and public participation in the legal process.
The Project Management Component (disbursement US$297,532). This component
financed: (i) communications, mail and Bank expenses; (ii) interpretation fees; (iii) audit costs;
(iv) two MOJ staff trained in World Bank procurement procedures; (v) consultancy to MOJ on
Project implementation and procurement; and (vi) consultancy in financial management and
procurement to Supreme Court.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate ofretturn:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Given the nature of this legal reform Project, almost all reforms have had a direct positive
institutional impact and thus deserve a "modest" rating. Below the most important ones that may
be the most sustainable given that they were fully integrated in the recently promulgated "Concept
of Legal Policy", (Presidential Decree # 949, September 20, 2002, see also section 6.1):
(a)   the strengthened role for the MOJ to coordinate, assess and register all
governmental drafting activity should lead to improved quality, consistency and accessibility of
Kazakhstan's legal framework.
(b)   institutional arrangements have improved significantly in terms of access to
up-to-date legal information. A large and growing number of state bodies are connected to the
electronic database at the RCLI, and the public can tap into this by subscription or for free at one
of the 14 access points. The MOJ website disseminates some information, and the judicial legal
database is up and running at the Supreme Court. Substantial work remains to be done to
connect all rayon courts to the legal database and to expand the judicial database by including key
decisions of lower courts, but these improvements are planned as well.
(c)   the creation of a new permanent training institute for training and retraining of
judges and court personnel as a budgetary institution should have a long-term impact on the
development of training capacity for new judges, as well as for the continued training of existing
judges and court personnel.
(d)   the creation and further institutional development of the JAC under the SC, now
exclusively responsible for judicial qualification, management of court system, court budgets, and
enforcement policies, is a major step in providing actual teeth to judicial independence.
(e)   the creation of specialized economic and administrative courts may contribute to
increased professionalism and expertise in judicial decision making, decrease the workload of
-9-



judges, and make the courts more accessible to the public.
(f)   the creation of websites at the MOJ and Supreme Court giving better access to key
legal information and judicial decisions.
(g)   the expansion of the access to the electronic legal database connecting most
Govermment agencies and some courts to up-to-date legal information.
(h)   the creation of 14 open access points providing free access to the public.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Over the course of the Project, Kazakhstan's budgetary situation improved significantly.
Mainly driven by strong growth in the petroleum sector, real GDP grew at around 13 percent in
2001, following a 10 percent growth in 2000. This growth, combined with prudent
macroeconomic policies, allowed the Government to significantly increase budget allocations to
key legal institutions, including judicial salaries, training, court specialization and automatization
at the MOJ and to help finance legal drafting, and legal information to the courts.
On the negative side, Kazakhstan still had to struggle with the challenges related to the
radical social, economic, political, and legal transformation that took place during the past decade.
This obviously affected the design and the implementation pace of the contemplated
comprehensive legal reforms. And the already limited institutional capacity to plan, manage and
guide this process was further complicated by the reallocation of the capital of the country from
Almaty to Astana in 1999.
S.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors which are considered to be within the Government and judiciary control, and
which had a significant positive impact on the achievement of Project objectives/activities:
(a)   commitment by the authorities to systemic reforms in the legal and judicial areas,
and their desire to benefit from the Bank's and other countries' expertise in this area;
(b)   willingness to undertake major reforms in the area of court administration, case
management, enforcement, and independence of the judiciary. Although initially the separation of
the judiciary from the MOJ caused delays in the implementation of the pilot court and case
management sub-component, this was an important positive decision towards reaching the
development objectives for judicial strengthening;
(c)   decision to transfer the authority to manage budgetary and administrative aspects
of the court system and to the Supreme Court, and to transfer Project implementation
responsibility for judicial strengthening component from MOJ to Supreme Court.
Factors which are considered to be within Government and judiciary control, and which had a
significant negative impact on the achievement of Project objectives/activities:
-10-



(a)   insufficient consensus within the Government on the effectiveness of technical
assistance (which ultimately led to loan cancellation), and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures at
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Ministry of Economy (MOE) for foreign-financed projects;
(b)   ineffective incentive and oversight structures necessary to ensure adequate
accountability with respect to Project performance by the responsible ministerial officials,
including high turnover among MOJ management with responsibility over Project implementation
resulting in reluctance to recognize and deal with Project-related issues in a timely, decisive, and
strategic manner;
(c)    significant delays in the provision of counterpart resources (in particular the
Judicial Training Institute building);
(d)   disconnect between the MOJ management and its directives, and technical staff
responsible for day-to-day Project implementation; rigid implementation of the 1999 decision to
have all Projects implemented by Government staff, resulting in a loss of institutional memory and
skills build-up in the PIU established during Project preparation; and subsequent reluctance to hire
staff for Project management and procurement expertise, resulting in significant Project delays;
and
(e)   increasing differences between the Bank and the MOJ regarding the degree of
openness and accessibility of the legal information system particularly for non-Government
beneficianies.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors which are considered to be within the control of the MOJ and/or Supreme Court
and their respective PIUs, and which had a significant positive impact on the achievement of
Project objectives/activities:
(a)   attentiveness to applicable requirements and procedures related to procurement,
financial management, record keeping, reporting, auditing;
(b)   pro-active and effective implementation of the judicial strengthening component
activities within a short time (Supreme Court and its PIU); and
(c)   effective use of USAID-financed experts to assist in the preparation of the Project.
Factors which are considered to be within the control of the MOJ and Supreme Court and
their respective PIUs, and which had a significant negative impact on the achievement of Project
objectives/activities:
(a)   lack of dialogue and cooperation between the MOJ and Supreme Court with
respect to Project-related activities;
(b)   increasingly weak institutional capacity within the MOJ PIU because: (i)
- 11 -



inadequate number of qualified staff assigned to work on the Project; (ii) high turnover of staff;
and (iii) insufficient incentives for technical MOJ staff to demonstrate progress in Project
implementation, compounded by overly complex institutional procedures and decision-makir.g
process within the MOJ.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total Project costs estimated at appraisal were US$18.5 million. The IBRD loan was
US$16.5 million. Of this total amount only US$1.4 million (or less than 9 percent) has been
disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability with respect to maintaining the achievements generated or
expected to be generated is difficult to rate. Since almost all of the Project Performance
Monitoring Indicators remain to be achieved, sustainability has to be rated only "unlikely".
However, at the time of loan cancellation in March 2002, the Government assured the Bank that
implementation of the reform program would continue with adequate funding from the national
budget. It is, therefore, possible that the Project objectives will be achieved some time in the
future, in particular if the Government continues the implementation of the activities contemplated
under the Project, albeit using its own budget. It would, therefore, be very useful to review in
two or three years (in line with the originally planned Project closing date) the final outcomes and
impact of this Project, maybe as part of the ongoing Bank-country dialogue or in the context of
the joint ESW program.
Kazakhstan appears to be committed to the legal and judicial reform agenda. The
Concept of Legal Policy recently approved by the President (Presidential Decree #949 September
20, 2002) describes the long-term policies and basic mechanisms of development of the legal
system and improvement of law enforcement practice in line with the 1995 Constitution and
overall development strategy. Completion of the actions envisaged by the Concept is expected by
2010.
In the area of legal drafting, the Concept envisages improvement of existing legislation,
introduction of three-year perspective planning of legal drafting, systematization of legislation by
means of its incorporation, consolidation, and codification, and raising the quality of legal drafting
at the local level. The MOJ is responsible for coordination of the Government legal drafting, its
assessment and registration. In addition to the annual plan of legal drafting, this year the MOJ is
working on preparation of the first medium-term plan for 2003-2005. The inter-agency
commission on issues of legal drafting composed of representatives of ministries and agencies,
apparatus of Parliament set up in 2000 to improve legal drafting of the state bodies continued to
operate throughout 2002. The quality of legislation remains important to the authorities. The
March 2002 amendments to the Normative Legal Acts Law of March 24, 1998 introduced
mandatory expert examination of the draft constitutional laws and codes. The MOJ has
developed rules of expert examination of draft legislation (Government Resolution #598 "On
Measures to Improve Legal Drafting" of May 30, 2002) and informed all state bodies about
existing appropriate expert institutions, one of which is the Legislation Institute under the MOJ.
- 12 -



The assessment and analysis of current legislation to identify possible inconsistencies, and an
inventory of international treaties and agreements to ensure their consistency with national
interests and domestic legislation are currently under way. The MOJ budget for legal drafting
totals almost US$1 million per year for 2002-2003.
The 2003 annual budget increases MOJ funding for legal information, as compared to
previous year. For the first time, a significant amount of US$124,000 has been allocated to fund
legal information to the public to support the work of the newly created Department on legal
information ("propaganda"), development of state language, and liaison with the public. The
MOJ continues to maintain its website which was developed with loan funds, but the full database
of legal information is not available on the web, as was originally planned by the Project. The
legal information database maintained in the Kazakh and Russian languages by the Republican
Center for Legal Information (RCLI) currently includes over 33,000 acts. It is available to the
general public by subscription (US$300 installation fee and a monthly fee in the range of
US$40-50 for the daily/weekly update), as well as at 14 public access points in libraries and
universities established during 2001. RCLI is working on its mandate to ensure access of all state
bodies to the database at both the central and local level, e.g., the Supreme Court and all Oblast
courts already have access to the database; but only 26 out of over 300 rayon (city) courts have
thus far been connected. Therefore, substantial work remains to be done to ensure the access to
the database by all rayon (city) courts, and further development of the network. The budget for
access to legal information is expected to double from US$190,000 in 2002 to US$360,000 in
2003.
To satisfy local training needs, MOJ and the Kazakh State Law Academy have founded an
Institute for training and retraining of staff of justice bodies, state and other organizations which
received registration in June 2001. While the MOJ budget for training and re-training accounted
for US$5,000 in 2002 and will triple in 2003 (US$15,000), the amount remains well below the
US$200,000 envisaged by the cancelled Project for training of Government lawyers in legal
drafting during the four years of expected Project life.
In the area of judicial reform, the Concept of Legal Policy envisages measures aimed at
strengthening independence of judges, training of judges and court personnel, simplification and
speeding of the case management procedures, and improvement of enforcement legislation.
The training budget of Kazakhstan judges and court personnel accounts for about
US$225,000 per year during 2002-2003. This budget mainly supports the operation of the
permanent Judicial Training Institute. This institute offers, based on the business plan prepared
under the Project, regular training specifically developed for the needs of judges and court
personnel (as opposed to occasional supply-driven workshops supported by various donors). The
authorities still have not identified a proper building for the Institute in Almaty, which would meet
its training purposes. As a temporary arrangement, the Institute is located in the building which
was previously occupied by Almaty city court. Since its inauguration in March 2002, the Institute
trained about 300 people, including judges of rayon (city) and Oblast courts, newly appointed
judges, staff of the Judicial Administration Committee. The Institute is not yet fully staffed, and
the judges of the Supreme Court and Oblast courts are often invited to lecture the judges of
- 13 -



lower-level courts. As a more permanent solution to the staffing issue, the Institute conducts a
"training of trainers" program with support from OSCE and GTZ. It has also developed relations
with training institutions outside Kazakhstan, e.g. the Russian Academy of Justice.
Substantial budget amounts have been allocated for material and technical support of the
judicial bodies in 2002 and 2003, US$3.8 million and US$2.5 million, respectively. In addition,
about US$1 million was envisaged in 2002 for computerization of the Oblast courts. The new
Concept focuses on the rayon (city) courts since the majority of cases are subject to jurisdiction of
courts at this level, which are also the closest to the population. Further development of the
[institute of] economic, administrative, and juvenile specialized courts is envisaged, based on the
evaluation of performance of the two pilot economic courts during 2001. Specialized economic
and administrative courts are expected to lower the workload of the rayon courts, improve the
quality of the judicial process, and make it more accessible to the public.
The electronic database containing 3,000 Supreme Court decisions was established using
loan funds, and it is publicly available at the Supreme Court webpage. The next step -
establishment of a database of about 60,000 judicial decisions of Oblast level courts - will be
funded by the national budget, and the Supreme Court is in the process of selecting consultants to
perform this assignment. The terms of reference of the consultants include training of staff at the
Oblast level courts to maintain and update the database.
It was agreed by the World Bank and Supreme Court that the Court will not undertake
any loan-financed activities in the area of enforcement (due to time constraints). The judiciary has
been studying thoroughly intemational experience of various existing models of judicial
enforcement in order to identify the one most appropriate for Kazakhstan needs. JAC conducted.
conferences and seminars with support from OSCE and GTZ. A new draft law on the
enforcement of judicial decisions is expected to be presented to the Government in 2003.
6.2 Tranisition arranigement to regular operations:
Not applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and
post-appraisal stages of the Project is rated satisfactory. The Project was fully consistent with
the Bank's overall development assistance strategy for Kazakhstan, strongly complemented the
rest of the Bank's Project portfolio in Kazakhstan, and was timely and appropriate for the
country's economic development goals. Similarly, this Project was of great interest to the
Kazakhstani authorities -- Project-related preparation activities were launched based upon strong
and consistent expressions of interest from the MOF and MOJ officials, and equally strong
interest expressed by the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for legal reforn.
Throughout Project preparation, Bank management and staff refined the nature and scope
of the operation. Bank staff took care to ensure that the components and activities proposed for
Project inclusion were based on a realistic, in-depth assessment of country needs in the
- 14 -



legal/judicial area. The Project team received valuable guidance from the Bank sectoral specialists
in the ECA region, the country office and the resident mission staff, and legal specialists in the
Legal Department. In retrospect, it would have been helpful to developed a more detailed
baseline data for more result-oriented monitoring indicators, and to engage the Government more
active in these efforts.
The Bank's Project preparation activities were not only closely integrated with
Govermnent officials' views, but also benefited from advice offered by local judges, members of
parliament, local and foreign consultants, academics and representatives of the civil society. The
Bank also took care to coordinate its activities with similar work that was being carned out in
Kazakhstan by other donors and international agencies. In particular, the Bank was in close
contact with the USAID officials and consultants financed by USAID legal/judicial programs in
Kazakhstan.
The Bank allocated sufficient funds to properly staff the Project team, and to field
numerous Project preparation missions by HQ staff. All Bank missions were well staffed by
professionals with a necessary mix of technical, sectoral and operational skills. The same applies
to the composition of the Project team in general. Preparation missions were appropriately timed
and were closely coordinated with Government counterparts. Throughout Project preparation,
Bank findings and recommendations were documented in detailed mission aide-memoires which
were agreed upon by the counterparts and Bank management. There were several changes in the
Task Management responsibilities in the early stages of Project preparation, but this had no
negative impact on either the speed or quality of Project preparation. In fact, the bank Project
team has been remarkably stable. The Bank's country lawyer has been a member of the Project
team (as a co-task manager) throughout Project preparation and implementation. Likewise, the
Almaty/Astana office Operations Officer has worked with the Project team from the start. And
the current Project Task Team Leader has been in charge of the Project since early 1998 (i.e.,
Project pre-appraisal stage).
The Bank has been responsive to the views of the Kazakhstani authorities regarding the
scope and nature of the Project. The Project was prepared under the active direction of, and with
strong participation of, MOJ officials. Although the Project was prepared at a time when the
courts were under the authority of the MOJ, the Bank worked hard to involve judges, especially
Supreme Court justices and the association of judges, into the process of Project preparation. To
increase the involvement of the academic and NGO community, the Bank proposed, and took part
in, the first ever national legal reform conference organized by the Government. Although the
Project was designed and negotiated to include a legal education component (based on the
authorities' strong interest), when the Government decided, after formal Project negotiations, to
exclude this component from the operation, the Bank agreed, after careful assessment of the
Government's reasons and overall impact of the change on the Project objectives.
As is normally the case, throughout Project preparation, the Bank devoted a lot of
attention to assisting the line agency (MOJ) to have appropriate institutional, procurement,
financial management, and disbursement capacity. This was achieved through Bank-financing of
extemal (local and foreign) consultants, and guidance provided by experienced Bank procurement
- 15-



and financial management staff. In order to support the borrower's Project preparation activities,
and address shortage of budgetary funds, the Bank provided Kazakhstan with a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance of US$500,000, and secured a Policy and Human Resource
Development (PHRD) Grant of US$415,000 from the Japanese authorities. Both were executed
by the Kazakhstani authorities, which was important both in terms of ensuring ownership and
sense of responsibility by the local officials, and strengthening significantly local institutional and
technical capacity. Regrettably, early in Project implementation, the Government adopted a
general policy to: (i) integrate all PIUs within their respective ministries (in this Project this was
already the case); and (ii) eliminate the use of consultants for technical aspects of Project
implementation, such as financial management, disbursement and procurement. The latter did
have a significant negative impact on the Project implementation. Some of these disruptive
consequences could have mitigated if the Bank would have been more pro-active Bank in this PIU
transition process.
In summary, the Bank's performance during Project preparation resulted in a
well-designed CAS-consistent operation, which had the complete support, commitment, and sense
of "ownership" of the borrower. Given the Project scope and relative complexity, it was allowed
to mature from a general idea to a thoroughly appraised and costed operation, with clear lines of
responsibilities, detailed implementation plan (for the first years of operation), and stronger than
average line ministry and PIU capacity. Two components (legal drafting and legal information)
were to be implemented by the MOJ. The third component (judicial strengthening) was also to be
implemented by the MOJ, but with necessary close coordination and participation of the Supreme
Court and other courts. Given the scope and breadth of the court and case management
sub-component, it was to be implemented in two phases, first on a pilot basis and later through a
national roll-out program. In general, Project assumptions, activities and objectives were realistic.
Given a strong sense of ownership and demand expressed by the authorities and quite strong
implementation (PIU/MOJ) structures, the Bank was quite optimistic about this operation,
although it was recognized that significant efforts by both the borrower and the Bank would be
required to ensure its success.
7.2 Supeivision:
The Bank's performance during the Project supervision stage is rated satisfactory.
The Bank team carried out 5 supervision missions during 26 months following Project
effectiveness. Each supervision mission dealt with the relevant institutional, technical,
operational, financial, reporting and substantive aspects of the Project, and involved all relevant
Government officials and judges, as well as representatives of the civil society, academics, and
international donors. In order to increase the frequency of the supervision missions, some
missions were staggered, i.e., were undertaken by one of the two co-task managers, or by
technical specialists (such as the team's IT specialist). Missions were always concluded with
detailed aide-memoires, which summarized Project status, identified outstanding issues and next
steps, and contained updated procurement plans. In addition to periodic mission-based dialogue
with the borrower, the Bank team maintained a permanent team member in Almaty and then
Astana (when the Bank's resident mission relocated). Close contact between Government
officials and HQ staff was also ensured through highly effective electronic and telephone
communications.
- 16 -



As a result, Bank procurement-related decisions (which are sometimes cited as reasons for
delays in Project implementation) in this operation were made very quickly. One of the
institutional capacity issues -- the MOJ weak procurement capacity -- was identified early and
noted often in Bank communications. The Bank Project team assisted the MOJ/PIU with the
preparation of consultants long lists, draft of terms of reference, draft contracts, and many other
procurement-related activities. The Bank team also encouraged counterparts to train their staff
and to engage qualified procurement consultants.
Throughout Project preparation (and later implementation), the Bank tried to be
responsive to the changing circumstances and priorities expressed by the borrower. For example,
during Project implementation, the borrower requested that the legal drafting component be
implemented through a panel of legal experts, a structure that was not originally planned for and
one that required significant procurement-related consultations within the Bank. The Project
team was able to respond positively to the borrower's request and assisted the borrower in
designing proper procedures and documents needed to support such a structure.
The Project has always been high on the Bank management agenda, both internally and
vis-a-vis the borrower. The Project was prominent in the Country Portfolio Performance Review
(CPPR) and Annual Meeting discussions, and during Bank management (Regional Vice President
or Country Director) visits to the country. When delays and other problems began to occur, the
Bank sought to identify and discuss Project-related issues with the authorities in a pro-active,
timely and constructive manner, constrained only by the fact that the responsibility for Project
implementation rested with the borrower. When the borrower indicated that it wished to delay
the implementation of the court and case management component, because of imminent changes
in the court administration area, the Bank agreed to a postponement of this activity. As some in
the Government began to express doubts about the need to continue with loan financing of
Project activities, the Bank sought to first understand the counterparts' concerns. Then, an
informal interdepartmental review meeting was organized to discuss and seek guidance on how
best to handle the situation, resulting in a detailed proposal for restructuring the Project. And
during various missions, the Government's concerns and alternatives were discussed openly with
others in the Government (MOJ, MOF, the Presidential Administration), members of the Supreme
Court, and others. It was stated as well that, in addition to financial resources, the Project
supported by a Bank loan brought in technical advice, unique international expertise and
reputation that money alone could not provide. However, ultimately, the Bank had no choice but
to agree to the borrower's request to cancel the loan.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, the overall rating for the Bank's performance is satisfactory.
Although the Bank regrets the borrower's decision to cancel the loan prematurely, the Bank's
performance during Project preparation and implementation has been professional, diligent,
attentive to the country circumstances, and accommodating to the borrower's circumstances. It is
hard to see, even ex post, what else could have been done by the Bank in this case to change the
outcome of this operation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
- 17 -



The borrower's performance during the preparation stage is rated satisfactory. The
Project idea and objectives were supported at the highest levels of Government, MOJ, MOF, and
the Presidential Administration, and the Supreme Court. Throughout Project preparation, there
were changes in the leadership of the MOJ, but the MOJ managed to play a very constructive
role, relying on internal expertise, as well as on input from local judges, and foreign and local
consultants engaged to assist in Project preparation. With time, the MOJ strengthened its
institutional and technical capacity required to execute the PHRD Grant and the PPF Advance,
and necessary for the ultimate Project implementation. Communications with the Bank were
generally good, especially during Project preparation. The MOJ showed considerable willingness
to bring into the discussion of the Project and its activities non-governmental institutions,
academia, media, etc.
7.5 Government inmplementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated marginally satisfactory.
The authorities' overall commitment to reforms in the legal and judicial sector remained strong
throughout Project preparation and implementation, and leaves many hopes for the future. For
example, the Government's commitment to improving the quality, consistency, and effectiveness
of legal enactments continues unabated. The decision to transfer responsibility for court
management from the MOJ to the Supreme Court is also highly commendable. Similarly, there
has been strong commitment to judicial training.
Nevertheless, there were significant delays in the implementation of the judicial training
sub-component because of the MOYs difficulty in securing a suitable building for the judicial
training institute. This problems could have been avoided had the Government been more
committed to meeting its in-kind counterpart contribution obligation.
Another complicating factor was the Govenmment's move to the new capital, which caused
certain disruption in terms of organization and staffing. Periodic changes in the MOJ leadership
(there were three Minister of Justice during the Project) caused understandable delays in Project
preparation and implementation.
Most notable, however, was a gradual change in attitude toward technical assistance and
the Project in general. Over the course of Project implementation, as the Govemment's budgetary
situation began to improve, it became clear that the Govenmment no longer wished to benefit from
loan-based technical assistance, especially foreign consultancy services.
Another concem was the slow pace of Project implementation. In 2001-2002, the
authorities and the Bank agreed to split Project implementation responsibility between the MOJ
and Supreme Court, with the latter assuming full responsibility over the judicial strengthening
component. Within a short period of time, the Supreme Court was able to implement many
activities which were previously on hold, thus giving hope that at least this component would be
maintained, especially given the strong need for reforms and technical advice in the area ofjudicial
training, and court and case management. Regrettably, the Bank was unable to convince the
authorities that the nature and complexity of planned reforms in the judicial arena needed precisely
the kind of financial and technical assistance the loan was able to offer.
- 18 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Major problems associated with the implementation of the MOJ performance can be
summarized as follows: (a) insufficient overall attention to the Project, and lack of effective
corrective actions with respect to major Project-related problems by the MOJ's management; (b)
lack of communication with the Supreme Court, and impediment of Supreme Court-supported
initiatives during the last phase of the Project; (c) insufficient number of competent staff, high
turnover of staff, and weak technical capacity of staff assigned to the Project; (d) unwillingness to
address weak procurement capacity, which caused major delays in Project implementation; (e)
general institutional weaknesses; and (f) unnecessary and numerous changes in Project-related
activities and procurement arrangements.
After becoming directly responsible for implementing the judicial strengthening
component, the Supreme Court carried out its obligations in a fully satisfactory manner. It
quickly established a PIU with strong procurement, financial management, and operational
capacity, allowing the Court to successfully implement a number of important activities during a
very short time frame. The Court's commitment to the Project objectives, specifically judicial
training, better enforcement of judicial decisions, and improvement of court and case
management, combined with the Court's then existing technical capacity, left little doubt that,
given the opportunity, it would be able to successfully implement the judicial strengthening
component.
7.7 Overall Borrowerpeiform:ance:
Based on the above, the borrower's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Among the lessons learned during the course of preparing, implementing, amending, and
bringing to closure this Project, the following lessons are considered to be most significant and
potentially relevant for the Bank's possible similar operations in Kazakhstan and other countries:
(a)   Comprehensive projects require significantly more time and care in their design
and implementation than more targeted legal/judicial strengthening operations, and are definitely
more challenging. The success of such operations depends on a number of factors, including the
degree of support ("ownership") being provided by the highest echelons of Government, the
country's institutional capacity and the status of its economic, legal, regulatory, political and social
development.
(b)   Involvement of civil society, donors, universities, and media at all stages of project
assessment, design, and implementation is critical. While this will complicate the process of
project preparation and implementation, such a participatory approach will open the Government
to outside accountability, broaden and deepen the Govemment's and Bank's understanding of
problems and possible solutions, and will promote the development of local capacity.
(c)   There is much benefit in learning from other countries' experiences. The Bank can
often be instrumental in disseminating cross-country or regional experiences, but a direct learning
(in person, through the internet, or by attending conferences and seminars) is nevertheless
- 19-



essential. Such information sharing should be encouraged and financed both during project
preparation and implementation. In this case, an active exchange of information took place
between Kazakhstan and their Russian colleagues. Since a more advanced legal reform Project
was under implementation in Russia, these experiences were regarded as highly relevant for
Kazakhstan in view of the many similarities between the two countries. Such cross fertilization of
experiences may continue on a regional basis in the future.
(d)   The depth and sustainability of legal reforms may require more than 4 years,
therefore, an Adjustable Program Loan (APL) structure may be a more appropriate to support
such Projects.
(e)    While it is important to have one or two "key" ministries or agencies taking
responsibility for the overall project direction (i.e., MOJ), if other ministries or agencies are to
benefit from the project, their early and active involvement in the project design and
implementation is critical.
(f)   While in other projects, the appropriateness of two separate PIUs has been
questioned, the bifurcated approach of this operation (which came about a year into project
implementation) proved to be most effective in giving the judiciary the required sense of control
and ownership, without undue increase in the cost of project implementation. Strong technical
(i.e., procurement, disbursement, financial management) capacity required for project
implementation is critical and should be developed within governmental or judicial structures,
rather than outside.
(g)   The Bank should continue to refine and improve its project monitoring and
evaluation techniques, taking into account rather unique, long-term, and not always easy to assess
aspects of legal and judicial reform projects. There is room to develop more comprehensive
sectoral or regional indicators, taking into account the experience of similar initiatives, financed by
the Bank (through loans, credits, or grants, especially IDF grants), other donors, and by the
countries' themselves. Sufficient baseline information is essential to be able to accurately measure
project impacts. Surveys and other techniques should be utilized at each stage of project
preparation, implementation, and assessment. The cost to the Bank and borrower of undertaking
such initiatives will be significant but this is essential to achieve the desired results.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowel/inmplenmenting agencv.
A final evaluation report prepared by the Borrower is included as Annex 8. Given the
bifurcated nature of the Project and project implementation responsibilities, the MOJ and the
Supreme Court prepared separate evaluation reports discussing their respective activities and
components under the Project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The project was not co-financed. However, given the active participation of other donors
and agencies in the field of legal and judicial reform in Kazakhstan, the Project team requested
feedback from eight other such donors. Responses were received from three most active
agencies, namely USAID, the European Commission and UNDP. Their letters are included in
-20 -



Annex 7.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
The Project team also requested comments and feedback from more than ten Kazakhstani
civil society groups and organization, with whom the team has had regular contact during project
implementation, but no feedback has been received.
10. Additional Information
N/A
-21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrx                   Projectedin'last PSR           -     Actua1ILateltst tmate
(a) Improved quality and consistency of  No projections were made given delays in  Most of planned activities related to this
legal enactments,                    project implementaton and subsequent loan objective were not undertaken. Accordingly,
cancellation.                        surveys and other M&E tools were not
utilized Impact: no effect.
(b) Improved enforcement of legal    No projections were made given delays in  Procurement for an enforcement study was
enactment;                           project implementation and subsequent loan initated but ultmately did not take place.
cancellaton.                         Other institutional strengthening activifies
(training, court and case management
reforms, etc.) also did not take place.
Impact: no effect.
(c) More efficient, accessible, transparent,  No projections were made given delays In  Court reorganization (parallel to project
and effective judicial system, resulUng in  project implementation and subsequent loan activities) was adopted; supreme court and
more professional and knowledgeable judges cancellation,                  newly established economic courts benefited
and court administrations;                                               from court automatization; electronic
database for supreme court decisions
contributes to more transparent judicial
decision-making. These acivities are
expeeded to play a positive role In the
development of a more efficent, accessible,
transparent, and effective judicial system.
(d) Increased public awareness of legal  No projections were made given delays in  Most of planned activites related to this
rights and greater public parbcipation in the  project implementation and subsequent loan objective were not undertaken. Accordingly,
legal system; and                    cancellation.                        M&E tools were not utilized. Impact: no
effect.
(e) Improved access by govemment officials, No projections were made given delays in  The most important activites did not take
judges, parliamentarians, legal professional, project implementation and subsequent loan place during the project but several smaller
the business community, and the public at  cancellation.                  scale activities were successfully completed
large to more reliable, comprehensive and                                 and thus contributed to the goal
up-to-date legal information
Output Indicators:
-. IndicatorlMatrfx   ,g    ' -   .' ,Jed ln laqt PSR        _      '    ActuallL   eatEstEimate'
Timely implementation of an annual   No projections were made given delays in  TA activites were, with some minor
legaVregulatory implementation plan,  project Implementaton and subsequent loan exceptons, not implemented. The panel of
cancellation                        local experts was created but used only
twice, and aflthough during 2000 major efforts
were undertaken to align the formally adopted
legal drafting plan with 7 specialized TA
draffing packages, they were never formally
issued.
MOJ organization improved in accordance                                   Functional
with  ~ coslat recmmedatons                                                  review and related re-organization
with consuttants' recommendabons;                                         were not implemented.
More professional cadre of govemment                                      A few In-country training initiatives were
lawyers who are responsible for legal                                     completed, but given their small scale and
draffing,                                                                 premature loan cancellabon, it is not possible
to assess their Impact.
Court administration Projects implemented  No projecions were made given delays in  Court automatization completed in Supreme
on schedule for 3 out of 17 oblast-evel courts project implementabon and subsequent loan Court and 1 (economic) pilot court. TORs
and the Supreme court;               cancellation.                        and other bidding documents prepared for
case management reform study but not
carried out because of loan cancellation
All sittng of judges trained for at least 50-100                          During 2001, the permanent Judicial Training
hours per year via judicial training insUtute;                           InsUtute was established and staff, promises
and budget provided. A strategy and
business plan has been prepared. Training
program did not start during project
-22 -



All newly-recruited judges trained for at least                          implementation.
120 hours via judicial training InstitUte.                              Some 40 judges particpated in training
programs in Russia. and several workshops
were organized and highly appreciated.
Legal database strengthened and upgraded  No projections were made given delays in  Progress towards achieving this goal has
in accordance with plan, WEB page   proJect implementaton and subsequent loan been llmited. A system and database
developed, 30 public access points  cancellation.                       configuraUon study was conducted.
established, well functioning, and X number                             Comments related to strengthening the
of end users accessed to the system.                                    database Itself were ignored, but MOJ did
use this study as a basis to procure hardware
to connect all MOJ local offices late 2001
(using local budget funds). So in 2001,
some 750 state and court users are
connected to the legal database This is
significantly more than In 1999, and this
number is expected to grow to over 900 in
2002. Access by official users to legal
informaton has, therefore, definitely improved
(albeit only indirectly as a result of activites
financed by the project). As to access of the
public at large, the situation is bleaker;
except for private sector for profit subscribers
access has been made available for free at
least 14 publicly accessible locations. A
WEB site with more limited information has
been created too.
The Supreme Court established an electronic
database for publication and dissemination of
all its decisions to other courts and other
users In eady 2002.
Joumalist and other media prepare                                        MOJ has not used much of the funds
educational programs on legal issues;                                   reserved for public awareness campaigns,
nor were educational programs undertaken to
workshops and conferences are undertaken.                                strengthen the professionalism of press; they
did establish a permanent PR/public
awareness department to improve public
relations between the govemment and the
population.
End of project
-23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Y ,  t * S  '             ,Appraisal  Actual/Latest  Percentage of
-vW _ ,',  ' '  ' "7  ',,       _       .    wEstimate  . Estimate       Appraisal
-Project Cost By Component             US$ million  US$ million
1. Legal Drafting and Institutional Strengthening  4.20           0.14             3
2. Judicial Strengthening                          7.00           0.40             6
3. Legal Information and Public Awareness          4.25           0.16           2.5
4. Project Management and Implementation           0.40           0.30            75
5. Front-end fee                                   0.17           0.17           100
6. PPF Repayment                                   0.50           0.30            60
Total Baseline Cost                               16.52           1.47
Total Project Costs            16.52           1.47
Total Financing Required            16.52           1.47
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
r                          Procurement Method                         -
Expenditure CatgoryF     ICB                -          2 2     N.B.F.     Total Cost,
-                              N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1CB  -Other  _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                    0.00          0.00        0.70         0.00         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    5.60          0.00        0.45         0.00         6.05
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        6.73         0.00         6.73
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Training                 0.00          0.00        2.15         0.00         2.15
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Incremental Operating    0.00          0.00        0.22         0.00         0.22
Costs                      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Refunding PPF and        0.00          0.00        0.65         0.00         0.65
Front-end Fee              (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     5.60         0.00         10.90        0.00        16.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Eipe,d,ture J atego,,    ICB     ,Procurement Method :
.'E-idtureCategory,                   NCB                      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.27         0.00        0.27
(0.00)       (0.05)      (0.20)       (0.00)       (0.25)
-24 -



3. Services                     0.00           0.00           0.33          0.00          0.33
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.28)        (0. 10)       (0.38)
4. Training                     0.00           0.00           0.12          0.00          0.12
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Incremental Operating        0.00           0.00           0.23          0.00          0.23
Costs                           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Refunding PPF and            0.00           0.00           0.47          0.00          0.47
Front-end Fee                   (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00          0.00           1.42          0.00          1.42
(0.00)         (0.05)        (0.48)        (0. I 0)      (0.63)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted stiff1
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
., .                                             1         -t(' ' , .^ ........... | | . | Percentage or Apprais
Component    -         Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Eshimate    ...    .
Bank      Go't      CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Govi.:  C
Legal Drafting and       4.20      0.20                 0.14                         3.3    0.0
Institutional Strengthening
Judicial Strengthening   7.00       1.10                0.40                         5.7    0.0
Legal Information and    4.25      0.70                 0.16                         3.8    0.0
Public Awareness
Project Management and   0.40                          0.30                         75.0
Implementation
Miscellaneous            0.66                          0.47                         71.2
- 25 -



Aunnex 3. Econonmic Costs and Beneflts
N/A
-26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1996                    5    I Sr. Country Officer, I Counsel,
I Operations Officer, I Resident
Representative, I Division Chief
November 1996                6   2 Sr. Country Officers, I
Counsel, I Operations Officer, I
Resident Representative, 1
Information Specialist
February 1997                4    1 Sr. Country Officer/Team
Leader, I Counsel/Co-Team
Leader, I Operations Officer, I
Information Specialist
June 1997                    2    1 Counsel, I Operations Officer
September 1997               3    1 Counsel, I Operations Officer.
I Assistant General Counsel
October 1997                 2    1 Sr. Country Officer, I
Operations Officer
February 1998                4    1 Team Leader, 2 Legal
Counsels, I Operations Officer
July 1998                    2    1 Team Leader, I Operations
Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
September 1998               5   1 Counsel/Team Leader, I
Operations Officer, I
Judicial Strengthening, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Financial Management
Specialist
March 1999                        1 Team Leader, I Counsel, I
Operations Officer
Supervision
October 1999                 5    1 Team Leader, I Counsel, I        S             S
Operations Officer, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Information Technology
Specialist
November 2000                3    1 Team Leader, I Operations        S             S
Officer, 1 Information Specialist
April 2001                   3   1 Counsel/Team Leader, I            U             S
Operations Officer, I Financial
Management Specialist
May 2001                     2   1 Operations Officer, I             U             S
Information Specialist
June 2001                    1   1 Financial Management              U             S
Specialist
-27 -



July 2001                   2    1 Counsel/Team Leader, I         U             S
Operations Officer
1nCR
December 2001               5    1 Team Leader, I Counsel!        U             U
Co-Team Leader, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Financial Management
Specialist, I Operations
Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              65.5                      243.30
Appraisal/Negotiation                  31.55                       99.52
Supervision                           105.57                     442.39
ICR                                     3.46                        7.17
Total                                 206.08                      792.39
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
C Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N         * NA
LI Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM * N         O NA
Fl Physical                           O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
L Financial                           OH    OSUOM     ON    *NA
LI Institutional Development          O H O SU *M O N 0 NA
L Environmental                       O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
3I Gender                       OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
LI Private sector development         0 H O SU O M * N 0 NA
L Public sector management            0 H   O SU 0 M * N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower JPerformmnce
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
OI Lending                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS       O  U   O HU
OI Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U    O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
-30-



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C I  I
-~~~~~~~~~~        .~~~~~~~~~~t . 
74 f                                   ..lj. )
4.0~ ~ ~ ~ ~



'if ~ if thiuitTis
IT'~~ ii IIh"tLit
I~   WgW't6
I IiI!;tk



pJ lul       I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4  I 
RI 



|p ,lu     i
.ia2               I ^gng' 
in
ET , a ]  t
m;]{agxX 
|t3  S wot mi!la ij s  .
{to nivi4lE{Ea



INi5riea5i5liE  5
{ t  l(F }  i|  [lz
~~~~ I           4 F1g 



Additionsll Annex 8. Borrower's Contributdon to the 1CR
-36-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
Loan No. 4467
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
August 2002
- 37 -



1.    Project goal and objectives
In 1996 in the course of the economic reform program implementation the Government of
the Republic of Kazakhstan came to realize inadequacy of the existing legal system for the
developing market economy. In view of the need for implementation of systemic and
comprehensive legal reform the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan addressed to the
World Bank requesting to provide with the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for preparation of a
separate legal reform project (letter of the Minister of Finance A.S. Pavlov of August 16, 1996).
At that time the World Bank was funding technical assistance in the legal area under the technical
assistance loan (more than $2 million USD), petroleum technical assistance loan (about $300,000
USD) and financial sector and enterprises development loan (about $200,000 USD). The main
purpose of the legal reform loan was to further strengthen the legal system of Kazakhstan on the
whole and its specific institutions in order to support and extend the ongoing economic reform
program.
2.    Project Preparation Stage
The Govermment of the Republic of Kazakhstan made a political decision on the necessity
to get a loan for legal reform. In particular, the then Deputy Prime-Minister of the Republic of
Kazakhstan Shaikenov N.A. and the Minister of Justice Kolpakov K.A., as well as Presidential
Administration and Office of the Prime-Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan expressed their
interest and support with respect to the loan for legal reform. The interagency working group was
established in accordance with the Order of the Prime-Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan as
of June 21, 1996, No. 295-p, to arrange the preparation of the IBRD long-term loan for the legal
reform. The members from the Ministry of Justice were Minister Kolpakov K.A. and Deputy
Minister Vaissov M.K.. The Ministry of Justice was assigned as the responsible agency for
preparation of the future loan. The high-level officials and staff of the Ministry of Justice took an
active part in the development of the legal reform directions the implementation of which should
be supported by the project. Staff of the Ministry were assigned supervisors responsible for each
project component in accordance with the Order of the Ministry of Justice of March 7, 1997, No.
9. On the whole the Deputy Minister of Justice Vaissov M.K. was entrusted with guidance of the
project activities. Besides, the Division for Project Preparation and Implementation was
established  consisting  of  4  local  consultants:  director,  lawyer,  specialist  on
procurement/disbursement, and interpreter. The consultants of this division commenced their
work in April 1997.
The following components of the legal reform project were identified at the preparation
stage: 1) development of law drafts and strengthening of institutional opportunities (the budget in
the loan was $4,400,000 USD); 2) legal information and public awareness in legal issues (the
budget in the loan was $4,935,000 USD); 3) judicial system strengthening (the budget in the loan
was $8,100,00 USD). Furthermore, $400,000 USD were allocated to support project
management and implementation.
PPF P317-0 to the amount of $500,000 USD (agreement of April 1, 1997, $307,824 USD
-38-



were actually withdrawn during the whole loan period) and Japanese Government grant PHRD
TF027109 to the amount of $415,000 USD (agreement of May 5, 1997) were used for the project
preparation. The provided funds were used for financing of consultant's services, equipment
procurement, training of the staff of the Ministry of Justice and conduction of conferences, as well
as operational costs related to the project implementation. Services of the international and
national consultants on detailed development of activities within the abovementioned components
were the main part of expenditures. Besides, training tours to get acknowledged with US legal
education system, exchange of experience with the Russian Fund of Legal Initiatives responsible
for the implementation of the similar project in Russia, international conference on legal reform in
Almaty were financed from the PPF and PHRD grant. Computer hardware, office equipment,
furniture and a car were purchased for the Ministry of Justice. At the time of signing of the Legal
Reform loan, 68% of the PHRD grant were disbursed and with regards to the PPF it was about
75%, which is a positive indicator.
3.    Project Implementation Stage - Loan Restructuring
The staff turnover within the Government and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of
Kazakhstan had a negative impact on the preparation for the legal reform loan. In December 1998
the negotiations on the Loan Agreement took place with participation of the representatives of the
Ministry of Justice (Vaissov M.K. and Demin A.B., Head of the Division for Project Preparation
and Implementation) and the Ministry of Finance. The loan became effective only in August 1999.
In particular, the total cost of the project ($20 million USD) and its structure that consists of the
abovementioned components were approved in the course of the negotiations. This was reflected
in the Minutes of Meeting. However, three months later the Government of the Republic of
Kazakhstan proposed to make amendments in the documents approved at the negotiations (letter
of the Deputy Prime-Minister 0. A. Jandosov of March 26, 1996, No.E-152). In particular, it
was suggested to reduce the total cost of the project from 20 to 18 million USD (the
IBRD loan was $16.5 million USD, including the following categories: 1) goods (B1,
b2A, Cl) - $4,400,000 USD, goods (B2B) - $1,700,000 USD, cost of consulting -
$6,700,000 USD, training - $2,035,000 USD, works - $700,000 USD, current operational costs
- $900,000 USD, reimbursement of the project preparation advance - $500,000 USD,
commission fees - $165,000 USD and co-financing from the national budget to the amount of $2
million USD); to increase the cost of the legal drafting and institutional capacity strengthening
component and judicial system strengthening component; to reduce the legal information and
public awareness component. The amendments required additional work on the technical and
financial project documents, therefore, the loan could become effective only on August 16, 1999.
The financial reports on the use of the loan funds are attached in the table format.
The prerequisite for the efficient implementation of the project are the adequate project
management and availability of professional staff. Due to the replacement of the high-level
officials of the Ministry of Justice, the specialists that were not involved in project preparation
started working on the project at the implementation stage. The Deputy Minister of Justice A.K.
Kuzutbayeva became responsible for the project implementation control. Under her direction the
Ministry of Justice organized the project implementation activities with the help of their own staff
and authorized the Department for International Donor Aid Coordination and Property Interest
- 39 -



Protection with the project management functions. In particular, the Head of the Department
S.Sh. Kirzhibaeva performed the functions previously performed by a consultant-Head of the
Division for Project Preparation and Implementation. The IBRD experts welcomed this approach
of the Ministry of Justice. Similarly to the preparation stage, the Ministry of Justice continued
attracting local consultants for coordination of the activities within each component. At the same
time implementation of the complicated procurement, disbursement, and financial management
procedures that required adequate specific knowledge fell on the staff of the Department.
4.    The Project Implementation Outputs by Components
A. Legal drafting and institutional strengthening
The main objective of this component is to support the efforts of the Government of the
Republic of Kazakhstan at the republican level to improve the quality, transparency and efficiency
of laws and by-laws, to improve the legal drafting process, especially with regards to economic
legislation.
As a matter of fact $140,268 USD were disbursed during the whole loan implementation
period under the above component, including $957 USD for training and $139,311 USD for
consulting services.
Within this component 7 packages of legal enactments to be developed in 2001-2002 at
the expense of the loan were prepared and submitted to the Government. This list of law drafts
was sent back for revision in compliance with Order No. 134/005-262 as of June 26, 2001.
However, on June 23, 2001, the meeting of the Budgetary Commission for drafting
national budget for 2002 took place. At this meeting it was decided to refuse to take a loan of the
International Bank of Reconstruction and Development, No. 4467 KZ " Legal Reform Project"
and regard it cancelled from December 31, 2001.
To this end the letter on taking down of this order in a view of impossibility to fulfill this
task (No. 6-17-2/1396/3) was prepared and sent to the Government of the Republic of
Kazakhstan on July 18, 2001.
With the agreement of the World Bank a panel (list) of independent consultants was
established to hire them for short-term legal drafting activities. The following consultants from
this panel were attracted: Sapargaliev K. who developed the draft of the Law of RK "On
normative acts", Sutemgenova Zh.K. for the development of the Law of RK "On trade" and
Adamov T. for the development of comments to the Code of RK on Administrative Delinquency.
The meeting of the Commission for selection of project consultants to carry out analysis of
the existing legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan took place on February 21, 2001. Within the
framework of this task it was planned to implement analysis of about 700 draft laws. However,
due to the lack of competition between the potential consultants the contest was declared void.
Taking into consideration those circumstances the Bank allowed to re-announce the tender.
-40-



However, in view of the planned loan cancellation the Ministry of Justice refused to implement
this subcomponent.
It was also planned to organize a training program for governmental officials abroad.
However, the Bank turned down this proposal and as a result of this the activities under this
component were not implemented.
With a view of settlement of the controversy with GTZ the Resolution of the Government
of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 1696 as of November 10, 2000 "On settlement of the dispute
between the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan and German Technical
Cooperation Society" was developed and adopted. According to this Resolution, GTZ was repaid
to the amount of $129,781 USD, i.e. 75% of the contractual cost.
At present the Ministry of Justice is continuing the activity in the sphere of law drafting.
Thus, certain activities are implemented within the framework of the Interagency Commission for
law drafting activities that was established by the Government in 2000 to improve the law drafting
activities of the government bodies. The functions of this Commission include consideration of
issues related to formation of plans of law drafting activities for a year, discussion of draft laws,
programs, concepts, etc.
It is necessary to emphasize that on the basis of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan as
of March 6, 2002 a change was made into the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of March 24,
1998 "On Legal Enactments" regarding the conduction of the compulsory scientific appraisal of
drafts of constitutional laws and codes as well as legislative acts on introduction of changes and
amendments into them.
The Ministry of Justice is also implementing the work related to preparation of the draft of
the long-term Plan of Government's activities on law drafting for 2003-2005.
Besides, this year it is proposed to develop and submit the Law of the Republic of
Kazakhstan "On Lobbying" for consideration of Mazhilis (Parliament). However, now the
developers may take measures aimed at conduction of the independent appraisal of draft laws as
well as attract representatives from all levels of society when developing the project.
The Ministry of Justice is already taking some steps in this direction. Firstly, all the state
bodies were sent a list of scientific organizations engaged in conduction of scientific appraisal.
Secondly, the Ministry practices agreement of draft laws with the territorial bodies of justice.
The Ministry of Justice has also developed the Rules of the conduction of the scientific
appraisal of draft laws which are approved by the Government's Resolution of the Republic of
Kazakhstan as of 30.05.2002 ' 598 "On Measures Aimed to Improve Drafting of Normative
Acts".
Besides, it is necessary to mention that the Government has submitted the draft of the
Legal Policy Concept of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Presidents' consideration.
-41 -



B. Legal information and public awareness
The objective of this component is to increase the level of the legal information and
provide state officials, judges, judicial institutes, legal drafters, practicing lawyers, entrepreneurs
and society on the whole with a full access to this information. This component is aimed at the
development of the comprehensive, up-to-date system of legal education, increase of the legal
education quality level as well as improvement of public awareness and understanding of the role
of the law and process of the legal reform. Within the framework of this project it was considered
to finance the activities related to development of curriculums for law schools and standards on
issuing certificates to lawyers, improvement of methodological basis, standardization of the
testing process and rendering of the technical assistance to educational institutions.
In particular, the legal information related to economic reforms and relevant normative
acts is in question.
Within the framework of this project it was considered to finance the development of the
national strategy of legal information and its stage-wise implementation plan, as well as goods and
services including the use of electronic and ordinary means of legal information dissemination, its
classification and codification.
At the expense of the loan the Ministry of Justice purchased computers and office
equipment to the amount of $69,690 USD and attracted a consultant who worked in the sphere of
information technologies (Mr. Demekhov) for preparation of the report on configuration of the
database of legal information. With the help of Mr. Grivennyi the Ministry of Justice developed its
own web-site in the Intemet. $89,892 USD were paid for the consultants' services. At the next
stage it was planned to purchase the network equipment, software, to train specialists, to install
on the basis of the Republican Center of Legal Information (RCLI) the electronic database of
legal information which would correspond to the international standards of legal codification and
classification, and to arrange the database of legal enactments on the web-site of the Ministry of
Justice in the Internet and to provide at least 30 (thirty) points of access to this database in
universities and libraries all over the country. $4,935,000 USD were provided for implementation
of activities mentioned above. Unfortunately, the implementation of this component was
suspended because the Bank regarded that the submitted tender procurement documents did not
meet its certain requirements. However, the Ministry of Justice together with the RCLI using their
own funds (not loan funds) organized the points of free access to the RCLI database in 14 public
places (universities, libraries) as it was planned within the framework of the loan.
In light of the introduction of the new state policy on higher education development in the
country the Government rejected to implement this component of the project (letter of the Deputy
Prime-Minister 0. Jandosov as of March 26, 1999 'I-152). According to the new concept the
higher education in the sphere of law was turned to a commercial basis. Therefore, it seemed
impossible to get any support to the higher education at the expense of loan funds.
In order to implement the component on legal information and public awareness the
Ministry of Justice hired a local consultant Mukushev. Besides, within the framework of this issue
-42 -



it is necessary to mention about the establishment of the Department of Law Propaganda,
Development of State Language and Public Relations under the Ministry of Justice.
C. Judicial strengthening
According to the Orders of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of September
1, 2000 No. 440 <<On measures related to strengthening of the independence of the judicial system
of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and as of January 22, 2001. No. 536 "On measures related to
improvement of the law-enforcement activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan" functions and
authorities of the Ministry of Justice of RK concerning organizational, personnel, material and
technical issues on maintaining of courts' activities and the system of court decrees performance
were delegated to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The changes mentioned above resulted in delegation of functions on implementation of the
component "Judicial Strengthening" of the Legal Reform Project to the Supreme Court of
Republic of Kazakhstan as well.
Thereupon, the Government's Resolution of Republic of Kazakhstan "On Separation of
Loan Implementation Scopes of Intemational Bank of Reconstruction and Development No. 4467
KZ (Legal Reform Project) between the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice of the
Republic of Kazakhstan" No. 279 was prepared and issued on February 26, 2001. On the basis of
this resolution some changes were made in the budget breakdown.
D. Project management and implementation
This component is aimed at rendering of the assistance to the Ministry of Justice in
implementation of the Legal Reform Project through financing of consultants' services also
including audit, training and additional current expenses.
As a result of the division of the project's budget in compliance with the Government's
Resolution of RK No. 297 as of February 26, 2001 "On Separation of Loan Implementation
Scopes of International Bank of Reconstruction and Development No. 4467 KZ (Legal Reform
Project) Between the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan"
$297,000 USD instead of $400,000 USD were provided for implementation of this component.
Payment for operational support (communications, express mail and bank expenses) and
services of an interpreter/translator was made under this component.
Under this component a mandatory audit of the special account of the Project for 2000
was carried out, activities on involvement of the Accounting and Methodology Department into
implementation of accounting of the Project were carried out, two specialists were trained at the
seminar on World Bank procurement procedures.
5.    Project Benefits and Operational Experience
-43 -



The loan for implementation of the Legal Reform Project came into force on August 16,
1999. The suggested closing date was October 1, 2003. The loan financed a range of contracts on
consultant's services, goods procurement, training of specialists and conduction of seminars to the
total amount of 992,991 USD. Taking into account the fact that such project was conducted by
the Ministry of Justice for the first time as well as frequent replacement of the Project's managers,
frequent changes in the structure of the Project and a high turnover of staff in the Ministry, the
Legal Reform Project was not fully implemented.
At the same time it is necessary to mention that during implementation of the Project the
officials of the Ministry of Justice gained a certain operational experience in negotiations,
procurement, disbursement and financial management. The main lesson leamed was the necessity
to minimize administrative delays and increase the level of professional participation of
Govenmment officials in a joint work with intemational organizations. The most important result
was that the implementation of this project confirmed the necessity to pay a serious attention and
allocate significant funds for implementation of the legal reform in the country. The Govemment
of the Republic of Kazakhstan in its turn emphasized that the activities planned within the
framework of this project were priority activities and expressed the intention to continue the
implementation using funds from the state budget. This was declared in the letter of the
Govemment of August 20, 2001. Significant additional funds for financing of the technical
assistance for legal drafting, as well as legal information and operational expenses were
considered in the 2002 state budget. In particular, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the
following budgetary programs: 035 - activities related to legal drafting in the amount of
154,100,000 Tenge; 050 - maintaining legal informnation in the amount of 30,000,000 Tenge; 601
- establishment of the information and inquiry system of the bodies of justice in the amount of
46,221,000 Tenge.
6.    Evaluation of the Borrower Performance, Lessons Learned
The Ministry of Justice was the responsible body for implementation of the project from
the Borrower's side and implemented the coordination with the other state bodies. During
implementation of the project's activities the Borrower had some difficulties related to specific
characteristics of the organization, implementation of relevant Bank procedures and preparation
of necessary documents. Besides, a range of organizational issues raised with respect to the
change of the project management staff and transfer of the project management responsibilities, in
particular, at the moment of the project transfer from the preparation stage to the implementation
stage and due to a high turnover of staff directly responsible for the issues of the project
implementation.
7.    Evaluation of the Bank Peformance
The Bank worked closely with the Ministry of Justice and was responsible for the
provision of advice. In the course of the project implementation the managers of the project
visited the Ministry of Justice 2-3 times per year. The team of experts of the Bank consisted of the
experts on legislation, judicial system, legal information and information technologies,
procurement procedures and financial management, and staff of the World Bank Country Office.
- 44 -



Besides, the Bank attracted the consultants from USAID who worked over the issues of judicial
system strengthening.
As a whole, the Bank paid a significant attention to new ideas of the Borrower on the
project implementation and gave its timely approval on reallocation of the loan funds and
introduction of new sub-components into the project. Issues related to the project implementation
were discussed on a regular basis with participation of the management of the World Bank and
the Government at the annual Country Portfolio Performance Reviews.
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
Disbursement Report for the Loan 4467-? Z for project activity (USD)
Plannedfor the
Actual       whole loan
ProjectActivity                disbursements    period      Diference    Loan budget
Law drafting and building institutional capacity
Training       140,268      2,735,000    2,594,732     4,400,000
Consulting services        957
139,311
Strengthening of judicial system                                 5,035,000    5,035,000      8,100,000
Legal information and public awareness              159,582      3,065,000    2,905,418     4,935,000
Consulting services      89,892
Commodities (computer hardware)      69,690
Management and project implementation support       220,316        250,000      29,684        400,000
Local consultants' services   169,114
Training        13,123
Current operational expenses     38,080
Advanced payment?9? 317-0 ? Z                       307,824        305,000      (2,824)       500.000
Commission fees                                      165,000       110,000      (55,000)       165,000
Total project expenses:                             992,991      11,500,000  10,507,009     18,500,000
-45 -



LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
Disbursement Report for the Loan 4467-? Z (USD)
Actual       Plannedfor the
Items categories       disbursements  whole loan period  Difference     Loan budget
Goods                               69,690         4,661,000      4,591,310       7,500,000
Consulting services                229,203          3,790,000     3,560,797       6,100,000
Training                            14,080          1,265,000     1,250,920       2,035,000
Works                                   0            809,000        809,000        1,300,000
Current operational expenses       207,194           560,000        352,806         900,000
Advanced payment PPF 317-0 KZ      307,824           305,000        (2,824)         500,000
Commission fees                    165,000           110,000       (55,000)         165,000
Total:                             992,991         11,500,000    10,507,009       18,500,000
-46 -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
LEGAL REFORM PROJECT
Loan No. 4467
SUPREME COURT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
December 2002
-47 -



JUDICIAL SYSTEM STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
ASSESSMENT OF COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION
1. Reorganization of the Legal Reform Project
Based on the Decrees of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan #440 "On Arrangements to
Strengthen Judicial System Independence in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and # 536 "On
Arrangements to Improve Law Enforcement Activity in the Republic of Kazakhstanr" as of
September 1, 2000, and January 22, 2001, functions and authorities on organization, staffing,
logistics and technical issues to maintain the courts' operation along with the judicial decisions
enforcement systems were forwarded from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan
to the competence of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
These modifications outlined separation of the Legal Reform Project by areas of implementation
between the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Justice of the
Republic of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that none of the arrangements within judicial component planned by the
Ministry of Justice was implemented within two years.
It is evident that based on the mentioned resolutions the Supreme Court should have taken
responsibilities for implementing of the Judicial Strengthening component, it was also necessary to
share the Project Management and Implementation component.
Based on the above mentioned to provide for timely and effective implementation of the Legal
Reform Project a Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan # 279 of 26th
February 2001 "On Division of Implementation Fields of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development Loan # 4467 KZ (Legal Reform Project) between the Supreme
Court and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan" was issued.
The Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan was entrusted a responsibility for
implementing of the Judicial Strengthening component as well as part of Project Management and
Implementation component for in total US$8,203,000; of which US$7,103,000 - from the loan
funds, and US$1,100,000 - from co-financing.
The Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court agreed on division of total US$2 million loan
resources provided for project implementation in 2001; the amount of US$668,000 was allocated
for implementation of the Judicial Strengthening component.
2. Implementation of the Judicial Strengthening Component
A special structural sub-division was established within the Supreme Court for proper Project
- 48 -



management; and staff of the Supreme Court carried out all the necessary arrangements on its
implementation.
Besides, 3 individual consultants: Procurement Specialist, Financial Manager and Interpreter were
employed to make implementation more efficient.
To elaborate proposals and recommendations on Project coordination, take necessary and timely
decisions, control implementation process and precision of expenditures a Coordination Council
was established headed by the Chairman of the Supreme Court. The Council consisted of judges
of the Supreme Court and lower level courts, representatives of the Judicial Administration
Committee under Supreme Court, Council of Judges, responsible employees of the Supreme
Court staff. The Council approved works proposed for implementation under this component,
terms of references and short lists of candidates, results of the consultants' work and other
important issues related to implementation of this component.
Compliant with the Loan Agreement, Project implementation should be completed in April 2003.
But at the meeting of the Government Budget Commission of 23d June 2001 it was decided to
give up loans aimed at institutional development of state bodies starting from 1st January 2002,
including the Legal Reform Project.
This decision was taken by the Govermment in the context of general reorganization of the
extemal loans portfolio. After that by a letter of 20th August 2001 the Ministry of Finances
informed the World Bank on the decision taken.
Despite a negative assessment of the Project implementation in general, the Supreme Court
continued the activity under the judicial component taking advantage of the funds available for
2001.
3. Results of Implementation of Judicial System Strengthening Component
On Training Institute for Judges and Judicial System Staff Sub-Component
This sub-component aimed to form a system of training judges and organize raising qualification
for judges and judicial system staff.
The Supreme Court jointly with the employed consultants made some preparatory work for the
Institute of Raising Qualification for judges and judicial system staff. As a result the Institute was
founded by the Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan # 1567 of 4th
December 2001 "On Establishing Institute of Raising Qualification for Judges and Judicial System
Staff under the Supreme Court".
Within the Project the Supreme Court concluded a contract with the Kazakh Academic University
on providing consulting services on elaboration of Concept, Curriculum and Training Programs
for the Institute of Raising Qualification for judges and judicial system staff. This University
developed the Concept, Curriculum, and Training Programs.
-49 -



Based on the above mentioned Resolution the Institute provides for the staff of 26 employees.
The Institute is financed from the republican budget starting from 2002, the budget of 2002
assigned 35 million KZT, the draft of 2003 budget provides for the similar amount.
It is evident that in general the objective was achieved, as specialized training institute for judges
was established.
At the same time budget financing of the Institute is insufficient especially in its primary formation
and strengthening stages, there is no own material and technical base there. Within the Project it
was planned to reconstruct some building with proper equipment assigned by the Government.
At the meeting of the Budget Commission the Government promised to assign an isolated
building for the Institute to avoid the above mentioned "costly renovation". However, up to the
present this problem is not solved yet. The Institute is temporarily located at the building of
Almaty city court.
Under the mentioned sub-component 22 judges specialized in civil and criminal cases were trained
at the Russian Academy of Justice in November-December of 2001, and in January 2002 10
chairmen of oblast courts of Kazakhstan were trained for a week at a special course at the
Academy. The Kazakh judges trained at this Academy mentioned a high efficiency of training and
exigency of similar training.
One of the positive factors is Agreement on cooperation signed with the Russian Academy of
Justice and subsequent experience exchange.
Also in December 2001 in Astana there took place a Seminar for 76 Kazakh judges on civil and
criminal remedial legislation; chairnen of panels of judges and equated courts from 15 regions of
Kazakhstan took part in it. All participants mentioned actuality of the considered issues and high
efficiency of training achieved by the fact that judges of the Supreme Court, intemational experts,
scientists, Parliament deputies acted as lecturers.
On Court Administration and Judicial Decisions Enforcement Sub-Component
Full automation of two pilot courts - the Supreme Court and Karaganda Economic Court - was
implemented; as a result these courts were equipped with computers, and local networks were
established there.
The objectives of the Project, on necessity of automation of the judicial system in particular,
certainly contributed to attracting attention of the Government to financing of courts automation.
Thus, only the republican budget for 2002 provided 165 million KZT that allowed a real start of
the computer equipment program for courts. At the same time the draft budget for 2003 abruptly
cut financing to 30 million KZT that contradicts with the assurances of the Government on
adequate financing instead of loans.
- 50-



Within the Project it was assumed to create an electronic database of court decisions. A contract
with Jurlnfo company was concluded on establishing database for the Supreme Court decisions.
As a result the company elaborated and forwarded software for establishment and use of database
of the Supreme Court decisions for 2001. Besides, training seminars for the specialists of the
Supreme Court on use of the database were conducted. At present budget financed works on
establishment and use of database on court decisions are ongoing in oblast courts as well as in
newly founded specialized economic courts of Kazakhstan.
Unfortunately, not all arrangements within Court Administration and Judicial Decisions
Enforcement Sub-Component were implemented.
The Supreme Court conducted a preliminary work on development of the necessary documents
for employing a consulting firm to provide consulting services for implementation of a thorough
analysis of the court decisions enforcement issue, existing system of courts' administration and
short-term courses on methods of judicial administration, as well as services on elaboration of
training and working materials and guidelines; drafts of terms of references and contracts were
elaborated, short lists of potential consultants were made up. But with the account of the decision
on giving up loan from 1st January 2003, limited time for component implementation, long tender
procedures of selecting a consultant, a big amount of assumed works, and impossibility of the
high-quality completion up to the end of fiscal year implementation of the whole complex of
arrangements within this sub-component did not reach its logical end.
6. Benefits from the Project and Operational Experience
As the result of the Project the staffed employees of the Supreme Court gained a certain
operational experience in applying negotiating procedures, procurements, expenditures, financial
management which can be later used in similar projects.
A more important result is that Project implementation confirmed the necessity to pay a serious
attention and assign sufficient financing to delivering a legal reform in the country, strengthening
of judicial system in particular.
Though originally the Government refused to use loan funds for delivering a legal reform it
expressed its intention to continue implementation of arrangements aimed at reforning legal
system funded from the state budget. This was stated in the letter of the Government of 20th
August 2001 on cancellation of loan. The state budget for 2002 provided sufficient additional
resources for financing judicial system; new budget programs on Institute of Raising Qualification
for judges and judicial system staff (35 million KZT - for 2002, 36 million KZT for 2003) and
creation of a unified automated system of courts (165 million KZT for 2002, and 30 million KZT
for 2003) are approved starting from the year of 2002.
7. Assessment of the Borrower' Activity, Lessons Learnt
The Supreme Court was a department responsible for implementation of the judicial component
of the project on the part of the Borrower, it carried out a close coordination with other state
-51 -



bodies and the World Bank.
In general it can be said that nearly all arrangements on Judicial System Strengthening component
planned for implementation by the Supreme Court in the second half of 2001 were successfully
completed, what has been repeatedly noted both by the World Bank during its missions and the
Ministry of Finances.
When implementing a component it is important to have appropriate and trained specialists on
project management in the field of financial management and procurements which has a positive
effect on timely and high-quality development of all Project documents and high-quality
fulfillment of works on contracts within the Project.
8. Assessment of Bank Activity
The Bank worked in a close contact with the Supreme Court and provided consultations and was
flexible to all originated difficulties. During implementation Project managers visited the Supreme
Court 2-3 times a year. A team of Bank experts included specialists in judicial system,
procurement procedures and financial management, as well as an expert of the Country office of
the World Bank.
In general the Bank considered new ideas of the Borrower regarding Project implementation and
timely gave its approval on redistribution of loan funds and inclusion of new sub-components to
the Project. Issues related to Project implementation were regularly discussed with participation
of the management of the World Bank and Government at annual meetings on Review of Project
Portfolio.
The Supreme Court highly values cooperation with the World Bank and successful
implementation of arrangements within the judicial component of the Project, including a flexible
approach from the Bank regarding real needs of the judicial system, assistance to and consulting
of staffed specialists of the Supreme Court, coordinated and efficient work.
- 52 -












KMZG0II
Report No.:         25342
Type:     ICR



