Page  1
May 5, 1997
Mr. Alexander Pavlov 
Deputy Prime Minister 
Ministry of Finance 
97 Ablai Khan Avenue 
Almaty, 480091 
Republic of Kazakstan
Re:
PHRD Grant for the Preparation of a Legal Reform Project 
(Project)
Grant No. 
TF027109                                                                            
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank's agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by the Government of Japan to make a grant in an amount not exceeding 
four hundred fifteen thousand US Dollars ($415,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of 
Kazakstan (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Acting Director
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia
AGREED:
Republic of Kazakstan
By /s/ Alexander Pavlov
Deputy Prime-Minister, 
Minister of Finance
Date: May 23, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Activities
1.1.
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are intended to 
assist the Recipient to prepare a proposed legal reform project and are as follows:
(a) 
consulting services for the preparation of the institutional 
Page  2
strengthening and legal drafting component, including, but not limited to: (i) design 
of a comprehensive programs for advanced long-term training for Ministry of Justice, 
core economic and certain line ministry, and agency legal staff and officials involved 
in legal drafting; (ii) assessment of legal information needs of the above ministries 
and agencies; and (iii) inter and intra-ministerial coordination of legal drafting;
(b) 
consulting services for the preparation of the legal education component, 
including, but not limited, to the development of specific proposals for law school 
curriculum, law school accreditation, training of trainer programs, legal library 
strengthening; and advanced training and continuing education programs for lawyers;
(c) 
consulting services for the preparation of the legal information 
component, including, but not limited to: (i) development of a comprehensive strategy 
and performance of a detailed technical feasibility analysis for a legal information 
system (including preparation of bidding documents for related goods and services to 
be procured under the Project); (ii) development of requirements for a comprehensive 
codification and classification system; and (iii) assessment of requirements for 
establishing a national legal library;
(d) 
consulting services for the judicial strengthening component, including, 
but not limited to: (i) design of a comprehensive advanced training and continuing 
legal education programs for judges and court officials, with an emphasis on new 
economic legislation; (ii) studies and further analysis of other areas which may be 
supported under the Project to strengthen the judiciary, including court 
administration, strengthening of enforcement mechanisms, judicial accreditation, the 
creation of inter-regional courts (okruzhniye sudyi), and professional development of 
judges; and (iii) development of recommendations to strengthen alternative dispute 
resolution mechanisms;
(e) 
consulting services, goods, and incremental operating costs (the 
Incremental Operating Costs), including but not limited to, costs of office equipment 
and supplies, maintenance, communication, travel and transportation, but excluding 
salaries, related to the operation of a project preparation unit under the Ministry of 
Justice; and
(f) 
study tours, training and workshops for Ministry of Justice and other 
government officials from relevant ministries and agencies, to facilitate preparation 
of the above components and generally, Project design and preparation.
2.
Implementation Generally
The Recipient shall, through the Ministry of Justice and Ministry of Finance: 
(a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) 
furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the 
Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with 
the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take 
all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of Republic 
of Kazakstan for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, 
the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Consultants’ Services and Procurement
3.1.        Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers “ published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule. 
3.2.
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 3.3 through 3.5 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
(b) 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
Page  3
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding 
subparagraph (a). The short list of consultants for services for consultants’ services 
under paragraph 1.1 (e) of this Annex, estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines
3.3.
Services for consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.4. 
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.5.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.6.
(a) 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of pararaph 
1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.7.
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 3.6, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.8.
Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured: (a) in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996 (the Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis 
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines. The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word “bids”, in such 
paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations”.
3.9.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to 
replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with 
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly 
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
Page  4
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
    % of
Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
   (in US Dollars)
  be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
350,000
100%
services
(2)
Study tours, training
and workshops
       50,000        100%
(3)
Goods and Incremental
       15,000        100% 
Operating Costs
Total
     $415,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Bank, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $40,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after April 1, 1997; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by 
or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in 
or services supplied from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after March 31, 
1998, or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the 
Recipient (the Closing  Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is received by the 
Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in 
the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table 
in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, 
it may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the 
Grant then allocated to another item which in its opinion will not be necessary to 
meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she 
shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support 
of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount 
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account on
ly to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) consultants’ services of 
consulting firms costing less than $20,000 equivalent; and (b) goods and Incremental 
Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
Page  5
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the 
Attachment to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies 
of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Attachment to Annex
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
Page  6
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $150,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Grant Account 
under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  7
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
