                         Document of
                       The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 35610

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           (PPFI-P8230 PPFI-P8231 TF-29427 IDA-30540)

                             ON A

                            CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.4 MILLION (US$ 18 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                     TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                         THE GAMBIA

                            FOR A

 PARTICIPATORY HEALTH POPULATION AND NUTRITION PROJECT




                         May 22, 2006

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective 1998)

                                Currency Unit = Dalasi
                                           D1 = US$ 0.094
                                         US$ 1 = D10.58

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB    African Development Bank
BFCI    Baby Friendly Community Initiative
BHF     Basic Health Facility
BI      Bamako Initiative
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBGM    Community Based Growth Monitoring
CHN     Community Health Nurse
CRD     Central River Division
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DHT     Divisional Health Team
DoSH    Department of State for Health
DPI     Directorate of Planning and Information
DSH     Directorate of Health Services
FGM     Female Genital Mutilation
FOO     Field Operation Officer
FPRI    Food Policy Research Institute
GAFNA   Gambia Food and Nutrition Policy
GOTG    Government of The Gambia
GSMMP   Gambia Social Marketing Management Program
HEU     Health Education Unit
HMIS    Health Management Information System
HPTG    Health and Poverty in The Gambia
IDB     Islamic Development Bank
IEC     Information Education and Communication
IMCI    Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
IMR     Infant Mortality Rate
KMC     Kaniffing Municipal Council
KPI     Key Performance Indicators
LIF     Local Initiative Fund
LRD     Lower River Division
MCH     Maternal and Child Health
MDFT    Multi-Disciplinary Facilitation Teams
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MMR     Maternal Mortality Rate
MTR     Midterm Review
MUAC    Mid-Upper Arm Circumference
NaNA    National Nutrition Agency
NBD     North Bank Division
NHDP    National Health Development Plan
NNPC    National Nutrition Policy Council

NRD      Northern River Division
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCC      Project Coordination Committee
PDOs     Project Development Objectives
PHC      Primary Health Care
PHPNP    Participatory Health Population and Nutrition Project
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PSR      Project Status Report
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
QER      Quality Enhancement Review
RfH      Riders for Health
SEN      State Enrolled Nurse
SRN      State Registered Nurse
STIs     Sexually Transmitted Infections
SW       South West
TBA      Traditional Birth Attendants
TFR      Total Fertility Rate
UNICEF   United Nations Children Fund
URD      Upper River Division
VHWs     Village Health Workers
VSGs     Village Support Groups
WHO      World Health Organization


                               Vice President:       Gobind T. Nankani
                              Country Director       Madani M. Tall
                        Acting Sector Manager        William Experton
                            Task Team Leader:        Gaston Sorgho

                                           GAMBIA, THE
                       Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
   6. Sustainability                                                                16
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
   9. Partner Comments                                                              19
   10. Additional Information                                                       19
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
   Annex 8. Riders for Health Contract Execution                                    33
   Annex 9. Background Information on the Country                                   34
MAP IBRD 33409

Project ID: P000825                                                  Project Name: Part. Health/Pop./Nut.
Team Leader: Gaston Sorgho                                           TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 22, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Part. Health/Pop./Nut.                                   L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P8230; PPFI-P8231;
                                                                                                     TF-29427; IDA-30540
   Country/Department: THE GAMBIA                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (99%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Population and reproductive health (P); Child health (S); HIV/AIDS (S); Nutrition and food
                            security (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/03/1994                                     Effective: 06/30/1998                08/13/1998
     Appraisal: 10/29/1997                                         MTR: 03/11/2002                  03/11/2002
      Approval: 03/31/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T OF GAMBIA/MIN OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 William Experton                               Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Gaston Sorgho                                  Richard Seifman
ICR Primary Author:             Gaston Sorgho; Kofi Amponsah


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall development objective of the Participatory Health Population and Nutrition Project
(PHPNP) was to improve family health--defined as a combination of reproductive health, infant
and child health and good nutritional status. The project was designed as a sector investment
program targeting primary and secondary health care and both rural and periurban areas.

The PHPNP's objectives were pertinent to and consistent with the overall objective of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for The Gambia of improving the quality of life for the
Gambian population. They were also pertinent to and consistent with the Government of The
Gambia's (GoTG) health sector priorities set forth in the "Health Policy 1994­2000: Improving
Quality and Access" document. Because of the multitude of significant health issues afflicting the
population--including human resources limitations and high maternal, infant, and child morbidity
and mortality--and the limited capacity of The Gambia's health sector to adequately plan,
manage, coordinate, monitor, and evaluate services as outlined in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), the project objectives were difficult to achieve fully.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The PHPNP consisted of four main components. As discussed below, Component 1 focused on
improving coverage and quality of reproductive health services; Component 2 aimed at
integrading management of childhood illness; Component 3 focused on improving nutrition
services for women of reproductive age, infants and children; and Component 4 aimed at
improving the management and implementation of the family heath program. These components
are described as follows (figures in parenthesis are the estimated costs at appraisal, including
contingencies):

Component 1: Reproductive Health Services (US$ 4.7m)
The reproductive health services component of the PHPNP had three subcomponents: (1)
maternal health services; (2) prevention and management of unwanted pregnancies; and (3)
prevention and control of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and human immunodeficiency
virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS).

Subcomponent 1: Maternal Health Services (US$ 1.8m)
This subcomponent was intended to: (1) improve the coverage and quality of maternal health
services through: (a) the provision of training for staff of health facilities, traditional birth
attendants and community health nurses; (b) the revision of midwifery schools' curricula and of
training curricula for basic health facility staff, community health nurses and traditional birth
attendants; (c) the revision of clinical practice and supervision guidelines; (d) the identification and
implementation of appropriate means of transport for obstetrical emergencies; (e) the expansion
and strengthening of postpartum home visits; and (f) the acquisition of equipment and supplies to
health facilities; (2) increase utilization of maternal health service by conducting: (a) client
satisfaction surveys; and
(b) information, education, and communication (IEC) campaigns directed towards women of


                                                   - 2 -

reproductive age, their families and communities; (3) increase awareness and promoting
attitudinal changes towards female genital mutilation, through community-based IEC campaigns
directed towards women of reproductive age, older women and men, and community and
religious leaders; and (4) increase knowledge about the factors contributing to maternal mortality,
through carrying out audits on maternal death occuring in health facilities and in the communities.

Subcomponent 2: Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancies (US$ 2.3m)
This subcomponent was intended to: (1) increase the demand for family planning services and
contraception through IEC and social marketing directed towards men and women
of reproductive age and older women and men, community and religious leaders; and (2) increase
the acquisition and supply of contraceptives through Social Marketing.

Subcomponent 3: Prevention and Control of STIs and HIV/AIDS (US$ 0.6m)
The subcomponent of the prevention and control of STIs and HIV/AIDS was intended to do the
following: (1) increase knowledge about STIs and HIV, preventive practices, and encourage
healthy behavior for treatment of STIs through IEC directed toward women and men of
reproductive age, their families and communities; and (2) improve the diagnosis and treatment
of STIs through: (a) completion of training curriculum on syndromic management; (b) provision
of clinical in-service training for health providers of syndromic management; (c) development
of clinical practice guideline; (d) revision of nurse and midwifery curricula to include syndromic
management of STIs; (e) introduction of paternal screening of women for STIs, and
(f) acquisition of equipment and supplies for testing for STIs and drugs for treatment.

Component 2: Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) (US$ 0.9m)
The PHPNP's second component aimed at supporting the introduction and implementation of
IMCI in the Gambia. This goal was to be achieved through: (a) training of core facilitators;
(b) carrying out surveys to assess infant and child health situation; (c) carrying out a national
IMCI orientation workshop; (d) establishing an IMCI taskforce; (e) developing a preparation
plan;
(f) adaptating the generic IMCI materials to The Gambian's context; (g) producing diagnostic and
therapeutic materials for health workers; (h) pretesting and disseminating IMCI materials;
(i) training the trainers; (j) training health workers in the implementation and supervision of IMCI;
(k) revising pre-service training curricula; (l) carrying out an IEC campaign oriented towards
parents; (m) ensuring continuous monitoring and evaluation, supervision, operations, research and
technical studies in support of the above, including capacity surveys.

Component 3: Nutrition Policy and Services for Women, Infants and Children (US$ 2.3m)
The PHPNP's third component, on nutrition policy and services for women, infants, and children,
had two subcomponents: (1) to strengthen nutrition policy formulation and institutions;
and (2) to encourage the use of community and micronutrient approaches to improve the
nutritional status of women and young children.




                                                   - 3 -

Subcomponent 1: Nutrition Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening (US$ 0.8m)
The subcomponent supported the : (1) preparation and adoption of a national nutrition policy
and action plan for its implementation through the provision of technical advisory services and
acquisition of goods, for continuing intersectoral coordination in the field of nutrition; (2)
implementation of an IMCI strategy to create awareness about nutrition among policy makers and
the general public; (3) design and implementation of a training program for policy and program
analysis, information collection, and appropriate interventions in the field of nutrition; and
(4) development and implementation of an improved anthropometric data collection survey
system.

Subcomponent 2: Community and Micronutrient Approaches to Improve the Nutrition Status
of Women and Young Children (US$ 1.5m)
The subcomponent was intended to: (1) develop and implement a nutrition education strategy
through (a) the provision of technical advisory services to assess and redesign field level
nutritional education activities; and (b) the training of village-based volunteers as peer counselors
and the training of community health nurses and traditional birth attendants in implementing
nutrition education activities; (2) carry out surveys to assess maternal food supplementation
programs; (3) test and evaluate a pilot program to provide food supplements and to increase
communities' self-sufficiency;      (4) review and refine strategies to address micronutrient
malnutrition; carrying out a training program for field staff for the aforementioned activities;
(5) develop and generate materials for an IEC campaign for the prevention and control of
micronutrient deficiencies; and (6) acquire equipment and vehicles for Directorate of Health
Services Nutrition Unit.

Component 4: Management and implementation of a Family Health Program (US$ 10.7m)
The fourth component consisted of four subcomponents: (1) capacity building and policy
development; (2) upgrading and maintenance of health infrastructure; (3) establishment of a local
initiative fund (LIF); and (4) project management.

Subcomponent 1: Capacity Building and Policy Development (US$ 2.8m)
The subcomponent was intended to: (a) expand the Bamako Initiative; (b) coordinate IEC
activities; (c) develop a comprehensive health management information system (HMIS);
(d) develop health mapping capacity; (e) strengthen capacity in the area of applied research; (f)
develop a staff retention strategy and regular staff surveys; (g) develop health
financing policy; (h) update and partially implement the National Drug Action Program; and (i)
develop a maintenance policy for The Gambia's health facilities.

Subcomponent 2: Upgrading and Maintenance of Health Infrastructure (US$ 6.0m)
The subcomponent was to provide support for (a) construction, rehabilitation, and refurbishing of
a selected number of health infrastructure facilities, including dispensaries, staff quarters, and
limited refurbishment of surgery theaters; (b) maintenance of health facilities, building, equipment,
and vehicles; (c) acquisition of medical equipment and supplies, and office equipment; and
(d) increasing the supply of blood through blood-donor mobilization.




                                                  - 4 -

Subcomponent 3: Local Initiative Fund (LIF) (US$ 0.9m)
The LIF subcomponent was to provide support for (a) the provision of grants for the financing of
activities in the area of reproductive health, infant and child health and nutrition; (b) the
strengthening of the administrative and operational capacities of the LIF; (c) developing and
implementing an information, education and communication strategy for LIF; and (d) monitoring
and supervising the field activities financed by the LIF.

Subcomponent 4: Project management (US$ 1.0m)
The project management subcomponent was intended to provide institutional support,
management and coordination of activities of the aforementioned components, through the
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU was to receive guidance and
support from a Project Coordination Committee and the PHPNP Action Group. It was also meant
to coordinate the health sector activities financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and
the Islamic Development Bank (IDB). Specifically, the PIU had the following responsibilities:
(a) the management of project funds; (b) the procurement of goods and services; (c) the
installation and maintenance of sound financing and accounting procedures for all funds;
(d) the preparation and dissemination of progress report; (f) organizing the joint GoTG-IDA
annual reviews and midterm review; (g) coordination of all training, monitoring and evaluation
activities, and compiling all results in comprehensive progress reports for review during annual
reviews; and (h) supervision of the activities of a PHPNP nutrition coordinator and of a PHPNP
IEC coordinator.

Overall, the four components were in line with the PHPNP's development objectives and the CAS
for The Gambia. The design of the components was very comprehensive, covering every area of
the health system in The Gambia, except the national hospitals. However, given the weak
capacity of the country's Department of State for Health (DoSH), the content of these
components were overly ambitious.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Quality Enhancement Review (QER) Panel's report of October 2001 suggested that the
project be restructured in view of the unsatisfactory progress in implementation and the slow rate
of disbursement. The QER panel recommended that the midterm review (March 2002) be used as
an opportunity to inject a needed degree of realism into this ambitious project. It urged the
midterm review task team to be realistic about what could be achieved during the remaining life of
the project and, as such, identify areas that could be cancelled.

Although the midterm review team found that a large number of components and subcomponents
of the PHPNP were not being implemented as anticipated, the team decided to keep project's
content as designed. However, a reorganization of some components took place. IEC activities
found in the various components were merged into one subcomponent of Component 4. That
component was expanded to include new activities, notably the financing of a U.K. group called
Riders for Health (see Annex 8) to conduct the maintenance program.

The PHPNP's performance improved considerably in terms of disbursement by the first quarter
after the March 2002 midterm review. Then the project was extended by 18 months from



                                                  - 5 -

December 31, 2003, to June 30, 2005, with the aim of meeting the project development
objectives.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the quality at entry is rated marginally unsatisfactory. The four components and nine
subcomponents of the project were designed with no prioritization to guide implementation. The
2001 QER panel assessed the PHPNP's scope and content and pointed out that the project
development objectives were too ambitious and the project design too complex and demanding.
Clearly, such an ambitious and complex project was inappropriate for a country such as The
Gambia with very low implementation capacity. The fact that the project did not set up an
adequate monitoring and evaluation framework is another reason for the marginally unsatisfactory
rating at entry.

The objective of the PHPNP was relevant to the CAS for The Gambia and to the GoTG's health
sector priorities. It was also relevant to the country assistance interim strategy of supporting
poverty alleviation through investments in the health and education sectors. However, at the time
of project's preparation, the issue of health sector human resource and management was not
properly addressed as a major concern. The project appraisal team recognized the situation in the
risk section; however, the appraisal could have included a sound assessment of the institutional
capacity of The Gambian Department of State for Health (DoSH) to carry out such project and
bring about relevant measures within the sector to ease the implementation.

Notwithstanding the overall rating, the preparation team should be commended for the
participatory approach used for designing the project. The project design benefited from the
lessons learned from the National Health Development Project completed in June 1995 and
incorporated successful elements from the Women-in-Development Project. To that extent, the
GoTG and the Bank gathered information on beneficiary (community and health workers)
perspectives through surveys, including focus group discussion. A five-day workshop was
organized with key stakeholders (central and local governments, divisional health teams,
nongovernmental organizations, research institutes, U.N. agencies and other organizations) to
design the project. The preparation team worked in close collaboration with members of the
PHPNP Coordination Committee in The Gambia to prepare detailed implementation plans and
timelines for project activities and to consult with other donors with regard to their prospective
contributions to the sector.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the PHPNP is rated marginally satisfactory, because the fertility rate in The
Gambia declined from 6.4 to 5.1 children per woman, and child malnutrition was reduced by more
than 25 percent. The project outcome could not be rated fully satisfactory, because although the
infant mortality rate in the country declined from 92 to 75 deaths per 1,000 births, it did not reach
the appraisal target of 65 per 1,000 births. Data on STI prevalence rates are unavailable.

Having said that, the team would like to make two points before going into the detail of the



                                                - 6 -

project achievements. First, there is no causal relationship between the improvement of the
outcome indicators and the project outputs. The decline in infant mortality cannot be attributed
to improvement in nutritional status of children, nor can the decline in fertility be attributed to any
successful five-year family planning program. Second, the project lacks basic quantitative output
and outcome data. Studies planned to provide specific information were not executed. As a
result, the ICR team had to gather proxy indicators from various source of information to make
its judgment; sometimes, the team just could not find the necessary proxy indicator to compare to
the project target

Improvements achieved due to the project are in line with the emphasis given on primary and
secondary levels of health services. This project represented a significant increase in terms of the
size, scope, and donor financing of primary and secondary care in The Gambia as compared to the
previous GoTG's emphasis on seeking donor financing principally for construction of major health
centers, and tertiary support. The ICR team is of the view that the intensive promotion of family
planning methods, including the social marketing of condoms (in 2004 and 2005) may have added
to the declining trend of fertility rate recorded in 2003 Census. The adoption and effective
implementation of the national nutrition policy; the establishment of a National Nutrition Agency
(NaNA); and the successful implementation of nutrition activities in communities contributed to
the improvement in children nutrition status. Even if the end of project target was not achieved,
the situation of infant mortality is consistently improving in The Gambia. As reported by the
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), children immunization coverage is over 90 percent,
which is high performance.

Details of the ICR team's evaluation of project outcome indicators are provided below.
Additional information about key performance indicators is presented in Annex 1.
--Key Performance Indicator 1--Total Fertility Rate. Progress with respect to this indicator is
rated satisfactory. At the inception of the PHPNP, it was estimated that the total fertility rate in
The Gambia would be reduced by 10 percent--from a baseline figure of 6.4 children per woman
(meaning a reduction to 5.8 children per woman)--throughout the life span of the project. A 2005
World Bank report fixed the total fertility rate in The Gambia over the period 2000­2005 at 5.1
children per woman, slightly better than the Sub-Saharan African rate of 5.3 children per woman.
This fertility rate in The Gambia is confirmed by an analysis of the 2003 Census data that indicates
that higher female education levels and the delay in the age of marriage of younger cohorts of
women may have led to the observed decline of fertility. Various other factors contributing to the
significant improvement in the fertility rate in The Gambia include the PHPNP's family planning
program and its intensive social marketing of condoms and oral contraceptives undertaken
throughout the country.

--Key Performance Indicator 2--Reduction in the Infant Mortality Rate. Progress with
respect to this indicator is rated marginally satisfactory. The infant mortality rate in The Gambia
was reported as 84 infant deaths per 1,000 live births after the 2002 midterm review, a slight
improvement from the baseline rate of 92 infant deaths per 1,000 live births. Available statistics
from the 2003 Census suggested an infant mortality rate of 75 infant deaths per 1,000 live births;
however, a recent publication on "Health and Poverty Reduction in the Gambia" fixed the rate at
70 infant deaths per 1,000 live births recorded between the period 2000­2005. There has been an



                                                 - 7 -

improvement of The Gambia's infant mortality rate over time, but the end of project target of 65
infant deaths per 1,000 live births was not achieved.

--Key Performance Indicator 3--Reduction in Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs). The
ICR team could not rate the progress on this indicator. The baseline indicator was issued from a
specific survey conducted in 1994. The target for this project development objective was to
reduce the prevalence of STIs among pregnant women by 50 percent at the end of the project.
The baseline was 25 percent prevalence of STIs among pregnant women in a 1994 Rapid
Assessment Survey. Available data show that the incidence among males and females who
experienced abnormal genital discharge was reduced by 5.8 percent in 2002 and 3.3 percent in
2005 while reported cases of genital ulcers were reduced by 3.3 percent and 1.4 percent,
respectively. The ICR team could not find any data on the prevalence of STIs among pregnant
women in the last three years.

--Key Performance Indicator 4--Reduction of Child Malnutrition Rate by 25 Percent. This
indicator is rated highly satisfactory. At the beginning of the PHPNP, 26 percent of children under
age five in The Gambia were underweight. Results from a survey conducted by NaNA at the end
of project found that 18.8 percent of children were underweight, indicating a reduction of 27.8
percent over the life of the project. Detailed analysis showed that stunting decreased in the
country from 23 percent in 1996 to 19 percent in 2000 to the current figure of 17.8 percent.
Earlier figures indicate that stunting was more than 30 percent in The Gambia. The findings of
NaNA's survey are consistent with the World Health Organization's Global Database information
on The Gambia.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Of the four components of the PHPNP, the nutrition policy and services for women, infants, and
children component (Component 3) had by far the greatest success. It progressed well and
produced all expected results. The reproductive health services component (Component 1),
particularly the maternal health and the prevention of unwanted pregnancies subcomponent, also
successfully carried out its major activities and led to the achievement of the contraceptive
coverage as planned at appraisal.

The other two components--integrated management of childhood illness (Component 2) and the
management and implementation of family health program (Component 4)--lagged behind.
Though the development of new policies was launched, which improved the health sector
strategy, the capacity building component suffered from high turnover of project management
staff and cabinet level overseers and some degree of resistance to hiring required short-term
external consultants. The implementation of a sophisticated health management information
system (HMIS) was also disappointing. Despite progress in developing indicators in a very
participatory manner, a paucity of concrete information made it difficult to assess progress.

Finally, it should be mentioned that no remarkable achievements were obtained prior to the
midterm review in March 2002. All progress was achieved subsequent to that review. The
following gives the rationale for the attributed rating to each of the component and
sub-component. Figures in parenthesis are actual costs.



                                                 - 8 -

Rating of Component 1: Reproductive Health Services. The overall rating for the reproductive
health component of the PHPNP is marginally satisfactory because the first and the second
subcomponents are marginally satisfactory while the third subcomponents is rated marginally
unsatisfactory.

--Subcomponent 1: Maternal Health Service (US$ 1.5m). This subcomponent is rated
marginally satisfactory. The project carried out the majority of activities under this subcomponent
but very little information is available to show the effect of those activities on the targeted
population. Antenatal care services with skilled attendant are on the increase nationwide, but the
proportion of women who completed the required number of three prenatal visits and the quality
or outcomes of the visits are not documented. The baseline (1998) for births attended by skilled
health workers is not known. It was estimated to be 44 percent in 1990. The project targeted 69
percent of deliveries to be carried out by skilled personnel. A recent survey conducted by the
National Nutrition Agency (NaNA) in The Gambia shows that up to 57 percent of births were
delivered in a health facility, which could be assumed to be the proportion of births attended by
skilled health workers. About 25 percent of total births took place at home with the assistance of
a traditional birth attendant but this proportion is not included in the indicator. According to
WHO defintion, Traditional birth attendants (TBA) either trained or not, are excluded from the
category of skilled health workers.

--Subcomponent 2: Prevention and Management of Unwanted Pregnancies (US$ 21m).This
subcomponent is rated marginally satisfactory. Contraceptive prevalence at baseline was 14
percent (1998) and the end of project target was 22 percent. Prevalence increased slightly to 15.1
percent for modern methods at midterm review in 2002. Current figure is not known, but the
World Development Report 2005 projected that contraceptive prevalence for modern methods is
18 percent for The Gambia. This is a significant achievement despite the fact that the target was
not met. Using social marketing techniques, The Gambia's Social Marketing Program
implemented the distribution and supply of condoms and oral contraceptive pills throughout the
country. In spite of initial problems, which resulted in the replacement of the field operation
officer, the primary activity of ensuring a continuous supply of contraceptives seemed to have
been realized. The number of outlets served and provided with "COOL condoms" and "Kairo OC
pills," for example, was reported as 302 countrywide without any reference point. The number of
condoms and oral contraceptive pills sold by end of project was 550,800 pieces and 73,260 pieces
respectively--seemingly a fairly large number for a population of less than 1.5 million.

--Subcomponent 3: Prevention and Control of STIs and HIV (US$ 1.0m).This subcomponent
is rated marginally unsatisfactory. The focus of the subcomponent was to support the syndromic
management approach whose strategy was detailed in the project. The major activities such as
yearly provision of pharmaceuticals, development of clinical supervision system were not realized.
Inadequate supply of drugs at health facility levels reported in 2002 persisted until end of project.
A major setback of the STIs program was therefore the provision and management of STI drugs,
which is key to any program of syndromic management of STIs. Notwithstanding these issues, the
satisfactory promotion of condoms in The Gambia has contributed to improved STI prevention:
65.5 percent of sexually active men and 40 percent of sexually active women reported using a



                                                - 9 -

condom in the last sexual contact with irregular partners (Behavior Sentinel Survey, 2005). The
PHPNP implemented activities related to production of diagnosis and treatment documents for
STIs, training of health personnel, private pharmacists as well as community level HIV/AIDS
counselors. The project was also instrumental in developing the HIV/AIDS institutions in The
Gambia, namely the National AIDS Commission and the National AIDS Secretariat. More
directly, the project contributed to the preparation and to some extent the implementation of the
country's HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Plan.

Rating of Component 2: Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) (US$ 1.2m).
The ICMI component of the PHPNP is rated unsatisfactory. There is no reliable indicator for (a)
availability of IMCI diagnostic tools and treatment protocols in the basic health facilities, and (b)
the extent of the use of such tools by the village health workers. Moreover, the review of the
initial strategic plan for the design of IMCI implementation procedures was not completed.
Finally, the scaling up of the strategy by other partners such as the World Health Organization
was not as effective as expected.

The project could not achieve its overall aim of curbing the behavior of the population with
respect to delays in care-seeking due to traditional attitudes, beliefs about factors that cause
diseases, referral mobility problems, limited involvement of fathers in facilitating child referrals.
Nevertheless, through this component, the DoSH conducted a national IMCI orientation
workshop that led to the establishment of an IMCI Taskforce and the adaptation of generic IMCI
material to the conditions of The Gambia. Various training sessions (training of core facilitators,
training of private practitioners, degree training for three staff, training of community ) and the
revision of curriculum for all nurse training institutions were completed. However, these activities
have very limited impact on the behavior of the population that is rooted into tradition and
cultural beliefs.

Rating of Component 3: Nutrition Policy and Services for Women, Infants and Children.
The nutrition component of the PHPNP is rated highly satisfactory. This component successfully
achieved all its key performance indicators and has had a significant institutional impact in The
Gambia.
--Subcomponent 1: Nutrition Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening (US$
1.5m).This subcomponent is rated highly satisfactory. The following activities were completed
under this subcomponent: development and printing of nutrition materials, equipment and
vehicles for NaNA, and succesful implementation of a local and international training program
that strengthened NaNA staff capacity. This program immensely contributed to high staff
retention. A national nutrition policy was formulated and adopted and a national Nutrition
Council chaired by the vice-president and comprising secretaries of state from various sectors was
established. In fact, the project's support to the nutrition, and good leadership of the manager of
the nutrition unit led to the GoTG's recognition of nutrition as a cross-cutting development issue
rather than a sectoral issue. This translated into the creation of the NaNA under the office of the
vice-president. Currently, NaNA benefits from a budget line item within the national budget
structure at the same level as any ministry.




                                                 - 10 -

--Subcomponent 2: Community and Micronutrient Approach (US$ 0.4m).This subcomponent
is rated satisfactory. The subcomponent supported and strengthened community based health and
nutrition activities. IEC materials were developed and printed. Several IEC awareness campaigns
were organized; divisional levels and institutional mechanisms to manage nutrition interventions at
various levels were strengthened; and rehabilitation of malnourished children at health facility and
community levels were carried out. A national survey conducted in May 2005 to assess the
component's achievements, showed that 48.6 percent of children under four months of age were
exclusively breastfed, indicating an improvement over the 36 percent reported in the Multiple
Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) of 2000. This figure exceeded the end of project target of 40
percent. Through this Baby-Friendly Community Initiative, the project provided support to the
communities to implement the environmental sanitation program; to improve quality of foods
during weaning (using dried moringa olifera leaf powder and the traditional method of
fermentation). Also, the initiative succeeded in scaling up the BFCI activities in 263 communities,
an improvement over the 12 communities piloted in the Lower River Division before the advent
of PHPNP.


Despite these impressive results, the following activities, which were critical for monitoring and
evaluation of nutrition program impact, were not implemented: (a) evaluation and designation of
baby-friendly communities and recording of birth weights; (b) the training and certification of
community representatives as Village Support Groups in 250 primary health care villages; (c) the
construction of baby-friendly rest houses at the fields for lactating mothers; and (d) the creation
and maintenance of a data bank for all communities participating in the Baby-Friendly Community
Initiative.

Rating of Component 4: Management and Implementation of Family Health Program.
The family health component of the PHPNP is rated marginally satisfactory. Although the
subcomponent on capacity building and policy development did not achieve enough to be rated
satisfactory, the other three subcomponents achieved their objectives with a few shortcomings.

--Subcomponent 1: Capacity Building and Policy Development (US$ 2.8m).This
subcomponent is rated marginally unsatisfactory. Two major policy reforms initiated under this
component, the Bamako Initiative and the development of the health financing policy, did not
yield concrete results. The health financing policy never took off and the Bamako Initiative ended
at the pilot stage. Other significant health policy measures that were not developed included the
production of National Health Accounts, the review of essential care package for
cost-effectiveness, norms and standards, service delivery; the development of guidelines for the
establishment of comprehensive social health insurance scheme.


The sophisticated health management information system (HMIS), which was supposed to retrofit
the project monitoring and evaluation system faced tremendous challenges. Updating and
maintenance of existing computer hardware and software infrastructure were not completed. The
establishment of an alternative power source to provide operational continuity of computers was
not executed because procurement and installation of solar power was not done. The HMIS lacks



                                                - 11 -

a maintenance policy for the equipment, and it suffers a continuous attrition of skilled information
technology staff trained by the project, which hampers the analytical capacity of the Directorate of
Planning and Information. The "Service Statistics Report 2001­2004" produced by the HMIS
could not provide consistent information on the health system performance.

Nevertheless, there were impressive achievements in training of health workers and designing new
policy in The Gambia. The national drug policy was among the few policy development measures
to have been fully implemented as planned. Human resources development activities, drug
information and education and in-service training, IEC activities, and drug regulatory activities
were carried out. Standard treatment guidelines were reviewed and printed, and training courses
(two cycles) were organized for all subscribers. IEC campaigns for rational use of drugs were
successfully organized. Revision of drug legislation, training of medicines board inspectors and
security officers, and provision of truck and pickup for drug distribution were all executed under
the drug regulatory program. Unfortunately, the global inadequacy of drugs and medical supplies
in the central medical stores challenges the effectiveness of The Gambia's drug policy.

Through the HMIS, the Directorate of Planning and Information and the Divisional Health Team
were equipped with computers and a computer network was established for each Divisional
Health Team with a connection to Internet services. The Directorate of Planning and Information
was able to compile nationwide health statistics from the public health services for 2001­2004,
which demonstrated a substantial improvement of its capacity. The project has put in place the
basic infrastructure for HMIS.

The information, education, and communication (IEC) subcomponent produced five booklets on
various themes; broadcasted radio/TV spots in three major local languages and organized
campaigns against female genital mutilation in communities where it is largely practiced.
However, the reorganization of IEC pieces of program as a stand alone subcomponent met
resistance from the other program heads who were reluctant to release funds for the
implementation of IEC activities. Also, the program suffered from conflicting design of strategies
when a new management took over from the former head of the component. None of the
Knowledge Aptitude and Practice surveys to assess the results of the IEC subcomponent was
realized.




                                                - 12 -

--Subcomponent 2: Local Initiative Fund (LIF) (US$ 0.6m).This subcomponent is rated
marginally satisfactory. Major accomplishments under the subcomponent were in the areas of
policy review of LIF, training of LIF managers and financial management staff, support to
multidisciplinary facilitation teams in the collection of data on microprojects; and community and
public sensitization on the operations and management procedures of LIF. Grant initiatives in the
Lower River Division, Central River Division, and Kaniffing Municipal Council started late, and
over 200 grants were distributed to local organizations toward the end of the project. However,
the intensification of monitoring and supervision of LIF activities in the three divisions (Kaniffing
Municipal Council, Lower River Division, and Central River Division) was not completed and a
LIF                    evaluation                    was                    not                     done.
--Subcomponent 3: Upgrading and Maintenance of Health Infrastructure (US$ 5.7m).This
subcomponent is rated marginally satisfactory. The construction of four new health facilities (not
initially planned under the project activities) and the rehabilitation of thirteen health facilities were
completed at the end of the project, but none of the new health centers was equipped and staffed.
It is unlikely that the required staff will be available in the short term given the persistent brain
drain of nurses from The Gambia.

The delegated contract with the U.K. organization Riders for Health did provide regular
maintenance services and improved timely referral of patients and availability of transportation for
supervision of health services; however, implementation was not fully successful because The
Gambia DoSH stakeholders perceived the contracting process as World Bank driven and the cost
of the contract to far exceed the benefits. Riders for Health was to develop its structure in The
Gambia through the contract, but the DoSH did not pay the cost-per-kilometer regularly; thus,
Riders for Health could not continue to deliver on its promises in a timely manner after a period of
two years. The Bank requested a technical audit of the contract, and that audit concluded that the
performance of Riders for Health was not at the standard level. Three mobile blood bank units for
GAMBLOOD (Gambia Association of Blood Donors) were completed; supervision vehicles for
GAMBLOOD were procured. As a result, GAMBLOOD tripled the stock of blood available in
the main hospitals. GAMBLOOD nevertheless raised concerns because it has lacked the resources
needed to maintain the volume of activities since the end of project.
--Subcomponent 4: Project Management (US$ 1.4m).This subcomponent is rated marginally
satisfactory. After a period of staff instability the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was staffed
with the adequate personnel. Over time, project management significantly improved despite initial
difficulties. The PIU's improved performance was demonstrated by enhancement in disbursement.
Disbursement increased tremendously, about 85 percent, after the March 2002 midterm review.
This was said to have been facilitated by the Bank's agreeing to let the PIU obtain approval from
the Dakar, Senegal, office instead of Washington. The PIU coordinated both the World Bank and
the African Development Bank programs. With enhanced disbursement, the PIU effectively
coordinated project activities and carried out its main activities, including but not limited to
procurement of all project goods and pharmaceuticals, financial management, and coordination of
training programs. On the other hand, the PUI failed to consistently monitor, evaluate, and
document progress toward achieving the objectives of the project. All quantitative surveys, except
to the one on the nutrition component, were not done. Project achievements reports were to a
large extent descriptive rather than analytical.



                                                 - 13 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the PHPNP in The Gambia is rated modest, because none
of the many institutional development initiatives undertaken by the project to strengthen the
Ministry of Health yielded the expected results. Two major initiatives in particular--the health
management information system (HMIS) and the continued development of GAMBLOOD--
might not be sustained. Still, the country does now have institutional structures - outside the
Ministry of Health - for effective implementation of nutrition programs. It has created a National
Nutrition Agency (NaNA) as semi-autonomous entity, which ensures successful implementation,
monitoring, and supervision of all nutrition programs in the country. NaNA received guidance
from a National Nutrition Policy Council. NaNA has obtained legal recognition of its status,
enhancing its operational leverage, and has spearheaded the development and adoption of a
national nutrition policy in The Gambia, which has become a regulatory framework for nutrition
programs. NaNA has retrofitted nutrition in other PHPNP components, such as integrated
management of childhood illness (IMCI), maternal and child health, and in nursing training
programs. In addition, NaNA has developed strong links with The Gambia's Food and Nutrition
Agency and UNICEF.

The PHPNP has contributed to the creation of the National AIDS Commission and the National
AIDS Secretariat. The National AIDS Commission has oversight responsibility of operations of
the National AIDS Secretariat, which implements all AIDS activities in The Gambia.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The PHPNP was launched as a major health operation in The Gambia in the period following the
coup d'etat of 1994. Under this political circumstance, the working climate was not conducive for
civil servants to take major initiatives in program development. This situation may have
contributed to the slow implementation progress of PHPNP.

In addition, the prevailing economic realities in The Gambia, coupled with rapid escalation of
prices as a result of foreign exchange increases during the project period, significantly influenced
the project's outcomes. The maintenance contract between the Department of State for Health
(DoSH) and Riders for Health, for example, was ratified under the unfavorable exchange rate of
The Gambian dalasi to the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, the substantial depreciation of the dalasi
adversely affected the upgrading and maintenance of health infrastructure subcomponent of the
project, because most spare parts were imported. The impact of these economic factors on the
procurement of goods, civil works, and maintenance was substantial. The delays in civil works
were principally caused by slow performance of the contractors to GAMWORKS.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The GoTG supported a participatory workshop conducted for discussion by both Gambians and



                                                     - 14 -

the World Bank team. The workshop gave opportunity for the Gambians to have candid
discussions with the Bank team, and also to come out with a package of project activities for
implementation. Following the midterm review, the GoTG took action to address slow
disbursement problems, which were identified by the joint review team. It promptly prepared a
new action plan, which improved procurement procedures. The GoTG hired a short-term
procurement expert to reinforce the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).

Despite these efforts, government shake-ups and voluntary retirement of top officials at the time
had substantial effects at each stage of the project. Key sector personnel were replaced and
retired, and a new Health Minister was named after the January 1997 elections. The effects of
these simultaneous changes made moving forward rapidly with project preparation more difficult,
and resulted in a host of implementation delays. During the lifetime of the project, there were four
different Ministers of State and many more Permanent Secretaries who were successively
appointed for the Health Department. Furthermore, the President's office was said to have
engaged in-line ministries' decisions without prior notice--a hospital complex in Farafani, for
example, was decided upon and designed without the involvement of the DoSH. All these factors
worked to the detriment of the continued implementation of the The Gambia's health sector
strategy and the implementation of the PHPNP.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The impact of factors subject to the control of the implementing agency has been substantial.
Subsequent to the PHPNP's effectiveness, disbursements were slower than anticipated. The
disbursement rate as of October 2002 (four years after effectiveness of the project) was only 37
percent. The PIU has been understaffed since the departure of the project manager and financial
controller and the financial controller left to take higher position with the Islamic Development
Bank. Other personnel changes that affected the PIU took place. After the 2002 midterm review,
the PHPNP's project management and the pace of implementation of virtually all of the
components and subcomponents of the project improved.

From the 2002 midterm review to the end of the PHPNP, health services in The Gambia
continued to suffer a high turnover of staff at different levels. Although the personnel contracted
by the project showed great commitment to their work program, many directors--civil servants
and in charge of implementation of different components of the project--were less motivated to
perform.

5.4 Costs and financing:
In the project appraisal document, the estimated total project cost for the PHPNP, including
contingencies, was US$19.9 million. The total baseline project cost was estimated at US$17.6
million. The total actual project cost over the entire life of the PHPNP is approximately US$20.0
million. IDA credit allocation at the time of project appraisal amounted to SDR 13.4 million,
which was US$18.6 million equivalent. Total credit amount disbursed at the end of project
amounted to SDR 13.3 million (US$19.2 million), representing about (99 percent) of the initial
credit amount. An amount of US$144,000 was reported undisbursed.

An undisbursed amount of US$1,200 out of a US$250,000 Japanese Grant provided for financing
the cost of carrying out technical assistance during preparation was cancelled. An undisbursed


                                                    - 15 -

amount of SDR 125,500 of the credit was cancelled on November 1, 2005.

The estimated Government counterpart fund at appraisal was US$1.9 million. Total actual
Government counterpart contribution (by 2005 exchange rate of US$1 = D28) amounted to
US$760,000. The figure below provides actual and cumulative disbursement as reported by the
borrower during the entire life span of the project.


                                                                        A c t u a l a n d C u m u l a t i v e D i s b u r s e m e n t


                            2 0 0 0 0



                            1 8 0 0 0
   on)

      illi
                            1 6 0 0 0



          US$m(             1 4 0 0 0

               t
                            1 2 0 0 0

                men
                                                                                                                                                     A m o u n t d i s b u r s e d
                            1 0 0 0 0
                                                                                                                                                     C u m u l a t i v e d i s b u r s e m e n t


                              8 0 0 0
                   isburse
                          D
                              6 0 0 0



                              4 0 0 0



                              2 0 0 0



                                   0
                                         1 9 9 9    2 0 0 0    2 0 0 1        2 0 0 2        2 0 0 3          2 0 0 4          2 0 0 5    2 0 0 6


Source: Department of State for Health (DoSH).


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Rating for sustainability of the PHPNP in The Gambia is categorized as unlikely. The GoTG was
not able to staff and equip the newly constructed health centers and some of the rehabilitated
facilities. Thus, sustainability will depend on regular increases in the GoTG's budgetary allocation
to the health sector. The Bank was confident that project's sustainability would be addressed
through a regular increase to the health budget of 3 percent annually.

Available statistics show a constant decline in both GoTG total and recurrent budgetary allocation
to the health sector from 2000 to 2005 (from US$7.8 million to US$7.3 million, respectively).
The lack of an equipment maintenance policy and the continuous attrition of skilled information
technology staff are factors that threaten the sustainability of the HMIS as mentioned earlier in
Section 4.2. Nevertheless, the GoTG's commitment to sustaining NaNA was expressed through
the establishment of a budget line item within the national budget structure at the same level as
any ministry.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not applicable

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending on the PHPNP is rated unsatisfactory. At the time of



                                                                                                   - 16 -

preparation and appraisal, the Bank staff did not take into account a serious problem related to
the project scope and design and as identified from the beginning.           In paragraph 11 of a
back-to-office report prepared after the workshop on the project design, it is stated that: "The
Gambians came up with very ambitious package of project activities which has not yet been
scrutinized in terms of feasibility and priorities. It is clear that further analysis will suggest a
considerable scaling down of this initial package." Despite this statement, the Bank team went on
to design highly ambitious project, stuffed with myriads of subcomponents that could not be
matched with local capacity.

Nevertheless, project identification was consistent with the GoTG sector priorities and the CAS.
The Bank team should be commended to have promptly engaged and addressed sector issues after
the 1994 coup d'etat, when the country was desperately in need of donor support. The overall
project concept was relevant to the needs of the sector at the time. Also, the Bank team worked
collaboratively with The Gambia authorities during project preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance with respect to the supervision of the PHPNP is rated satisfactory. The
project benefited from the Bank continuous and systematic support through ongoing
communication and supervision mission, particularly after the midterm review. The supervision
budget, missions staffing, and length were appropriate. Regular field trips were undertaken by the
Bank supervision team.

Over time, the Bank identified project issues, took necessary measures, and provided support to
move the project ahead. The supervision team fought to have The GoTG undertake a nationwide
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) to provide a solid database for project indicators. The
ICR team received positive feedback from the client on the quality of support the Bank provided
to the project team. Still, the project team did not scale down the project complexity during the
2002 midterm review, which could have increased the focus and overall performance of the
operation. Given the client's resistance to undertaking the DHS, the Bank should have been more
persuasive on the PIU to allocate time and financial resources to implementing the household and
client satisfaction surveys and the Health Facility Survey as recorded in the project design
summary (Annexes 1 and 11 of the PAD). Because those surveys were not done, achievements
generally recorded in the Project Status Report (PSR) / Implementation Support Report (ISR)
were more qualitative than quantitative. As a result, undertaking a realistic assessment of project
output achievements was difficult.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated marginally satisfactory in view of the above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance during the preparation of the PHPNP is rated satisfactory. The
GoTG engaged in the project preparation process through intensive workshop discussions that
built on the strengths and weaknesses and lessons learned from previous operation, which
concentrated principally on primary health care and response to The Gambian national health
policies and plans. The government was also quick to respond to an invitation for negotiations



                                               - 17 -

and all effectiveness conditions were timely met by the GoTG.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GoTG's performance with respect to the implementation of the PHPNP is rated marginally
satisfactory. After the 2002 midterm review, the government's commitment to the full realization
of the project development objectives improved greatly. Despite difficulties experienced in The
Gambia's economy, the GoTG met its counterpart fund contribution for 2003. This resulted in
accelerated implementation progress and improved management of activities contributing to a
high level of performance.

The satisfactory performance of the GoTG prompted the Bank to approve the government's
request to extend the PHPNP from the original closing date of December 31, 2003, to June 30,
2005. However the project got off initially to a slow start due to lack of political commitment on
the part of the GoTG as evidenced by the high turnover of DoSH high level staff and the inability
of the government to secure counterpart funds as required. During the extension phase of the
project, a few of the several government entities involved in the project were able to implement
fully the work program they designed. Before and after midterm review, as illustrated in the case
of the management of the IEC subcomponent, individuals and organizational interests took
precedence over the project objectives, often resulting in low performance and loss of sense of
accountability.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the agency implementing the PHPNP is rated marginally satisfactory. Despite
initial staffing and implementation problems that resulted in unsatisfactory project ratings in PSRs,
the Project Implementation Unit's (PIU) performance improved substantially during the second
half of the project. The PIU also complied with all legal and financial management covenants.

Despite the overall environment of low motivation of civil servants who managed project
components, the PIU was able to engage the managers to develop most of the activities.
However, their activities were more oriented toward training and development of policies and
guidelines than toward beneficiaries and the communities. There were delays and severe
management problems in the areas of procurement of civil works (construction and rehabilitation
of health centers) and goods (biomedical equipment). Monitoring and evaluation of the project's
outputs, outcomes, and project development objectives were not perceived as priority activities by
the PIU as evidenced by the fact that none of the required surveys were conducted to assess
project development objectives and its achievements.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance is rated marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

In the view of the ICR team and the QER panel members, the PHPNP's scope, content, and
design were too ambitious, complex and demanding given the weak implementation capacity of
the DoSH. In the future, if during stakeholder discussions, it becomes apparent that a complex
design is being sought, existing institutional and organizational capacity should closely be assessed
to justify approach and institutional arrangement for the project. Broad participation of all



                                                 - 18 -

stakeholders in a project's preparation and implementation should be carefully balanced with the
need to focus on some key strategic issues that will help improve health outcomes.

Monitoring and evaluation system for tracking key performance indicators should be put in place
at the onset and maintain during the project life and beyond. Data compilation is essential for
objective assessment of all projects. Future project designs should include measurable indicators,
and an operational monitoring and evaluation system should be jointly agreed with the Borrower.
Projects should not base the indicators that rely on an instrument such as the Demographic and
Health Surveys (DHS), and which are not under the control of the projects themselves.

Country-specific context should be seriously considered when importing best practice from
another country. The Riders for Health case showed that outsourcing of health services to a
private entity could face serious internal resistance from the public sector, which was aggravated
by preventable contracting issues. However, this risk was outweighted by the support given to
this new initiative and its expected benefits.

The success of the nutrition component in this project was undoubtedly linked to the excellent
leadership of NaNA's director. Such leadership is difficult to replicate. Still, at least three other
characteristics made the nutrition component in this project different from other nutrition
component in most health projects: (a) the nutrition component in this project included not just
nutrition service delivery (e.g., rehabilitation and micronutrients) but nutrition policy development
and institutional arrangements; (b) the "nutritional" authority was developed outside (but not
independent from) the health sector; and (c) the focus of nutrition activities was first and foremost
on the community, where the potential clients of the health system are to be found. These
characteristics should be considered in future project designs that include nutrition component.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Not yet received

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                  - 19 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

 Participatory Health, Population, and Nutrition Project (PHPNP)
 Objective Indicator               Target                       Actual/End        Comments
                                                                of Project
 (a) Infant mortality rate         65 deaths/1,000 live         NA                Marginally Satisfactory.
 reduced from 92 deaths/1,000      births                                         Rating based on 2003
 live births to 65/1,000 by 2003                                                  Census Results: Infant
                                                                                  mortality rate = 75
                                                                                  deaths/1,000 live births
 (b) Total fertility rate reduced 5.8 (10% reduction for the                     Satisfactory.
 by 10% from 6.0 throughout       life span of the project)    NA                Rating based on 2003 Census
 the lifespan of the project.                                                    Results: Total fertility rate =
                                                                                 5.1
 (c) 50% reduction in sexually    50% reduction by 2003                          Not rated.
 transmitted infection (STI)      (Prevalence of 25% at        NA                No information available for
 prevalence among pregnant        baseline)                                      rating.
 women with clinical evidence
 backed by laboratory test
 (d) Child malnutrition rate      19.6% (25% reduction                           Highly Satisfactory
 reduced by 25% from baseline from the baseline rate of        18.8 %            Rating based on National
 by 2003                          26.2%)                                         Nutrition Agency (NaNA)
                                                                                 National Survey, 2005
(e) Maternal malnutrition         This indicator was dropped at the mid-term review because it was not an
reduced by 25% from baseline      accurate indicator and it is very difficult to measure.
by 2003
 Overall                                 Rated Marginally
                                            satisfactory




                                                                - 20 -

Output Indicator                 Target                     Actual/End   Comments
                                                            of Project
(a) Proportion of children <4                                            Highly Satisfactory
months old exclusively breast    40%                        48.6%        Source: NaNA National
fed (i.e., who receive no other                                          Survey, 2005
feeding than breast milk)
(b) Integrated management of                                            Not rated
childhood illness (IMCI)        Every basic health facility NA          Health Facility Survey was not
diagnostic tools and treatment and 50% village health                   conducted.
protocols available and used in workers
every basic health facility by
2000, and used by 50% of all
village health workers by 2003
(c) 50% of staff of every basic                                         Not rated
health facility and 40% of      50% of staff of every basic NA          Health Facility Survey was not
village health workers          health facility and 40% of              conducted.
successfully trained in IMCI    village health workers
and applying correct integrated
case management by 2003
(d) Proportion of all births                                            Marginally Satisfactory
attended by trained personnel   70% (original target                    NaNA Survey, 2005: 57% of
(midwives, medical doctors or increase by 5% per year to      57%       births took place in health
trained traditional birth       69%)                                    facility;
attendants )                                                            25% of births attended by
[ WHO definition excludes                                               TBAs aree not included in the
TBA]                                                                    calculation.
(e) Proportion of women of      From 14% to 22%             NA           Marginally Satisfactory
reproductive age using modern                                            15.1% at 2002 midterm
contraceptives                                                           review.
                                                                         18 % (World Bank, WDR,
                                                                         2005)
                                                                         No available figure
                                                                         for end of project.
(f) Use of condom at last        40% increased              NA           Not rated
sexual contact among young       (increase by 5% per                     As a proxy: 65.5% of all
people (age 15­24) will have     year)                                   men and 40% of all women
increased by 40% by the end                                              of the sexually active
of the project                                                           population used condom
                                                                         (BBS, 2005).




                                                            - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

PHPNP Costs by Component
                           Appraisal         Actual Estimates   Actual as a Percentage
 Component                 Estimated         (US$ millions)     of Appraisal
                           (US$ millions)                                  (%)
1. Reproductive Health
Maternal Health                           1.5                1.7                      113
Services
Prevention of Unwanted                    2.0                2.6                      130
Pregnancies
STI/HIV Prevention and                    0.6                1.0                      167
Control
2. Integrated                             0.9                1.2                      133
Management of
Childhood Illness (IMCI)
3. Nutrition Policy and
Services for Woman,
Infants and Children
Nutrition Policy                          0.7                1.8                      257
formulation and
Institutional Strengthening
Community/Micronutrient                   1.3                0.6                       46
Nutrition Programs
4. Management and
Implementation of Family
Health Program
Capacity Building and                     2.5                2.8                      112
Policy Development
Upgrading and Maintaining                 5.1                5.7                      112
Health Infrastructure
Local Initiative Fund
Project Management                        0.8                0.6                       75
                                          0.9                1.4                      156
5. Miscellaneous
Non-allocated Provision                   0.5
PPF Refinancing                           0.8                0.6                       75
Contingencies                             2.3
Total Project Cost                       19.9              20.0                       101




                                                    - 22 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                           Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                  ICB                 NCB                      2            N.B.F.           Total Cost
                                                                                Other
1. Works                                   0.00                1.90               1.00                 0.00              2.90
                                          (0.00)              (1.70)            (0.90)               (0.00)              (2.60)
2. Goods                                   2.50                0.40               1.70                 0.00              4.60
                                          (2.50)              (0.25)            (1.55)               (0.00)              (4.30)
3. Services                                0.00                0.00               7.50                 0.00              7.50
and Training                              (0.00)              (0.00)            (7.00)               (0.00)              (7.00)
4. Local Initiative Fund                   0.00                0.00               0.50                 0.00              0.50
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.50)               (0.00)              (0.50)
5. Recurrent Costs                         0.00                0.30               2.70                 0.10              3.10
                                          (0.00)              (0.20)            (2.10)               (0.00)              (2.30)
6. PPF Refinancing                         0.00                0.00               0.80                 0.00              0.80
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.80)               (0.00)              (0.80)
   Total                                   2.50                2.60              14.20                 0.10              19.40
                                          (2.50)              (2.15)            (12.85)              (0.00)             (17.50)
Total project cost amount of US$19.4 million does not include an amount of US$0.5 million to be allocated from the credit
proceeds
according to needs, during annual reviews.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                  ICB                 NCB                     2            N.B.F.           Total Cost
                                                                                Other
1. Works                                   0.00                0.00              3.72                0.00                3.72
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (3.30)               (0.00)             (3.30)
2. Goods                                   1.92                0.92              1.73                0.00                4.57
                                          (1.92)              (0.80)            (1.64)               (0.00)             (4.36)
3. Services                                0.00                0.00              8.10                0.00                8.10
and Training                              (0.00)              (0.00)            (8.10)               (0.00)             (8.10)
4. Local Initiative Fund                   0.00                0.00              0.46                0.00                0.46
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.46)               (0.00)             (0.46)
5. Recurrent Costs                         0.00                0.00              2.41                0.00                2.41
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (2.31)               (0.00)             (2.31)
6. PPF Refinancing                         0.00                0.00              0.62                0.00                0.62
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.62)               (0.00)             (0.62)
   Total                                   1.92                0.92             17.04                0.00               19.88
                                          (1.92)              (0.80)           (16.43)               (0.00)            (19.15)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                           - 23 -

- 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/17/1993                2    PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (1),
                                             POPULATION AND HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/26/1993                1    POPULATION AND HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1),

              10/30/1993                3    PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (1),
                                             NGO SPECIALSIT (1)
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/23/1994                4    Sr. POPULATION AND
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1),
                                             ECONOMISTS (2),
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)

              05/1994                   5    Sr. POPULATION AND
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1),
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1),
                                             NGO SPECIALIST (1),
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              07/1994                   6    Sr. POPULATION AND
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1),
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1),
                                             NGO SPECIALIST (1),
                                             HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1),
                                             ECONOMISTS (2)
              12/09/1996                4    NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1),
                                             Sr. HEALTH SPECIALIST (1),
                                             NUTRITION ADIVSOR (1),
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/11/1997                1    IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/24/1997                8    NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             GENDER SPECIALIST (1),
                                             REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (1),
                                             NUTRITION SPECIALIST (1),
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (2)



                                              - 26 -

Supervision

           11/14/1998    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    HS
                           COMMUNITY FUND (1); IEC
                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
           04/22/1999    1 TASK TEAM LEADER (1)          U    S
           12/11/1999    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                           HLTH/NUT SPEC. (1);
                           POPULATION SPECIALIST
                           (1); POCUREMENT
                           SPECIALIST (1); FINAN. MGT.
                           SPECIALIST (1)
           06/24/2000    2 POP/REP. HEALTH SPEC. (1);    S    S
                           NUTRITION/HNP (1)
           05/01/2001    4 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (1);      U    S
                           PROCUREMENT
                           MANAGEMENT (1);
                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                           (1); NUTRITION (1)
           07/16/2002    3 TTL, SR POP. SPEC. (1); SR    U    S
                           PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                           SR. FINANCIAL MGT SPEC
                           (1)
           10/06/2002    4 SR POPULATION SPEC (1); SR    S    S
                           PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                           FINANCIAL MGT SPEC (1);
                           POP AND HEALTH SPEC (1)
           03/21/2003    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                           CONSULTANT (1); HEALTH
                           SPECIALIST (1)
           03/21/2003    4 SR POPULATION SPEC (1);       S    S
                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                           SR PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                           FINANCIAL MGT SPEC (1)
           08/10/2004    4 SR POP SPEC, TTL (1);         U    S
                           HEALTH SPEC (1); SR PROC
                           SPEC (1); SR FIN MGT SPEC
                           (1)


ICR
                         3 SR HEALTH SPECIALIST          S    S
                           (1)
                           CONSULTANT (1)
                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                           (1)




                           - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           69.80                       135,100
  Appraisal/Negotiation              124.90                        219,600
  Supervision                        147.90                        421,800
  ICR                                   3.70                        14,430
  Total                              346.30                        790,930




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoires

1.      Final implementation support mission, May 2005.
2.      Credit 3954 GM. PHPNP aide memoire, September 1994.
3.      Annual review. September­October 2004.
4.      Implementation support mission, March 10­21, 2003.
5.      Supervision mission, June­July 2002.
6.      Joint review mission, March 11­20, 2002.
7.      Appraisal mission, November­December 1997.
8.      Preparation mission, June 1997.
9.      Government Mission to Bank, July 1994.
10.     Preappraisal mission, May­June 1994.

Reports

1.      Implementation support mission, July 31­August 10, 2004.
2.      Reverse implementation support mission, July 5­10, 2004.
3.      Supervision mission, March 10­21 2003.
4.      Supervision mission, April­May 2001.
5.      Supervision mission, June 2000.
6.      Preparation mission, December 1996
7.      Preparation mission, March 1994.
8.      Preparation mission, March 1996.
9.      Preappraisal mission, May­June 1996.
10.     Preappraisal mission, May­June 1994.
11.     Preparation mission, October­November 1993.
12.     Preparation mission, June­July 1993.
13.     Identification mission, February­March 1993.
14.     Initial executive project summary, May 1993.
15.     PAD: Participatory Population, Health, and Nutrition Project. Report No. 17399, March 2, 1988.
16.     DCA: Participatory Population, Health, and Nutrition Project, Credit 3054, May 15, 1988.
17.     The Gambia: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project ­ QER: Panel report,
2002
18.     The Gambia: Health Policy 1994­2000 - Improving Quality and Access
19.     The Gambia Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey Report, 2000.
20.     The Gambia Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey Report, 2002
21.     The Republic of The Gambia: Behavioral Surveillance Survey on HIV/AIDS, 2002
22.     The Republic of The Gambia: Behavioral Surveillance Survey on HIV/AIDS, 2005
23.     World Bank, Health and Poverty in The Gambia, Working Paper Series No 42, November, 2005
24.     National Nutrition Agency, The Evaluation of the PHPNP Nutrition Component Performance
Indicators, draft, May 2005.
25.     Department of State for Health (The Gambia), Report on Implementation Performance and
Strategic Sustainability Plan, June­July 2005.
26.     Central Bureau of Statistics (The Gambia), The Gambia 2003 Census (unpublished draft).



                                                 - 31 -

27.      PHPNP: Letter of credit cancellation, November 2, 2005.
28.      Department of State for Health (The Gambia), "Health Management Information System--Service
Statistics Report The Gambia 2001­2004," 2005.
29.      World Bank, World Development Report 2005: A Better Investment Climate For Everyone, 2005.




                                                  - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Riders for health contract execution

The Department of State for Health's (DoSH) maintenance contract with Riders for Health, a
nongovernmental organization based in the United Kingdom, was aimed primarily at finding a lasting
remedy to the very dismal situation of the fleet of DoSH vehicles and motorbikes, namely poor status and
misuse of equipment, lack of maintenance, etc., resulting in numerous breakdowns, no timely referral of
patients, and high costs. The U.S. Agency for International Development had tried to address the situation
in The Gambia and spent US$2.0 million in the public sector without any positive results. A promising
alternative came up in the form of Riders for Health approach, which had been most successful in
Zimbabwe and Nigeria and had also won an award as part of the Bank Development Market Place. The
approach is essentially based on professional maintenance and use of equipment, plus replacement of old
equipement with a cost-per-kilometer system.

The contract passed between DoSH and Riders for Health was financially covered by the PHPNP, after an
amendment of the Development Credit Agreement to increase both the amount of the credit category for
maintenance and the percentage eligible for reimbursement by IDA. The contract was ambitious, with a
cost-per-kilometer system built-in to ensure replacement of aging cars and motorbikes, the hiring of Riders
for Health drivers, the refurbishing of three maintenance garages in the country, and the goal of zero
breakdown. Riders for Health achieved an impressive decline of breakdowns in the two first years.
However, the implementation did not go on well. The initial fleet was way too old and made the contract
financially very shaky (the contract had also been negotiated with unfavorable exchange rate of The
Gambian dalasi to the U.S. Dollar). The DoSH did not pay the cost-per-kilometer regularly. The DoSH
was also not able, or not willing, to impose a rational and professional use of cars performance ( a
significant decline in breakdowns). The technical audit requested by the Bank revealed that Riders for
Health did not delivered all services as agreed on the contract. Overall, the success of the initiative led to a
mixed outcome.




                                                    - 33 -

Additional Annex 9. Background Information on the Country

Political Context
Before the coup d'Etat in July 1994, The Gambia was one of the oldest existing multiparty democracies in
Africa. It had conducted freely contested elections every five years since independence. After the military
coup, politicians from the deposed President Jawara's People's Progressive Party and other senior
government officials were banned from participating in polities until July 2001. The People's Progressive
Party (PPP), headed by former President Jawara, had dominated The Gambia's polities for nearly 30 years.
After spearheading the movement toward complete independence from Britain, the PPP was voted into
power and was never seriously challenged by any opposition party. The last elections under the PPP regime
were held in April 1992.

Subsequent to the coup d'Etat of 1994, presidential elections took place in September 1996, in which
retired Col. A.J.J Jammeh won 56 percent of the vote. The legislative elections held in January 1997 were
dominated by the APRC, which won 33 out of 45 seats. In July 2001, the ban on Jawara-era political
parties and politicians was lifted. Four registered opposition parties participated in the October, 18, 2001,
presidential elections, which the incumbent, President Yahaya Jammeh, won with almost 53 percent of the
votes. The Alliance for Patriotic Reorientation and Construction (APRC) maintained its strong majority in
the National Assembly in legislative elections held in January 2002; particularly after the main opposition
United Democratic Party (UDP) boycotted the legislative elections.

Economy
The Gambia has a liberal, market-based economy characterized by traditional subsistence agriculture, a
historic reliance on groundnuts (peanuts) for export earnings, a re-export trade build up around its ocean
ports, low import duties, minimal administrative procedures, fluctuating exchange rate with no exchange
control, and a significant tourism industry.

Agriculture accounts for 29 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP), and employs 75 percent of the
labor force. Within agriculture, peanut production accounts for 6.9 percent of GDP, other crops 8.3
percent, livestock 5.3 percent, fishing 1.8 percent, and forestry 0.5 percent. Industry accounts for 12
percent of GDP and forestry 0.5 percent. Manufacturing accounts for 5.5 percent of GDP. The linited
amount of manufacturing is primarily agriculturally based (for example, peanut processing, bakeries, a
brewery, and a tannery).

The United Kingdom and the European Union countries constitute the Gambia's major domestic export
markets, accounting for 86 percent in total; followed by Asia at 14 percent; and the African subregion,
including Senegal, Guinea-Bissau, and Ghana at 8 percent. The United Kingdom and the European Union
countries - namely, Germany, France, Netherlands, and Belgium - were the major source of imports
accounting for 60 percent of the total share of imports, followed by Asia at 23 percent, Cote d'Ivoire and
the African countries at 17 percent. The Gambia reports that 11 percent of its exports go to the United
States, and 14.6 percent of its imports come from the Untied States.

The Health Sector
Status of The Gambia's Health Sector at Project Inception. At project inception, The Gambia faced
continued dilemma of trying to reduce the unusually high levels of infant, child, and maternal mortality of
an estimated 135,220 and 10 per thousand live births. Life expectancy at birth was below the average for
Africa (51 years) and remained virtually unchanged for years. In addition, a consistently high level of total
fertility (estimated at an average of 6.8 children per woman of reproductive age) underlined the rapid rate



                                                    - 34 -

of population growth. The extreme demographic conditions were exacerbated by the low level of human
resource development as was reflected in literacy rates of 15 percent for woman and 36 percent for men,
and an estimated 57 percent enrollment rate in primary school enrollment among school-age children. Less
than 40 percent of the population had access to portable water; sanitation, especially in rural areasand peri
urban areas of Banjul, was very poor; malaria, diarrhea, malnutrition, and anemia continued to inflict
untold burdens of infant, child, and maternal health, contributing to over 60 percent of total mortality
among this group, and imposing considerable economic costs on households and the economy at large;
sexually transmitted diseases, particularly HIV infection, were increasing rapidly; and the practice of
family planning and condom use continued to ber very low (less than 10 percent).

Status of The Gambia's Health Sector - Public Expenditure Review Report (June 2004). The Gambia
health sector includes a modern health care system coexisting with a traditional medicine network. The
primary mechanism of service delivery is through the public sector. Services are provided through hospitals
as well as 39 health centers, 221 health outreach maternal and child health clinics and 127 villages
outpatient clinics. Community-based primary health care facilities supplement these secondary level
facilities. At the tertiary level, The Gambia has altogether 10 hospitals, of which three fully functioning
hospitals are in the public sector. A fourth public hospital was recently opened, and a fifth is under
construction. The private for profit sector and some Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs) also
contribute to primary and secondary care in urban areas.

The Gambia has achieved substantial progress in health during the past 10 to 15 years. Performance in the
sector is relatively good when compared with sub-Saharan Africa. However, it appears that the government
is experiencing increasing diffuculties in meeting its health sector goals. The health system suffers from
three main problemsm lack of funding, a severe shortage of health personnel, and problem of access to
services. The emergence of the HIV/AIDS epidimic further complicates the situation as it requires
additional resources and attention.

A major concern is that, there is currently a disconnect between the accurate diagnosis of health issues and
the sound formulation of health policies, on one hand, and lack of proactive and consistent implementation
of such policy recommendations, on the other. Several recent assessments provide an analytical basis for a
health sector strategy. A 2001 Health Public Expenditure Review and the World Bank's Country Status
Report on health, nutrition and population are complemented by a number of policies prepared for the
health sector by the government of The Gambia, particularly the National Nutrition Policy. However,
implementation has been less that successful, and it has become clear that major strategic changes are
needed in the health sector if the previous progress is to be sustained.

Poor quality of available services is often cited in explaining the lack of impact of services, particularly
reproductive health care. Maternal mortality indicators remain high despite the high rate of use of prenatal
care. Risk factors, such as hypertension are often not detected early enough and therefore remain untreated.
Although family planning services are present in GoTG health facilities, several lack contraceptive supplies
and services, such as surgical procedures. The referral system for emergency obstetrical care is also
deficient in providing timely transport as well as quality emergency obstetrical services. Too often, the
health care system fails to identify the risk cases and to provide timely and appropriate care, due to lack of
technical skills of the personnel attending the patients, and lack of access of the population to the
appropriate health care services. The unwillingness of the patient or the family to consult the health facility
also contributes to the late arrival of emergency patients at facilities.




                                                     - 35 -

- 36 -

                                                                                                  THE GAMBIA

                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                  MAIN ROADS

                                                                                  DIVISION CAPITALS                                          DIVISION BOUNDARIES                                          THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAMBIA
                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                  RIVERS




                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                      17°W                                                                           16°W                                                 15°W                                                      14°W



               14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                           14°N
                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                        Kaolack                                                                0    10  20    30    40 Kilometers
                                                                                                                          S E N E G A L
                                                                                   To
                                                                                   Kaolack                                                                                     0      10        20      30 Miles



                                                                                                                                           M a c C A R T H Y
                ATLANTIC                                                                                                                        I S L A N D       Sukuta

                                                                                N O R T H B A N K
                   OCEAN                                                                                                    Farafenni                                     Georgetown
                                                  BANJUL                                                                                                                                                         U P P E R
                                                                                                  Kerewan           Gambia          Mansa                                                                        R I V E R
                                                                                                                                    Konko                                                    Diabugu
                                                                                               L O W E R R I V E R                                                                     Gambia             Basse Santa Su
                                                           Brikama

                                                                  W E S T E R N
                                                                                                             Kalagi
                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                            Kolda
                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                   Kartung                                                                                                                                                                 Kolda
                                                                                                                                                          S E N E G A L
               13°N                                                                                                                                                                                                           13°N
                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                  Bignona
                                                                                        To
                                                                                     Bignona




SEPTEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                       G U I N E A - B I S S A U                                       33409
         2004
                      17°W                                                                           16°W                                                 15°W                                                      14°W

