Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17399 GM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.4 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A
PARTICIPATORY HEALTH, POPULATION AND NUTRITION PROJECT
MARCH 2, 1998
Human Development 2
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 2, 1998)
Currency Unit = Dalasi
DI = US$0.094
US$1 = D10.58
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                    African Development Bank
BHF                    Basic Health Facility
BI                     Bamako Initiative
CHN                    Community Health Nurse
CPR                    Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DALY                   Disability Adjusted Life Year
DHS                    Directorate of Health Services
DSH                    Department of State for Health, Social Welfare and Women's Affairs
EPI                    Expanded Program of Immunization
FGM                    Female Genital Mutilation
GRIPA                  Getting Research into Policy and Action
IDB                    Islamic Development Bank
IEC                    Information, Education and Communication
IMCI                   Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
IMR                    Infant Mortality Rate
LIF                    Local Initiative Fund
MCH                    Maternal Child Health
MMR                    Maternal Mortality Ratio
NHDP                   National Health Development Project
PER                    Public Expenditure Review
PHC                    Primary Health Care
PIP                    Project Implementation Plan
PIU                    Project Implementation Unit
POM                    Project Operations Manual
SEN                    State Enrolled Nurse
SRN                    State Registered Nurse
STI                    Sexually Transmitted Infection
TBA                    Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR                    Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA                  United Nations Population Fund
VHW                    Village Health Worker
WFP                    World Food Program
WHO                    World Health Organization
Vice President: ............      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: ............     Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager: ............      Nicholas Burnett
Task Team Leader: ....    ........ Richard Seifman



Republic of The Gambia
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ...........................................................i
A. Project Development Objective ...........................................................1
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ......................................I
B. Strategic Context ..........................................................l1
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by  the project ...........................................................1
2.  Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ...........................................................                                       1
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and  strategic  choices ..................................2
C. Project Description Summary ...........................................................6
1. Project components ...........................................................6
2.  Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by the  project ........................................7
3. Benefits and target population ...........................................................8
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...........................................................                                   8
D. Project Rationale ..........................................................                                                                                 11
1.  Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ...................................                                  ............. I 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies ..........................................................                                                                          12
3.  Lessons learned  and  reflected  in  the project design ......................................................... 14
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ...................................................... 15
5.  Value added  of Bank  support in this project .............................................                                    ............. l 6
E. Summary Project Analyses ..........................................................                                                                          16
1. Economic ..........................................................                                                                            16
2. Financial ..........................................................                                                                            17
3. Technical ..........................................................                                                                           18
4. Institutional ..........................................................                                                                        18
5. Social ..........................................................                                                                              19
6. Environmental assessment ..........................................................                                                            19
7. Participatory approach ..........................................................                                                              19



F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                                    20
1. Sustainability ......................                                            20
2. Critical risks ......................                                            20
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                            21
G. Main Credit Conditions ............................                                      22
1. Negotiation conditions ......................                                    22
2. Board condition ..................                                               22
3. Effectiveness conditions ..................                                      22
4. Other ..................                                                         22
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                    22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                   23
Annexes
Annex 1        Project Design Summary
Annex 2        Project Description
Annex 3        Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4        Economic Analysis
Annex 5        Financial Summary
Annex 6        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7        Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8        Documents in the Project File
Annex 9        Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10       The Gambia at a Glance
Annex 11       Detailed Project Design Summary
Map of the Republic of The Gambia (IBRD - 22203)



The Republic of The Gambia
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 14
Date: March 2, 1998                                      Task Team Leader: Richard Seifman
Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub                        Sector Manager: Nicholas Burnett
Project ID: GM-PE-825    Sector: Pop. Health & Nutrition    Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit           Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes   [ ] No
Project Financing Data                         [] Loan       [X] Credit      [] Guarantee    [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: (US$m/SDRm): 18.0/13.4
Proposed terms:                                  [X] Multicurrency      [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10                  []   Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed         [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5% (presently waived)
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):
Source                                                             Local              Foreign          Total
Govermnent                                                           1.6                0.3              1.9
IDA                                                                  7.6               10.4             18.0
Total                                                               9.2                10.7             19.9
Borrower: The Republic of The Gambia
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency(ies): Department of State for Health, Social Welfare and Women's Affairs
Estimated disbursements (Calendar Year/US$M):     1998       1999       2000       2001    2002    2003
Annual 4.4        5.4         3.8        2.4     1.4     0.6
Cumulative 4.4        9.8        13.6       16.0   17.4    18.0
For Guarantees:                                          []   Partial credit   [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                      [    Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 1998 Expected closing date: December 31, 2003



I



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                    Page 1
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The overall project development objective is to improve family health in The Gambia. This is
defined in The Gambia as a combination of reproductive health, infantlchild health and good nutritional
status. Specific project objectives are improved quality of: (a) reproductive health services; (b) infant
and child health services; (c) nutrition services for women of reproductive age, infants and children; and
(d) management and implementation of a family health program. Progress toward these objectives would
be principally measured through indicators on access to, and use and quality of family health services.
B:: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
Date of latest CAS discussion: January 1993
A CAS was presented to the Board in 1993, but was not fully implemented following the July
1994 military coup. The current interim Bank strategy for The Gambia was formulated upon the return to
constitutional rule in January 1997, and preparation of a new CAS has begun in early 1998. The interim
strategy supports continued emphasis on poverty alleviation through investments in the health and
education sectors. The Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project will contribute to the
strategy's objective of improving the quality of life for the Gambian population as an end in itself and as
a means to the country's development of human resources. These are minimum requirements if The
Gambia is to break out of a pattern of low-level economic equilibrium and achieve faster economic
growth. Reduction of infant and maternal morbidity and mortality, along with primary education, are the
principal means to achieve the goal of human resource development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues include (a) the key health problems facing the Gambian population, (b)
lirnited capacity of the health care sector, and (c) issues in other sectors.
(A) The key health issues are (i) high maternal, infant, and child morbidity and mortality; (ii)
high fertility rate; (iii) high prevalence of endemic diseases, particularly malaria, diarrheal diseases, acute
respiratory infections, leprosy, tuberculosis, and sexually transmitted infections (STIs); and (iv) high
prevalence of malnutrition among women of reproductive age and infants/children. The infant mortality
rate was 80/1000 in 1995; under-five mortality rate 110/1000 in 1995; and maternal mortality ratio
1,050/100,000 in 1993. The total fertility rate (TFR) was 6.0 in 1993, while the contraceptive prevalence
rate (CPR) among women is only 19.3% for all methods, and 14.3% for modern methods (latest
provisional estimates). 20-30% of young children are chronically malnourished while the incidence of
low birth weight is as high as 25% in rural areas.
These figures represent, however, a substantial improvement compared to the period before the
introduction of a Primary Health Care (PHC) program in 1978. Mortality had been as high as 213/1000
for infants in 1960 and 159/1000 in 1980, 375/1000 for under-five's in 1960 and 250/1000 in 1980. The
maternal mortality ratio had been 2000/100,000 before the introduction of PHC, and the TFR was 6.5 in
1980. Low birthweight had been at 35% in 1980-82. The EPI program brought child immunization rates
up to a high 88% for measles and 93% for DPT. Despite this progress, maternal and infant/child
mortality and morbidity and fertility rates remain unacceptably high.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Participatory Heafth, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                      Page 2
(B) Further progress in reducing morbidity and mortality could be produced by better health
care. However, the health care sector is constrained from substantially contributing to health status
improvement because of the low quality of health services, and insufficient access provided to them. The
access and quality problems of reproductive health, infant/child health and nutrition services are
particularly harmful for women and infants/children. A major cause of these limitations is the
underfunding of the health sector, particularly of the non-hospital sector, due to stagnating or declining
public sector resources. This is exacerbated by less than optimal use of the limited financial, human, and
technical resources in many key areas of health support services. The sub-optimal use of resources is
caused by the limited capacity of the DSH to adequately plan, manage, coordinate, monitor, and evaluate
services. An insufficient number of trained health providers further reduces the quality of health services.
Public recurrent budget spending on health is $6.5 per capita, which - although better than in
many countries in the region - is half the required resources for the essential package of health services
estimated in the 1993 World Development Report for low income countries. The underfunding of
recurrent expenditures for pharmaceuticals, supervision, training, transport and maintenance severely
affects access to and quality of services. Public resource allocation is biased towards urban, tertiary care
with nearly 50% of public resources provided to the two hospitals. Although the hospitals also provide
important referral functions for primary and secondary health care, much of the resources is allocated to
specialist services, which have less impact on national health outcomes.
(C) The low health status of the Gambian population is strongly affected by factors outside the
health care sector, predominantly by (i) limited access to safe drinking water and sanitation; (ii) low
educational levels, especially among girls and women, which contributes to poor health-maintaining
behavior; (iii) low income levels; (iv) lack of food security; (v) poorly developed and maintained roads,
coupled with difficult terrain and lack of transport which impair access to health facilities; and(vi) poor
environmental hygiene.
Government Strategy: The Gambian Government strategies to address these issues are described
in the following policy documents: "Health Policy 1994-2000: Improving Quality and Access", "The
National Population Policy", "The Gambian National Drug Policy", "The Strategy for Poverty
Alleviation", "National Poverty Alleviation Program", "Vision 2020 - The Gambia Incorporated". These
policy documents aim to promote policies and programs which will lead to improved health status for all
Gambians, primarily through the reduction of maternal, infant and child morbidity and mortality. To
achieve improved access to and quality of health services, the Gambian Health Policy 1994-2000
envisages: (i) Integration of health delivery programs under the umbrella of family health (reproductive
health, infant and child health, and nutrition); (ii) control of endemic diseases; (iii) health promotion and
protection from chronic diseases; (iv) decentralization of health services management; (v) strengthening
of the primary, secondary and tertiary levels of the health care pyramid; (vi) community participation in
health promotion and disease prevention, as well as financing and management of health services; (vii)
strengthening of cost-sharing mechanisms, i.e. the Bamako Initiative and Drug Revolving Fund; (viii)
collaboration with the private sector; and (ix) human resource development. The Gambian health policy
also recognizes the vital importance of cooperation with other sectors such as education, water,
sanitation, agriculture, roads and other infrastructure.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Out of the many sector issues identified, the project will address reproductive health issues, child
health, and nutrition issues as well as key implementation issues of public health care relevant for these
areas. Health-impeding factors outside the health sector were excluded, as they fall within the domain of
other Departments of State, will be addressed through other means, and would overstretch the project.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                      Page 3
The importance of individual health-maintaining behavior is, however, recognized by the project and
reflected in the IEC support included in every component. The selection of these project components was
driven by the desire to avoid duplication and to achieve complementarity with other ongoing or planned
eflforts in the health sector. The specific selection is supported by worldwide research which shows
strong and mutually reinforcing relationships between reproductive health, infant/child health and
nutritional status. Poor health of pregnant women compromises the health of newborns, and a major
contributing factor to poor maternal and infant health is lack of adequate nutrition and health care for
mothers. The World Development Report 1993, "Investing in Health", found that family health services,
as reflected in the strategic choice of this project, were among the most cost-effective interventions in
terms of cost per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) gained.
The reproductive health issues the project will address include: (i) high maternal mortality; (ii)
low contraceptive prevalence rate, particularly for modern methods, high fertility rates and the presumed
high number of unwanted pregnancies; and (iii) high rates of STIs and high potential for an increasing
incidence of HIV. Although the data on maternal mortality in The Gambia are limited, a 1990 survey
suggests that the leading causes of maternal deaths are eclampsia, sepsis, hemorrhage and anemia. Only
44 percent of births are attended by a health provider with midwifery skills. In addition, the rate of
maternal mortality among women whose deliveries are attended by untrained TBAs or relatives is double
that of women attended by trained TBAs. Almost half of all maternal deaths occur between one day to
six weeks postpartum. Prenatal care attendance is inadequate with the majority of women having less
than four prenatal visits. Most referral-level facilities lack the capacity for blood transfusions. Female
genital mutilation (FGM), by which a significant number of Gambian women are affected, increases the
risk of complications during childbirth. Anemia and malnutrition among women of reproductive age
heavily contribute to maternal morbidity and mortality.  These data underline the importance of
improving the coverage, quality and utilization of prenatal, delivery and postpartum care as well as the
need to reduce risk factors. Currently however, the number of midwives and trained TBAs is insufficient
to provide full coverage of the rural population. The midwife and TBA training curricula are in need of
revision to include life saving skills. In addition, pregnant women, their families and communities need
to be educated about the importance of prenatal, delivery and postpartum care, proper nutrition, signs of
complications, and appropriate actions to take. While ambulances are available at health facilities,
appropriate means for communicating with them need to be identified and implemented. A substantial
nuimber of women report dissatisfaction with maternal health services.
The PHPNP will address these needs by improving the coverage and quality of obstetric services
through revising pre- and in-service training curricula for relevant health workers, providing training,
including for additional TBAs, implementing improved clinical practice and supervision guidelines,
improving interpersonal communication skills of health staff, providing needed equipment and supplies,
rehlabilitating dilapidated health facilities, introducing a blood supply system, strengthening postpartum
care, and facilitating prompt identification, transport and treatment of emergencies. The demand for
maternal health services will be increased through IEC to encourage women, their families and
communities to seek care, and to educate them about danger signs of complications and actions which
should be taken. User satisfaction will be measured in regular surveys, and their findings will be used to
improve service quality. The project will address risk factors by supporting IEC of local NGOs on the
hatmful effects of FGM and by providing iron supplements to health facilities and TBAs. The data
situation on maternal mortality will be improved by support to maternal death audits.
Despite 80 percent reporting knowledge of modern contraceptive methods, preliminary 1996 data
indicate that only 14.3 percent of women of reproductive age use them. This indicates that the existing
IEC strategies have been very successful in increasing knowledge, but not as successful in changing
attitudes and practices. While contraceptive prevalence is increasing, research indicates that preference



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                   Page 4
for large families, religious beliefs, societal attitudes, health concerns, and male disapproval are barriers
to use. Among women not wanting to become pregnant, partner disapproval is a leading reason for non-
use. Data from the Royal Victoria Hospital show that incomplete abortion accounted for 34 percent of in-
patient admissions to the gynecology ward (1995), suggesting that this may be a significant reproductive
health problem. The low contraceptive prevalence is linked to the high fertility with a TFR of 6.0 in 1993
which constitutes a serious risk for women's reproductive health. The project will support efforts to
improve women's health by reducing fertility through an increase in contraceptive use. To this end, the
project will support IEC designed to increase the demand for modern contraceptives by affecting attitudes
and motivating behavior change. Men and religious leaders will be included as target groups. Demand
for as well as supply of contraceptives will also be increased through the introduction of a social
marketing program.
A 1994 rapid assessment of sexually transmitted infections (STI) found that 41 percent of women
who attended prenatal clinics showed evidence of having had an STI, 25% had an active STI, and an HIV
seroprevalence rate of about 2 percent (primarily transmitted through heterosexual contact). Knowledge
of AIDS and condom use are lowest in the areas with highest STI prevalence. The high prevalence of
STIs increases susceptibility to HIV and suggests high rates of sexual activity, which together with poor
knowledge of AIDS and low condom use, set the stage for a rapid spread of HIV in the near future. In
addition, both men and women tend to conceal their symptoms because of societal attitudes. The PHPNP
will support community and facility-based IEC activities aimed at affecting knowledge, attitudes and
behavior towards STIs and HIV, the development of pre- and in-service training curricula for the
syndromic management of STIs, training for health providers and pharmacists as well as the development
and implementation of protocols for syndromic management, prenatal screening for women and contact
tracing of STI-positive clients.
About 60% of childhood deaths are caused by malaria, acute respiratory infections and diarrhea.
Malnutrition is a complicating factor for all childhood diseases, and many children have two or more
diseases at the same time. Yet, diagnosis and treatment in health facilities is undertaken along the lines of
vertical programs which take care of only one disease at a time. Moreover, there are hardly any
systematic diagnostic assessment guidelines, and treatment protocols are unclear, if at all existent. This
leads to an underrating of severe cases and often lethal delays in referrals by both VHWs and BHF staff.
In cases of correct diagnosis, the absence of clear treatment protocols often results in an overprescription
of drugs, leading, in turn, to drug shortages. These weaknesses are exacerbated by poor monitoring and
supervision of staff, and clinical skills which in many cases require strengthening. Infants and children's
health is also put at risk by lack of knowledge on behalf of their parents. They often do not know how
important it is to give ORS during diarrhea, do not know the danger signs of diseases and when it is time
to ask for professional help. If they decide to do so, they often lack the money for transport to the nearest
health facility.
Lack of knowledge also leads to wrong feeding practices as the majority of mothers do not
exclusively breastfeed their infants during the first four months, but supplement with water, and thereafter
give weaning foods which are too low in energy density. Things get worse during the busy rainy season
when mothers work in the fields and leave their infants at home with older siblings who know even less
about the right treatment of infants. The rainy season therefore sees an increase in malnutrition and
diarrhea cases. The project will alleviate these problems through the introduction and implementation of
the Integrated Management for Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) approach which will develop comprehensive
diagnostic guidelines and treatment protocols for all childhood diseases of relevance in The Gambia, train
health workers and VHWs in correct and integrated case management, and strengthen their monitoring
and supervision. An IEC campaign will promote early help-seeking behavior of parents and educate
them about danger signs. Other project components will complement these efforts through IEC on



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Count: The Gambia                                                                        Page 5
conrect feeding practices, the social marketing of ORS and impregnated bednets against malaria, the
opportunity, through the Local Initiative Fund, to organize and finance emergency transport and the
construction of baby-friendly resthouses for working mothers, and the introduction of a blood supply
system for severe cases of anemia.
The poor nutritional status of women and of infants/children is a severe contributing factor to
both poor reproductive health of women and poor infant/child health. Severe malnutrition is over 2
percent. Levels of moderate malnutrition, manifested in high rates of underweight, are high, particularly
during the rainy season, as well as stunting among infants and young children, due to chronic
malnutrition and frequent infections. There are acute protein malnutrition and several micro-nutrient
defiiciencies. Malnutrition rates are highest in the rural areas, and girls and women are most vulnerable.
Low birthweight is as high as 25% in rural areas. Food insecurity is an important factor for malnutrition
in The Gambia, but most important is the low awareness of people about the correct nutrition. Many
attempts to remedy the situation have had limited success which is due to capacity gaps and lack of
coordination among the many initiatives undertaken. The project has, therefore, made several strategic
choices. First, the project will promote an intersectoral approach to combat malnutrition. It will provide
the policy basis for establishing inter-sectoral nutrition programs and the institutional coordination
mechanisms and capacity to make them work. Second, it will focus on strategies and initiatives which
raise awareness and the ability to address the determinants of malnutrition, including micronutrient
deficiencies. A nutrition education approach for behavioral change in the improvement of matemal and
chil]d nutrition related practices will be developed and promoted, along with community-based
intervention programs. Third, it will utilize non-governmental as well as governmental expertise in
carnying out nutrition programs. Fourth, it will invest in developing the basic data tools to permit sound
judgments to be made in selecting interventions for the reduction of micronutrient deficiencies.
In its first three components, the project will thus focus on quality enhancing investments in
reproductive health services, infant/child health services and nutrition services. In order to make these
investments effective, a number of cross-cutting and coordination issues need to be addressed. These
issues will be dealt with under the project's fourth component. The cross-cutting issues concern the
undlerfunding of the health sector and related issues, the shortage of trained staff, and the need for
community participation to complement the supply of services. With a view to a long-tern solution to
the underfunding of the health care sector, the project will support the development of a national health
care financing policy which will be based on the ongoing Public Expenditure Review (PER), and which
should define the roles of the public, private, and NGO  sectors.  In addition, the financing of
phairmaceuticals and medical supplies will be addressed through the expansion of the Bamako Initiative,
the up-dating of a national drug action program and the elaboration of programs for the rational use of
drugs to avoid wastage. The performance of health budget allocations will be monitored through a
financial management system which will be developed and installed under the project. This will be part
of a comprehensive Health Management Information System (HMIS) which will strengthen the DSH's
planning and management capacities leading to a more efficient allocation and use of scarce resources.
This will also be supported by the definition of norms and standards and the definition of "minimum
packages of services" under a health mapping exercise. Support to an initiative to make research more
relevant to health programs will also lead to improvements in effectiveness and efficiency. The
development and implementation of a maintenance policy will define the increase of resources allocated
to maintenance, and improve the efficiency of maintenance expenditures by out-contracting the execution
of imaintenance activities to the private sector. To increase efficiency, the management of the project's
civil works will also be delegated to a non-Government entity.
The lack of trained personnel will be addressed through the development and implementation of
training programs in all family health areas supported by the project. Further, a long-term strategy for



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutriton Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                    Page 6
staff retention will be elaborated to address the problems of low staff motivation and retention, and poor
coaching and supervision of staff. All these measures will improve the quality of health services, yet to
be translated into better health status, the supply of quality services needs to be complemented by
appropriate support from individuals and communities. A paramount factor is the adoption of behavior
patterns which are conducive to avoiding the contraction of diseases, to apply simple measures to remedy
diseases, and to seek professional help for the treatment of severe diseases in a timely manner. The
required behavior change is supported through extensive IEC activities in all components. Often,
however, external factors like lack of transportation or lack of access to key nutrients are barriers to
effective behavior change. The project will therefore support communities in overcoming such obstacles
by providing micro-funding of supplemental mini-projects at the grassroots level through a Local
Initiative Fund (LIF). The expansion of the Bamako Initiative will further empower communities to
participate in the management of health services and to generate funds for the replenishment of drugs.
Finally, the implementation of the project requires effective project management and
coordination of activities. Training, monitoring and evaluation, IEC and operational research are
activities which are a crucial element to all of the first three project components. They require careful
coordination to avoid duplication and contradictions. This coordination and project management will be
supported in the project's fourth component.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                        Category       Cost Incl.     % of   Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing   Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)   financing
A. Reproductive Health Services:   Institution  4.7            23.7   4.4         24.5
This component supports (i) the  Building /
improvement of maternal health   Other
services; (ii) the prevention of
unwanted pregnancies; and (iii)
STIAIIV prevention and control.
B. Integrated Management of      Institution    0.9           4.5    0.8          4.4
Childhood Illnesses:             Building/
This component supports the      Other
integration of vertical programs to
combat childhood diseases through
the introduction and implementation
of the "Integrated Management of
Childhood Illnesses" (IMCI)
approach.
C. Nutrition Policy and Services for  Institution  2.3         11.5   2.1         11.7
Women, Infants and Children:     Building /
This component supports (i)      Other
nutrition policy formulation and
institutional strengthening; as well
as (ii) community and micronutrient
approaches to improve the



Projiact Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                          Page 7
nutritional status of women and
young children.
D. Management and                   Institution    10.7            53.8    9.4          52.3
Implementation of a Family Health   Building /
Program:                            Policy /
This component supports: (i)        Physical/
capacity building and policy        Project
development; (ii) up-grading and    Management
maintaining health infrastructure;
(iii) a Local Initiative Fund; and (iv)
project management. Under (i)
capacity will be built, inter alia, in
the areas of (a) cost recovery
through the expansion of the
Bamako Initiative, (b) IEC
(information, education and
communication), (c) monitoring and
evaluation through the
establishment of financial and
health information systems, and (d)
research application. The upgrading
and maintaining of health
infrastructure under (ii) includes the
rehabilitation of selected PHC
facilities, the establishment of a
blood supply system, procurement
of equipment and maintenance
support.
PPF                                                0.8             4.0      0.8         4.4
Unalllocated                                       0.5             2.5      0.5         2.7
Total          19.9            100     18.0         100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project includes support to on-going health reform efforts aiming at higher quality of service
delivery and at increasing the participation of individuals and communities in health maintaining efforts.
In order to create an enabling environment for the achievement of these reform objectives, the project
will support key policy reforms in the areas of health financing, health mapping for the definition of
"minimum packages of services", integration of health services, staff retention, maintenance, nutrition,
dnrg management, and application of research. Given the status of, and wide range of policy matters to be
addressed, it was determined that progress would be reviewed annually, with benchmarks established
initially at the first annual review.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                    Page 8
Support to institutional reforms that will result in higher service delivery and a more active
participation of the population includes: the development of a comprehensive health management
information system, the revision of training curricula, the development of new clinical practice
guidelines, the extensive technical and communication skills training for health sector staff and
community health workers, staff and client surveys, the extensive IEC program, the expansion of the
Bamako Initiative and support to the Local Initiative Fund - both initiatives which involve grassroots
communities -, and a strong involvement of the private sector. Institutional reforms in the latter area
include strengthening the cooperation between the Government and NGOs as well as private non-profit
research institutes in the areas of nutrition, research and blood supply. A further institutional novelty is
that the capacities of the private sector will be tapped for the management of civil works contracts, for the
execution of maintenance activities and for the implementation of the social marketing program.
3. Benefits and target population:
The following benefits are expected from the project: (a) Improved quality of life for women of
reproductive age, infants and children through better health; (b) improved quality of and access to health
services in the areas of reproductive health, infant and child health, and nutrition; (c) reduction in the total
fertility rate; (d) decreased prevalence of STIs; (e) increased institutional capacity for more effective and
efficient management and implementation of family health programs; (f) long-term policies in the areas
of health sector financing, drugs, maintenance, nutrition and staff development; (g) sector-wide financial
management and health information systems; (h) greater sustainability of investments through improved
maintenance; (i) greater participation of the population in health care through IEC and their involvement
in the Bamako Initiative and a Local Initiative Fund; and (k) stronger linkages to the private sector.
The project is targeted to the 84 percent of the Gambian population living in rural and peri-urban
areas, with particular emphasis being placed on women of reproductive age and children under 5. A
recently completed analysis of the 1993 Household Economic Survey prepared by the Gambian Central
Statistics Department found that about 33 percent of the population is poor. Poverty increases with
distance from the Greater Banjul Area, and is most prevalent in rural areas. However, migration of the
rural population to peri-urban areas in recent years, particularly to the Greater Banjul area, has increased
poverty there and placed increasing demands on existing health services.
By focusing investments on health and nutrition services for women and children, the project will
contribute to poverty reduction by improving women's health, and consequently, their energy which is
available for productive work. It will also contribute to increasing women's control over their lives by
providing them with greater means for choosing when and how many children to have. As this project
focuses on the rural and peri-urban population and on women, who represent a disproportionate share of
the poor, it meets the criteria for inclusion in the Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: 5 years; FY99-2003
Institutional Arrangements: The Department of State for Health (DSH) will be the lead agency
heading project execution. While the DSH will have overall responsibility for the entire project, it will
look to appropriate entities, both within the Government and outside, to implement components. The
Central Management Committee (CMC) which is the top coordination mechanism of the DSH is the main
instrument for overall donor coordination in the health sector.
Implementation Arrangements: The implementation mechanism will consist of (i) a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) to provide overall guidance to the project, (ii) a Project Implementation



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                    Page 9
Unit (PIU) responsible for the day-to-day management of the project, (iii) the implementors of project
components, and (iv) a PHPNP Action Group comprised of those most directly involved in the
implementation of project components. The responsibilities of each of these actors will be spelt out in
detail in the Project Operations Manual (POM). The following shall serve as an overview.
(i) Senior inter-sectoral guidance to the project and to family health in general will be provided
by the PCC in which the Office of the President (National Population Commission Secretariat) and the
Departments of State for Health (DSH), Local Government and Lands (DSLGL), and Finance and
Economic Affairs (DSFE) will be represented. On behalf of the CMC, the PCC will ensure donor
coordination and give direction to all family health programs in The Gambia by setting priorities and
appraising and deciding on any new initiatives like major research, workshop or program proposals. The
PCC and IDA will conduct annual IDA project reviews, to the extent possible together with other donors
in the family health field. These annual reviews will analyze the progress of project activities in light of
the performance indicators, and agree on forthcoming annual work plans and budgets. It will approve the
Project Operations Manual (POM) and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), to be submitted to IDA as
credit conditions, as well as their possible revisions during the annual reviews. Once approved, the PIU,
which will also act as Secretariat to the PCC, will manage the actual implementation process thereafter.
(ii) The PIU will be the implementing unit for the PHPNP, the ADB and IDB health projects. It
will be headed by a project manager, supported by two deputy project managers (one supported under the
project, the other by the ADB), a financial controller, a procurement officer (financed by the project), two
accountants (shared by the project and the ADB) and an architect (financed by the ADB). A senior
health, population and nutrition advisor will ensure program content quality for the PHPNP. The PIU
will have necessary support staff and offices to carry out its functions, financed by the Government. The
IDB will contribute to the operating costs of the PIU. The PIU will supervise (a) aNutrition Coordinator
located in the Office of the Director of Health Services until such time as the national nutrition policy
determines her/his permanent location, (b) an IEC Coordinator located in the DSH Health Education Unit,
and (c) a Bamako Initiative Coordinator located in the Directorate of Planning and Information. PIU
management will be physically located in the DSH and will be in regular and frequent contact with the
DSH Directorates and DSH line units.
The PIU will be responsible for the management and coordination of project implementation,
including: (i) the management of projects funds (Government's counterpart account and IDA and ADB
Special Accounts); (ii) installation and maintenance of sound financing and accounting procedures for all
funds; (iii) providing audit reports about PHPNP funds to the Government and IDA; (iv) all procurement
activities including convention with GAMWORKS for IDA financed civil-works, and procurement of
goods and services in accordance with World Bank procedures for IDA financed contracts, and other
donors' procedures for their respective funds; (v) reporting on project activities to the Government and
IDA for PHPNP activities (as well as to other donors for related activities); (vi) organizing the annual
reviews (as well as review of other projects managed by the PIU); (vii) ensuring the coordination of all
training activities; and (viii) coordinating all monitoring and evaluation activities, and compiling all
results in comprehensive progress reports with indicators to be revised during the annual reviews. The
PIU will look to the DSH Directorate of Planning and Information for the overall planning of health
facilities, human resource information, health information, financial information and monitoring and
evaluation related to health indicator performance, and to the DSH Directorate of Support Services for
maintenance management.
(iii) The actual implementation of project components will be the responsibility of DSH line unit
managers, with the exception of the Local Initiative Fund (LIF) which will be managed by the Directorate
of Community Development (DCD) within the DSLGL, and of the civil works component. The



Project Appraisal Document                    Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                               Page 10
management of construction, rehabilitation and maintenance activities of civil works will be delegated by
the DSH to GAMWORKS, a local AGETIP-like Construction Management Agency, under an agreement
to be signed by both parties. Under the project, the DSH will shift from undertaking maintenance
activities itself, and move towards out-contracting maintenance to the private sector. Divisional Health
Teams (DHTs), which are the DSH's representation at the divisional level responsible for managing the
delivery of rural health services, will be key in the implementation of the project. The latter will be
regularly reviewed during by-monthly DHT/Action Group meetings. DHTs will also be part to the
development of the Health Management Information System and in the monitoring and evaluation of
project activities. Project implementation will also involve cooperation with local NGOs. In the nutrition
component, the Gambia Food and Nutrition Association (GAFNA) will be contracted for food
supplementation programs. The Gambia Blood Association (GAMBLOOD) will be used for blood donor
mobilization. The Medical Research Council (MRC), a private non-profit research institute will
cooperate with the Government in performing family health relevant research.
(iv) The interface between this implementation level and the PIU is the PHPNP Action Group,
chaired by the PIU manager. The Action Group will be comprised of the key players implementing the
project, including the Director of Health Services (DHS) and designated unit heads, the Director of
Planning and Information (DPI), the Director of Support Services (DSS), the Chief Nursing Officer, the
Nutrition Coordinator, the IEC Coordinator, the Bamako Initiative Coordinator, and the Director of
Community Development. The Group will ensure the operational effectiveness of the project, including
component coordination and collaboration, identifying problems and solutions, information sharing,
providing progress reports and monitoring information, and preparing draft work plans and budgets.
Financial Management Arrangements. The PIU in the DSH will implement and maintain
adequate financial management systems - including accounting, financial reporting and auditing - to
ensure that adequate and timely information with respect to project resources and expenditures is
available. Financial management arrangements will include: (i) accounting based on project Chart of
Accounts to group/classify expenditures by project components/activities, disbursement categories and
sources of funds, and appropriate reporting formats; (ii) arrangements for recording monitorable physical
and other indicators for comparison with related costs; (iii) procurement contract management
information; and (iv) internal control arrangements to ensure proper segregation of duties, documented
procedures for authorizations, levels of supervision, etc.
Accounting. The PIU will be responsible for the preparation of the financial statements every
year including the Special Account (SA) and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The existing
accounting capacity of the PIU will be reinforced by the recruitment of a financial controller who will be
assisted by two accountants (one for IDA funds, one for other donors' funds). A Special Account (SA)
for the IDA credit will be opened and maintained at the Central Bank of The Gambia, managed by the
project manager and the financial controller. The appointment of the financial controller and accountant,
the installation and operation (including training) of a computerized accounting software, and the
submission of an Accounting Procedure Manual acceptable to IDA will be conditions of effectiveness of
the IDA credit.
Auditing. A review of IDA financed projects carried out in the country in 1997 revealed a
widespread project weakness to timely submit audit reports. An independent auditor acceptable to IDA
will be recruited with an annual contract tacitly renewable on a yearly basis. Auditors will audit the use of
IDA funds applied in financing the project including the IDA special account and SOEs. As the PIU is
also managing other donors' funds, the audit will cover the management of all funds. During
negotiations, the Standard IDA auditor's terms of reference, modified to reflect the need for the auditor to
review overall internal PIU financial management, were agreed upon with IDA, and the Government



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                   Page 1I
gave assurances that the PIU will submit audit reports no later than six months after the end of the fiscal
year. The appointment of the auditor will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
Reporting. The PIU will be responsible to submit: (i) a half-yearly project progress report; (ii) a
yearly progress report, workplan and budget for the following year, 4 weeks before the annual joint
project review, and at the latest before each September 30; (iii) a detailed progress report including
technical and financial aspects, 4 weeks before the joint mid-term review of the project; and (iv) a project
completion report 3 months before the project closing date.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Under the overall guidance of the PCC, the monitoring and
evaluation of the project will be the shared responsibility of the DSH directorates, with the particular
involvement of the DPI and the PIU. M&E activities will extensively use the integrated computerized
monitoring and information systems (for health, financial, and maintenance data) to be set up under the
project and will provide information to all DSH managers including the PIU. Key data produced by this
integrated MIS will be included by the PIU in the above mentioned progress reports.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
Five project alternatives have been considered and rejected during a December 1996 ZOPP
Planning Workshop and in the course of project preparation:
Alternative 1:  The predecessor of the project under preparation was the National Health
Development Project (NHDP) which was a comprehensive sector-wide investment and reform project,
coimpleted in June 1995. One option would be to develop a successor NHDP II sector investment project,
covering all areas of the health care sector, including hospitals and urban areas. This approach was
ap]propriate when many donors were involved in The Gambia and could have joined in a sector-wide
operation. However, following the 1994 coup, there was a decline in donor involvement and a hiatus in
the development of new projects. Now, some donors are coming back, but as commitments have in many
instances not yet been made, it is too early for a sector-wide approach, and a more targeted investment in
primary and secondary health is warranted, at this point in time.
Alternative 2: A related alternative would be to wait with a new health project until other donors
have firmly come back on board, and to then design the project as a sector investment project (SIP).
This, however, would entail delaying project preparation until after the Public Expenditure Review (PER)
has been completed as the PER is a pre-condition for support of some donors. After PER completion, its
results would need to be discussed among Government and donors before a basic project concept could
be developed. Given the long absence of donor assistance and the negative implications such a gap has
for the provision of health services, further postponement of Bank assistance is not justified. However,
the proposed project, has been formulated in a flexible manner so that the results of the PER and
developments in other donors' assistance can be accommodated. As such it can be considered a "SIP in
progress".
Alternative 3: Another option for a targeted investment operation would be to address those
illnesses responsible for the major share of morbidity and mortality of all population groups in The
Gambia. Morbidity is largely due to malaria, acute respiratory infections, intestinal tract infections and
skin disorders, while the principal causes of mortality are: (a) infectious and parasitic diseases (20.2%);
(b) acute respiratory infections (13.6%); (c) circulatory system disorders (11.0%); (d) blood and blood-
related problems (9.6%); and (e) digestive disorders (8.0%). This alternative was rejected for two
reasons: Endemic disease control is being supported by other donors. Further, focusing on the most
vulnerable groups of Gambian society - infants, small children and women of reproductive age, whose



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                   Page 12
health problems substantially overlap with the above diseases - is a more effective targeting approach in
the context of human resource development than focusing on distinctive groups of diseases.
Alternative 4: Another approach would be to rely extensively on the private sector to provide
family health services. However, the capacity of the private sector is weak, and it provides services
largely to the urban and relatively well-off population groups.  Project support for private-sector
provision of family health services to the poor population groups is therefore not a realistic option at this
time.  However, the project supports institutional reforms to strengthen the cooperation between
Government and the private sector in those areas where the latter does have comparative advantages
relevant to primary health care targeted at poor population groups. The management of civil works, the
execution of maintenance activities, and the implementation of the social marketing program will be
delegated to the private sector.  Further, the project includes activities which depend upon private
financing of services (through cost recovery in the Bamako Initiative and the social marketing of
contraceptives). Finally, the project will be cooperating extensively with NGOs, such as GAFNA for
nutrition and the Gambia Blood Association (GAMBLOOD) for blood donors supply, as well as with
non-profit research and other non-public institutions.
Alternative 5: A fifth alternative would be not to address the health care sector at all, and instead
to improve living conditions (e.g. water and sanitation, inc6me-generation, agriculture) and to focus on
activities to improve individual health-maintaining behavior (e.g. through girls' education). This option
was rejected because it is in part already addressed, or will be, by other projects, and because the health
issues targeted in this project rely extensively on medical care. For example, improved maternal health
services are a key factor in reducing maternal mortality by dealing with complications during delivery,
and many of the major childhood illnesses require an early detection through a health professional and
adequate medical treatment. It is, however, understood that strong coordination with other relevant
sectors will be sought. In addition, the project includes IEC activities in all project components to
improve individual health behavior, and the Local Initiative Fund to improve living conditions.
2 Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing andplanned):
Sector issue                 Project                    Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Health System                National Health            U                U
Development Project,       (ICR)            (ICR)
Cr. 1760;
effective: FY88
closing: FY95
Gender Issues                Women in Development       S                S
Project, Cr. 2141;         (ICR Draft)
effective: FY90
closing: FY98
Other development agencies
Support to National Health  Netherlands, Italy and
Development Program          DFID (completed)
(NHDP)



Project Appraisal Document                    Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Counitry: The Gambia                                                              Page 13
Support to Women in        Norway
Development Project        (completed)
Gambian German Family      GTZ
Planning Project           (ongoing)
Health Training Facilities  ADB (ongoing)
Technical Assistance for   DFID (ongoing)
Public Expenditure Review
Health Services Development  ADB (approved)
Project
Social Development Fund    ADB (ongoing)
Health Information Systems    WHO (completed)
Strategy Study
Accelerated Malaria Program   WHO, UNICEF (ongoing)
Bamako Initiative          UNICEF (ongoing)
EP][ Vaccine Program/New   UNICEF, EU (planned)
Vaccine Initiative
Population Country Program    UNFPA (approved)
Rapid Assessment of        WFP (planned)
Institution-Based Feeding
Programs for Children
National Poverty Alleviation   UNDP (ongoffg)
Prcigram
Support to Secondary and   IDB (ongoing)
Tertiary Health Facilities
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
The PHPNP has been designed to complement and build upon efforts undertaken by other'donors
in ifamily health. DFID has been supporting the on-going Public Expenditure Review which will be an
important basis for the health financing policy to be developed under the project. The ADB has recently
approved a Health Services Development Project which will strengthen the management capacity of
Divisional Health Teams, restructure and develop the Directorate of Planning and Information in the
DSH, develop and introduce a Human Resources Information System (HRIS), support logistics for drug
distribution, rehabilitate or construct and equip Central Medical Stores, the public health laboratory, five
health centers and one dispensary. The civil works will be carefully coordinated among the two projects



Project Appraisal Document                     Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                Page 14
which is facilitated by the fact that the ADB will house an architect within the PIU. All other project
activities will have a mutually reinforcing effect in the areas of decentralized service delivery and
management, planning and information, drug management, staff development, and the introduction of an
integrated Health Management Information System (HMIS) of which the HRIS will form an important
part.
In supporting the development of a comprehensive HMIS, the project will also build upon the
WHO supported information systems strategy study. WHO and UNICEF are addressing one of the major
causes of morbidity and mortality in the country by supporting the "Accelerated Malaria Program". The
PHPNP will support this program by including bednet dipping insecticides in social marketing. WHO's
collaboration is further indicated for introducing IMCI in The Gambia and for the development of a staff
retention strategy. Strong cooperation with UNICEF will be sought in the expansion of the Bamako
Initiative which may be jointly supported by UNICEF, WHO and the project. UNICEF's recent
provision of 20 ambulances to health centers will facilitate emergency referrals, e.g. of women with
obstetric complications or of severely sick children. UNICEF will also continue its support to the EPI
vaccine program, at some level. The EU has indicated that it will finance a new vaccine initiative.
UNFPA has recently approved a new 5-year country program. The program will provide support
in reproductive health and advocacy, as well as contraceptives for the public health sector. UNFPA's
procurement capacity in contraceptives will be utilized for the project. WFP's plans to assess child
feeding programs complements project activities in assessing maternal food supplement programs. As
part of the National Poverty Alleviation Program, UNDP is providing support in STI/HIV prevention and
control. This will be closely coordinated with the project's reproductive health component. The Islamic
Development Bank supports the secondary and tertiary levels whose strengthening is an important
complement of the Primary Health Care Strategy.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The PHPNP design benefits from lessons learned during the National Health Development
Project, which was completed in June 1995. Major lessons to be learned from the NHDP experience,
which are incorporated into the PHPNP, include:
(a) Adequate lead time needs to be given for formal approval of policy decisions and these will
be incorporated into the time schedules of the final project implementation plan.
(b) Key policy decisions need to be reinforced in the Development Credit Agreement to avoid
losing leverage to promote such decision-making. A key policy issue is the elaboration and approval of a
national nutrition policy which is an important carry-over from commitments made already under the
NHDP. Therefore, the provision of a nutrition policy framework was made a condition of negotiations.
In addition, the approval of the full-fledged nutrition policy will be a condition of disbursement for all
disbursements, starting in calendar year 2000.
(c) The risk of ineffectiveness of interministerial coordination committees established under the
former NHDP approach has been taken into account.  The interministerial Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) created for project preparation and oversight tries to avoid this risk by having members
who, unlike in the case of the NHDP, are stakeholders in the project.
(d) The importance of having a project implementation unit (PIU) within the DSH which is
capable of serving as a channel for donor funding and coordination is taken into account by the creation
of the PIU with said functions and capacities.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                   Page 15
(e) The shortcomings of the NHDP with regard to project management will be avoided by
adequately staffing the PIU with a manager and deputy manager, qualified accountants and procurement
staff, as well as technical and support staff as needed. All PIU administrative staff will undergo relevant
training, and accounting and financial management systems will be put in place.
(f) The NHDP underscored the importance of an early involvement of stakeholders, service
providers, NGOs, and key donors into project design and preparation. Emphasis has therefore been given
to the client consultation process. This emphasis is reflected in the December 1996 participatory
planning ZOPP workshop in which DSH officials, service providers, NGOs and key donors collaborated
in the formulation of the current project design as well as active Gambian participation in the drafting of
the PCD and PAD.
(g) Based on the experience with the NHDP where the lack of qualified human resources,
especially of nurses and community-based health providers, became a major impediment to
implementation, the PHPNP includes extensive training activities and curricula revision. Support to a
staflf retention strategy shall further address personnel bottlenecks.
In addition, project design takes into account experience gained under the Women-in-
Development Project (WID) by incorporating elements from successful WID interventions, such as the
bab,y-friendly rest houses and the baby-friendly community initiative to improve maternal and infant
nutrition.  Further approaches similar to those utilized by the Kabilo project with respect to the
identification and referral of pregnancy-related complications, and the project to solicit Imam support for
family planning, will be included. Finally, project design will be kept flexible enough to accommodate
reccommendations following from the Public Expenditure Review.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The health sector has been high on the Government's agenda even after the 1994 coup. The
health sector's share of the national recurrent budget is approximately 6%, and in terms of human
resources, health service employees represent the second largest group of the civil service (23%). With
respect to the proposed project, in December 1996, Government decision-makers participated in a five-
day ZOPP planning workshop. The Secretary of State for Health, who is also Vice President of The
Gambia, and the DSH Permanent Secretary have been directly engaged in on-going project design
discussions. The DSH has held its own workshops to further advance project preparation, under the
direction of a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) that has been established to oversee project
preparation and, thereafter, management and implementation. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has
also, been established and actively manages the preparation process which already includes the drafting of
temis of reference for first-year consultancies under the project as well as the elaboration of the Project
Operations Manual, Project Implementation Plan and LIF Implementation Manual.
In its document "Government of The Gambia's Presentation of the Participatory Health,
Population and Nutrition Project and its Commitments", the Government describes a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to improve the quality and access to health services in The Gambia. It
identifies a number of specific commitments it will make to the project. These include commitments to:
a) a national nutrition policy framework, with the Vice President to chair a National Nutrition Policy
Council; b) the family health approach; c) preparation of a sustainable health financing policy; d) out-
sourcing of new construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of facilities, vehicles, and biomedical
equipment; e) a public sector health maintenance budget which in 5 years represents at least 1% of the
value of the capital infrastructure and 2% of the value of vehicles and equipment (with a goal in 10 years



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                   Page 16
of 2% and 4%, respectively); f) a management decentralization approach which results in greater
decision-making at Divisional level, including control of recurrent and maintenance expenditures; g)
community-based activities to address family health; h) improved donor coordination through annual
reviews; i) maintaining and possibly increasing per capita expenditures on health to recommended
minimum levels consistent with Public Expenditure Review recommendations and emphasis on basic
health services.
Prior to Board presentation, the Government submitted the above-mentioned document as an
attachment to a signed letter to IDA, in which it (i) declares the Government's commitment to the
execution of the project; (ii) requests IDA's assistance in the financing of the project; (iii) gives
assurances that (a) adequate financing for primary and secondary health care will be provided in line with
recommendations following from the health Public Expenditure Review, which will be a subject of
discussion at the annual reviews, and (b) about the funds to be made available through the health sector
budget during and after the execution of the project in amounts sufficient to cover the Government
counterpart contribution during project execution and the project's sustenance thereafter; and (iv) also
gives assurances that (a) a separate budget for "maintenance" will be maintained, independent from
budgets for "operating costs"; (b) the maintenance budget will be progressively increased as described in
the Project Appraisal Document; (c) the main maintenance activities will be out-contracted to private
firms.
s. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government considers its experience with the completed, first Bank-supported health project
in The Gambia - the NHDP - as a valuable basis on which to base the sector's next phase of development.
After an extended period of absence of most donors, the Bank is seen as a catalyst and a way to leverage
involvement of other donors, and as providing the basis for creating a multi-donor forum for effective
coordination of all support received for the health sector. The Bank's experience in addressing policy
and institutional reforms, particularly in the areas of health financing and private sector involvement,
provides it with a comparative advantage to support Government's reform efforts as described in section
C.2. The Bank is seen as a crucial contributor to quality improvement, accountability, transparency and
more effective utilization of limited Gambian and external resources in health. The establishment of the
Project Implementation Unit within the DSH, particularly when combined with ADB project
management, will be a means to improve operational management and procedures throughout the DSH,
and to facilitate the channeling of future assistance from other donors to the health sector.
E: Summary Project Analyses
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic Analysis (supported by Annex 4):
ERR= NA [X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:  [X] Other
The project's support to public health services, i.e. the public financing and provision of health
services, is justified on grounds that (i) many of the supported activities concern public goods, (ii)
enhance equity, or (iii) cannot be supplied by the private sector because of market failures. The family
health interventions supported by the project are goods with large externalities, that is, the benefits go
well beyond those receiving the services, or pure public goods - goods that can not be withheld from
persons who do not pay and are, thus, not profitable for the private sector to supply. An example for a



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                     Page 17
project activity with large externalities is the prevention and control of STIs as benefits flow to more than
just the individual affected by slowing the spread of the disease in the general population. Similarly,
improvements in maternal health and nutrition increase survival chances and well being of children that,
in turn, will lower fertility rates in the long run and lead to environmental and social gains for the
population. Many of the PHPNP activities are pure public goods. Examples include the IEC campaign to
adopt family planning practices, and the collection and dissemination of health sector information and
epidemiological surveillance. Both will provide significant social gains and would not otherwise be
undertaken by the private sector.
Public health services financing and provision is also justified for activities with the potential to
significantly enhance equity. From  this equity perspective, there is a strong rationale for public
intervention because the poor, women and children have limited access to and ability to pay for health
services.  A 1993 Household Survey indicates that access to health facilities is limited in rural areas
where the average household spends up to four times the time traveling to and from facilities as
households in urban areas. Furthermore, health expenditures comprise as much as 36% of the poorest
income quintile's household's annual income while comprising just 3% of the wealthiest quintile's. The
envisaged activities will play an important role in redistributing social opportunities and benefits by
focusing on the most vulnerable population groups and by targeting rural services and regions of the
cou:ntry.
A third argument for supporting public health services in the Gambian context is that even where
services do not have large externalities, are not public in nature or would not enhance equity, there is a
need for public health services because of supply side market imperfections. The private health sector in
The Gambia is very small and basically limited to the Greater Banjul area. Private practitioners are
almost non-existent in rural areas.
While public financing and provision of services are well justified, there is nevertheless a need to
provide these services in the most efficient way.  Therefore, the PHPNP targets interventions that
respond to the Gambia's particular health situation and that are recognized worldwide by health experts
as being among the most cost-effective interventions available. Reproductive health activities, such as
maternal health services and the treatment of STIs are cost-effective as measured by cost per year of
heallthy life gained (DALYs).  Furthermore, STI presence facilitates the transmission of HIV, and
therefore early STI treatment is one of the most cost-effective ways of slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS
and its economically crippling effect on developing countries. Similarly, mainstream child health
interventions were evaluated in the 1993 WDR as being among the most cost-effective of all health
interventions. Bank publications indicate that up to 15% of the disease burden in Sub-Saharan Africa
could be averted through adoption of IMCI at a per capita cost of US$ 1.60 (Health, Nutrition and
Population Sector Strategy, World Bank, 1997). In the case of nutrition, it is estimated that globally 56%
of childhood mortality is associated with some form of malnutrition. The high levels of malaria found in
The Gambia, for instance, are often associated with malnutrition. With the development of a
comprehensive nutrition policy, nutrition interventions will be more carefully tailored to Gambia's
priority needs and will have a significant impact on health status. In sum, the PHPNP tackles some of the
most important problems in The Gambia, with cost-effective measures that are unlikely to be undertaken
by the private sector.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV NA ; FRR NA
The project emphasizes quality improvements in the sector rather than expansion. Therefore,
many project-related costs are already being incurred. The PHPNP will not pose a large fiscal burden on
the country neither during the project nor after project completion. During project implementation,



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                   Page 18
Government contributions will average at about $375,000 annually which is only 4.9% of the total
1996/97 health budget. After project completion, Government will have to carry the recurrent costs
produced by the project, and extrapolating from the figures for the last 6 project months in 2003 (see
figures in annex 5), this will mean financing about $600,000 annually. This can be achieved if the health
budget is increased by a total of only 7.8% over the whole project period of 5 years. If recent projections
come true, and the health budget increases by 3% annually, this goal will be more than achieved. The
prospects for the fiscal sustainability of the project are positive.
3. Technical:
The project seeks to address major public health issues and equity concerns in The Gambia. It
relies on widely known, available, and cost-effective techniques, with consensus among stakeholders
regarding implementation mechanisms. The design takes into account lessons learned from health and
other sector projects in The Gambia. Efforts were made to improve and obtain baseline information in
order to identify the scope and targeting for components. Project design was discussed and developed
intensively with representatives of the Government, NGOs, and other donors in order to be sure that the
program is adapted to, and consistent with, the needs of those who will be responsible for implementing
it. Investmnent and recurrent costs estimates were based on detailed discussion and analysis of prevailing
costs, with appropriate allowances for price and physical contingencies.
An issue which affects project implementation is the availability of adequately trained and
available qualified health staff and their supervisors. Therefore, substantial training activities are
included in each component, and resources identified to support regular supervision. In addition, the
project will support efforts to formulate a long-term staff development and retention strategy.
4. Institutional:
A crucial aspect of the PHPNP is its strong emphasis on capacity building. Thus, the project is
geared to addressing institutional weaknesses which limit the capacity to implement and manage a family
health program. For example, coordination capacity in reproductive health, infant and child health, and
nutrition has been limited. This is addressed by the creation of a Project Coordination Committee which
engages the main DSH Directorates, other Departments of State, and other partners in project oversight.
The creation of a National Nutrition Policy Council will provide, for the first time, a framework for
intersectoral collaboration in nutrition and food security. The coordination at the operational level will be
fostered through the PHPNP Action Group, which brings together the key implementors of project
components, and through the Group's strong interaction with the Project Implementation Unit.
Typically, project management capacities have been weak. The project will, therefore, foster the
PIU's capacities in procurement, accounting, and monitoring and evaluation. The capacity to monitor and
report on project activities will be substantially improved through the establishment of health information
and financial information systems. In the area of procurement, the project will provide training, technical
assistance, and lessen the burden on the PIU by out-contracting the management of civil works contracts
to the AGETIP-like GAMWORKS. Technical Assistance will strengthen the PIU's accounting capacity.
Each of the entities implementing project components have been assessed for their technical
capacities, and determined to have sufficient experience and capacity to implement the specific tasks
assigned. Where gaps have been identified, the project will provide training and Technical Assistance.
The limited capacity of the DSH to implement maintenance activities will be addressed by out-
contracting these activities to the private sector. The capacities of formal and of community health
workers will be improved through the project's extensive training activities. The project will also address



Proje-ct Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                     Page 19
staff motivation by supporting the development of a staff retention strategy. Overall, the existing
capacities coupled with immediate capacity building project elements are sufficient to successfully
implement the project and achieve its objectives.
5. Social:
The principal social issue underlying the project's thrust is the disadvantaged role women play in
Gamabian society. Generally faced with lower education levels and more limited access to productive
resources than men, they also suffer from the consequences of poor reproductive health and inadequate
nutrition. This, in turn, has a negative impact on the health of their children. The PHPNP attempts to
improve women's health and thereby to improve their conditions for a broader participation in economic
activities and in society at large. The Health Management Information System to be introduced by the
project as well as monitoring and evaluation activities under the project will disaggregate data by gender,
to the extent possible, to measure any gender differences that may be important for project modifications
or the design of future polices.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category      []A   []B    [X] C
Environmental concerns will be addressed as a pre-condition for the rehabilitation, reconstruction
or construction of health care facilities. Appropriate systems will be established for the collection and
disposal/elimination of clinical waste produced in these health centers. This will also be reflected in the
preparation of norms and standards as well as in the terms of reference for GAMWORKS. Long-term
posiitive environmental improvements are expected from the project because it will work towards
reducing population growth, thus, lessening the pressure on scarce natural resources, particularly, on
biological energy.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
panticipatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary beneficiaries are women of reproductive age and infants and children under 5 years of
age. Other affected groups are the women's sexual partners and family, community groups, community
heallth workers, and professional health sector staff. Beneficiaries were consulted during preparation
through surveys on the Local Initiative Fund (LIF), the Bamako Initiative (BI), and a study on maternal
morbidity and mortality including satisfaction with maternal health services. Their responses have
influaenced project design, especially of the reproductive health component.  Through the LIF,
beneficiaries will be actively collaborating in the project as they design, apply for and implement micro
projects to improve their living conditions and their health status. Formal and community-based health
care providers were consulted during an assessment of training needs and, thus, influenced the design of
the project's training activities. In addition, focus group discussions were conducted with health sector
staff on the issue of staff retention. Their views will impact on the elaboration of a staff retention
strategy. Throughout project implementation, primary and secondary beneficiaries will be continuously
involved through their active participation in the LIF and the Bamako Initiative (community
management), as well as through client and staff surveys and the incorporation of survey results in the
further implementation of the project. The surveys will place special emphasis on collecting gender-
disaggregated data.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders are the leadership and the staff of the Department of State for Health, the
Department of State for Local Government and Lands (Directorate of Community Development), the



Project Appraisal Document                     Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                Page 20
National Population Commission Secretariat, local government authorities, the leadership of Divisional
Health Teams, NGOs, research institutions, UN organizations, and other donors. The December 1996
ZOPP participatory planning workshop assembled these key stakeholders around one table for a full
week of discussions. The result was the basic project design as well as the establishment of Gambian
ownership of the project. These stakeholders have been actively involved ever since in the further
refinement of project design. During project implementation some of the stakeholders are responsible for
distinctive components of the project, as described in section C.4 and in the Project Operational Manual.
UN agencies and other donors will be consulted on a continuous basis and during the annual project
reviews, and possibilities for collaboration utilized to the extent possible, e.g. in the implementation of the
IMCI approach, in the operationalization of recommendations following from the staff retention study, in
the provision of contraceptives, and the expansion of the Bamako Initiative. Cooperation with the
African Development Bank was fostered through a joint ADB project preparation mission and there is an
ongoing dialogue with other potential donors. The Project Implementation Unit will be jointly utilized by
the PHPNP, the ADB and IDB health projects.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is designed to promote long-term sustainability, which principally depends on
continued and expanding Gambian commitment and support for family health. Factors important in this
regard include: (a) continuing review by Government of its expenditures in the health sector and of the
share of public resources allocated to primary and secondary health care levels, as well as annual
increases in these expenditures; (b) addressing key policies, in particular health financing, drugs, staff
retention, and nutrition on an ongoing basis; (c) developing and using information systems to improve the
efficiency of service delivery; (d) building human resource capacity; and (e) providing regular financing
to maintain and manage physical and program resources. The project will strengthen these factors
through on-going policy dialogue, including during the annual project reviews, and through capacity
building activities contained in all components, especially component 4. The demonstrated Gambian
ownership of the project, developed during the project preparation process, will be a key factor to
continued Government commitment.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                                     Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
A. PROJECT OUTPUT TO
DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
Family health policies and programs not given    M         Widespread sensitization of major
high priority, new policies not legislated, and            political and managerial stakeholders, as
stakeholder ownership not expanded.                        well as communities/beneficiaries; project
policy development support for health
care financing, drugs, nutrition,
maintenance, staff retention.
Insufficient funding of family health program.   S         Gambian Government commitment to
maintain adequate funding levels; World
Bank financing of recurrent costs on a
declining basis; Public Expenditure
Review provides budget allocation
recommendations; analysis of health care
financing provides a sound basis for cost



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                     Page 21
sharing; annual reviews allow sufficient
time to modify budget submissions.
Inadequate donor coordination.                     M          Gambian Government provides
assurances that donor contributions are
complementary and coordinated; Project
Implementation Unit and Project
Coordination Committee coordinate
donor assistance; donor meetings held
quarterly with resident donors and with
World Bank and other donors at annual
reviews.
Key constraints outside the project are not         S         Continuing dialogue with policy makers,
systematically addressed.                                     DSH leadership and line Departments to
address constraints such as slow
decentralization and civil service reform,
bad roads and sanitation, low education
quality, especially for girls.
B. COMPONENTS TO OUTPUTS
Staff and institutional mechanisms are not         M          Project design provides for extensive
adequate to carry out components.                             training and staff development to build
capacity, support for a staff retention
strategy, technical assistance, regular
performance reviews, allocations based
on absorptive capacity and performance;
supervision missions.
Insuifficient implementation, monitoring and       M          Program management strengthened, and
troubleshooting.                                              monitoring supported in all components;
annual meetings to monitor risk factors
and performance indicators.
OVERALL RISK RATING                                 M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
* Discouraging practices which are harmful to women, i.e. female genital mutilation.
* Increasing use of modem contraceptives and other health practices which may contradict traditional
and/or religious beliefs.
* Readiness of the DSH and other Departments of State to cooperate in carrying out an inter-sectoral
nutrition approach.
* Acceptance by DSH staff of outsourcing services to the private sector.
* Willingness of hospital sector to increase its cost coverage from non-public sector sources.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                  Page 22
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Negotiations Conditions.
As conditions of negotiations, the Government has:
(a)    provided a draft nutrition policy framework, including provision for the establishment of
a National Nutrition Policy Council;
(b)    drafted a first year Project Implementation Plan, satisfactory to IDA;
(c)    provided a set of draft critical performance indicators to be included in a supplemental
letter to the Development Credit Agreement.
2. Board Condition:
As a condition of Board presentation, the Government has submitted to IDA a signed letter of
Government commitment.
3. Effectiveness Conditions:
As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would:
(a)    deposit into the project account the initial deposit of Government counterpart funds;
(b)    appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
(c)    submit a final Project Operations Manual including an Accounting Procedure Manual,
satisfactory to IDA;
(d)    appoint a financial controller and an accountant to the PIU;
(e)   install a computerized accounting software and train the financial controller and
accountant in its use.
4. Other:
A.    As a condition of disbursement, a revised Local Initiative Fund Implementation Manual (LIFIM),
satisfactory to IDA, will be submitted before disbursements for the Local Initiative Fund can be
effected.
B.    As covenants of project implementation,
(a)   implementation will be in accordance with an IDA approved Project Operations Manual
and annual Project Implementation Plans;
(b)    annual reviews will have to result in agreed work plans and budgets for each subsequent
year, except as IDA may otherwise agree; and
(c)    a National Nutrition Policy and Plan of Action are approved before January 1, 2000, for
any subsequent project disbursements.
C.    As a covenant for monitoring, review and reporting, Government will annually present to, and
discuss with IDA, a progress report on project activities and information on relevant donor
activities.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] Procurement documents for the first year's activities have been drafted for the start of project
implementation. The Project Procurement Plan has been proposed by the Government and generally
agreed upon. The Government proposes using World Bank standard bidding documents for NCB.



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                       Page 23
[XI The following items are lacking and are discussed under Credit Conditions (Section G):
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Project Operations Manual (POM) are available in draft
fonm and were discussed during negotiations. Submission of the draft PIP was a condition of
negotiations under G. 1. above and submission of the final POM is a condition of effectiveness under G.3.
above.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Richard Seifman                      Nicholas Burnett                     Mahmood A. Ayub
Task Team Leader                     Sector Manager                       Country Director



I



Project Appraisal Document                               Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                        Annex 1 - Page 1 of 3
Annex 1
Project Design Summary'
The Gambia: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and Evaluation      CriticalAssumptions
CAS Objective                                                                                Socio-political stability;
economic stability and
Improved quality of life for                                                                 growth;
the Gainbian population                                                                      no natural disasters or
new health threats in The
Gambia.
Project Development
Objective
Improved family health      Maternal malnutrition reduced by  Health Surveys                 Improvements in:
20% from baseline by 2003         Health Management              (i) access to safe drinking
Total Fertility Rate reduced by 10%   Information System        water and sanitation; (ii)
from 6.0 (in 1993) throughout the     (HMIS)                    educational levels, esp.
lifespan of the project (to be revised    Census                among girls and women;
at annual reviews)                                              (iii) food security; (iv)
50% reduction in STI prevalence   Household Surveys             infrastructure; and (v)
among pregnant women (prevalence   Rapid assessment of STIs     environmental hygiene.
of 25% acc. to 1994 rapid
assessment)
Infant Mortality Rate reduced from
80/1000 to 65/1000 by 2003
Child malnutrition reduced by 25%
from baseline by 2003
Project Outputs                                                                              Family health programs
A. Improved Reproductive                                                                     and policies given high
Health Services                                                                              priority, with new
policies legislated and
1. a Improved technical skills  la. Proportion of health providers  la. Supervision reports;  stakeholder ownership
of reproductive health service   successfully trained according to plan  results of pre- and post-training    expanded.
providers                   (target: 90%);                    tests;
lb. Increased utilization of  lb. Increase in the utilization of  lb. Routine records/reporting  Satisfactory funding of
prenatal and postpartum care;   services by 10% per year;                                    family health program
I c. Increased number of    I c. Increase in the number of    I c. Routine records/reporting
deliveries attended by trained   deliveries attended by trained health                       Adequate donor
health providers            providers by 5% per year;                                        coordination.
Id. Increased number of     Id. Proportion of referral facilities  Id. Supervision reports;
referral facilities that are  appropriately staffed and equipped                             Key constraints outside
appropriately staffed and   according to plan (target: 90% by                               the project addressed.
equipped to handle obstetric    end of project)
emergencies
le. Increased understanding    le. Proportion reporting knowledge   I e. KAP survey
of the harmful effects of FGM    of harmful effects of FGM increased
from 25% to 50%
2. Improved prevention of   2. Contraceptive Prevalence Rate for   2. Reports from social marketing
unwanted pregnancies        modern methods increased from 14%   program and from health
to 22% by 2003                   facilities;
3. Improved prevention and    3. Decreased prevalence of STIs  3. Supervision reports;
treatment of STIs and HIV   among pregnant women(target: 50%    Routine records/reporting
reduction by end of project)
'Detailed project design summary in annex 11



Project Appraisal Document                               Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                        Annex 1 - Page 2 of 3
B. Management of Childhood
Illnesses Integrated
Strengthened capacity to    1. Health-seeking behavior of     KAP study
prevent, identify and treat  parents improved                 Statistics from Central Medical
main infant/child illnesses  2. Diagnostic tools and treatment  Store and from Social
protocols developed/improved,       Marketing Program
integrated and disseminated       BHF and VHW surveys
3. Health workers skilled in correct
and integrated case management
C. Nutrition Policy
Formulated and Improved
Nutrition Services for Women,
Infants and Children
1. Policy basis for nutrition  la. Nutrition policy and action plan    National nutrition policy and
programs established and    adopted in 1999                      action documents
institutional capacity      lb. Permanent coordination and    PIU progress reports
strengthened                implementation mechanism for
nutrition policy established in 1999
2. Nutrition education strategy  2. Proportion of children < 4 months  PIU progress reports
for behavioral change       exclusively breastfed increased from    Training reports
implemented                 17% to 40%                        KAP study
3. Implementation of maternal  3. 40 supplement distribution outlets  HRIS
supplements program         implementing program by 2000      Supplement program
assessment
4. Effective strategies for the   4. Strategies on micro-nutrient  Strategy documents
prevention and control of   deficiencies to prevent and control    PIU progress reports
micro-nutrient deficiencies  iron deficiency anemia, iodine   Evaluation report
deficiency disorder and vitamin A
deficiency implemented
D. Improved Capacity to
Manage and Implement a
Family Health Program
1. Expansion of Bamako      1. 24 additional BI facilities    I a. BI documents
Initiative (BI)             supported by 2003                 lb. PIU progress reports
2. Capacity built to        2a. Comprehensive IEC strategy    2a. IEC strategy document,
implement and coordinate IEC   developed by 1999              IEC Curriculum
2b. KAP studies conducted in 1999    2b. KAP reports
and 2003
3. Capacity built to monitor    3. Health activities monitored;  3. Annual reports on health
and evaluate health sector  expenditures managed; and         activities; finance; status of
activities; sector financing;  maintenance program monitored  physical facilities/maintenance
and maintenance             through newly established HMIS    program, and work plans/
budgets for following year
4. Capacity for planning the    4. Health mapping mechanism,  4. DSH's Operational Directives
development of the health   approved by DSH by end 1999       on the mechanism
sector improved



Project Appraisal Document                               Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                        Annex 1 - Page 3 of 3
5. Research activities better    5. Minimum of three operations  5. Operations research reports
integrated into health policy    research undertaken in family health
and service delivery
6. Improved staff           6a. Staff development and retention   6a. Staff strategy document
development and retention   strategy in place by 2000
6b. Improved staff satisfaction   6b. Staff surveys
7. Health financing policy  7. High level workshop discusses and  7a. Workshop reports
developed                   adopts new financing policies     7b. Health financing pol.
document
8. Drug management, and     8. Drug Action Plan up-dated      8. Drug Action Plan Document
rational drug use improved
9. Capacity built for       9. Maintenance policy formulated  9. Maintenance policy document
developing/implementing a   and approved by mid-2000
maintenance policy
10. Selected primary and    10. Yearly program of civil works  10. GAMWORKS' quarterly
secondary health facilities  and maintenance of facilities    reports providing evidence of
upgraded and maintained     executed at 100% by GAMWORKS    official acceptance of works
I I. Catpacity of communities   11 a. LIF micro-grants disbursement   I Ia. LIF financial reports
strengthened for carrying out   of $100,000 per year
micro-projects through Local   I lb. LIF accomplishes its new  I lb. LIF review in 2000
Initiative Fund (LIF)       objectives by 2000
12. Capacity for project    12a. Project Coordination Committee  12a. Regular reports issued
management and component    and Project Action Group in place  12b. Contract signed with each
coordination in place and   12b. Human Resources in PIU fully   individual
operational                 in place by mid 1998              12c. Review of the application
12c. Project funds are monthly   forms from PIU to WB and of
requested and timely received.    WB payments, by Bank's
supervision missions.
Project Components          Input (budget per component)                                     (Components to Outputs)
A. Reproductive Health      US$4.7m                           Project reports; supervision visits  Staff and institutional
Services                                                                                    mechanisms are adequate
to carry out components.
B. Integrated Management of   US$0.9m                         Project reports; supervision visits
Childhood Illnesses                                                                         Appropriate monitoring
and trouble-shooting.
C. Nutrition Policy and     US$2.3m                           Project reports; supervision visits
Services for Women, Infants
and Children
D. Management and           US$10.7m                          Project reports; supervision visits
Implem entation of a Family
Health Program



I



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 2 - Page 1 of 8
Annex 2
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Project Description
The following project components are closely interrelated. Activities under one component may
at the same time support goals under another component, and all components include monitoring and
evaluation, operations research, extensive training activities and IEC. These cross-cutting activities will
be coordinated by project management, the PHPNP Action Group and specially appointed coordinators to
avoid duplication and to optimize synergy.
Project Component 1: Reproductive Health Services - US$4.7m
The reproductive health component includes three sub-components: Maternal Health Services,
Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancies, and Prevention and Control of STIs/HIV. They are designed to
address the problems identified in earlier sections of this document.
Sub-Component I - Maternal Health Services: This sub-component will improve the coverage,
quality and utilization of maternal health services, address some of the risk factors contributing to
maiternal morbidity and deaths, and improve the knowledge base about maternal mortality. The project
will finance the training of new TBAs and will place great emphasis on improving the skills of existing
TlBAs and of BHF staff. Clinical skills for prenatal, delivery and postpartum care as well as for the
identification, referral and management of emergency obstetric complications will be enhanced through
the: assessment of existing training programs, the revision of pre- and in-service training curricula for all
relevant health care providers and the inclusion of Life Saving Skills training, the provision of pre- and
in-service training, the development and implementation of new clinical practice guidelines, and the
strengthening of clinical and field supervision. Communication skills for improving the interaction with
clients will be enhanced by specifically designed training (under component 4), and guidelines for user-
friendly service provision will be incorporated into the curricula. To monitor the satisfaction of women
with maternal health services, a consumer survey will be developed and administered to health facility
clients once every year and used as a problem solving tool.
Other important quality-enhancing activities include the provision of equipment and supplies
needed for routine and emergency obstetric care, the rehabilitation of health facilities and the introduction
of a blood supply system (under component 4), the strengthening of postpartum care, and the facilitation
of emergency transports. Postpartum care will be expanded by revising protocols for postpartum care,
and augmenting TBAs' postpartum visits with home visits conducted by CHNs, and by incorporating
postpartum care into child health visits.
The improved coverage and quality of maternal health services should have a positive effect on
their utilization. To further increase demand, community-based IEC activities and mass media campaigns
will be supported to encourage women to seek early and regular prenatal, delivery and postnatal care.
IEC will also focus on educating women, their families and communities about the warning signs of
pregnancy complications and actions which must be taken.  Outreach workers will work with
cornmunities to encourage and assist in organizing emergency transport. The project will finance
operations research to test appropriate means of communication between villages and health facilities to
call for ambulances.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                         Annex 2 - Page 2 of 8
Factors which increase the risk of reproductive morbidity and mortality include female genital
mutilation (FGM), by which a significant number of Gambian women are affected and iron deficiency
anemia. The project will address these risk factors by providing iron supplements to health facilities and
TBAs (through the nutrition component) and by supporting community-based IEC aimed at increasing
knowledge, changing attitudes and reducing the practice of FGM. Finally, knowledge about maternal
mortality in The Gambia will be increased by supporting audits of maternal deaths occurring in health
facilities and in communities and possibly verbal autopsies.
Sub-Component 2 - Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancies: This sub-component will seek to
increase demand for and availability of family planning services and contraceptives through IEC and
social marketing. IEC activities will be conducted through a social marketing program and as part of
other project-supported IEC activities, and utilize all available media and channels of communication.
Their focus will be on affecting attitudes towards family size, addressing fears and concerns about using
contraceptives, and providing information on how to obtain family planning services. The target
audiences for these messages will include women and men of reproductive age and older and religious
leaders. These activities will build upon initiatives begun under the recently completed WID Project, and
include community-based IEC activities, such as local dramas. The PHPNP will also support the
expansion of family planning services through the development of clinical protocols which incorporate
family planning services into postpartum and child health care.
The social marketing program will serve the dual purpose of preventing unwanted pregnancies
and reducing the transmission of STIs and HIV, and will receive support from the PHPNP for three years,
during its introduction. The program will market condoms, oral contraceptives and oral rehydration salts.
All available commercial outlets will be utilized for marketing.  To attract consumers to buy
contraceptives, the program will also market oral rehydration salt and bed-net dipping insecticides
because these are items which are already valued by the Gambian population. In addition, the program
thereby supports child health and malaria control. The initial phase of the program will involve formative
research, i.e. a KAP study, marketing research and development of IEC messages.
Sub-Component 3 - STI/HIVPrevention and Control: This sub-component will finance extensive
lEC to increase knowledge about STIs and HIV, change attitudes, promote condom use, and encourage
those with STI symptoms to seek care and to inform their partners about the necessity to equally seek
treatment (contact tracing). The IEC approach will include community-based activities, counseling,
literacy-appropriate education materials and mass media. For the management and control of STIs, the
project will principally rely on and support the syndromic management approach, because regular
screening tests are not feasible on a large scale in a setting with few clinical laboratories and limited
resources. To this end, a training manual and clinical practice guidelines will be developed for the
syndromic management of STIs, and the respective training prepared (training of trainers) and conducted
for public and private health workers and pharmacists. The training manual will be incorporated into the
curricula revision of the CHN and SEN schools and of the SEN/CHN midwifery program. As women
with STIs often do not show symptoms, the project will also expand pre-natal STI screening for women.
This will include their referral to one of the major health centers for testing for gonorrhea and syphilis.
The laboratories of these centers will be provided with the necessary equipment and supplies.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 2 - Page 3 of 8
Project Component 2: Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses - US$0.9 m
The project will improve infant and child health services by supporting the implementation of the
Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) approach. This approach will combine existing
vertical programs against the major child killers malaria, acute respiratory infections, diarrhea and
malnutrition because many children have two or more diseases at the same time but are only treated for
one disease while the others go undetected.
In a first step, preparatory activities for the introduction of IMCI in The Gambia will be
undertaken. Key persons will be trained in the IMCI concept to act as core facilitators for the early phase
of [MCI implementation. An in-depth IMCI assessment of the current situation of infant and child health
services will be carried out. Its findings will be presented at a national orientation seminar at which point
IMCI implementation will be started by the creation of an IMCI task force. Subsequently, the generic
IMCI material (e.g. systematic assessment guidelines, diagnostic charts, treatment protocols, training
modules) will be adapted to Gambian conditions, including the production of training materials for
community health workers with limited literacy capacity. The customized material will then be pre-tested
and disseminated. The next step will consist of training of trainers, followed by several rounds of
training of health workers in the implementation and supervision of IMCI. Training curricula will be
revised to integrate IMCI into pre-service training of health staff.
These clinically-oriented activities will be complemented by an IEC campaign addressed at
parents to promote early help-seeking behavior, and educate about danger signs.  The nutrition
component's IEC activities will promote correct feeding practices, and the project's social marketing
prcigram will support the use of oral rehydration salts and of impregnated bednets for malaria control.
The Local Initiative Fund under component 4 provides an opportunity to communities to organize
emergency transport of sick children to health facilities and to build baby-friendly rest houses to enable
mothers to take care of their babies even during the busy rainy season. The introduction of a blood
supply system under component 4 will benefit children with severe anemia. During the implementation
phase, the project will support continuous monitoring, staff supervision, operations research, and
technical studies, as needed. This includes surveys of BHFs and BHF staff as well as of VHWs to assess
their capacity for correct and integrated case management. In year 4, an evaluation of the IMCI
implementation and of its impact will be conducted.
Project Component 3: Nutrition Policy and Services for Women, Infants and Children - US$2.3m
The goal of the nutrition component under the PHPNP is to create an enabling institutional
environment for nutrition policies and programs, strengthen capacity at national, divisional and local
levels to recognize and address malnutrition, improve nutrition knowledge, attitudes and practices of the
population, and to implement interventions to improve the nutritional status of women and children. The
project will attempt to achieve this goal and thereby address the problems identified in earlier sections of
the document by implementing two sub-components:  Nutrition Policy Formulation and Institutional
Strengthening, and Community and Micro-Nutrient Approaches to Improve the Nutritional Status of
Women and Young Children.
Sub-component I - Nutrition Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening.: Under this
sub-component, a National Nutrition Policy Council (NNPC) will be established which will be chaired
by the Vice President of The Gambia and Secretary of State for Health, and comprised of Secretaries of
State and Permanent Secretaries from key ministries, NGOs and the private sector. A nutrition policy
coordinator will be appointed, and a Technical Working Group (TWG) established to provide technical



Project Appraisal Document                     Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                       Annex 2 - Page 4 of 8
leadership and facilitate inter-sectoral collaboration. The NNPC will provide guidance to a participatory
policy development process, including divisional and national workshops, which will culminate in the
adoption of a national nutrition policy and nutrition action plan in 1999. The policy development process
will be supported by an IEC strategy for nutrition advocacy to create awareness about nutrition among the
general population and among policy makers and community leaders.
With respect to institutional strengthening, the nutrition-relevant competencies required for
implementing the nutrition policy and plan of action will be identified. Then, the pre-service curricula for
all relevant cadres, including CHNs, SENs, SRNs, Family Life Education teachers, agriculture extension
workers, community development assistants, and nutrition officers in government and NGOs will be
revised, accordingly. The respective in-service training will be provided as well as more specialized
training, including one Masters and one Doctorate level training. To strengthen the nutrition knowledge
base, an improved anthropometric data collection survey system will be developed and implemented.
Sub-component 2: Community and Micro-Nutrient Approaches to Improve the Nutritional Status
of Women and Young Children: This sub-component will implement a nutrition education strategy,
support maternal food supplement programs, and address micro-nutrient malnutrition.  A nutrition
education strategy will be developed and implemented to improve nutrition practices. This will include
an assessment of existing relevant IEC programs and operations research. Emphasis will be placed on
appropriate child feeding practices and the use of balanced weaning foods. The strategy will focus on the
use of village based volunteers as peer counselors as well as of CHNs and TBAs who will all be trained
and supervised.
Support will be given to communities to erect Baby Friendly Rest Houses, traditional sheds built
close to women's fields, to enable women to continue breast feeding while working. Existing maternal
food supplementation programs will be assessed to determine their potential to improve the nutritional
status of both mother and infant, and to achieve program sustainability. Food supplementation programs
positively assessed along these lines will receive support from the project. Possibilities will also be
explored with communities on how to better place the production and preparation of food supplements in
their own hands.
The project will address micro-nutrient malnutrition by determining the prevalence and causes of
selected micro-nutrient deficiencies and conducting operations research to improve the effectiveness of
existing strategies. The Gambia Iron Deficiency Anemia (GIDA) strategy will be reviewed and refined;
iron and folate supplements will be procured and distributed (see also component 1); IEC materials
prepared and workers trained in anemia prevention and control. A locally relevant Iodine Deficiency
Disorder (IDD) strategy will be developed. Vitamin A status will be assessed and an IEC strategy
implemented to promote diet diversification for increasing the intake of vitamin A-rich local foods.
Community-based activities under this sub-component are eligible for support from the Local Initiative
Fund (LIF) under component 4.
Project Component 4: Management and Implementation of a Family Health Program - US$10.7m
The management and implementation of a family health program, whose operations will be
strengthened directly through project components 1, 2 and 3, requires that a number of critical cross-
cutting inputs be provided and relevant support services strengthened. Component 4 is designed to
address these needs as well as the need for coordinating the extensive work on training, IEC, operations
research and monitoring and evaluation conducted under each component. To this end, four sub-



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 2 - Page 5 of 8
components will be implemented:  Capacity Building and Policy Development, Up-grading and
Maintaining Health Infrastructure, Local Initiative Fund, and Project Management.
Sub-component I - Capacity Building and Policy Development:  Capacity building will be
supported in the following areas: (i) cost recovery through the expansion of the Bamako Initiative; (ii)
IEC; (iii) monitoring and evaluation through the development and implementation of Financial and
Health Information Systems; (iv) health mapping; (v) research application; and (vi) staff development
and retention. This sub-component also supports (vii) the development of a Health Financing Policy;
(viii) the up-dating and partial implementation of the National Drug Action Program; and (ix) the
development of a Maintenance Policy.
(i) The project will support the expansion of the Bamako Initiative (BI) by providing seed stock
drugs for up to 24 additional BI facilities, supporting the training of BI trainers and health care
supervisors, and training health facility staff and members of Catchment Area Committees (CACs) in the
BI approach, with special emphasis on cost recovery aspects, like e.g. prices of drugs, drug need
estimates, cost-effective selection of drugs for prescription and re-ordering. Prior to expansion, a project-
financed review will be undertaken to analyze and make recommendations on the BI's fee structure,
exemptions, cost recovery aspects, drug requirements, inventory controls and the role of CACs.
(ii) Information, Education and Communication (IEC) is integral to the success of the project by
promoting behavior change of the affected population in the areas of reproductive health, infant and child
health, and nutrition. In order to coordinate and improve IEC message development, training, and
delivery undertaken in project components 1, 2 and 3, a full-time IEC coordinator will be appointed to
the DSH Health Education Unit (HEU) and equipped. She/he will report to the PIU. The coordinator
will strengthen the capacity of the HEU in IEC management and implementation. She/he will developa
comprehensive IEC strategy, and work with an international consultant in conducting a training workshop
in the integrated marketing communications (IMC) approach for all health education officers involved in
the project. This approach identifies "ready markets" for behavior change instead of feeding information
to reluctant audiences. The coordinator will also coordinate formative research for message development
and correct targeting in all project areas, identify opportunities to incorporate IEC into the training of
health workers, and implement a training program on inter-personal communication for health workers.
KALP (knowledge, attitude, practice) studies will be conducted to measure the impact of IEC on behavior
change for all components of the project.
(iii) The project will strengthen DSH's management, monitoring and evaluation capacities
through the elaboration and installation of a comprehensive computerized Health Management
Information System (HMIS). It will be comprised of: (a) a Health Information System (HIS) providing
data on the population's health status and sector-wide inputs and outputs, distribution of health services
ancl population access to them; (b) a Financing and Accounting Information System (FAIS) designed to
be 100% compatible with the DSFE's computerized budget management system, and implemented to
gradually cover the management of public and private resources for investment and recurrent
expenditures of the health sector in all divisions and levels of care, as well as management of donors'
support; (c) a Maintenance Information System (MIS) providing data on facilities, equipment status and
maintenance/replacement needs. These systems will be complemented by an ADB financed Human
Resources Information System (HRIS) providing necessary data to manage the provision of sector-wide
hurnan resources including needs and training requirements. IDA financed systems will be conceived as
intranets accessible from all concerned health managers and linked: (i) for data exchange and
intrasectoral cross analysis particularly on cost-efficiency matters, and (ii) to other sectors' intranets
when available (the existing DSFE's one and the planned DSE's one) for intersectoral cross analysis.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 2 - Page 6 of 8
They will be designed to provide regular feedback to practitioners and effective monitoring and
evaluation of health sector activities to managers. These systems will thus benefit the health sector as a
whole and the project in particular because it will generate the data needed for the monitoring and
evaluation of project activities. Project monitoring and evaluation itself will be carried out by the DSH
line units in charge of implementing singular components, whereas the coordination of such M&E will be
the responsibility of project management.
(iv) A health mapping capacity will be developed in the DPI to provide a basis for projecting
investment and recurrent expenditure needs, and managing resources allocations. This will include an
assessment of existing health service needs, a clearer definition of the health sector structure (which is
currently composed of 7 layers), the definition of norms and standards linked to the notion of"minimum
packages of activities" at each level of the health pyramid, the definition of criteria for the allocation of
funds, and the capacity to develop optional projections to support decision making.
(v) The project will strengthen capacity in the area of applied research by (a) financing
operations research under all components as well as needed surveys for the monitoring and evaluation of
project activities, and supporting the coordination of such research, and by (b) supporting a new Gambian
initiative called "Getting Research into Policy and Action"(GRIPA) in the areas of reproductive health,
infant and child health, and nutrition. This initiative will seek to close the gap between the extensive
health research done in The Gambia and Gambian health policy and program formulation. This initiative
would take advantage of the presence of an international research institution, the Medical Research
Council (MRC), with its research, knowledge and information base, and training competencies. The
project will build on existing collaborative agreements between the Government and MRC and establish
GRIPA as a means to better translate research findings into Gambian policies, programs, and projects.
(vi) The project will support staff development and retention by following up on the staff
retention study undertaken during project preparation and extending support to the development of a staff
retention strategy. This will be achieved by reviewing the issues raised in the study during the annual
project reviews and by supporting workshops which will review the study and fornulate a strategy. Staff
motivation and retention will also be addressed in other project components. Staff housing will be
financed in the project's civil works component, and extensive training will be provided in all project
components. Project management will ensure the coordination and transparent execution of the training
program. Staff satisfaction will be measured every 2 years with a staff survey.
(vii) With the goal of helping to develop a more efficient, equitable and sustainable health care
system, the project will support the development of a health financing policy. The process will build on
the recommendations emanating from the on-going Public Expenditure Review (PER) and include an
examination of different options for health financing, including community and household financing, and
the private sector's role in health care service delivery. Current fee levels, household willingness and
ability to pay for health care, the extent and nature of private health care provision, legislation governing
private health care provision, and linkages between the public and private health care sectors will be
analyzed. The project will finance studies, workshops, and study tours which are likely to deepen
Gambian understanding and skills in these areas. During a final workshop, the major findings and
recommendations will be translated into specific policy reforms. The PHPNP annual reviews will then
determine how best to incorporate priority reforms into planned project activities.
(viii) The project will support the up-dating and the partial implementation of the National Drug
Action Program. This includes: (a) the review of drug management practice, in particular, the
establishment of a system to quantify drug needs in the public sector, the introduction of a computerized



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 2 - Page 7 of 8
system for drug procurement and inventory management, and the review of pricing practices; and (b)
support to education campaigns for drug prescribers and dispensers to promote the rational use of drugs.
The project will also support activities to strengthen the National Pharmaceutical Services
Aclministration.
(ix) The project will support the development and the implementation of a new maintenance
policy which will clearly delineate, on the one hand, DSH activities concentrating on planning, funding,
managing, monitoring and evaluating the maintenance program and, on the other hand, execution of
maintenance activities which will be outcontracted to professionals in the private sector. The new policy
will shift from a centralized to a decentralized management, including decentralization of fund
management with adequate mechanisms of accountability. The DSH maintenance budget will be
increased from an estimated 0.4%, 0.01% and 1.5% of asset value, respectively, for the maintenance of
buildings, equipment and vehicles in 1996, to 1%, 2% and 2.5%, respectively, in 2003. This corresponds
to an annual increase, estimated at D860,000 per year (in real terms). These additional budget resources
will be complemented by an additional equivalent support from the PHPNP.
Sub-component 2 - Up-grading and Maintaining Health Infrastructure: Under this sub-
coimponent, the project will support DSH efforts to provide and maintain: (i) adequate quality of physical
facilities to insure good conditions for the delivery of quality services related to maternal, infant and child
caire, and (ii) adequate blood supply for the sector. Physical investments comprise: (a) construction,
reconstruction, refurbishing and equipment of dispensaries as needed to: (i) maintain the existing
dispensaries/population ratio during the project period, given the population increase, and (ii) to insure
and maintain good conditions for the delivery of basic health services; (b) construction of waiting sheds
in front of dispensaries to protect waiting patients from sun/rain and provide accommodation for
community activities including IEC meetings; (c) construction of latrine-blocks in dispensaries when
neieded to provide adequate sanitation; (d) construction of staff quarters in remote facilities to help retain
qualified personnel; (e) refurbishing of maternal wards in Minor and Major Health Centers which are not
sulpported by the ADB health project; (f) limited refurbishment and equipment of selected surgery
theaters, laboratories and blood banks in Major Health Centers as needed to insure quality surgery for
m.aternal care; and (g) support to the maintenance of: (i) building and equipment of health facilities at the
primary and secondary levels, and (ii) DSH vehicles, through out-sourced contracts with private firms.
The management of civil works contracts for the above mentioned works as well as the implementation
of a yearly building maintenance program will be carried out by a specialized contract management
agency (GAMWORKS). As maintenance services for all new equipment purchased by DSH will be
included in the suppliers' contracts, this new mechanism will progressively expand maintenance to all
equipment in the sector. The increase of blood supply will be obtained from a charitable organization
(GAMBLOOD) which has already developed a sound experience in blood-donor mobilization in three
regions and will expand and intensify its activities with this support.
Sub-component 3 - Local Initiative Fund: The project will complement its activities at the
grassroots level by supporting a Local Initiative Fund. The Fund will enable communities to carry out
acitivities in the areas of reproductive health, infant and child health, and nutrition by providing micro
grants. Possible examples for such activities include community transport to and communication with
health facilities for emergency referrals, baby-friendly rest houses, or the production of food
supplements. The LIF will thus help communities to deal with barriers to health seeking behavior. The
LIF had already been piloted during project preparation, but with the different objective of inducing
reproductive behavior change. An evaluation demonstrated that the LIF was an effective means of
generating community participation and of building grassroots capacities, but that it could not achieve the
stated objective of reproductive behavior change. Therefore, a decision was taken to link the LIF more



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                         Annex 2 - Page 8 of 8
closely to the project by making it a complementary tool of the project at grassroots level. The project
will therefore only support the LIF after its objectives have been modified accordingly. The pilot phase
will be extended for two more years. A review after two years will determine whether the LIF should be
expanded nation-wide or whether it should be integrated with other social funds. The project will finance
the LIF micro grants and part of the operation of the LIF which includes training, equipment, IEC,
monitoring, supervision and the review of the extended pilot phase. Funds will only be expended after
the LIF Implementation Manual has been revised.
Sub-component 4 - Project Management: Project management will be the responsibility of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which will receive guidance from a Project Coordination Committee
(PCC) and support from a PHPNP Action Group. It will also coordinate activities of the ADB and IDB
health projects. The PIU will have the following responsibilities: (i) the management of project funds
including Government's counterpart account and IDA Special Account; (ii) all procurement activities
including convention with GAMWORKS for IDA financed civil-works, procurement of goods and
services in accordance with World Bank procedures for IDA financed contracts, and other donors'
procedures for their respective funds; (iii) installation and maintenance of sound financing and
accounting procedures for all funds; (iv) providing to the Govemment and IDA audit reports about
PHPNP funds; (v) reporting on project activities to IDA every six months; (vi) organizing the joint
Govemment-IDA annual reviews and mid-term review (as well as review of other projects managed by
the PIU); (vii) coordinating all training activities under the project to ensure a comprehensive
implementation; (viii) coordinating all monitoring and evaluation activities, and compiling all results in
comprehensive progress reports with indicators to be revised during the annual reviews; (ix) supervision
of the activities of a PHPNP Nutrition Coordinator located in the Directorate of Medical Services and of a
PHPNP IEC Coordinator housed in the Health Education Unit (HEU).
The PIU, will comprise a project manager, two deputy project managers, a financial controller,
two accountants, a procurement officer, a senior health, population and nutrition advisor, secretaries and
support staff. The project will finance the project manager, a deputy project manager, the financial
controller, an accountant, a procurement officer and a senior health, population and nutrition advisor.
The ADB project will finance a deputy project manager, an architect and an accountant. The secretaries
and support staff at the PIU will be financed through the Govemment budget, with IDB funds
contributing towards the operating costs of the PIU. The PIU will also receive support under the project
for carrying out the above-mentioned activities, including for procurement training, and auditing services.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                           Annex 3 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 3
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                      Local          Foreign          Total
------------------US$ million-----------------
Baselline Cost
1. Reproductive Health Services
Maternal Health Services                               0.9              0.6             1.5
Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancies                     0.6              1.4            2.0
STI/HIV Prevention and Control                         0.2              0.4            0.6
Subtotal Reproductive Health Services                     1.7              2.4            4.1
2. Integrated Management of Childhood
Illinesses                                             0.5              0.4            0.9
3. Nutrition Policy and Services for
Mlomen, Infants and Children
Nutrition Policy Formulation and                       0.2              0.5            0.7
Institutional Strengthening
C ommunity/Micronutrient Nutrition                     0.8              0.5            1.3
Programs
Subtotal Nutrition Policy and Services                    1.0              1.0            2.0
for Women, Infants and Children
4. Management and Implementation of
Family Health Program
Capacity Building and Policy Development               0.9              1.6            2.5
Up-grading and Maintaining Health                      2.4              2.7            5.1
Infrastructure
Local Initiative Fund                                  0.6              0.2            0.8
Project Management                                     0.5              0.4            0.9
Subtotal Management and Implementation of
Family Health Program                             4.4              4.9            9.3
5. Non Allocated Provision                                0.2              0.3            0.5
6. P]?F                                                   0.4              0.4            0.8
Total Baseline Cost                                       8.2              9.4           17.6
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                                 0.5              0.7             1.1
Price Contingencies                                    0.6              0.6             1.2
Total Contingencies                                       1.1              1.3            2.3
Total Project Cost                                        9.3             10.6           19.9






Projeict Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                            Annex 4 - Page 1 of 9
Annex 4
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Economic Analysis
An economic analysis of the Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project (PHPNP), and
the larger health sector in which it will operate, has been undertaken during the course of project
preparation and appraisal. The findings support the PHPNP as a viable, cost-effective and appropriate
use of public funds that will improve the health outcomes of the country's most vulnerable population
groups. The following discussion spells out the economic justification of the project, focusing on several
areas: (i) rationale for public financing and provision of health services; (ii) cost-effectiveness of project
activities; (iii) financial analysis; and (iv) risks to successful project implementation.
I.     Rationale for Public Financing and Provision of Health Services
The project's support to public health services, i.e. the public financing and provision of health
services, is justified on grounds that (i) many of the supported activities concern public goods, (ii)
enhance equity, or (iii) can not be supplied by the private sector because of market failures. The project
focuses on a range of public health interventions, including improving the quality and access to maternal
health services, promoting the use of modern contraceptives, strengthening STI prevention and
management, implementing a more integrated approach to managing childhood illnesses, and
strengthening nutritional policies and programs targeted at women and children. Such family health
interventions can be justified on grounds that they are goods with large externalities, that is, the benefits
go well beyond those receiving the services, or pure public goods - goods that can not be withheld from
persons who do not pay and are, thus, not profitable for the private sector to supply. An example for a
project activity with large externalities is the prevention and control of STIs as benefits flow to more than
justl the individual affected by slowing the spread of the disease in the general population. Similarly,
improvements in maternal health and nutrition increase survival chances and well being of children that,
in turn, will lower fertility rates in the long run and lead to environmental and social gains for the
population. Many of the PHPNP activities are pure public goods. Examples include the IEC campaign to
adopt family planning practices, and the collection and dissemination of health sector information and
epidemiological surveillance. Both will provide significant social gains and would not otherwise be
undertaken by the private sector.
Public health services financing and provision is also justified for activities with the potential to
significantly enhance equity. From  this equity perspective, there is a strong rationale for public
intervention because the poor, women and children have limited access to and ability to pay for health
services.  A 1993 Household Survey indicates that access to health facilities is limited in rural areas
where the average household spends up to four times the time traveling to and from facilities as
households in urban areas. Furthermore, health expenditures comprise as much as 36% of the poorest
income quintile's household's annual income while comprising just 3% of the wealthiest quintile's. The
envisaged activities will play an important role in redistributing social opportunities and benefits by
focusing on the most vulnerable population groups and by targeting rural services and regions of the
cotntry.
A third argument for public health services in the Gambian context is that even where services do
not have large externalities, are not public in nature or would not enhance equity, there is a need for
public health services because of supply side market imperfections. The private health sector in The
Gambia is very small and basically limited to the Greater Banjul area. Private practitioners are almost
non-existent in rural areas. The reasons for this behavior have not been studied in detail, but one can



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 4 - Page 2 of 9
assume that the income potential for private providers is too small in rural areas. Even though an annual
per capita health expenditure of $6.5 of the poorest income quintile (see chapter on private health
expenditures below) is not insubstantial, this might still constitute too small a market to attract private
providers who are likely to find the wealthiest income quintile in the capital who spend $35 annually on
health.  Further, living conditions may be too unattractive in rural areas to pull private health
practitioners.
II.    Cost-Effectiveness of Project Activities
While public financing and provision of services are well justified, there is nevertheless a need to
provide these services in the most efficient way.  Therefore, the PHPNP targets interventions that
respond to the Gambia's particular health situation and that are recognized worldwide by health experts
as being among the most cost-effective interventions available. Reproductive health activities, such as
maternal health services and the treatment of STIs are cost-effective as measured by cost per year of
healthy life gained (DALYs).  Furthermore, STI prevalence facilitates the transmission of HIV, and
therefore early STI treatment is one of the most cost-effective ways of slowing the spread of HIV/AIDS
and its economically crippling effect on developing countries. Similarly, mainstream child health
interventions were evaluated in the 1993 WDR as being among the most cost-effective of all health
interventions. Bank publications indicate that up to 15% of the disease burden in Sub-Saharan Africa
could be averted through adoption of IMCI at a per capita cost of US$ 1.60 (Health, Nutrition and
Population Sector Strategy, World Bank, 1997). In the case of nutrition, it is estimated that globally 56%
of childhood mortality is associated with some form of malnutrition. The high levels of malaria found in
The Gambia, for instance, are often associatet with malnutrition. With the development of a
comprehensive nutrition policy, nutrition interventions will be more carefully tailored to Gambia's
priority needs and will have a significant impact on health status.
In sum, the PHPNP tackles the most important problems in The Gambia with cost-effective
measures that are unlikely to be undertaken by the private sector. Without the PHPNP, the health status
of the population would be worse than without it. A set of indicators has been chosen to monitor and
evaluate health care progress and provide an indication of conditions with and without the project.
Table 1: Selected Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluating the PHPNP
Output/Outcome Indicators                Target 2003             Monitoring
Frequency
Total Fertility Rate                     reduced by 10% from     3 yr.
6.0 (in 1993) throughout
the lifespan of the
project                _
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate            22%                     3 yr.
STI prevalence among pregnant women      50% reduction           3 yr.
% infants < 4 months exclusively breastfed    40%                3 yr.
Infant Mortality Rate                    reduction to 65/1000    3 yr.
Child Malnutrition Rate                  20% reduction           3 yr.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 4 - Page 3 of 9
Clearly, these outputs and outcomes are important and relevant to The Gambia and the likelihood of their
attainment will be significantly enhanced as a result of the PHPNP. Cost-effectiveness will be monitored
annually and non-performing interventions will be adjusted.
III.   Financial Analysis
Ov,erview
The newly elected Government of The Gambia is committed to restart the economic reform
process. Following a contraction in 1994 and 1995, the economy grew by 2.6% in 1996 and by 3.0% in
1997. The economic outlook will depend on private sector response to the Government's ability to
undertake strong corrective fiscal measures, resume policy reforms, and normalize relations with the
international community. A recently fielded IMF mission assessed the fiscal performance as being on
track, and projected continued economic growth of 3% annually in real terms over the next three years. It
recommended that the share of public expenditure to GDP be kept constant, which would mean an annual
increase of 3% in public expenditures. If in addition the IMF's recommendation will be followed that
total current spending on health and education will increase to 30% as compared to 27.5% in 1995/96,
this would mean that public health expenditures would grow by at least 3% per year. Table 2 provides an
overview of past health budgets.
Table 2: Total Public Health Expenditure (000 Dalasis, current prices)l
1994/95   1995/96     1996/97
actual    actual      estimate
Health Recurrent Expenditure                 62,169    55,622       60,901
Health Development Expenditure               6,670      7,107       15,373
Total Health Expenditure                     68,839    62,729       76,274
Total Health  Expenditure  (1990/91  constant 53,641    46,659      55,567
prices)                                      _
Share of Total Government Expenditure (%)    8.2        5.5         5.7
Per capita public health expenditure (Dalasis; 48       40          45
1990/91 constant prices)                              I           I          I
A Public Expenditure Review (PER) has been initiated in the health sector to assess the
effectiveness and efficiency of government health expenditure, and to ensure that health priorities are
clearly identified and adequately funded.  The PER will be an ongoing exercise whereby the DSH
annually spells out its priority programs, with relevant and measurable indicators to monitor its progress,
while the DSFE provides a clear and predictable level of resources to enable the health sector to
undertake rational and proper planning. A Health Management Information System (HMIS), linked to
DSFE's own financial management system, will be integral to the success of the PER process and its
development will be financed under the PHPNP.
' Figures are based on table 5.1.1 of the January 1998 PER draft presented by the Government of The Gambia,
which excludes Social Welfare and Women's Bureau.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 4 - Page 4 of 9
Fiscal Implications of the PHPNP
The PHPNP will not pose a large fiscal burden on the country neither during the project nor after
project completion. During project implementation, Government contributions will average at about
$375,000 annually which is only 4.9% of the total 1996/97 health budget. After project completion,
Government will have to carry the recurrent costs produced by the project, and extrapolating from the
figures for the last six project months in 2003 (see figures in annex 5), this will mean financing about
$600,000 annually. This can be achieved if the health budget is increased by a total of only 7.8% over
the whole project period of 5 years. If projections come true, and the health budget will increase by 3%
annually, this goal will be more than achieved. The following table summarizes in detail the required
annual Government contributions to the project and the fiscal implications thereafter, as well as the
amounts and percentages by which the budget would have to increase to satisfy these additional demands,
and the budget amounts if the 3% annual growth projection materializes. It shows that the fiscal
implications of the project can be easily accommodated in the likely scenario of a 3% annual budget
increase, in fact less than that is required.
Table 3: Fiscal Implications of the PHPNP (US$, in 1996/97 current prices)
Project-     Absolute       Health budget   Annual        Annual
related     increase in    required to      percentage    health
additional    allocation    finance project-  increase in    budget
expen-       needed as     related          Government   amount
ditures for   compared to   additional      budget        assuming
Govern-      previous year  expenditures3    needed to    3% annual
ment2        with increase                  bring budget  growth
in required                   to required    starting
Government                     level         from
contribution                                 1996/97
budget
X________                   figure
Estimated                             7,627,421                      7,627,421
total
health
budget in
1996/97
1998      230,000      230,000        7,857,421        3.0           7,857,421
1999      472,000      242,000        8,099,421        3.0           8,099,421
2000      410,000      0              8,099,421        0.0           8,334,687
2001      336,000      0              8,099,421        0.0           8,584,727
2002      288,000      0              8,099,421        0.0           8,842,268
2003      436,000      0              8,099,421        0.0           9,107,536
after     600,000       128,000       8,227,421        1.6           9,380,762
2003                                                                 (in 2004)
annually
2 Figures calculated on basis of Annex 5 - Governrent contribution to project; figure for 2003 contains additional
$300,000 to include recurrent costs for six months of 2003 after project completion; figure after 2003 consists of
recurrent costs created by the project.
" Government contributions required for years 2000-2003 can be financed out of the increases to be achieved in
1998 and 1999; this column therefore leaves budget stagnant during 2000-2003.



Prciject Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Coiuntry: The Gambia                                                             Annex 4 - Page 5 of 9
The recurrent costs the project will produce consist mainly of operating costs for supervision,
monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and of maintenance costs, and will result in significant effectiveness
and efficiency gains. Better supervision and M&E will improve the quality of services, and increased
maintenance allocations will lead to decreased demand on the investment budget in the future. These
recurrent costs are concentrated on the primary and secondary levels of health care. The long-term
recurrent cost implications of the project could therefore also be accommodated in a different scenario
with zero budget growth but a shift of the intra-sectoral budget allocation from the tertiary level to the
primary/secondary level. As table 4 shows, the current allocation of overall recurrent Govemment
expenditure is 82% for all levels of health service delivery, with 43% going to the tertiary level and 39%
going to the primary/secondary level. In a zero-growth scenario, financing the increase in recurrent costs
of $600,000 for the latter level by the end of the project could also be achieved by adding 2% points each
year to the primary/secondary level and subtracting the same from the tertiary level. This would mean
that by 2003, 51% of all recurrent cost allocation would have to go to the primary/secondary level and
31% to the tertiary level. However, with the addition of two hospitals (Farafenni and Bwiam) and their
likely recurrent cost implications, such a scenario is unlikely (see also risk analysis below), unless policy
changes are enacted. These could involve further improvements in the financing of hospitals from
private out-of-pocket moneys which has already begun under the semi-autonomous hospital management.
Table 4: Functional Composition of Recurrent Expenditure ('000 Dalasis, current prices)4
Level of Expenditure                                                   1996/97
estimates
Administration (central and division)                                  9,458
as %                                                                   16%
Primary and Secondary Health Care (dispensaries, sub-dispensaries, health  23,438
posts, minor and major health centers, community health, family health and
vector control) o
as %                                                                   39%
Tertiary Health Care (hospitals)5                                      26,362
as %                                                                   43%
Training and Research                                                  1,455
as %                                                                   2%
Total                                                                  60,713
as %                                                                   100%
Economic Composition ofRecurrent Public Health Expenditure
The economic composition of public expenditure is set out in table 4 below. Drug expenditures
comprised approximately 34% of DSH recurrent expenditures and, on a per capita basis, reach about
4Figures are based on table 5.2.1 of the January 1998 Govemment PER submission, and exclude cleansing services.
5 Excludes cleansing services of $18,720 which are included in table 2.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                            Annex 4 - Page 6 of 9
$1.30 annually. Such levels of public drug expenditure are roughly on par, or above, other countries in
the sub-region and are complemented by private expenditures that are discussed below. The maintenance
expenditures (infrastructure, equipment and transport) are a fraction of operations expenditures and are
not adequate to properly maintain the health capital stock.  The PHPNP plans to address this by
increasing the share of the budget directed to maintenance and improving its management structure.
Table 5: Economic Composition of Recurrent Expenditure ('000 Dalasis, current prices)6
Category                                       1996/97 estimate
Personnel                                      31,656
as %                                           52%
Drugs and other medical supplies               20,546
as %                                           34%
Transport/travel (include. operation, maintenance  2,195
and purchase of vehicles)
as %                                           4%
Equipment                                      458
as %                                           1%
Office expenses and communication             923
as %                                          2%
Building maintenance and running costs         2,667
as ',4%I
Other                                          2,266
as %                                           4%
Total Spending                                 60,713
as %                                           100%
Private Expenditure on Health
Public spending on health is complemented by significant private out-of-pocket expenditure. The
1993/94 Household Survey of 1600 individuals in 2,000 households provides information on the nature
and extent of private health expenditure. The findings, disaggregated by income quintiles, are shown in
Table 6.
6Figures are based on table 5.2.2 of the 1998 Government PER submission, and exclude cleansing services.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                         Annex 4 - Page 7 of 9
Table 6: Household Demand and Expenditure on Health Care
Quintile                           1         2        3       4         5        Total
A. Hlousehold expenditure on
health care (Dalasi)
Average annual household income       2074    5182  10,041   16,664   55,236   17,760
Average annual household health         749     521      763      772      1590      876
expenditure
Average annual per capita health       62.4    52.1    76.3       96.5    318.0    109.5
expenditure
% iricome spent on health              36.1    10.1       7.6      4.6      2.9      4.9
provision
B. Demand for health care
% c]hildren report illness or injury   38.8    41.1    38.8       38.2     39.7     38.7
w/im past 2 weeks
% c]hildren report illness or injury   34.7    53.7    45.9       35.8     36.0     41.7
who consulted health provider
% private health consultations         24.5    27.2    27.2       33.9       43     31.1
The -survey indicates that private household health expenditures are significant. Average annual
household health expenditure - comprising health consultation, medicine and travel costs to/from
facilities - comprised D876 or nearly $90. On a per capita basis, average private health expenditures
were DI09 or approximately $11. This compares favorably with public health expenditures which were
approximately $6.5 in 1993/94. When compared with overall yearly household income, health
expenditure comprises 4.9% of annual income.
When the household survey is disaggregated into income quintiles, the findings indicate that the
percentages of those falling sick and those consulting health providers is not significantly affected by
income (access, however, varies on a divisional basis with travel times significantly higher in NBD and
URD). The poorest households spend about D62.4 or $6.50 per capita on health while the wealthiest
households spend up to D318 or approximately $35 per capita. However, despite higher health
expenditures by wealthier households, health's share in total income is just a fraction that of poorer
households. The percentage of total household income spent on health is 36% in the poorest quintile
com:pared to just 3% in the wealthiest quintile.
IV.   Risk Analysis
Several risks have been identified to the successful implementation of the project. These risks
comprise both general risks in the overall policy environment and DSH implementation capacity, and
specific risks related to specific project components.
Successful implementation of the PHPNP will depend on sufficient Government recurrent
financing to implement the proposed interventions in family services and primary and secondary level
health care. While the additional recurrent costs generated by the PHPNP alone will be modest, other
donor's and Government's own plans to expand the health sector suggest that the health sector's
financing requirements will grow significantly and could pose a risk to project implementation. The
major additional cost items which are known to require Government financing are the operating costs of



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                          Annex 4 - Page 8 of 9
the new Farafenni and Bwiam hospitals. While more accurate projections of recurrent expenditures are
being undertaken in the PER and should be available in 1998, indications of Farafenni's operating budget
is D22.7 million in its first full year of operation (Government Health Sector Requirements Study, 1996).
Bwiam's bed capacity is currently planned for about 100 beds - less than half that of Farrafenni - and its
operating budget is estimated at about D1I million. Thereafter, the hospitals' operating costs would
increase at an annual rate: of 15% based on historical rates of expansion. The additional two hospitals
would require a 45% increase in overall DSH expenditure.- Such an increase would represent a major
shift in the functional composition of recurrent expenditures towards tertiary level care and could put the
PHPNP emphasis on primary and secondary health care at risk unless there are mitigating measures.
The above increase in Government's financing requirements for hospital expansion is premised
on the assumption that there be no changes in cost recovery policies. However, if higher cost recovery
rates are adopted for tertiary level care, the effect of the additional facilities on the budget would be much
less. The PHPNP will finance development of a health financing policy, as well as a study of the Bamako
Initiative (BI), the current fee structure, fee exemptions, levels of cost recovery, and the ability and
willingness of Gambians to pay for their health care needs. The results of the study will assist the
Government in understanding the trade-offs it faces in constructing any additional hospitals and the need
to compensate by charging higher rates for cost recovery.
A further risk to project implementation is the limited human resource basis in The Gambia.
Implementation capacity within the DSH to sustain and coordinate ongoing operations, undertake
additional projects and programs, as well as review and develop the proper policy environment is
limited. Human resource constraints within the DSH will be addressed through extensive training,
Technical Assistance, the development of a staff retention and development strategy, and by utilizing
NGOs and the private sector as much as possible to implement project components. Table 7 lists several
implementing institutions and their activities. In gaining the assistance of these institutions, the DSH will
be relieved from considerable work loads which will free resources it can concentrate on the formulation
of health policies and the delivery of health services.
Table 7: Institutional Arrangements
Implementing Institution        Activity
GAMBLOOD                        Mobilize blood donors and supply blood to health facilities
GAFNA                           Carry out a maternal supplement program
GAMWORKS                        Rehabilitation of health facilities and maintenance
Medical Research Council        Getting research into policies, programs and training
Risks of specific project components include risks associated with the need to rely on multiple
donor support and the integrated nature of such support to achieve component objectives. An effective
reproductive health strategy, for example, will rely on multiple donors to deliver IEC messages, supply
sufficient and accessible contraceptives, and provide technical assistance. There is a risk that important
gaps could be left in this strategy which could jeopardize its effectiveness. Similarly, the IMCI approach
and associated infant and childhood interventions rely on sufficient drugs and vaccines to support the
program, many of which are supported by other donors and Government. The PHPNP has attempted to
provide sufficient flexibility in its design and resource allocation to fill key gaps should they arise.
A risk observed in countries which have implemented IMCI is that health workers may resist
change to the more integrated approach. To mitigate this potential risk, the PHPNP will begin to train a
core group of health professionals early in the project to build ownership and involvement in the



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                  Annex 4 - Page 9 of 9
approach. A nutrition policy has been discussed for many years, but with little action taken. This may
reflect insufficient government ownership. Again, the PHPNP intends to involve high level Government
officials in the policy process and has simultaneously agreed on programs that will give tangible results
that can be scaled-up as appropriate.
Finally, few explicit policy conditions have been set in the project. Rather, the PHPNP takes the
approach that policy development is gradual and must be based on thorough information and analysis.
The: project will support studies that will provide the basis for policy development and will review these
stu(dies, as well as other proposals, to move the policy process forward to actual policy reform. The
annual review meetings will provide a useful forum and will set and monitor benchmarks for measuring
progress in policy formulation and implementation.






Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                                                                      Annex 5 - Page 1 of 1
Annex 5
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
Implementation Period
1999           2000           2001           2002            2003            Total
Project Costs
(US$m)
Investment Costs           5.3             3.5            2.1             1.1            0.5             16.0
Recurrent Costs             0.6            0.6            0.7             0.7            0.3              3.2
PPF                                                                                                       0.8
Total                      5.9             4.1            2.8             1.8            0.8             20.0
Financing
Sources (% of
total project
costs)
IDA                          92             90             88             84              83
Government                    8             10             12             16              1 7
Total                       100            100            100             100            100






Project Appraisal Document Project Title:              Participatory Health Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                        Annex 6 - Page 1 of 8
Annex 6
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Methods
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was carried out in 1985. So far, findings of
the CPAR remain valid. In general, The Gambia's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with
IDA Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) since The Gambia's procurement practices allow IDA
procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
The proposed project will be financed through IDA and Govemment funds. All Bank-financed
procurement of goods and services under the project will be carried out in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1, 1995, revised January and
August 1996, and under Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January
1997. Preference for domestically manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines. The procurement methods applicable to expenditures financed by the IDA credit are
summarized in Table A.
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). To the extent practicable, contracts for goods will be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost an amount equivalent to US$ 100,000 or more for each
package and procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1, 1995, revised January and A ugust 1996 and September 1997.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA will be used for all goods and
works contracts that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$ 100,000. NCB procedures will
include: (a) explicit statement of the evaluation and award criteria in the bidding documents; (b) national
advertising with public bid opening and time allowed for the preparation of bids not less than four weeks
from the date of invitation to bid or the date of availability of bidding documents, whichever is later; (c)
award to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from participating
in NCB. IDA Standard Bidding Documents to be used for NCB were agreed upon during negotiations.
Other Procedures include : (a) National Shopping procedures in accordance with provisions of
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines will be used for works (construction and maintenance) and goods
(purchase and maintenance) estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
agrgregate of US$2.6 million; (b) Consultant Services that will be carried out in the following way: (i)
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures for all contracts estimated to cost an amount
equivalent to US$75,000 or more; (ii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) for audit contracts to cost less than
US$100,000; (iii) Consultants' Qualifications for individual consultants; and (iv) Single Source Selection
(SSS) for specific tasks in cases where only one firm has specific qualified experience; and (c)Services
ofrUNprocurement agencies for the purchase of limited quantities of drugs, small medical equipment and
contraceptives which cannot be grouped into ICB packages, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million.
Procurement will be handled by the PIU reinforced by a procurement officer. In order to reduce
the workload of the PIU and the need of consultants, the implementation of all civil-works
(construction/rehabilitation and maintenance) financed by IDA credit will be delegated by DSH to the
local Construction Management Agency (GAMWORKS), which will contract out consultants services for
the preparation of detailed design and bidding documents and to contractors for the execution of the
works. The DPI will be responsible for the overall planning of the works and any information needed by



Project Appraisal Document Project Title:                  Participatory Health Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                             Annex 6 - Page 2 of 8
GAMWORKS to prepare the detailed design and bidding documents. Also, procurement of small
specialized equipment, drugs and contraceptives may be done through IAPSO for specialized equipment,
WHO, UNICEF and/or UNFPA for drugs and contraceptives - in accordance with the provisions
described below for the procurement of goods.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (a)
(in US$m equivalent) (b)
Prn,iarpmpnt Mpthnrl
International   National       Other
Competitive  Competitive  Procedures    N.B.F
RoiHiongi    Riddling         (e')        (H)  _Tnft:l
A. Investment
Civil works                                -          1.9            1.0         -       2.9
(1.7)          (0.9)              (2.6)
Equipment                                2.5          0.4            0.7         -      3.5
(2.5)        (0.3)          (0.6)              (3.4)
Pharmaceuticals                                         -            1.0         -       1.0
(1.0)              (1.0)
Training                                   -            -            2.4         -       2.4
(2.2)              (2.2)
Consultant Services                        -            -            5.1         -       5.1
(4.8)              (4.8)
LIF                                        -            -            0.5         -       0.5
(0.5)             (0.5)
B. Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs                            -            -            1.8         -       1.8
(1.6)              (1.6)
Building Maintenance                       -            -            0.6        -       0.6
(0.3)              (0.3)
Equipment Maintenance                      -          0.3            0.3         -       0.7
(0.2)          (0.2)              (0.4)
Personnel                                  -            -              -       0.1      0.1
C. PPF                                       -            -            0.8         -       0.8
(n4R)              (n R)
Total                                      2.5          2.6           14.1      0.1      19.4
(2.5)       (2.2)          (12.8)       -    (17.5)
Notes:        (a)    Procurement arrangements in the above Table A apply to US$17.5 out of the credit
amount of US$18.0 and do not include an amount of US$ 0.5 million which will be
allocated, according to needs, during annual reviews. Related procurement arrangements
for this amount will be decided simultaneously.
(b)    Figures may not add up due to rounding. Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be
financed by IDA.
(c)    Other procedures include National Shopping, procedures for Consultant Services and
procurement through UN agencies.
(d)    N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Civil works, goods and services.
Civil works.  Civil works contracts include: the construction/reconstruction of up to 12
Dispensaries; the rehabilitation of 9 others, of surgery theaters, laboratories and bleeding rooms in 5
Major Health Centers, and of maternity wards in the latter Centers and 5 Minor Health Centers, located in
all regions, and the maintenance of all peripheral health facilities. Costing less than US$100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate of US$1.9 million, they would be procured through NCB procedures in
accordance with procedures described in the Project Operations Manual (POM) and acceptable to IDA.
Bidding procedures and contracts will be managed by the Contract Management Agency (CMA) that will
maintain and update a roster of contractors eligible to NCB, according to procedures acceptable to IDA



Project Appraisal Document Project Title:                Participatory Health Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                         Annex 6 - Page 3 of 8
and spelled out in the POM. Contracts for small works (construction and maintenance) estimated to cost
less than US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million for construction and
US$0.6 million for building maintenance, would be procured by the CMA under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited to
bid by way of discounts either on the total price or on the unit prices. The invitation shall include
reference unit prices established by an engineer, a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant
drawings where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, provided he demonstrates he has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. These contracts will mostly be small works in rural areas.
Goods. Most contracts for goods financed by IDA related to the procurement and maintenance
of medical equipment and supplies (for dispensaries, surgery theaters in major HC and all maternal wards
for major and minor HC), furniture, office equipment, computers and vehicles would be procured through
ICB. Contracts for procurement and maintenance of office furniture and equipment, vehicles and
materials locally available, and contracts for maintenance of biomedical equipment which cost more than
US$25,000 but less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.7 million
(including US$0.3 for maintenance contracts) would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to
IDA. Procurement of small equipment, printed materials for IEC, textbooks and other instructional
materials, furniture and vehicles, and small contracts for equipment maintenance, costing less than
US$25,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million (including US$0.3 million for
maintenance), will be procured through prudent national shopping on the basis of quotations obtained
from at least three reputable suppliers. Spare parts, operating expenditures, minor off-the-shelf items,
pharmaceuticals and other proprietary items costing less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract up to an
aggregate of US$50,000 equivalent, may be procured directly from manufacturers and authorized local
distributors. Pharmaceutical, small medical equipment and contraceptives which will be difficult to
group into ICB packages and costing less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed US$1.0 million over the project duration, would be procured respectively through UNIPAC,
UNICEF, the UNDP's Inter-Agency Procurement Services (IAPSO) and UJNFPA.
Consultants' Services. Consulting Services financed by IDA would be for: (i) studies - health
policy including national nutrition and drug policies and health sector financing policy, staff retention
stirategy, health mapping and needs assessment, computerized financial management and information
system (FMIS) and health information system (HIS), nutrition studies, IMCI, social marketing program,
STI/HIV prevention, Bamako Initiative, operations research, architectural designs for dispensaries,
preparation of bidding documents, maintenance of facilities and other technical studies as needed; (ii)
consultancies on technical matters; (iii) training of health personnel; (iv) community mobilization and
training, IEC activities, monitoring and evaluation; and (v) project management. Consultants will be
hired through competition based on Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) among qualified short-
listed firms, by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be
provided. The Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be used for audits - the firn with the lowest price will be
selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark. Services for small studies will be
procured from Individual Consultants (IC) selected through comparison of qualifications of those
expressing interest. Single Source Selection (SSS) will be exceptionally used for the management of civil
work contracts (construction and maintenance), for community-based programs, and for a limited
research program. The Government of The Gambia proposes to select: (a) the Gambian Agency for the
Management of Civil Works (GAMWORKS) as a Construction Management Agency (CMA) through a
contract estimated at US$0.15 million - this AGETIP-type agency created under the IDA financed "Public
Works and Capacity Building Project" has successfully proven its capacity to manage civil-works
contracts since 1995; (b) two local NGOs through contracts approximately estimated at US$0.3 million
each - these NGOs are the only private nation-wide-experienced organizations in their respective field of
expertise, namely: (i) the Gambia Food and Nutrition Association (GAFNA) for food supplementation



Project Appraisal Document Project Title:               Participatory Health Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                        Annex 6 - Page 4 of 8
and nutrition; and (ii) the Gambia Blood Association (GAMBLOOD) for grassroots blood donor
mobilization; (c) the Medical Research Council (MRC) through a contract estimated less than US$0.1
million -- this Gambia-based British institution is world-wide renowned for its research. Contracts will be
up for two years, and thereafter annually renewable after assessment of performance against pre-
determined indicators spelled out in the respective contracts. Methods for consultants' selection are
summarized in Table Al.
Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$150,000 may be comprised of national consultants
provided that a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The
standard Letter of Invitation and Form of Contract as developed by the Bank will be used for appointment
of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments of individual consultants, i.e.
those not exceeding six months. The Government was briefed during negotiations about the special
features of the new guidelines, in particular with regards to advertisement and public bid opening.
To provide flexibility during project implementation, activities to be financed by IDA are defined
in detail before project start for a total amount of US$17.5 million representing 97% of the credit amount
of US$18 million, leaving an amount of US$0.5 which will be defined, according to needs, during annual
joint reviews of the Government and IDA. Procurement arrangements for this latter part of the Credit
will be simultaneously and jointly defined.
Support for NGO activities for community based nutrition programs and blood donor
mobilization selected on a sole source basis. These NGOs will sign an agreement with the PIU for the
activities described in their terms of reference estimated to cost less than US$0.3m for GAFNA and
US$0.3 for GAMBLOOD according to procedures defined in the relevant sections of the Project
Operations Manual. The agreements will stipulate that (i) procurement procedures carried out by NGOs
will conform to the above mentioned procurement provisions for goods, civil works, and services; (ii) the
NGOs will receive an advance of 30% for the estimated costs for a year of activity; and (iii) eligible
expenditures will be reimbursed at 100% on the basis of documentation justifying expenditures and the
procurement methods used for these expenditures.
Local Initiative Fund (LIF)
The LIF provides small financial support to communities for developing innovative and
experimental micro-projects that will contribute to the achievement of project objectives at grass-roots
level. Funds will be made available to community-based organizations (CBO) for the financing of
eligible micro-projects according to the LIF Implementation Manual (LIFIM). A first version of the
LIFIM has been developed and tested during a pilot phase implemented in two regions during project
preparation with JPHRD resources. Based on the lessons learned, a revised version of the LIFIM
acceptable to IDA will be submitted by the Government as a condition for disbursements on the LIF
which will be expanded to a third region.
IDA Reviews
Contracts for goods and works above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent will be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. Contracts awarded below this threshold will be subject to post-
review during IDA's supervision missions. During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government will
use Bank standard bidding documents for NCB. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the
recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$75,000 and US$35,000
equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior review will not apply to the Terms of Reference
of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as
determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts rising the contract value above the prior review
threshold. For consultant contracts estimated above US$75,000, opening the financial envelopes will not
take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation. Documents related to



Project Appraisal Document Project Title:                                        Participatory Health Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                                          Annex 6 - Page 5 of 8
procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borrower for ex-post review by
auclitors and IDA supervision missions. The first five contracts with Communities for Micro-Projects
financed through LIF will be subject to prior review during the first year of the Project.
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$tbousand equivalent)
CatP- Comp                                                                          Selection Method            Total cost (inclu-
gory onent                     Nature of Consultations                   QCBS   ICS    IC         SS    Other ding contingencies)
A.    1  Reproductive Health
Firms  1.1  Maternal Health Services
- Development of Inservice training, codes, guidelines, ToT     X                                          71
1.2 Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancies
- Social Marketing Program (Int TA & Nat TA)                    X                                         499
1.3 STI/HIV Prevention and Management
- Development of curriculum, ToT, training, manual, guidelines  X                                          52
2  Integrated Management of Childhood llnesses
- Development & Implement. of IMCI (incl. Int TA & Nat TA)      X                                         165
3  Nutrition Policy and Services for Women, Infants and Children
3.1 Nutrition Policy Formulation & Institutional Strenghtening
- Nutrition policy, including 5 main themes (int TA & Nat TA)   X                                         370
3.2 Community / Micronutrient Nutrition Programs
- Strategy, program revision, specific studies, program eval.   X                                         231
- Community nutrition program implementation (GAFNA)                                  X                   324
4  Management & Implementation of Family Health Program
4.1 Capacity Building and Policy Development
- Needs Assess / Health Map / Health Policy                     X                                         153
- Maintenance Policy and Implementation                         X                                         212
- Health Financing (Int TA & Nat TA)                            X                                         122
- Research Program (MRC)                                                              X                    S0
- Development of Drug Policy and Bamako Initiative (int & Nat)  X                                          92
-Financial MIS and Health MIS                                   X                                         410
- IEC development                                               X                                         65
- HMIS & HIS Administrators                                     X                                         264
4.2 Up-grading and Maintaining Health Infrastructures
- Architectural Studies and Site Supervision                                                  X           267
- Contract Management Agency - GAMWORKS (const & maint)                               X                   154
- Expansion of Blood-donors Support and Blood Supply                                  X                   275
4.3 Project Management
- Auditing Services                                                    X                                   83
- Procurement Training                                          X                                          39
B.    I  Reproductrve Health
Indi-  1.1  Matemal Health Services
vi-       - Consumer Survey                                                               X
duals      - Development of Strategy for Emergency Evacuation                              X
- IEC activities related to FGM (several contracts)                            X                           4
1.2 Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancies                                                                          10
- Design TOR for the Social Marketing Program                                  X
3  Nutrition Policy and Services for Women, Infants and Children
3.1 Nutrition Policy Formulation & Institutional Strenghtening
Nutrition Coordinator                                                          X                           82
4 Management & Implementation of Family Health Program
4.1 Capacity Building and Policy Development
- Drug Policy and Development of Bamako Inititative                            X                          26
- Conceptualization of sectorwide Manag & Infomm System                        X                           13
- Development of low literate materials                                        X                          27
- IEC Coordinator                                                              X                           82
4.3 Local initiative Fund
- Technical & Financial Evaluation                                             X                           14
- LIF Coordinator                                                              X                           82
4.4 Proiect Management
- Project Manager                                                              X                           99
- Deputy Project Manager                                                       X                           82
- HNP Advisor                                                                  X                           82
- Procurement Officer                                                          X                           82
- Financial Manager (Senior Accountant)                                        X                           82
- Assistant Accountant                                                         X                           41
- Provision (several contracts)                                                X                          115
Note:    QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; LCS = Least-Cost Selection; IC = Individual Consultant; SS= Single
Source; Other = GAMWORKS' procurement procedures as stated in GAMWORK's Procedures Manual



Project Appraisal Document Project Tdle:                               Participatory Health Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                            Annex 6 - Page 6 of 8
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review **
(in US$ equivalent)
Expenditure Category          Contract Value           Procurement Method            Contract Subject to
(Threshold)         ICB      NCB       Other            Prior Review
uss ioo,ooo or more             -        ~~US$100,000 or more
1. Works       Construction    US$ 100000 or morer                                                      e
l   ,              l                    l   ~~~~~~~~~~~Prior IDA review
Construction &    below US$100,000       -                                  No prior review.
Maintenance     US$25 000 or more                                         Aggregate amount
| ___________   i ___________________ '_____________ l_______       _   l   U S$1.9     m illions
Construction .     below US$25,000          -        -                      No prior review.
l CostrCtl &l below US$2500                             X      i    Aggregate amount
Maintenance                                                               Ageaeaon
M aintenance ___________  '_________________  i____________  _________      US$1.6   million
2. Goods                       US$ 100,000 or more       X-                   -         US$100,000 or more
2. Goods  US$   or                                           Prior IDA review
l  below US$100,000   i  i           No prior review.
below US$100,000 m                    X          -          Aggregate amount
US$25,000 or more             IU$.   ilo
proc. through 
|UN Agencies |below US$100,000                                 X           Aggregate amount
l(includ. drugs, lI      US$1.0 million
contraceptiVes)  4                    -                  i__ _ __ _ _ _   !__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
No prior review.
l   below US$25,000      -        -         X           Aggregate amount
______    _ _   ~ 2   ___      US$1.0 million
below 5,000 direct
purchase from     l                                    No prior review.
manifacturers for        -        -  I                  Aggregate amount
authorized dealers for                              [        US$50,000
_   proprietary items    i
3. Services    Audit                   N/A              N/A   l N/A    Least Cost           Prior Review
--------------------------               Prior Review   of Convention
+ Review of work and
I               ~~~~~Sole  service contracts managed
GAMWOKS         US$150,000 or more       N/A      N/A       Soue           b s AMWora s
!                     l        [ ~~~~~~~~Source     by GAMWORKS
according to present
l ________  i     _____________          j__i_                              threshold   Table
GAFNA                                                     Sl
GAMBLOOD         US$75,000 or more       N/A      N/A                        Prior Review
MRC                                                     Source
Prior Review + Review of
Firms            US$75,000 or more       N/A      N/A  l  QCBS    Technical Evaluation before
opening financial proposal
below US$75,000        N/A      N/A   Consultant's         Post Review,
Qualification       except TOR
Consultant's    US300orme
Individuals      US$35,000 or more       N/A      N/A                    US$35,000 or more
Qualificationi     Prior Review
!   [                         i                    i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~below US$35,000
below US$35,000        N/A      N/A   Csualtaonto  Ueve3,
Qualification       otReiw
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _except  TO R
NB: * Including Maintenance. ** Prior review also required for the first five NCB contracts for goods each project
year, regardless of the amount, and for the terms of reference for all consultants, including studies and training.



IProject Appraisal Document Project Title:             Participatory Health Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                        Annex 6 - Page 7 of 8
All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual
basis. Modifications may be agreed upon, based on performances and actual values of procurement
implemented. Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement may be prepared as necessary.
As a condition of negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA a draft first-year Project
Implementation Plan for Project Management, a draft Operation Manual and a draft Procurement Plan.
The Government gave assurances it will take the necessary measures so that the various steps for
procurement procedures will not be longer than the following:
Steps                                    Maximum number of weeks
- Preparation of bidding documents       4 (12 for large contracts)
- Preparation of submissions by the bidders    4 (12 for ICB)
- Bid evaluation                         2 (4 for large contracts)
- Contract Signature                    4
- Payments                               4
During negotiations, the Government proposed using The World Bank's standard bidding
documents for NCB procedures for civil works and goods, and agreement was reached on the proper
monitoring of procurement.
As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will submit to IDA a Project Operations Manual.
The Government gave assurances at negotiations that it will: (a) use the Project Operations
Manual for Project Implementation; (b) use the LIFIM; (c) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents;
(d) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents; and (e) review
the procurement plan and procurement arrangements each year at the annual review with IDA.
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds. The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period
according to the categories shown in Table C, and the credit closing date would be six months after the
fifth year to allow payment of last invoices for contracts completed before the completion time.
Government's counterpart funds needed for each fiscal year to cover the share of investments and
recurrent costs not financed by IDA will be deposited by the Government in a Project Account (PA)
managed by the PIU Manager, not later than January 31 each year. This amount includes amounts for
maintenance of building, equipment and vehicles. The Government has given assurances at negotiations
that the allocations for maintenance of building, equipment and vehicles will be increased each year in
order to reach respectively 1%, 2% and 2.5% of the assets' value in 2003. The Credit includes provisions
to match the increase of the public maintenance budget.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Disbursement of the IDA Credit for contracts valued
at less than US$100,000 equivalent for civil works and goods, and less than US$75,000 for consulting
firms (US$35,000 for individual consultant contracts), and local training, grants under the LIF, operating
c:osts, and maintenance will be made against Statements of Expenditures, (SOEs) for which
clocumentation would be made available for examination by auditors (including technical audits) and by
IDA supervision missions.
Special account. To facilitate disbursements, the government will open a Special Account (SA)
at the Central Bank of The Gambia for the IDA's share of eligible expenditures. All IDA expenditure of
less than US$100,000 equivalent would be paid from the SA. The authorized allocation would be
US$875,000 representing about three months of disbursement. IDA would make an initial deposit of
US$500,000 upon credit effectiveness. Once payments through the SA will amount to US$500,000, the



Project Appraisal Document Project Tite:                      Participatory Health Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                Annex 6 - Page 8 of 8
fully authorized amount will be paid. Disbursement of the IDA credit would be fully documented. All
supporting documentation will be retained by the DSH or GAMWORKS, and will be available for review
as requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expendture CtegoryAmount
Expenditure Category        |  (in US$ million)           Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                            2.39                   100% of foreign and
1. Civil Works                               2.39                90% of local expenditures
100% of foreign and
2. Equipments                                3.21                90% of local expenditures
100% of foreign and
3. Phannaceuticals / Commodities             0.92                90% of local expenditures
4. Consultant services                       4.55                         100%
5. Training                                  2.32                         100%
6. Grants under the Local Initiative Fund    0.45                         100%
7. Operational costs                         1.47                         90%
8. Maintenance                               0.26                         50%
9. Unallocated   (a)                         1.68 
10. PPF                                     0.75
Total financed by IDA                        18.00
Note (a): The unallocated category includes an amount of US$0.5 which will be allocated during annual reviews to
finance new expenditures (not defined in the PAD) identified during annual reviews



Project Appraisal Document Project                  Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                        Annex 7 - Page 1 of 2
.Annex 7
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                 Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Through FY97                                605.0                    605.0
(since 1993)            (since 1993)
FY98                                        132.4                    132.4
B. Project Schedule                        Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project            15                       15
(months)
First Bank mission                          2/93                     2/93
(identification)
Appraisal mission departure                11/15/97               11/23 /1997
Negotiations                              1 /15/1998              02/17/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness             6 /30/1998                 / /19
Prepared by:
The Gambian Department of State for Health, Social Welfare and Women's Affairs
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant (US $600,00 equivalent); PPF (US $750,000); Netherlands Consultant Trust
Fund (US $33,000 equivalent); Swedish Consultant Trust Fund ($100,000).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Bernard Abeille                      Procurement and Implementation
Amy Ba                               Staff Support
]Premila Bartlett                    IEC Specialist (Consultant)
Alan Berg                            Nutrition
Logan Brenzel                        Health Economics
David Bruns                          Health Economics
Shiyan Chao                          Health Economics
Rudi Chevannes                       Staff Support
'Veerle Coignez-Sterling             Pharmaceuticals
Sharon Cox                           Gender
Pedro De Bias Martin                 Legal
E]dna Jonas                          Reproductive Health
lIans Lindblad                       Child Health (Consultant)
Soheyla Mahmoudi                     Disbursements
Milla McLachlan                      Nutrition (Consultant)
Sigal Nissan-Felber                  Staff Support



Project Appraisal Document Project                               Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                           Annex 7 - Page 2 of 2
Kees Kostermans                               Public Health
Ok Pannenborg                                 Health, Nutrition, Population
Angelika.Pradel                               Public Health
Claudio Schuftan                              Operations
Richard Seifman                               Nutrition
Robert Soeters                                Public Health (Consultant)
Serge Theunynck                               Procurement, Implementation
Debrework Zewdie                              Reproductive Health



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                         Annex 8 - Page 1 of 2
Annex 8
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
-     Initial Executive Project Summary, May 1993
-     Implementation Completion Report, Report No. 15738, National Health Development
Project
-     Mission Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports (BTOR) of:
* August 10, 1994, Aide Memoire
* March, 1996 BTOR
* December 9-21, 1996, Participatory Health, Population, and Nutrition Project
consensus workshop
* February 14-21, 1997
-     Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire of November 23, 1997
-     Technical Notes of Appraisal Mission of November 23, 1997
-     Portrait of the Health System in The Gambia; August 1994
C. Other
-     Government of The Gambia's Presentation of the Participatory Health, Population and
Nutrition Project and Its Commitments, December 12, 1997
-     The Republic of The Gambia "Health Policy: 1994-2000; Improving Quality and
Access"
-     The National Population Policy, The Gambia
-     The Gambian National Drug Policy
-     The Strategy for Poverty Alleviation, The Gambia
-     National Poverty Alleviation Program, The Gambia
-     "Vision 2000 - The Gambia Incorporated, May 1996
-      1993 Population and Housing Census
-      1997 World Development Indicators, March 1997
-     Assessment of the State of Dilapidation of Secondary Health Facilities in The Gambia
-     Cost Analysis of the Health Care Sector in The Gambia (WHO and Ministry of Health,
June 27, 1995)
-     Gambian Contraceptive Prevalence and Fertility Determinants Survey GCPFDS - 1990,
January 1993
-     The Gambia Contraceptive and ORS Social Marketing Program; PSI, prepared for The
Government of The Gambia; August 1995
-     Program Review and Strategy Development (PRSD); UTNFPA/Government, August 1996
draft
-     Rapid Assessment of Sexually Transmitted Diseases in The Gambia, May-August 1994
draft
-     Report of the 1990 Maternal Mortality Survey; The Republic of The Gambia, The
Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, September 1991
-     The Gambia Strategy Paper; September 1997
-     The Gambia, An Assessment of Poverty, Report No. 11941 -GM, June 30, 1993



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                            Annex 8 - Page 2 of 2
-      The Gambia; National Human Development Report, (UNDP in collaboration with the
Central Statistics Department Banjul, 1997
-      Traditional Birth Attendants Training Manual; Department of Health Services, Ministry
of Health, The Gambia, and Save the Children Federation, 1992
-      Report on a Study Tour to Kenya; Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project,
March 1997
-      Baseline Survey of Maternal Health Services; Participatory Health, Population and
Nutrition Project, 1997 draft
-      Survey on Maternal Health Services in The Gambia; Report on Focus Group Discussions
held with Beneficiaries and Service Providers on their Perceptions of the Quality of
Health Care Services, October 1997
-      Social Marketing of Contraceptives; Participatory Health Population and Nutrition
Project, 1997 draft
-      Reproductive Health Training Needs Assessment Report and First Year Reproductive
Health Training Plan; Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project, September
1997 draft
-      Blood Banks and Transfusion Services and Vaccine Cold Storage; Participatory Health,
Population and Nutrition Project, 1997 draft
-      Report on the Preparation of a Framework and Action Plan for a Nutrition Policy and
Review of the Nutrition Component of the PHPNP, October 1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                           Project Tile: Parilcipatory Healilt, Population and Nutiitlon Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                                                                                                            Annex 9- Page 1 ol 2
Aiitiex 9
Shtciticn( of Loamais :ii. Credi(s
Stuitls or IIBaia  c(iotup, Olicr-"tiois it, Guintbia, '1'nie
1IBRID  L,oans :111(1  I)A  CrcIits in (lic Opcrfitions l,o,tfolio
(as of January 31, 1998)
Difllerence Between
expected
Ozl lnal Amount In US$ Hillons                       and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                                   disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit       Year                 Dorrower                          PuIpose
NEo.                                                                                    10)IID       IDA       Cancellations   Undtabursed         Oriq   rcm Rev'd
Itumber of closed Loana/credits: 20
Active Loans
G34-PE-1328     IDA25540      1994    RCPUnIl.IC OF TIIE GAH               Puni. wi)Ks  CAlP m.t)              0.00        11.00             0.00            .86          .61         .61
QI-PE-631       IDA26020       1994    REPUWlC OF TItI GAM                 EIsYIFllir FiGHiT CAP 111.           o.00         2.60             0.00           1.28         1.25       1.25
Gil-PE-file     10A24530       1993   RIEPU0LIC Of TIIE GAIIB1A            AG SEIIVICES                         0.03)       12.30             0.00            .34         -.79       0.00
Glt-PE-821      IDA21420       1990   GOVEtIMEIIT                          DUC SE:CTOR CIREDIT                 0.00        14.60             0,00           1.46         -.18       0.00
Total                                                                                                           0.00        40.50             0.00           3.94          .95       1.92
Active Loans          Closed Loans              Total
Total Dlsburaed (0RD0  and IlAIt                     30.85               130:3                 169.7e1
of whitci bas been repald:                     0.00                  6.41                 6.41
Total now held by lon  and IDA:                    40.50               115.09                155.59
Amount sold                       :                   0.00                  0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid                :                  0.00                  0.00                  0.00
Total Ua:dtsbursed                a                   3.94                   .36                 4.70
a. Intended ulishuraements to (late minus actual disbursements to date as pro)ected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-1: see oD 13.0%. Annex 02. Preparation of Implementation Siuemnay  (Form 591ll. l'ollowlni  the 1Y94 Aniuiiual Review of Porttollo performance IARPPI, a letter
based system will be used  IIS - highlly Satls:factoty, S - satisfactory, t . unisatisfactoty, IIU   1g1q1hly un1sat.l3actoryI: see proposed lmprovemeunts In Puoject and
Porttolio Performance Rating Hethodology lSecH94-90t), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end bf the first week of tLie month.



Project Appraisal Document                          Project Title: Parddpatory Health, Popuaton and Nutrion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                               Annex 9- Page 2 of 2-
Gambia, The
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of31-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval              Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   EquitY   Quasi  Partic
1984/90                Kombo Beach              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  . 0.00    0.00
1993                   AEF Ndebaan               .20    0.00    0.00    0.00       .20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                   AEF Radville              .40    0.00    0.00    0.00       .40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                   AEF Lyefish               .37    0.00    0.00    0.00       .37    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                      .97    0.00    0.00    0.00       .97    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eauitv  Ouasi  Partic
Total Pending Commintent:            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OS) on 03/02/98



Project Appraisal Document                                             Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                                                Annex 10 -Page 1 of 2
Annex 10
The Gambia at a glance                                                                 8/28/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     The   Saharan     Low-
Gambia      Africa  income      Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          1.1       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                              350       490       500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                               0.40       294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                         3 6        2.7      1.7      GNP
Labor force (%)                                        3.2        2.6      1.7                                       Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty. headcount index (% of population)              64
Urban population (% of toal population)                 26         31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        46         52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               126         92       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               -
Access to safe water (% of population)                  61         47       53
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     61         43       34          -     Gambia, The
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    76         72      105
Male                                                  87         78      112                Low-income group
Female                                                65         65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratioe
GDP (millions USS)                          109.8    217.6      393.0    405.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 12.2     12.5      26.4     25.5              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP            47.1     40.8       47.9     46.1
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                      15.2     5.1       -0.8      8.8
Gross national savings/GDP                   15.2     -3.6        2.8     12 0
Current account balance/GDP                   6.1    -16.3      -23.1    -13.0
Interest payments/GDP                         0.0      0.2        0.9      1.2      Savings    -                Investment
Total debt/GDP                               12.2    112.6      108.3
Total debt servicelexports                    2.6      10.4      10.7      6.3                       i
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       .       59.0
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..    107.1                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                 -     Gambia, The
GDP                                  3.6      2.4      3.1        2.1      4.4
GNP per capita                      -1.1      0.2      0.7       -0.7      2 2               Lowincome group
Exports of goods and services        3.0      2.3     13.0       -6.4      2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and Investment (%l)
Agriculture                                  34.6      29 7      31.0     29.1      40 -
Industry                                     10.2     11.4       141      14.0      30-
Manufactunng                                 3.2      6.3        64       63      20-
Services                                     551      58.9       54.8     56.9      10
0* .
Private consumption                          71.1     81.9       83.0     72.5    -10      91   92   93   94   9s   96
General govemment consumption                13.7      13.0      17.8     18.7                   0GDI   --D-GOP
Imports of goods and services                44.1     48.3       75.1     62.8
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   2.0     -02         2.9     -3.5      40 -
Industry                                      2.6      1.6        5.7      2.3        i
Manufacturing                                90       2.3      -2.1       2.7   .2
Services                                      3.8      3.4        4.1      5.2
Private consumption                          -3 8      5.5       -2.6     -0.6                                 A,
General govemment consumption                12.1     -5.6       -3.0      5.2             9 51   92 
Gross domestic investment                     6.0      6.1       36.5     -3.6    -20 -
Imports of goods and services                 -3.5     4 2       31.0    -17.7              -     Exports  --0-Imports
Gross national product                        2.0      4 2        3.9      2.0
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                                                  Annex 10 - Page 2 of 2
The Gambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1985      1995     1996 
Domestic prkes                                                                      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         Is -
Consumer prices                              25.9      18.3       5.0      5.2       4
Implicn GDP deflator                         16.7     53.6        5.1      3.1     1
Govenmment finance
(% of GDP)                                                                                      -
Current revenue                              15.8     24.8       18.1     19.3             91   r2   93   54   95   aS
Current budget balance                          .       1.4       0.3      0.7                    GDPWde. -C- CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -1.5       -12.2    -11.4
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                      Export and import levels (Ml. US$)
Totalexports(fob)                              57       65        119      111      2so
Groundnuts                                    ..
Fish                                          .. 
Manufactuires                                                                      5
Total imports (cif)47                                   8        21         8
Food                                           .i
Fuiel and energy                                                                   5
Capital goodsa
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                     ..        ..      124       119                                 se  5s
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..       ..       120       125                  z Exports  osrlmports
Ternms of trade (19S7=100)                     ..        ..       104       95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%l
Exports of goods and services                  66       88        184      181      0
Imports of goods and services                  60      104       289       247          s    5i
Resource balance                                7      -16       -105      -66        1     i
Net income                                      0      -24         4        -4                                    I j
Net currenttransfers                            0        5         18       17     -                 I 
Current account balance,                                                           -tI
before official capital transfers             7       -35       -91      -53    !i
Financing items (net)                          ..       49       109        60
Changes in net reserves                        ..      -14        -18       -7    *2 i
Memo.,
Reserves including gold (mill US$)             29        2       104       100
Conversion rate (lcaLUS$)                     2.0       5.0       9.5      9.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1965      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                     ComposIton of total dobt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           13      245       426
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                      G
IDA                                           5       35       162       166                      16
E
Total debt service                              2        9        25        15              80
IBRD                                          0        0         0         0                            '      B
IDA                                           0        0         2        2                                    1\62
Compostion of net resource flows
Official grants                               2       20         18      24
Offcial creditors                             2       13         6       -17
Private creditors                             0        0         0         0             D
Foreigndirectinvestmert                       0        0        10         8    .                         c
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0                              26
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0         0         0      A - IRD                     E - Biatul
Disbursements                                 1        4         12       10      B-IDA     D- Othermultilateal  F -Private
Principal repayments                          0        0         1         1      C- IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     1        4        11         9    _
Interest payments                             0        0         1         1
Net transfers                                 1        4        10         8
Development Economics                                                                                                8f28197



Project Appraisal Document                          Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                Annex 11- page 1 of 8
Annex 11
Detailed Project Design Summary1
Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
CAS Objective
Improved quality of life for                                                          Socio-political stability;
the Gambian population                                                                 economic stability and
growth;
no natural disasters or
new health threats in
The Gambia.
Project Development
Objective
Improved family health    - Maternal malnutrition reduced    Health Surveys            Improvements in:
by 20% from baseline by 2003    Health Management           (i) access to safe
- Total Fertility Rate reduced by   Information System      drinking water and
10% from 6.0 (in 1993)              (HMIS)                  sanitation; (ii)
throughout the lifespan of the  Census                      educational levels, esp.
project (to be revised at annual                            among girls and
reviews)                                                    women; (iii) food
- 50% reduction in STI          Household Surveys           security; (iv)
prevalence among pregnant       Rapid Assessments of STIs    infrastructure; and (v)
women (prevalence of 25% acc. to                            environmental hygiene.
1994 rapid assessment)
- Infant Mortality Rate reduced
from 80/1000 to 65/1000 by 2003
- Child malnutrition reduced by
25% from baseline by 2003
Project Outputs                                                                       Family health programs
A. Improved Reproductive                                                              and policies given high
Health Services                                                                       priority, with new
policies legislated and
1. a Improved technical   la. Proportion of health providers  Ia. Supervision reports;  stakeholder ownership
skills of reproductive health  successfully trained according to   results of pre- and post-  expanded.
service providers         plan (target: 90%)              training tests
Satisfactory funding of
lb. Increased utilization of  lb. Increase in the utilization of    lb. Routine records/reporting   family health program
prenatal and postpartum   services by 10% per year
care;                                                                                 Adequate donor
coordination.
I c. Increased number of  I c. Increase in the number of  I c. Routine records/reporting
deliveries attended by    deliveries attended by trained                              Key constraints outside
trained health providers  health providers by 5% per year                             the project addressed.
Id. Increased number of   Id. Proportion of referral facilities  Id. Supervision reports;
referral facilities that are  appropriately staffed and equipped
appropriately staffed and  according to plan (target: 90% by
equipped to handle obstetric  end of project)
emergencies
' T'arget values in key performance indicators 9.d, 9.e and 9.f are subject to revisions during the annual reviews and
subject to the outcome of the maintenance policy.



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                               Annex II- page 2 of 8
le. Increased             1 e. Proportion reporting      I e. KAP survey
understanding of the      knowledge and understanding of
harmful effects of FGM    harmful effects of FGM increased
from 25% to 50% by end of
project
2. Improved prevention of   2. Contraceptive Prevalence Rate   2. Reports from social
unwanted pregnancies     for modem methods increased     marketing program and from
from 14% to 22% by 2003        health facilities;
3. Improved prevention and  3.a Proportion of facilities in  3. Supervision reports;
treatment of STIs and HIV    which syndromic management of   Routine records/reporting
STIs implemented (target: 90% of
facilities by end of project)
3.b Decreased the prevalence of
STIs among pregnant women
(target: 50% reduction by end of
project)
3c. 50% increase in the proportion  Social Marketing KAP survey
of men and women reporting
knowledge of at least two
appropriate ways of protecting
themselves from HIV, by the end
of the Project
B. Management of
Childhood Illnesses
Integrated
Strengthened capacity to
prevent, identify and treat
main infant/child illnesses:
1. Health-seeking behavior  la. Proportion of children 0-4  Ia. KAP study
of parents improved       months (inclusive) exclusively
breastfed increased from 17% to
lb. Increase of 50% in use of  lb. Statistics from Central
ORS by 2003                    Medical Store and from Social
Marketing Program
I c. Reduction of 25% in number    I c. BHF and VHW surveys
of children brought to health
worker later than appropriate by
2003
2. Diagnostic tools and   2a. IMCI systematic assessment   2a. BHF survey
treatment protocols       guidelines, diagnostic charts and
developed/improved,       treatment protocols available and
integrated and            used in every BHF facility by
disseminated.             2000
2b. IMCI literacy-appropriate  2b. VHW surveys
systematic assessment guidelines,
diagnostic charts and treatment



F'roject Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrtion Project
C ountry: The Gambia                                                                   Annex 11- page 3 of 8
protocols available and used by
50% of all VHWs by 2003
3. Health workers skilled in  3a. 50% of staff of every BHF  3a. BHF survey
correct and integrated case   facility successfully trained in
management                 IMCI and applying correct and
integrated case management in
every BHF facility by 2003
3b. 40% of all VHWs successfully 3b. VHW survey
trained in IMCI and applying
correct and integrated case
management by 2003
C. Nutrition Policy
Formulated and Improved
Nutrition Services for
Women, Infants and
Children
1. Policy basis for nutrition   la. National Nutrition Policy  la. NNPC reports
prograrns established and  Council (NNPC) established in
institutional coordination  1998 and appointment of a
strengthened               nutrition coordinator
lb. Nutrition policy and action  l.b National nutrition policy
plan adopted in 1999             and action documents
1 c. Permanent coordination and  1 c. PIU progress reports
implementation mechanism for
nutrition policy established in
1999
2. Improved nutrition      2a. Nutrition component of pre-    Curricula revisions
capacity at all levels     service training curriculum for   Training reports
nutrition-relevant workers revised
by 1999
2b. 15 program managers trained
in community-based nutrition
programs by 2001
2c. 40 field level staff trained in
community-based nutrition
programs by 2003
2d. Two candidates trained at
Master and Ph.D. level by 2003
3. Effective nutrition     3a. Revised strategy for nutrition   PIU progress reports
education strategy for     education at community level in    Training reports
behavioral change          place by mid-1999                 KAP study
implemented                3b. 250 communities
implementing the revised strategy
by 2003
3c. At least 40 peer counselors
trained by 2003
3d. At least 40 CHNs trained by
2003
3e. At least 250 TBAs trained by
2003



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                               Annex 11- page 4 of 8
3f. Proportion of children < 4
months exclusively breastfed
increased from 17% to 40% by
2003
3g. Percentage of children > 6  HRIS
months receiving foods high in  Supplement program
protein, fats and sugar increased    assessment
from 50% to 70% by 2003        GAFNA semi-annual progress
reports
4. Implementation of      4a. Reduction in reported low  PIU progress reports
community-based local    birth weight in participating
maternal supplements      communities by 10% from
program                   baseline assessment estimate, by
2003
4b. Strategy for the production
and distribution of local
supplements revised by mid- 1999
4c. 2,000 women in 240 villages
receiving supplement per year by
2000
4d. 40 supplement distribution
outlets implementing program by
2000
5. Effective strategy for the  5a. Strategy to prevent and control  Strategy document
prevention and control of    IDA designed by 2000        IDA Protocol
iron deficiency anemia    Sb. Protocol for the prevention  PIU progress reports
(IDA)                    and treatment of IDA revised by    Training reports
2001                           Evaluation report
5c. IEC materials in IDA
developed and distributed by 2001
5d. 100 community health
workers and health facility
workers trained in revised
protocol by 2001.
5e. 75% of women regularly
visiting ante-natal clinics receive
iron daily for 6 months
5f. Effectiveness of revised
protocol evaluated by 2003
6. Locally relevant strategy  6a. IDD strategy developed by  IDD strategy document
for prevention of iodine  2001
deficiency disorder (IDD)
implemented
7. Effective intervention  7a. VAD prevalence determined   VAD strategy document
strategy developed against   and strategy to combat VAD  Evaluation report
Vitamin A deficiency      developed by 2000
(VAD)                     7b. Effectiveness of diet
diversification strategy for
changing dietary practices pilot
tested and evaluated by 2001



Prcject Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Coiuntry: The Gambia                                                                Annex 11- page 5 of 8
D. Improved Capacity to
Manage and Implement a
Family Health Program
1. Expansion of Bamako    la. Fee structure, cost recovery  BI study document
Initiative (BI)           aspects and inventory controls   PIU progress reports
analyzed by 1999                Training reports
1.b 24 additional BI facilities
supported by 2003
l c. Trainers, health workers,
communities participated in at
least 30 workshops by 2003
2. Capacity built to      2a. IEC coordinator appointed in   PIU progress reports
implement and coordinate    1998                          IEC strategy document
IEC                       2b. Comprehensive IEC strategy    Training reports
developed by 1999               Research reports
2c. All health education officers   IEC Curriculum
trained in integrated marketing  KAP reports
communications approach by
1999
2d. Formative research for
message development on
reproductive health, IMCI and
nutrition conducted by 1999
2e. IEC training curriculum
developed for inclusion in pre-
service curricula of health workers
by 2000
2f. 30 training workshops on
inter-personal communication for
health workers conducted by 2001
2g. KAP studies conducted in
1999 and 2003
3. Capacity built to (a)  3a. Design of a computerized     3a. Consultant's final report
monitor and evaluate health  integrated HMIS conceptualized    approved by DSH in relation
sector activities; (b) manage  by end 1998                 with DSFE
sector financing resources;   3b. Networks including hardware   3b. DSH's official acceptance
and (c) project and monitor   and softwares HMIS in place and   of works upon completion and
investment and maintenance  operational (including staff   after checking
plans                     training) by end of 1999
3c. Health activities tracked and    3c. Annual report on sector-
monitored through the HMIS from   wide health activities and
2000                            results and work plan for
following year
3d. Financing resources and     3d. Financial reports
expenditures managed through the  transmitted by PIU to DSH,
HMIS from 2000                  DSFE and all donors
3e. Maintenance program planned,  3e. Annual report on status of
monitored and evaluated through    physical facilities and
the HMIS from 2000              maintenance program and
work plan for following year



Project Appraisal Document                          Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                               Annex 11- page 6 of 8
4. Capacity for           4a. Study to develop (a)       4a. Consultant's report
planning/projecting the   standardized definitions of the  approved by DSH
development of the health    different layers of the health
sector improved           pyramid, (b) norms and standards
for construction, equipment and
staffing of health facilities at each
level of the health pyramid, (c)
mechanism and criteria for the
evolution of the health, executed
in 1999
4b. Health mapping mechanism,    4b. DSH's Operational
including norms and standards for  Directives for the
each layer of the health pyramid   implementation of the Health
and criteria for projecting the  Mapping mechanism; norms,
evolution of the health system,  standards and criteria
approved by DSH by end 1999    published and disseminated
5. Research activities better  Sa. Minimum of one operations    5a. Operations research
integrated into health policy  research undertaken in each (i)    reports
and service delivery     reproductive health, (ii) infant and
child health, and (iii) nutrition by
2003
5b. Necessary M&E surveys      5b. M&E reports
undertaken for project         PIU reports
5c. Minimum of two research    5c. MRC/Gambia
programs directly linked to    Government reports
modifications in family health
activities by 2003
6. Improved staff         6a. Staff development and      6a. Staff strategy document
development and retention   retention strategy in place by 2000
6b. Improved staff satisfaction by  6b. Staff surveys
2000
7. Health financing policy   7. High level workshop discusses   Workshop reports
developed                 and adopts new financing policies  Health financing policy
by 2000                        document
8. Drug management and    8. Drug Action Plan up-dated by   Drug Action Plan Document
rational drug use improved   1999
9. Capacity built in the DSH  9a. Study for the development and  9a. DSH's approval of the
for developing and       implementation of an effective  study
implementing an effective    maintenance policy executed by
maintenance policy based    mid-1999.
on increased DSH          9b. Maintenance policy         9b. Maintenance policy
maintenance budget and    formulated and approved by mid-   document
outsourcing maintenance   2000.
services                  9c. Yearly maintenance budget for  9c. Documentation provided
maintenance of buildings,      by DSFE about yearly
equipment and vehicle available to  recurrent public budget voted
PIU management in a separate   and executed
account and increased to 1% of
building asset value, 2% of
equipment asset value and 2.5% of



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                 Annex 11- page 7 of 8
vehicle asset value at end of
project
9d. Financial volume of Contracts  9d. GAMWORKS' quarterly
signed for building maintenance    reports transmitted to PIU
represent 90% of DSH            providing evidence of official
maintenance budget for buildings   acceptance of maintenance
works upon completion and
after checking
9e. Financial volume of Contracts  9e. PIU's reports prepared for
signed for maintenance of       Annual review
equipment represent 80% of the
maintenance budget for equipment
in 2003
9f. Financial volume of Contracts  9f. PIU's reports prepared for
signed for maintenance of vehicles  Annual review
represent 80% of the maintenance
budget for vehicles in 2003
9g. Operation Manual for        9g. Directive issued by DSH
Maintenance of buildings,       for the use of the Maintenance
equipment and vehicle approved    Operation Manual
and operational by end 1999
10. Selected primary and  10a. Delegation of civil-works   IOa. Contract between PIU
secondary health facilities    management delegated by PIU to   and Contract Management
upgraded and equipped     a Contract Management Agency    Agency signed
(GAMWORKS) at project start.
10b. (i) 6 dispensaries built/rebuilt  lOb. GAMWORKS' quarterly
in 1999 and 12 by 2000; (ii) 5  reports providing evidence of
existing dispensaries rehabilitated   official acceptance of works
and equipped in 2000 and 9 by   upon completion and after
2001 (iii) 5 waiting sheds built in   checking, according to
1999 and 9 by 2000; (iv) 5 latrines  planned schedule
built in 1999 and 9 by 2000; (v) 5
maternity wards rehabilitated in
Minor Health Centers by 1999;
(vi) 5 laboratories, blood supply
areas and surgery theaters
rehabilitated and equipped by
2000; (vii) 20 staff houses for
dispensaries built by 2001.
11. Capacity of           I la. LIF micro-grants           1 la. LIF financial reports
communities strengthened    disbursement of $ 100,000 per
for carrying out micro-   year
projects through Local
Initiative Fund (LIF)     1 lb. LIF accomplishes its new   I lb. LIF review in 2000
objectives by 2000
12. Capacity for project  12a. Project Coordination        12a. Quarterly project reports
managernent (including    Committee in place at project start  issued and communicated to
financial management and    and meeting monthly during the    participating Departments of
procurernent) and         first year of the project and bi-  State and IDA.
component coordination    monthly thereafter.
(including training and IEC   12b. Project Action Group in  12b. Monthly and
coordination and M&E) in   place at project start and meeting   subsequently bi-monthly



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project
Country: The Gambia                                                                 Annex 11- page 8 of 8
place and operational,    monthly during the first year of    reports of the Project Action
according to planned      the project and bi-monthly      Group regularly issued and
disbursement schedule, PIP,  thereafter.                  communicated to PCC and to
Procurement Plan and                                      IDA
Schedule and Project      12c. Human Resources including    12c. Contract signed with
Operation Manual          Project Manager, Deputy Project   each individual personnel, and
Manager, Heath Advisor,         effective assignment of civil
Nutrition and IEC Coordinators,   servants (support staff)
Financial Controller, Accountant,
Procurement Officer and Support
Staff in place by mid 1998
12d. Offices provided adequately   12d. Supervision Mission
for good conditions of work, as    report
well as equipment supply
12e. Project funds (government  12e. Review of the application
budget and IDA Credit) are     forms from PIU to WB and of
monthly requested by PIU and    WB payments, by Bank's
timely received.                supervision missions.
12f. Time schedule up-dated for    12f. Quarterly updates of the
all procurement procedures vis a    detailed procurement plan
vis the planned time schedule
agreed upon during negotiations.
Project Components        Input (budget per component)                                 (Components to
Outputs)
A. Reproductive Health    US$4.7m                         Project reports; supervision  Staff and institutional
Services                                                  visits                       mechanisms are
adequate to carry out
B. Integrated Management   US$O.9m                        Project reports; supervision  components.
of Childhood Illnesses                                    visits
Appropriate monitoring
C. Nutrition Policy and   US$2.3m                         Project reports; supervision  and trouble-shooting.
Services for Women,                                       visits
Infants and Children
D. Management and         US$10.7m                        Project reports; supervision
Implementation of a Family                                visits
Health Program



MAP OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA






JBRD 22203
&ataa                                                                                                                      a aa aabaaapaOy/                    N      MAURITANIA
awaet s a Th Wad CctI THE SENEGAL 
[     /XS  E   N       E      G       A       L                                                  -....   GAMBIs                      MALI
'   8   r-   -   -  /  \  -  -.  -  g  X  a  *,ssAuv .87 G U I N E A i ,.o r,, .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lsrw-~   , U NE 
tatetaaaascaaae taapaaAa  GINE 4 r6T
KLIE   ERIA R AO IRN
- - - - - -             - -._  _._ -> - - - -DonioR -                   -- --                                                                                                           L N
t3r"   ro   j                                                       /                   f            (>  Dlvirior  herJaqurJrters                                                            >~~~~~~S-K-A" Z~    k 
F,4                                                                                                                                 I  s          N   D ~~a     OO Eo\ Ea~ a C q            S d K uNC   Rat
BhLsio                                   I aSlatao            20aE,aU                                    E30ad                    /    Ya_Inancino oudre',  N13-'CA
FHO                                                              Yt\x/                                                                                                                      R  / Sdd E  R  E
ANJUL   I        -                                                    Sates     ~        as  /                       -                           _                         lM-dbRC II        C   N4PCC
d.11 ~    ~        Ea.s  t                                                        THE GAMBIA                                           t
Gsesla, --  @CJSCateaIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t.)-p.
\  No Ztgomchor   <SSenc^or                                     15, ^rm."cser                                                                        FEBRUARY 1 5i,5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBRURY19
t   taa



