Report No. PID2158
Project Name           Gambia-Participatory Health, Population and (@) ...
Nutrition Project (formerly Health and Population)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Project ID                       GMPE825
Borrower                         Government of The Gambia
Implementing Agency              State Department of Health, Social Welfare,
and Women's Affairs
Contact: Mr. Sulayman Samba
Permanent Secretary
State Department of Health
The Quadrangle, Banjul
Tel:   (220) 22 86 24
Fax: (220) 22 85 05
Date PID prepared                May 11, 1994
Date PID revised                 November 5, 1997
Appraisal Date                   November 24, 1997
Project Board Date               March 17, 1998
Country Background
The Gambia, with a population of about 1,025,000, is one of the
poorest countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and one of its most densely
populated, with 83 persons per square kilometer in 1990. The
country ranks among the least developed with an estimated annual per
capita income of US$350. A third of the population lives under the
poverty line, with poverty being most prevalent in rural areas.
Demographic trends between 1983 and 1993 showed a population spurt
with the annual growth rate rising within a decade from 2.5w to
3.49, including immigration.   Women constitute 51t of the total
population, and a high total fertility rate above 5 has been the
norm. The vast majority of Gambians are concentrated in villages
and rural areas, deriving their income from subsistence farming,
livestock, and groundnuts, the latter accounting for most of
domestic exports and export value. The Gambia suffers from
recurrent droughts and an erratic distribution of rainfall.
Sector Background
Prior to 1978 the health services were mainly provided in urban
areas. Public sector resource allocation went principally to
curative services, which consumed almost 70t of the health sector
recurrent budget. National health indicators were extremely high
with infant mortality rates (IMR) estimated at over 200 per 1,000
and maternal mortality in excess of 2,000 per 100,000 live births,
with wide regional variations, the highest being in rural areas.
Malaria, diarrhea, respiratory tract infections, malnutrition,



infectious diseases, anemia, complications at pregnancy and
childbirth, were major causes of high morbidity and mortality.
A primary health care (PHC) policy was adopted in 1978, and
this has led to improvements in the health status of the population,
particularly for women and children. The infant mortality rate
declined to 80 per 1,000, while the maternal mortality ratio was
reduced to 1050 per 100,000 live births, according to 1993 figures.
There has also been an effort to reduce the total fertility rate by
increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate which has now increased
to 15%.
In the 1980s, an effort was begun to strengthen the management
structures of the health delivery system, promote decentralization
and strengthen financial management. Under the World Bank's first
project in the health sector (the 1987 National Health Development
Project), efforts were made to increase coverage of basic health
services and to strengthen the referral system through institutional
reforms and specific investments in infrastructure, logistics, and
human resource development.
Despite the progress made, maternal and infant mortality rates
are considered unacceptably high. The provision of health care
services to the Gambian people, with the increasing demand for
health services from a rapidly growing population and the limited
resources available, pose a great challenge for the future both in
terms of financial and human resources. Particularly in rural
areas, the quality of health services and access to them for women
and children, is low. Recognizing this need, the Gambian Government
has sought to respond by embarking on an effort to improve
reproductive health services, infant and child health services,
nutritional status of infants, children, and women of reproductive
age, and the government's capacity to manage, implement and monitor
a rural family health program.
In 1993 the government strategy to address these issues was
broadly formulated in its "Health Policy 1994-2000: Improving
Quality and Access". The policy envisages accomplishing its goals
in part through improvements in "family health" which covers
maternal and child health, family planning, and nutrition. The
policy also envisages the decentralization of health services
management; the strengthening of the primary, secondary and tertiary
levels of the PHC pyramid; community participation; strengthening of
cost-sharing mechanisms; collaboration with the private sector; and
human resources development.
Project Objectives
The primary objective of the project is to improve family
health in The Gambia. As explained in the paragraph above, this
objective includes improving maternal and child health, family
planning, and nutrition. The project will strengthen strategies of
safe motherhood, child survival, and improved reproductive health.
Project Description
-2-



The project will support policies and investments designed to
improve family health in rural and peri-urban areas. The project
will focus on reproductive health services, infant and child health
care, implementation of a nutrition policy and program, and
improvements in Gambian Government's capacity to manage, implement
and monitor its family health program. It will include institution
building, physical rehabilitation and reconstruction, policy
development, and project management. It will focus on the primary
and secondary health care delivery system up to the divisional
level. It will include provision of improved ante-natal and
obstetric services, integrated approaches to the management of
childhood illnesses, and nutrition interventions; cost recovery
mechanisms and approaches, such as the Bamako Initiative; and
acceleration in fertility-decline by expanding family planning
services, including the social marketing of contraceptives and
information, education, and communication (IEC) strategies which
promote reduction in family size norms.
Project Financing
The Project will be financed by the Government (109 of total
project cost) and IDA. Parallel financing is likely from the
African Development Bank, UNICEF and WHO.
Project Implementation
The State Department of Health, Social Welfare and Women's
Affairs will be the lead agency, responsible for overall project
coordination, disbursement, procurement, supervision, and
monitoring. It will delegate responsibility for some components to
appropriate institutions. The National Population Commission will
ensure that IEC messages on family planning matters are disseminated
and properly coordinated with other IEC activities; the Department
of Local Government will be responsible for administering a Local
Initiative Fund and linking its activities to health, nutrition and
population activities. Other activities such as nutrition,
research, or maintenance could be managed or implemented by NGOs,
research institutions, and the private sector.
Project Sustainability
The project's focus on family health in rural Gambia builds on
the lessons learned in the Bank's first health sector investment
operation, preparatory work for the National Health Policy 1993-
2000, and on Gambian priorities identified during a 1996
participatory health planning workshop. The emphasis on the more
client-driven approach, community participation, use of NGOs, and
broad Gambian project ownership, should heighten prospects for
sustainability.
Poverty Category
Program of targeted interventions.
Environmental Aspects
-3-



This will be a category C project since there is no perceived
negative environmental impact. Most of the civil works envisaged
involve renovations of, or maintenance to, existing facilities and
should not involve relocation. The project is expected to have
important long-term positive environmental effects due to the
anticipated reduced fertility resulting from the population family
planning interventions, and the benefits of nutrition programs which
result in more effective use of food resources.
Program Objective Categories
The project responds to the country's poverty reduction and
human resource development strategies. Providing better health and
nutrition, and decreasing fertility rates through cost effective and
efficient services, are important elements in attaining the
country's long-term objectives for poverty alleviation.
Contact Point:           The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending November 21, 1997.
- 4 -



