Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3054 GM
Development Credit Agreement
(Participatory Health, Population and Nutrition Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 15, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3054-GM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B)
the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated February 
20, 1998, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the quality and access to health services in its territory and providing assurances to 
the Association as to an adequate level of expenditure to be foreseen in the national 
budget for the health sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of such Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Bamako Initiative” means the Borrower’s initiative adopted in Bamako, 
Mali, in September 1987, under which local communities collect the proceeds of the 
sale of essential drugs and other medical supplies and use such proceeds to replenish 
essential drugs and medical supplies as well as to finance small-scale projects in 
family health;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a community or group which meets the criteria 
specified in the LIF Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined), to which or for 
whose benefit a Grant is made or proposed to be made, for a LIF Micro-project (as 
hereinafter defined) under the Project; 
(c)
“DSH” means the Borrower’s Department of State for Health, Social Welfare 
and Women’s Affairs; 
(d)
“GAFNA” means the Gambia Food and Nutrition Association, a 
non-governmental organization established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(e)
“GAMBLOOD” means the Gambia Blood Association, a charitable organization 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(f)
“GAMWORKS” means the Gambian Agency for the Management of Civil Works, 
established under the laws of the Borrower, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement, dated May 11, 1994, between the Borrower and the 
Association for the financing of the Public Works and Capacity Building Project; 
(g)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance a LIF 
Micro-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part D.3 of the Project; 
(h)
“HIV” means the Human Immunodeficiency Virus; 
(i)
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication; 
(j)
“IMCI” means the Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses approach 
developed by the WHO (as hereinafter defined); 
(k)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations; 
(l)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited into the 
Project Account, as hereinafter defined, pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(m)
“Local Initiatives Fund” or “LIF” means a fund, established by the 
Borrower, to provide Grants to Beneficiaries for carrying out LIF Micro-projects (as 
hereinafter defined) to improve reproductive health, infant and child health, and 
nutrition; 
(n)
“LIF Implementation Manual” means the manual containing the procedures, 
guidelines, criteria and detailed terms and conditions for LIF Micro-projects; 
(o)
“LIF Micro-project” means a specific project in the areas of reproductive 
health, infant and child health and nutrition, financed or proposed to be financed 
through a Grant extended under the Project; 
(p)
“MRC” means the Medical Research Council, a private, non-profit making 
Page  3
organization established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(q)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit in DSH which was established 
by the Borrower in March, 1997 and is to be maintained, pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(r)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement;
(s)
“Project Coordination Committee” means the committee established by the 
Borrower on September 24, 1996 and is to be maintained, pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(t)
“Project Action Group” means the group to be established by the Borrower, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(u)
“Project Operations Manual” means the manual, acceptable to the 
Association, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of the Agreement, which contains 
the operating procedures for the execution of the Project and model documents for the 
carrying out of procurement activities under the Project;
(v)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated: (i) 
July 9, 1993 and August 9, 1993 ; and (ii) May 29, 1997 and June 6, 1997 between the 
Borrower and the Association; 
(w)
“Social Marketing” means the process of using commercial marketing 
channels to sell oral modern contraceptives, condoms, insecticides for mosquito nets 
and oral rehydration salts, with the objective of increasing the demand for and supply 
of such commodities; 
(x)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(y)
“STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infection; 
(z)
“UN” means the United Nations; 
(aa)
“UNFPA” means the United Nations Population Fund; 
(bb)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Fund;  
(cc)
“WFP” means the World Food Programme of the United Nations; and 
(dd)
“WHO” means the World Health Organization of the United Nations. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen  million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under the LIF 
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for a LIF Micro-project to 
be financed under Part D.3 of the Project, in respect of which withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested. 
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of The Gambia on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2008 and ending March 1, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2018 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
Page  5
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through DSH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, an account 
in the Central Bank of The Gambia on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
deposit an initial amount of $100,000 equivalent into the Project Account 
and thereafter at quarterly intervals, deposit into the Project Account the estimated 
amount required for expenditures which shall not be financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit in the following quarter, or any other amount required for the Project, as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association in each annual work plan to be 
established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and  
(c)
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section will be used exclusively for the 
Borrower’s counterpart expenditures under the Project and not otherwise financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Page  6
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall by not later than January 1, 2000, adopt a 
National Nutrition Policy and a plan of action for its implementation, satisfactory to 
the Association.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, an 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and the initial contribution 
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(b) 
for the purposes of Article IV of this Agreement, the Borrower has 
appointed an auditor in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; 
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Operations Manual, including an 
Accounting Procedure Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has appointed a financial controller and an accountant to 
the PIU, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement;  
(e)
the Borrower has installed a computerized accounting software, acceptable 
to the Association and has carried out a training program for the accounting staff in 
the PIU on the use of such software; and
(f)
the Borrower has entered into the agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, with GAMWORKS referred to in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finance and Economic Affairs of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of State for Finance 
and Economic Affairs
The Quadrangle
Banjul
Republic of The Gambia
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN 
Republic of The Gambia
2264
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  8
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s/ Crispin Grey-Johnson 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
1,800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
2,400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Pharmaceuticals
  700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(4)
Consultants’
3,400,000
100%
services
and audits
(5)
Training
1,720,000
100%
(6)
Grants under
  330,000
100%
the LIF
(7)
Operating
1,090,000
90%
costs
(8)
Maintenance
  190,000
50%
(9)
Refunding of
  550,000
Amount due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(10)
Unallocated
1,220,000
Page  9
TOTAL
      13,400,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the PIU for the 
purposes of the execution of the Project, including office supplies, communications 
costs, acquisition of office equipment and vehicles and maintenance thereof, and 
travel and subsistence allowances for staff in charge of the supervision of the 
Project, but excluding salaries of officials in the Borrower’s civil service; and 
(d)
the term “Maintenance” means expenditures for maintenance of DSH 
vehicles, health facilities at the primary and secondary level in the Borrower’s 
territory and equipment in such facilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category (6) until the LIF Implementation 
Manual, acceptable to the Association, has been adopted by the Borrower and in respect 
of Grants unless the Grant has been made in accordance with the eligibility criteria, 
procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraphs 8 and 9 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in more detail in the LIF Implementation Manual. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, and for services from consulting 
firms and from individual consultants under contracts costing less than $75,000 and 
$35,000 equivalent each, respectively, and local training, Grants under the LIF, 
Operating Costs and Maintenance, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of, and access to, family 
health services, including reproductive, infant and children health services, 
nutrition services and the management of such services in the territory of the 
Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Reproductive Health Services 
1.
Maternal Health Services
(a)
Improvement of the geographical coverage and quality of maternal health 
services, through: (i) provision of training for staff of basic health facilities, 
traditional birth attendants and community health nurses; (ii) revision of midwifery 
schools’ curricula and of training curricula for basic health facility staff, 
community health nurses and traditional birth attendants; (iii) revision of clinical 
practice and supervision guidelines; (iv) identification and implementation of 
appropriate means of transport for obstetrical emergencies; (v) expansion and 
strengthening of postpartum home visits; and (vi) acquisition of equipment and 
supplies to health facilities.
(b)
Increasing utilization of maternal health services, through conducting: 
(i) client satisfaction surveys; and (ii) IEC campaigns directed towards women of 
Page  10
reproductive age, their families and communities.
(c)
Increasing awareness and promoting attitudinal changes towards female 
genital mutilation, through community-based IEC campaigns directed towards women of  
reproductive age, older women and men, and community and religious leaders.
(d)
Increasing knowledge about the factors contributing to maternal 
mortality, through carrying out maternal death audits of maternal deaths occurring in 
health facilities and communities. \0c
2.
Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancies
(a)
Increasing the demand for family planning services and contraception, 
through IEC and Social Marketing directed towards men and women of reproductive age 
and older women and men, community and religious leaders.
(b)
Increasing the acquisition and supply of contraceptives, through Social 
Marketing. 
3.
Prevention and Control of STIs and HIV
(a)
Increasing knowledge about STIs and HIV, promote preventive practices, 
and encourage healthy behavior for treatment of STIs, through IEC, directed towards 
women and men of reproductive age, their families and communities.
(b)
Improvement in the diagnosis and treatment of STIs, through: (i) 
completion of a training curriculum on syndromic management; (ii) provision of 
clinical in-service training for health providers in syndromic management; (iii) 
development of clinical practice guidelines; (iv) revision of nurse and midwifery 
curricula to include syndromic management of STIs; (v) introduction of prenatal 
screening of women for STIs; and (vi) acquisition of equipment and supplies for 
testing for STIs and drugs for treatment.
Part B:
Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses
1.
Introduction and implementation of the IMCI in the territory of the Borrower, 
through: (a) training of core facilitators; (b) carrying out surveys to assess the 
current infant and child health situation; (c) carrying out of a national IMCI 
orientation workshop; (d) establishment of an IMCI task force; (e) development of a 
preparation plan; (f) adaptation of generic IMCI material to the conditions in the 
Borrower’s territory; (g) production of diagnostic and therapeutic materials for 
health workers with limited literacy capacity; (h) pre-testing and dissemination of 
materials; (i) training of trainers; (j) training of health workers in the 
implementation and supervision of IMCI; (k) revision of pre-service training 
curricula; (l) carrying out of an IEC campaign directed at parents; (m) continuous 
monitoring and evaluation, supervision, operations research and technical studies in 
support of the above; (n) carrying out staff capacity surveys; and (o) evaluation of 
IMCI program.
Part C:
Nutrition Policy and Services for Women, Infants and Children 
1.
Nutrition Policy Formulation and Institutional Strengthening
(a)
Preparation and adoption of a national nutrition policy and action plan 
for its implementation, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
acquisition of goods, for continuing inter-sectoral coordination in the field of 
nutrition.
(b)
Implementation of an IEC strategy to create awareness about nutrition 
among the policy makers and the general population.
(c)
Designing and carrying out of a training program for policy and program 
analysis, information collection and appropriate interventions in the field of 
nutrition.
(d)
Development and implementation of an improved anthropometric data 
collection survey system. 
Page  11
2.
Community and Micro-Nutrient Approaches to Improve the Nutritional Status of
Women and Young Children
(a)
Development and implementation of a nutrition education strategy through: 
(i) provision of technical advisory services to assess and redesign field level 
nutritional education activities; and (ii) training of village-based volunteers as 
peer counselors, and of community health nurses and traditional birth attendants in 
implementing nutrition education activities.
(b)
Carrying out surveys to assess maternal food supplementation programs.
(c)
Testing and evaluation of a pilot program to provide food supplements and 
to increase self-sufficiency of communities in the production thereof. 
(d)
Review and refinement of strategies to address micro-nutrient 
malnutrition.
(e)
Carrying out a training program for field staff for the above-mentioned 
activities.
(f)
Development and generation of materials for an IEC campaign for the 
prevention and control of micro-nutrients deficiencies.
(g)
Acquisition of equipment and vehicles for the DSH Nutrition Unit. 
Part D:
Management and Implementation of a Family Health Program 
1.
Capacity Building and Policy Development
(a)
The expansion of the Bamako Initiative; (b) coordination of IEC 
activities; (c) the development of a comprehensive Health Management Information 
System; (d) the development of health mapping capacity; (e) strengthening capacity in 
the area of applied research; (f) development of a staff retention strategy and 
regular staff surveys; (g) development of a health financing policy; (h) updating and 
partial implementation of the National Drug Action Program; and (i) development of a 
maintenance policy for the Borrower’s health facilities, all through the provision of 
technical advisory services and the acquisition of goods. 
2.
Upgrading and Maintenance of Health Infrastructure
(a)
Construction, rehabilitation, and refurbishing of a selected number of 
dispensaries, waiting sheds in front of dispensaries, latrine blocks in dispensaries, 
staff quarters in remote facilities, maternal wards in health centers and limited 
refurbishment of selected surgery theaters.
(b)
Support to the maintenance of health facilities, including buildings and 
equipment at the primary and secondary level, as well as vehicles.
(c)
Acquisition of medical equipment and supplies for dispensaries, surgery 
theaters, laboratories and blood banks, and of office equipment and vehicles.
(d)
Increase the supply of blood through blood-donor mobilization. 
3.
Local Initiative Fund (LIF)
(a)
Provision of Grants for the financing of activities in the areas of 
reproductive health, infant and child health and nutrition in the territory of the 
Borrower.
(b)
Strengthening the administrative and operational capacities of the LIF 
through the provision of technical advisory services, training, and the acquisition of 
equipment.
(c)
Development and implementation of an information, education and 
communication strategy for LIF.
Page  12
(d)
Monitoring and supervision of LIF field activities. 
4.
Project Management
Provision of technical advisory services for the supervision, coordination, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent for goods and $1,900,000 
equivalent for works, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods costing $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $50,000, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods, essential drugs and contraceptives may be procured from IAPSO, UNFPA, 
UNICEF, WFP, WHO or other UN agency acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works Works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. 
Page  13
6.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part D.3 of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and to the first five contracts for works and goods 
procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures each calendar year, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September, 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services procured through contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $75,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
(a)
Services for: (i) the delivery of nutrition programs under Part C of the 
Project, (ii) the mobilization of blood donors under Part D of the Project, and (iii) 
research activities under Part D.1 (e) of the Project may, with the Association’s 
Page  14
prior agreement, be procured from GAFNA, GAMBLOOD and from MRC respectively in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
(b)
The contract with GAFNA shall provide for the consultants to carry out 
all procurement under such contract in accordance with this Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, and to all contracts procured 
through direct negotiation, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated the equivalent of $35,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided that the terms of reference for all consulting assignments shall be 
subject to prior review and approval by the Association.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall execute the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Operations Manual and with 
the contents of the annual work plans to be established in accordance with paragraph 5 
of this Schedule 4. Such Project Operations Manual and annual work plans shall not be 
amended or waived, in whole or in part, in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association, would materially and adversely affect the execution of the Project and 
the achievement of its objectives. 
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Coordination Committee, comprised of 
representatives from the National Population Secretariat, DSH, Department of State for 
Local Government and Lands, Department of State for Finance and Economic Affairs, to 
provide overall guidance for the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU in DSH, which shall be responsible for the 
day-to-day management of the Project. The PIU shall be headed by a Project Manager, 
supported by a deputy project manager, a financial controller, an accountant, a 
Page  15
procurement officer and a senior health, population and nutrition adviser, all with 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association and employed in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. The PIU shall be 
responsible for the management and coordination of the Project, including: (a) the 
management of Project funds; (b) installation and maintenance of sound financing and 
accounting procedures; (c) procurement activities; (d) reporting to the Borrower and 
the Association; (e) organizing annual reviews of the Project; (f) ensuring 
coordination of all training activities; and (g) coordinating the monitoring and 
evaluation of performance indicators by the Project implements. 
4.
The Borrower, shall by not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, 
establish and maintain the Project Action Group chaired by the Project Manager, to act 
as the interface between the implements of the Project, i.e. the DSH line Unit 
Managers and the Directorate of Community Development, and the PIU. The Project Action 
Group shall be comprised of the Director of Health Services, designated unit heads, 
the Director of Planning and Information, the Director of Support Services, the Chief 
Nursing Officer, the Nutrition Coordinator, the IEC Coordinator, the Bamako Initiative 
Coordinator, and the Director of Community Development. The Project Action Group shall 
ensure the operational effectiveness of the Project, including coordination and 
collaboration, identifying problems and solutions, information sharing, providing 
progress reports and monitoring information and preparing draft work plans and 
budgets.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators, satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
undertake, with the Association, annual reviews of the progress in the 
execution of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, at dates established 
pursuant to paragraph (d) below; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than one month prior to each annual review, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures and the work plan and budget recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by October 1 of each year during execution 
of the Project, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section and, thereafter, adopt and carry out the 
annual work plan and budget established in agreement with the Association.
6.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2001, carry out jointly with 
the Association a mid-term review. Such review shall assess the following: (i) the 
overall progress in the implementation of the Program and the Project; (ii) the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) an evaluation of IMCI and 
LIF; and (iii) progress on procurement and disbursement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, three months before such review, prepare and furnish 
to the Association reports, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
needed to undertake the review, including the preparation of a program of action, to 
deal with deficiencies in Project implementation identified prior to such review.
(c)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and the 
Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan. 
LIF 
7.
Part D.3 (a) of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the 
eligibility criteria, procedures, and terms and conditions specified in detail in the 
Page  16
LIF Implementation Manual. The provisions of such LIF Manual shall not be amended or 
waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, would materially and 
adversely affect the execution of Part D.3 (a) of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof. The LIF shall be managed by the Directorate of Community 
Development within the Department of State for Local Government and Lands. 
8.
The first five Micro-projects shall be subject to prior review and approval by 
the Association. 
9.
Eligibility Criteria for Micro-projects
Micro-projects shall be for activities in the areas of reproductive health, 
infant and child health and nutrition in accordance with the eligibility criteria, 
procedures and guidelines set forth in the LIF Implementation Manual. 
10.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Micro-projects
For purposes of financing Micro-projects, the Borrower shall enter into 
appropriate arrangements with Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Micro-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Micro-project;
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Micro-project;
(c)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Micro-project, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the Micro-project; and
(e)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Micro-project upon the failure 
by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations. 
11.
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, 
with GAMWORKS for the purposes of managing the civil works contracts under Part D.2 of 
the Project.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $875,000, 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
Page  17
amount equivalent to $500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
Page  18
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
