DocumenE of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
2s3 3 -Ž2-6"
Report No. 5413-ZIM
ZIMABWE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMLALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
April 16, 1985
Regional Projects Department
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a resktred dis{tnibi  and may be used by rcipients ody in the performance of
their oicial dutes Its contens  may not odewwise be dischsed widout Wodd Bank antheri_aon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 1984)
Currency = SZ
US$1   $Z 1.40
$Z1   USSO.71
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Zimbabwe
SEDCO                   ]  July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AADC      Anglo-American Development Corporation
AFC       Agricultural Finance Corporation
BIXAP     Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity
CD        Certificates of Deposit
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CIFOZ     Construction Industry Federation of Zimbabwe
DCD       Department of Cooperatives Development
DFC       Development Finance Company
FCEC      Federation of Civil Engineering Contractors
FEBCO     Finance Trust for Emergent Businessmen
GOZ       Government of Zimbabwe
IDC       Industrial Development Corporation
ILO       International Labour Organization
IOBD      Institute of Business Development
IPCORN    Investment Promotion Corporation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland
LDC       Less Developed Countries
POSB      Post Office Savings Bank
MCNH      Mirnistry of Construction and National Housing
LMLPSW    Ministry of Labor, MaLipower Planning and Social Welfare
RBZ       Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
SEDCO     Small Enterprises Development Corporation
SIAS      Small Industries Advisory Service
SSE(s)    Small-Scale Enterprise(s)
UDI       Unilateral Declaration of Independence
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
ZIAS      Zimbabwe Industrial Advisory Service
ZIMBATA   Zimbabwe Master Builders and Allied Trades Association



FR OMICAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Loan and Project Sumrary
Borrower:      Zimbabwe
Beneficiaries: Small Enterprises Development Corporation (SEDC0) and the
Ministry of Labo-:, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare
(MUPSW)a.
Amount:        US$10 million.
Terms:         Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
variable interest rate.
Relending      The Government would onlend the credit component (US$8.5
Terms:         million) to SEDCO at the interest rate that it charges on
loans to its parastatals (currently 9.75% p.a.) with a fixed
amortization schedule for 15 years including 4 years of
grace. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk.  SEDCO would relend at 18% p.a. for sub-loans in urban
areas and 16% ic rural areas with maturities up to 7 years
including a grace period of up to 2 years. The technical
assistance components of US$1.5 million would be made
available to MLMPSW (US$0.9 million) and as a grant to SEDCO
(US$0.6 million).
Objectives     This pilot SSE project would support the Government's
and Project    program of providing urgently needed financial assistance,
Description:   training and management counselling to small-scale
entrepreneurs. The project would also strengthen the Small
Enterprises Development Corporation (SEDCO). More
specifically, the project would:
(i) provide a line of credit to SEDCO for
on-lending to an estimated 470 SSEs; and
(ii)  provide technical assistance to improve the
institutional efficiency of SEDCO and to
help finance a management training program
for small contractors and a study of the
construction sector and its potential for
small construction firms.
Ths document as a resticted distribution and may be usd by recpients only in the performanc of
their orcildutis. Its conttnts may not otherwise be dscld without Word Bank autbizaion.



- ii -
Benefits       The project would play a critical role in strengthening the
and Risks:     Government program to provide an effective integrated
package of technical and financial support to small scale
entrepreneurs. It would help enhance the entrepreneurial
and technical capabilities of small-scale entrepreneurs,
increase the supply of credit to them, and build up SEDCO
into a strong and effective institution. The project would
create nearly 4,000 jobs at an estimated average cost per
job of only about US$3,100.
There is a risk that SEDCO may expand its operations to
marginal enterprises in rural areas with limited
infrastructure. The risk is mitigated, however, by SEDCO
providing training and management counselling to SSEs,
strengthening its supervision capabilities and by funding
high risk operations only through a special Government
financed -Managed Fund.
Estimated Cost:                                     Local Foreign  Total
MSSmillion
Credit Component                                     6.8      7.6    14.4
Technical Assistance                                 0.6       1.1     1.7
Total financing required                             7.4      8.7    16.1
Fiuancing Plan:
Bank Loan                                            1.3      8.7    10.0
Local Contributions                                  6.1      -        6.1
Total                                            7.4      8.7    16.1
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY               1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
USS million
Annual                 1.2    1.8    2.2    2.1    1.3    0.8    0.5    0.1
Cumulative             1.2    3.0    5.2    7.3    8.6    9.4    9.9   10.0
Rate of Return: NA



- iii -
ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Small Enterprises Development Corporation
Basic Data
(As of October 31, 1984)
1. Year of Establishment: 1983
2. Commencement of Operations: April 2, 1984
3. Ownership: 100I Government (parastatal status)
4. Capital: $Z 1,000,000 loan capital
5. Resources Position (SZ '000)
Sources
Loan Capital                                                1,000.0
Reserves                                                     308.3
Total Sources                                               1,308.3
Uses
Fixed Assets                                                 214.1
Investments                                                   41.4
Total Uses                                                    255.5
Resources Available for Disbursements                             1,052.8
Less Undisbursed CoOmitments                                          -
Less Uncommitted Approvals                                          483.5
Resources Available for Approvals                                   569.3
6.  Interest Rates:  18% p.a., to projects located in urban areas and 16X
p.a. to those in rural areas. An 'administrative fee for project
supervision is charged, ranging between 0.5X-5Z, depending on the size
of the loan.
7. Financial Results and Position (SZ '000)
(4 months ending uctober jL, 1984)
Results
Gross Income                                                 496.7
Net Profit                                                    182.6
Administrative Costs as % of average
total assets (annualized basis)                             38.6%
Position
Net Worth                                                   1,308.3
Total Assets                                                1,418.4
Long Term Debt/Equity Ratio
8.  SuImrary of Approvals 1/                 Number           Amount ($Z)
Commerce                                                396,748.6
Industry                                   6             65,015.0
Construction                               I             10,000.0
Services                                   2             11,726.0
Total                                       41            483,489
1/ SEDCO began approvals in August 1984.



ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary                                        i - ii
Basic Data
I.  SECTORA! BACKGROUND                                                1
The Setting                                                        1
The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector                                  I
The Financial Sector                                               6
Bank Strategy                                                     10
II.  THE PROJECT                                                       10
Project Objectives                                                10
Project Description                                               10
The Institution - SEDCO                                           11
Construction Industry Component                                   23
III. THE LOAN                                                           24
Features of the Proposed Loan                                     24
Project Implementation                                            25
Disbursement                                                      26
Benefits and Risks                                                27
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS TO BE REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS    27
This report is based on findings of appraisal missions to Zimbabwe-in July
and November 1984, consisting of Zia Ahmed (mission leader), Mariluz
Cortes, Philip Adoteye, Melanie Horton and Helmut Kaden (consultant).
Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa also participated in the July 1984 mission for
about a week.



List of Annexes
Zimbabwe
Annex  1       Structure of Financial System
Annex  2       Interest Rates
Small Enterprises Development Corporation
Annex  3       Organization Chart
Annex  4       Policy Statement Action Plan and Strategy Statement
Annex  5       Lending Terms
Annex  6       Analyses of Pipeline and Approvals
Annex  7       Summarized Income Statement - FY84
Annex  8       Summarized Balance Sheet - FY84
Annex  9       Projected Operations FY85-89
Annex 10       Projected Income Statements - FY85-89
Annex 11       Projected Balance Sheets - FY85-89
Annex 12       Projected Sources and Uses of Funds - FY85-89
Annex 13       Actual and Projected Financial Ratios - FY84-39
Annex 14       Disbursement Schedule
Construction Industry Conponent
Annex 15       Training and Advisory Services - Outline Terms of Reference
Annex 16       Study of the Construction Industry - Outline Terms of
Reference
Project File
Annex 17       Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



I. THE SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Setting
1.01      The Zimbabween economy, one of Sub-Saharan Africa's most
diversified, rebounded from the damages of five years of war, following
independence in 1980 and the relaxation of economic sanctions imposed after
the Unilateral Declaration of Independence (UDI). GDP achieved an average
annual growth rate of over 10X in 1980 and 1981 due to bumper crops,
increased exports of ferro-alloys and an increase of nearly 25% in
manufacturing value added. In 1982 the economy experienced a sharp
downturn with GDP falling in real terms by nearly 2% that year and by a
further 3.5% in 1983. Major factors contributing tc this decline were: the
effects of the 1982-1984 drought, the impact of the international recession
on the volume and prices of mining output; and a 5% contraction in the
volume of manufacturing output, greatly affected by foreign exchange
shortages and contracting demand. Preliminary data for 1984 show increases
in agricultural and mining output, and higher manufacturing exports.
Manufacturing and trade, however, still suffer from weak consumer demand
and drastically reduced foreign exchange allocations.
1.02      Most economic activities in Zimbabwe are carried out by the
private sector. While the Government has been under considerable pressure
to bring about a rapid, less skewed, distribution of income, its approach
to achieve this objective has been pragmatic. It has avoided any major
redistribution of productive assets, such as land and industry, and
continues to support the private sector, which is the economy's main source
of foreign exchange. Through a substantial currency devaluation and the
preferential allocation of foreign exchange to export activities, the
Government succeeded in stimulating exports. The Government is also taking
measures to create an environment propitious to the development of private
small scale enterprises in both rural and urban ar-3s. The Government's
economic measures are being implemented in collaboration with the private
sector, particularly the trade and industrial associations, with which the
Government maintains frequent consultations on policies and procedures.
B. The Small Scale Enterprise Sector
1.03      Structure and Contributions to the Economy.  Small scale
enteprises (SSEs) 1/ provide about 20% of non-farm employment in Zimbabwe
and constitute ove7r 80% of all non-farm establishments. Of the nearly
92,000 people employed in SSEs, about 40Z are in trade, 28% in services and
18Z in the manufacturing sector. The relative contribution of SSEs to
total value added is estimated to be in the range of 12 to 18%. Available
statistical information does not show the contribution of SSEs to value
added by sectors, other than manufacturing, where they contribute to about
10% of value added.
1/ Small Scale Enterprises (including industry) in the context of this
project are firms with less than 51 workers and fixed assets not
exceeding Z$ 200,000.



- 2 -
1.04      The relative importance of SSEs varies greatly among sectors.
They employ 60% of all the workers in the area of services and about half
of the workers in retail and wholesale trade, but less than 15Z of those
working in manufacturing, transport and construction. The contribution of
SSEs to total employment in the latter sectors is low if compared with
countries of similar or higher level of development than Zimbabwe. For
example, SSEs in Zimbabwe contribute to only 10% of manufacturing
employment compared to an average of 50% among a sample of 17 low income
countries and 25% among 10 high income countries 2/.
1.05    The oroportion of people working in SSEs in Zimbabwe is somewhat
higher than what the above figures indicate, if employment in informal SSEs
(i.e. comprising the self-employed and units without operator's license) is
included. There is, however, little statistical information on informal
SSEs in Zimbabwe. A recent study carried out by the University of Zimbabwe
'nd the ILO concluded that compared to other developing countries the
iL±ormal sector in Zimbabwe is also relatively small. Informal SSEs are
usually found in the backyard of shops, in makeshift premises or in the
open air. The most common activities in the informal sector are:
vegetables retailing, carpentry, tailoring, metal working, shoe repair,
truck shops, tin container production and car repair. Little competition
exists between formal and informal SSEs, particularly in the rural areas
where formal enterprises do not have outlets. Even in urban areas,
informal sector units cater mostly to low income black Zimbabweans with
limited access to formal sector products and services.
1.06      The low labor absorption capability of both formal and informal
SSEs outside trade and services is largely the result of pre-independence
policies that favored the development of a white dominated, relatively
capital intensive, modern economy 3/, while limiting the economic
activities of black entrepreneurs to retail trading and personal services
in restricted geographical areas. These policies also contributed to the
concentration of non-farm activities, including SSEs, in the major urban
centers of Harare in the Mashonaland East province and Bulawayo in the
Matabeleland North province, where only 15X of the population of Zimbabwe
lives. These two provinces are home to nearly 80% of small manufacturing
firms, 65% of small traders and 772 of small construction firms.
1.07      The overwhelming majority of formal sector SSEs are owned by
white Zimbabweans. Although there is no statistical information on
ownership by race, the 1981 Employment Census shows that only 16% of the
7,000 persons in managerial and administrative positions in manufacturing
trade and services were black Zimbabweans.  Since independence, however,
the number of black Zimbabweans in these positions has increased as a
result of white emigration and the elimination of discriminatory
legislation.
2/ R. Banergi, "Average Size of Plant in Manufacturing and Capital
Intensity. A Gross Country Analysis by Industry-, Journal of
Development Economics, Vol. 5, No. 2, June 1978.
3/ In Zimbabwe, white-owned SSEs in manufacturing are nearly as capital
intensive as larger firms.



-3-
1.08      The experience of countries at a similar level of industrial
development as Zimbabve shows that SSEs tend to be established by people
who acquired production and management skills working for larger firms. In
Zimbabwe this process has been largely limited to white small entrepreneurs
because, in the past, black citizens had little access to skilled and
managerial positions, little savings and no severance payments to invest
when leaving their jobs. Moreover, It was illegal for Africans to own
establishments in the so-called first class trading areas, which included
all the major urban centers. Most could not own property in rural areas
either, because communal area land--where most of the black population
lives--is not privately owned. As a result, black businessmen had no
property to offer as collateral for bank loans. In addition, restrictive
licensing and foreign exchange allocation procedures during UDI discouraged
newcomers to business, particularly black entrepreneurs.
1.09      Pre-independence policies also limited the development of the
informal SSEs sector. In the communal lands, located in the poorest
ecological zones, the main constraint was the poverty of the population
engaged in subsistence agriculture. Migration of the rural poor to urban
centers was controlled by circumscribing black residence to areas
(townships) set aside for the purpose and duration of employment only.
These measures limited the number of unemployed blacks in urban areas and
hence hindered the development of an urban informal sector.
1.10      Since independence, black Zimbabweans have established a number
of small firms by purchasing on credit the equipment and stocks left by
emigrating white small entrepreneurs. Although there are some black owned
manufacturing firms, most new entrepreneurs have gone into retail trading
and services, where lack of capital and technical expertise is less of a
constraint to starting a business. A number of black Zimbabweans have also
entered the transport and contracting business. About 200 of these
emerging contractors may exist nationwide, one half of whom are capable of
undertaking contracts of up to Z$200,000. In addition, a number of
construction brigades have been established in the last few years with
Government support to work mainly for Government financed construction
projects.
1.11      The majority of SSEs are sole ownerships and partnerships.  Since
independence, however, the number of cooperatives, made up mainly of black
Zimbabweans, has increased sharply with Government support. By May 1984
there were 159 industrial cooperatives, 194 retail trade cooperatives and
32 transport cooperatives, with membership totalling about 12,000. Most
new cooperatives ha-we a minimum of 10 members per cooperative with a
minimum initial investment of Z$22,000. The majority of these cooperatives
are in trade (e.g. supermarkets and butcheries), although some are in
transport and manufacturing.
1.12      The Government is committed to pushing for an increasing
contribution of SSEs to employment and output in all sectors including
manufacturing and construction as part of its efforts to stimulate the
development of black owned, labor intensive enterprises (para. 1.16 to
1.22).



- 4 -
1.13      Problems and Constraints.  Black-owned small enterprises share
several important weaknesses. First, the owners usually lack managerial
experience and have problems estimating their working capital needs and
adequately costing products and services. Second, some firms have
inadequate equipment as a result of lack of technical know-how or because
of their inability to obtain term finance for capital investment, or both.
This results in low labor productivity and product quality. Third, most
small firms suffer from chronic working capital shortages which lead to
frequent production slowdowns. Finally, black-owned enterprises cannot
afford their own training programs and are, therefore, affected by the low
skill level of the labor force.
1.14      Lack of an established track record limits the access of SSEs to
suppliers' credits or bank overdraft facilities. When granted, the
overdraft facilities are hardly adequate to cover their working capital
needs. Moreover, it is difficult, even for skilled blacks, to obtain bank
finance because few of them own property that can be offered as
collateral. Discriminatory laws on urban land ownership have been
repealed, but high land costs make it difficult for black entrepreneurs to
own property in these zones. Rural businesses also cannot offer title
deeds as collateral for bank loans because land in the communal areas is
not privately owned. The Government is trying to resolve this problem by
granting title deeds in selected Growth Centers in the communal areas (para
1.19). Cooperatives and small contractors have some particular problems.
Many cooperatives formed by persons without previous cooperative experience
have failed because they have unclear performance standards which -ause
misunderstanding among the members. Government agencies in charge of
cooperatives have not been able to provide adequate support due to staff
constraints and lack of coordination among themselves. Emerging
contractors, on the other hand, suffer from lack of training in site
management, as do the newly established building brigades. The Ministry of
Construction and National Housing (MCNH) is also not adequately staffed
with experienced technical personnel to provide trained site managers to
small contractors and building brigades working for Government projects.
1.15      The proposed loan is designed to help overcome these problems and
constraints by strengthening the Small Enterprises Development Corporation
(SEDCO), a Government institution created to provide financial, training
and advisory services to SSEs, Particularly those owned by emerging black
entrepreneurs. The loan will also assist in financing training and
advisory services to the domestic construction industry.
1.16      Government Objectives and Strategy.  Both the Government Policy
Statement Growth with Equity (1981) and the National Transitional
Development Plan (1982/83-1984/85) support the development of formal and
informal small- and medium-scale manufacturing and commercial
establishments, particularly in the rural areas. Both documents also
endorse the creation of cooperatives in all areas of economic activity.
The Government views the development of SSEs in the urban and rural areas
as a way of achieving its objectives of developing a black business
community ar.d providing additional productive employment to Zimbabwe's
growing population. The Government expects that the development of a labor
intensive SSE sector, will contribute to increase the labor absorption



capacity of the formal sector, which--even during the period of greatest
economic growth (1969-74)--was able to create only 40,000 jobs a year, half
the increase of the labor force.
1.17     The Government has chosen to implement its strategy by: (a)
creating SEDCO to provide financial and technical assistance tc small
enterprises; (b) granting title deeds to black businessmen in selected
areas of the communal lands; (c) assisting small cooperatives; and (d)
expanding vocational training. The Government has also done away with
former legal restrictions to land ownership and geographical mobility of
the black population and is compensating for past discrimination against
emerging black entrepreneurs by giving small firms preferential treatment
in foreign exchange allocations and in assigning small construction
projects.
1.18      The Small Enterprises Developmen.t Corporation (SEDCO).  In the
early seventies, the Government set up two institutions, the Small
Industries Advisory Service (SIAS) and the Institute of Business
Development (IOBD), to provide training and management counseling to
industrial and commercial SSEs. Both were non-profit organizations funded
by Government grants and contributions from a few private sector industries
and commercial houses. Towards the end of the decade, the Government set
up a 100Z subsidiary, the Development Finance Company (DFC), to provide
loans to SSEs. Initially, most of SIAS's assistance was to white-owned
businesses, but assistance to black entrepreneurs increased to over 50%
during 1981-1983. SIAS, subsequently named the Zimbabwe Industrial
Advisory Service (ZIAS) and IOBD cperated with few staff and limited
budgets and were unable to improve their clients' accessibility to credit.
The DFC, on the other hand, dissipated its resources during the regime
immediately preceding independence by making politically-motivated loans,
many of which had to be written off. These limitations ultimately led to
the closure of these institutions and the establishment of SEDCO, a
parastatal organization which started operations in April 1984. SEDCO's
functions, as laid down in its charter, are "to provide assistance whether
in the form of financial assistance, management counselling, training
information, advice or otherwise, to cooperatives and small commercial and
industrial entreprises. Paras. 2.03 to 2.38 describe in greater detail
SEDCO's functions and structure.
1.19      District Service Centers and Growth Points in the Communal
Lands. Since independence, the Government of Zimbabwe has enacted
legislation to give land titles to black citizens in selected areas in the
communal lands, which can be offered as collateral for bank loans. Fifty-
five District Service Centers and 11 Growth points have been selected for
that purpose. Each center will have areas for commerce and industry, and
for the provision of other essential services such as schools, hospitals
and community facilities. The title deeds will be granted in mid-1985,
when the process of surveying the land and existing buildings is completed.
1.20      Cooperatives.  The Ministry of Lands, Resettlement and Rural
Development has overall responsibility for the development of cooperatives
in Zimbabwe, although other ministries are also involved. The Ministry's
Department of Cooperatives Development (DCD) is supposed to register



-6-
cooperatives, review proposed by-laws, train cooperative uembers in
relevant subjects and offer management and advisory services. DCD's
activities have been seriously hamprered, bowever, by staff constraints.
The Governmant is taking actions to improve DCD's assistance to
cooperatives, including obtainIng the provision of technical assistance
from ILO to help DCD to develop financial training courses for its own
staff and cooperative members. An interministerial committee has been
created to coordinate the support to cooperatives provided by different
Government agencies. Cooperatives also receive some limited assistance
from -Zimbabwe Projects-, a U.K.-sponsored charitable organization.
1.21     Vocational and Technical Education.  To reduce the shortage of
skilled manpower, a bottleneck to the development of SSEs, the Goverment
has recently founded three new technical colleges and opened to black
students two colleges that were for white students only before
independence. There are plans for six more in the future to train middle
level technicians for industry. It hao also created two new Vocational
Training Centers to upgrade workers' skil1', and pLans to establish six
more in the future. Vocational and technical education suffer from a lack
of qualified teachers. Since independence many of the industry technicians
who taught part-time in the training institutions have emigrated. Aid
agencies from the U.S.A., Germany and France have recently started
providing teachers, equipment and finance for these training institutions
in order to help Zimbabwe deal with this problem.
1.22      Government Construction Policies.  The Government relies on
international competitive bidding for procurement in the case of large
public sector projects. For small projects (e.g. buildings with less than
thre- rtoreys) the Government favors the use of construction brigades and
small contractors. In 1981, the Ministry of Construction and National
fausing initiated a special arrangement ror permitting emergent
contractors, not yet registered with the Ministry, to prove their ability
by executing small projects, (i.e. secondary schools in rural areas). Most
of the 41 selected contractors produced acceptable results on time. Other
similar schemes followed, of which the latest is being assisted by the
African Development Bank, comprising 59 contracts for the construction of
clinics (one-story buildings).
C. The Financial Sector
1.23      Structure.  Zimbabwe has a well-developed and, for a sub-saharan
LDC, a fairly sophisticated financial sector. This is due to the fact that
Harare (the former Salisbury) served as the financial center of the
Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland in colonial times. The sector has an
array of diverse institutions, largely modelled on the British financial
institutions, consisting of the central bank, five commercial banks, four
accepting houses (merchant or investment banks), two discount houses, five
finance houses, three building societies, seven development financing
institutions, the Post Office Savings Bank, over 50 insurance companies, 17
insurance brokers, about 1,400 pension and retirement funds, an Export
Credit Insurance Corporation, the Stock Exchange and a number of
unregistered finance companies providing consumer credit (Annex 1). A



feature of Zimbabwe 's financial structure is the integration and
development that has taken place in recent years of financial groups which
provide a complete range of banking and otber financial services. Thus,
most ccmmercial banks also have accepting and f-iance houses as
subsidiaries and are shareholders in a discount house.
1.24      The comerciai banks, with a network of over 100 branches,
provide the full range of banking services. Three of the five commercial
banks are wholly-owned subsidiaries of British banks or are incorporated in
Britain and the remaining two are locally incorporated. The latter are
Ajint-ventures with the Government of Zimbabwe, who bolds a 61% share -t
one (39Z held by the Zimbabwean public) and 47Z in the other (53% held by a
bank owned by Middle Eastern interests). Commercial bDanks accept deposits
of all types and typically provide short-term loans and overdrafts to
commerce, industry, mining and commercial farming. These short-tern loans,
however, are sometimes rolled over for 2-3 years.
1.25      The accepting houses or merchant banks specialize in the
financing of foreign trade :hrough acceptance credits, commercial letters
of credit and foreign bills.  They accept both demand and time deposits and
lend to corporate customers; they also provide other financial services
sucr as flotation of public companies, mergers, acquisitions and capital
ire:.onstruction.
1.26      There are five registered finance houses, three of whiceb are
subsidiaries of the eommercial banks operating in Zimbabwe. The finance
houses specialize in providiag mediuw-term financing (in the form of
hire-purchase and leasing finence), mainly for comercial and privats
vehicles, tractors and other agricultural, manafacturing and construction
equipment. They normally lend to established businessmen with a good track
record who would be able to repay the loans within 3-5 years. In keeping
with the longer term of tiieir lending (an average of three years), they
have a longer term deposit structure and approximately 50Z of their deposit
base is obtained through the issue of certificates of deposit (CDs); the
main purchasers of CDs are the two discount houses, large industrial
companies, irsurance companies, pension funds, and local city governments.
1.27      Other than SEDCO, Zimbabwe also has seven development finance
institutions, three of which are prIvately owned and four publicly owned.
Of the former, IPCORN and AADC 4/ have, in the past, made development
finance available on a lisited scale to private sector plantations and
industrial and mining  enterprise_ in which their main shareholders are
interested.  Their activities in recent years have almost ground to a
halt. The third institution, EDESA, based in Zurich and having its Africa
Headquarters in Harare, is owned by a coasortium of seven major
international banks and fifteen international industrial companies. It
aims at providing equity and loan finance to privately owned enterprises.
Except for a recent US$1 million equity and loan investment in a finance
house in which IFC has also participated, EDESA has not been very active in
Zimbabwe so far. Of the public sector development finance ivstitutions,
4/ Industrial Promotion Corporation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (IPCORN) and
Anglo-American Development Corporation (AADC).



-8-
the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) provides short and long term
loans to the agricultural sector and the Industrial Development Corporation
(IDC) provides financial and promotional assistance to industrial
enterprises, mainly through equity participations. IDC's present policy is
to make loans only to companies in which it has equity participation. For
all practical purposes, it has evolved into a Government holding company
for a number of subsidiaries. Of the remaining two institutions, the
Development Finance Company (DFC) was established in rhe late seventies, to
provide financial assistance to emerging small-scale enterpreneurs, but is
now in voluntary liquidation (para 1.31). The Zimbabwe Development Bank
was set up in 1983 to provide medium and long-term finance to the
industrial sector and started operations recently.
1.28      Resource Mobilization.  Resource mobilization in Zimbabwe is
carried out quite efficiently by commercial banks through their branch
network, accepting houses, finance houses, building societies and the Post
Office Savings Bank-(POSB). The share of the commercial banks in deposit
mobilization is the largest, followed by building societies, POSB,
accepting houses and finance houses, in that order. Total deposits of
these institutions grew from $Z1.6 billion in 1979 to $Z2.7 billion in
1983, or an average annual increase of 13.2%, in nominal terms. As of
December 31, 1983, fixed deposits constituted 35% of total deposits
followed by savings deposits (32%) and demand deposits (20%).
1.29      Interest Rates.  Annex 2 gives the evolution of the interest rate
structure for deposits and loans during 1979-84. Since independence,
Zimbabwe has followed pragmatic interest rate policies and adjusted its
interest rate structure to prevailing economic and monetary conditions.
For instance, interest rates for 12 month deposits went up from between
4%-5.25% in 1980 to between 9.752-12.25% in 1983. Similarly the commercial
banks' prime lending rate increased from 7.5% to 13% during the same
period. Their maximum rate on loans and advances is 18% p.a. The maximum
rates charged for hire-purchase finance by finance houses also rose from
between 11%-17.54% in 1980 to 20%-23% in 1983. The Reserve Bank of
Zimbabwe (RBZ) exercises some control over the interest rate structure in
collaboration with financial institutions operating in the country. It
determines the minimum lending rate for commercial banks, the deposit and
lending rates of building societies and the deposit rates of the Post
Office Savings Bank.  RBZ fixes the maximum deposit and lending rates of
finance houses but places no restrictions on deposit rates offered by
commercial banks. The maximum lending rates for commercial banks are
limited by the ceiling in the Usury Act (at present 18%) and, for the
finance houses, by the ceiling in the Hire-Purchase Act (20%-23%).
Inflation rates are estimated to average about 14% over the next few years
thus making interest rates generally positive in real terms.
1..10     Financing of Small-Scale Enterprises.  Small-scale enterprises in
the modern sector, which are predominantly owned by white Zimbabweans or
foreign investors, have traditionally obtained financing for their



- 9 -
enterprises through equity contributions by owners, retained earnings,
medium-term loans from accepting and finance houses and short-term
(revolving) loans from commercial banks. They obtained foreign currency
for imported plant and equipment from the Government's import licensing
system. The inadequacy of foreign exchange in recent years has restricted
financing for their modernization, balancing and expansion programs. The
emerging black entrepreneurs, on the other hand, have all along faced
difficulties in obtaining credit, even for short-term working capital
requirements, due to inadequate collateral and lack of a business track
record. This project is designed to address tbis problem as well as the
inadequacy of management counselling and training facilities for SSEs. The
role and performance of the two institutions established by the previous
government in the late seventies to facilitate the provision of credit to
emerging SSEs are commented upon In the paragraphs immediately below.
1.31      Development Finance Company (DFC). At the instance of the
Government, IDC estabAished DFC as a wholly-owned subsidiary in 1979 to
provide loans to emerging black entrepreneurs who did not qualify for loans
from the existing financial institutions on conventional terms. It had an
independent Board and initial funding of $Z3 million (SZ2 milliora from IDC
as equity and loan in equal proportions and $ZI million as a loan from
RBZ). Due to politicization of its decision making and inadequate
policies, DFC dissipated its resources in primarily politically motivated
loans, many of which had to be written off. As a result, its equity had
eroded by about $Z800,000 as of May 31, 1984. DFC is virtually defunct now
and a skeleton staff is trying to collect its remaining loans. IDC has
initiated steps to put it into voluntary liquidation.
1.32     Finance Trust for Emergent Businessmen (FEMCO). Government
created FEBCO in 1978 as a non-profit making institution to operate a
credit guarantee scheme, with 60% ownership by RBZ and 10  by each of the
then existing four foreign banks, to encourage commercial bank lending to
small-scale emerging entrepreneurs. FEB0C has a small staff fnded by
RBZ. The staff appraises SSE loan applications received through the
participating commercial banks and submits its recommendations to FEBCO'S
Advances Committees consisting of representatives of all shareholders for
consideration. FEBCO conveys the committee's approval to the originating
banks for further action. Under the scheme, FEBCO and commercial banks
share credit risks on commercial banks' short-tern loans to SSEs on a 50:50
basis, with the FEECO share of losses borne by RBZ. Commercial bank
conservativeness as well as the black entrepreneurs' lack of a track record
and adequate collateral, have resulted in a modest level of operations for
FEBCO. As of February 29, 1984, FEBCO had issued credit guarantees to
commercial banks at an average rate of $Z730,000 (US$584,000) to 144
entrepreneurs per year. This level of operations was inadequate to meet
the growing credit needs of the emerging SSEs. Despite the increasing
demand from the emerging black entrepreneurs for short-term as well as
medium-term credits, the banks remain reluctant to significantly expand
their lending levels.



- 10-
D. Bank Strategy
1.33      The Bank's strategy is to support the Government's program of
increasing the availability of credit and training to small-scale
entrepreneurs, particularly emerging black SSEs. To thils end, the proposed
loan would provide both short and longer term financing to SSEs and finance
technical assistance to the Institution (SEDCO) establisbed by the
Government for this purpose. The development of the small-scale enterprise
sector is an Important objective of the Government 's development strategy.
Through development of SSEs, the Government is seeking, among other things,
to create employment opportunities for and develop entrepreneurship among a
large number of Zimbabweans who so far have remained outside the econonic
mainstream and thus to contribute to economic growth and a more balanced
distribution of income and ownership of assets.
II. The Project
Project Objectives
2.01      The proposed project is a pilot operation 1- the small scale
enterprise sector.  Its main objectives are to (i) assist SEDCO, now in its
formative stages, in becoming a strong institution capable of providing
effectively both technical and financial assistance to sall, scale
enterprises; (ii) provide resources to the emerging SSE sector, which has
potential for development and employment creation both in urban and rural
areas but thus far has been neglected; (iii) help develop entrepreneurial
capabilities especially among black Z ibabwes; and (iv) improve the
efficiency of emergimg small scale contractors   Constraints facing small
scale contractors and how best to remove them would also be examined under
a study to be funded from the proposed loan.
Project Description
2.02      The project would support the Government's program of providing
financial assistance, training and management counselling to emerging SSEs
in Zimbabwe, including small-scale contractors. Bank assistance would have-
the following components:
(a)  a credit component of US$8.5 million, representing 85%
of the Bank loan, in the form of a Line of credit to
SEDCO for onlending to an estimated 470 SSEs,
(including small-scale contractors) to be committed
over a period of 3 years, for equipment and machinery
purchases as well as for meeting part of their working
capital requirements;
(b)  a technical assistance component of approximately
US$600,000 to SEDCO to finance (i) two expatriate
advisors to help improve SEDCO's institutional
capabilities in appraising and supervising projects,
and providing training, management counselling and
other advisory services to SSEs; (ii) overseas training



of SEDCO staff in project appraisal and supervision and
the provision of extension services to SSEs; and (iii)
office equipment to improve SEDCO's managesent and
accounting systems; and
(c) a technical assistance component of approximately
US$900,000 to finance ti) training of Zimbabwean
contractors in site and enterprise management; and (ii)
a study of the construction industry in Zimbabwe.
The Institution - Small Enterprises Development Corporation (SEDCO)
2.03      Background. Given the inadequacies of the past institutional
framework for providing advisory assistance (para. 1.18) and financial
assistance (paras. 1.31 and 1.32) to emerging SSEs, the Government set up
SEDCO in 1983 to provide financial assistance, management counselling and
training to cooperatives and small commercial and industrial enterprises.
SEDCO's focus would be to assist the emerging black small-scale
entrepreneurs, although assistance would not be limited to black
Zimbabweans. The traditionally conservative and collateral-conscious banks
are reluctant to expand their financing to SSEs, (particularly emerging
entrepreneurs). The finance houses, on the other hand, have expressed
interest in sponsoring suitable proposals from their clients in need of
foreign currency to SEDCO for a fee. SEDCO has reached broad agreement
with the finance houses and is working out with them the detailed terms and
conditions of collaboration in financing SSEs.
2.04      Given the above scenario, the Bank has, in its discussions with
SEDCO and the Government, agreed to support SEDCO as the principal
institution providing both financial intermediation and training and
advisory assistance to SSEs, provided the autnorities agreed to carry out a
number of improvements in SEDCO's capital structure, organization, policies
and procedures. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce (MTC), which is SEDCO's
parent ministry, is in agreement. with the institution building measures
suggested by the Bank (spelled out below) and is initiating actions
necessary to implement them. With these improvements, SEDCO should evolve,
over time, into an effective provider of assistance to SSEs.
2.05      Charter.  Under an Act of the Parliament, SEDCO was established
as a wholly Government-owned institution in 1983, and became operational on
April 2, 1984. SEDCO's functions, as spelled out in its charter, are
mainly to (a) encourage and assist in the establishment of co-operatives
and small commercial and industrial enterprises and (b) provide financial
assistance, management counselling and training, inforration and advice to
the enterprises mentioned under (a) above. In order to carry out these
functions, SEDCO has been empowered to lend and borrow money and carry out
all other ancillary activities, directly or through its agents. The two
cardinal principles which SEDCO is required to observe in its operations
are Ci) to have due regard to the Government's economic policy and the
national interests of Zimbabwe and (ii) to conduct its business on sound
coumercial principles.



- 12-
2.06      Capital.  SEDCO's statute does not require it to have a
conventional paid-in capital base. Its funds would consist of -such moneys
as may be payable to the Corporation from moneys appropriated for the
purpose by Parliament and 'money as may, with the approval of the Ministry
of Finance, Economic Planning and Development, be obtained by the
Corporation as loans or development aid funds-. Since it is important for
a soundly-Tun financial institution to have an adequate equity base and a
set of well-established financial criteria to guide its behaviour, the Bank
suggested to the Government and the latter agreed at negotiations that it
would provide SEDCO with an equity base of $Z 5 million before the
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
2.07      Board. The SEDCO Act requires that SEDCO's operations shall be
controlled by a Board which would consist of not less than five and not
more than nine members, to be appointed by the Minister of Trade and
Commerce. The members are appointed for a maximum term of three years, one
third of them rotating each year. The present Board consists of seven
members, with the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Trade and Commerce
acting as Chairman. The other members include one representative each from
the Ministry of Industry and Technology and the Ministry of Cormunity
Development and Women's Affairs, two Zimbabwean businessmen, a senior
Branch Manager of a commercial bank and SEDCO's General Manager. The
present composition of the Board is fairly evenly distributed between civil
servants and private sector members. In order to strengthen the expertise
of the Board, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Trade and Commerce
has decided to fill the two remaining vacancies on the Board with persons
having experience in finance, business and/or law. The present Chairman is
pragmatic and dynamic and has been instruuental in securing Board approval
for policies enabling SEDCO to operate as a sound and financially viable
institution. The Board is particularly keen to avoid the institutional
inadequacies and weaknesses which contributed to the demise of DFC, ZIAS
and IOBD (paras. 1.18, 1.31 and 1.32).
2.08      Organization.  Annex 3 provides SEDCO's organization chart.
SEDCO has its Head OTfice at Harare and four regional offices at Bulawayo,
Masvingo, Mutare and Gweru, which are Zimbabwe's major urban and economic
centers. The Head Office has four departments: Projects, Development,
Finance, and Administration.  The Projects Department is responsible for
appraisal and supervision of all projects in the geographical area served
by the Head Office. Applications for projects in other areas are referred
to the concerned regional offices for appraisal and credit evaluations.
The Projects Department also provides assistance to the regional offices in
project appraisal and indicates training needs of SSE sponsors to the
Development Department. The latter is responsible for project promotion
and the provision of training and advisory assistance to SSEs. The Finance
Department carries out accounting, financial management, and
debt collection functions. The Administration Department carries out
general administration and personnel management, and also acts as the
Secretariat for SEDCO's Board. The four regional offices are provided with
between 2-5 professionals with responsibilities to carry out appraisal,
supervision, debt collection and extension service functions.



- 13-
2.09      Since SEDCO would be carrying out both financial assistance and
technical assistance activities, the latter being in the nature of
extension services normally carried out by the Government, SEDCO has, in
keeping with Bank advice, taken steps to set up two separate units within
its organization, the technical assistance unit and the financial
assistance unit. The responsibilities of these units have been carefully
delineated. The technical assistance unit would be responsible for all
development, promotional, training and management counselling activities,
and the financial assistance unit for project appraisal, supervision,
disbursements, debt collection and financial management functions. The
separation of these two functions would enable SEDCO to make lending
decisions on financial grounds and avoid possible pitfalls stemming from
excessive zealousness in promoting projects irrespective of their financial
viability. Such bifurcation would also help SEDCO's staff to supervise and
monitor its projects more effectively. SEDCO has already started
maintaining separate accounts for these activities.
2.10      Management and Stafflng.  SEDCO's General Manager, a former
Deputy Secretary in MTC, is a competent and dedicated official ,ho has
within a short time assembled a staff of good quality, established four
regional offices and a good set of policies for the institution. He is
ably supported in his task by a Secretary to the Board, who was formerly
head of IOBD, a Finance Manager and a Development Manager. Recruitment of
a suitable candidate for the Project Manager's position is underway. As of
October 31, 1984, SEDCO had a professional staff of 33, including 12 at
regional offices, and a support staff of 35. Some of the professional
staff previously worked for IOBD, ZIAS or DFC and thus have experience in
appraisal, supervision, and extension services. SEDCO proposes to increase
its professional staff strength to 38, including 13 at regional offices.
Of the 38 professionals, 17 professionals (including eight at regional
offices) would devote most of their time to providing extension services.
SEDCO's middle management and professional staff is of good quality but
needs further training in project appraisal and the provision of training
and management counselling to SSEs; these training needs are addressed in
the following paragraphs.
2.11      Although some of SEDCO's professional staff have experience in
appraising projects and providing advisory assistance to potential SEDCO
clients, their skills in these areas need to be strengthened considerably.
SEDCO has taken steps to begin to fill these gaps. SEDCO has obtained a
grant of $Z I million from CIDA to finance technical assistance to be
provided by the Manitoba Institute of Management (MIM). This grant would
fund the services of one Assistant to the General Manager for about 15
months and additional consultancies for shorter periods to: (i) develop
materials to support SSE management counselling activities in areas such as
bookkeeping, inventory control, marketing and financial management; (ii)
carry out consultancy demonstration programs; and (iii) train SEDCO's
management consultancy staff in field work. MIM is sub-contracting some of
these tasks to the Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity
(BIMAP) which was assisted by MIM some years ago in areas of management
counselling and which MIM considers has developed into a very competent
institution. MIM is also proposing to award SEDCO staff some internships
with BIMAP for short periods.



- 14-
2.12      While CIDA's technical assistance is a step in the right
direction, its short-term nature and primary focus on training in extension
services make it inadequate in and of itself to enable SEDCO to carry out
its varied functions effectively. To covtz this gap, agreement was reached
at negotiations that SEDCO would appoint, before the effectiveness of the
proposed loan, an Operations Adviser and a Technical Adviser, each for a
period of two years initially, to provide technical assistance in the
following areas respectively: (a) appraisal and supervision of SSE
projects, and (b) technical appraisal of projects and the provision of
technical extension services to SSEs (selection of appropriate equipment,
operation and maintenance of equipment, procurement of raw materials,
marketing, inventory control, etc). Thne proposed Bank loan includes a
technical assistance component (para. 2.02) which would assist SEDCO in (i)
funding the two advisory positions and (ii) training its staff in
appropriate institutions overseas in project appraisal and provision of
extension services. Training of SEDCO staff in appraising construction
industry projects would be provided through the technical assistance
component for the construction industry (paras 2.39-2.42).
2.13      Policies.  Annex 4 contains SEDCO's statement of Policy and
Operational Strategy, setting out guidelines for investment, financial and
technical assistance policies and operational strategy for the next three
years. The Policy Statement defines a small-scale enterprise (for purposes
of SEDCO's operations) as one with total fixed assets not exceeding a value
of $Z 200,000 and employing less than 51 permanent workers and sets the
ceiling for SEDCO's loans to any one borrower at SZ 100,000. It requires
its borrowers to contribute between 10% to 25% of the cost of projects, the
cooperatives and sponsors of very small projects (loans up to $Z 20,000)
contributing 10%-15%. It also limits SEDCO's debt to equity ratio at 3:1.
The policy statement emphasizes the implementation of an intensive staff
training program and maintaining staff a-L the minimum level necessary to
monitor its operations effectively. In its operations, SEDCO is required
to give first priority to projects in the industrial sector and then co
enterprises in commercial and service sectors. Commercial and service
projects in growth points and in areas where such enterprises do not exist
would also receive priority. SEDCO would maintain separate accounts for
its technical assistance activities and the Government would provide
funding for these activities. SEDCO would also establish a Managed Fund,
with special resources provided by the Government, to finance high risk
projects in less developed areas on behalf of and at the risk of the
Government. The policy statement also requires SEDCO to protect itself
against exchange risks on foreign currency borrowings. SEDCO's strategy
emphasizes strengthening SEDCO's institutional capabilities through (i)
establishment and implementation of appropriate operational procedures and
(ii) intensive staff training in project appraisal, supervision, financial
management and consultancy skills development. SEDCO's Policy Statement is
satisfactory and will not be modified without prior consultation with the
Bank.
2.14      Lending Terms.  SEDCO is authorized to lend money for acquisition
of fixed assets and for permanent as well as short-term working capital.
The maturity of loans for the latter purpose does not exceed two years with
grace period of three months, whereas loans for fixed assets and permanent
working capital could be for periods from two to ten years with grace



- 15-
period of one to two years. The details of maturity of loans, grace
periods, borrowers' contribution to project costs and the scale of
application fees and other charges on loans are given In Annex 5. Security
is taken by way of various instruments including notarial bonds on all
moveable assets, asset and life insurance, and personal surety (the latter
particularly where cooperatives are involved). In addition, SEDCO plans to
enter into lease agreements where possible for projects involving durable
goods.
2.15      Interest Rates.  SEDCO's policy statement requires that in
determining its interest rate structure it sbould endeavour to ensure that
its interest rates are (i) positive in real terms, as far as possible; (ii)
in line with the market rates of interest; and (iii) adequate to cover its
administrative expenses, provide for loan losses and earn a reasonable
profit. In line with this policy, SEDCO's Board approved in 1984 an
interest rate structure for SEDCO loans ranging from 13.25Z to 18%. Within
this range SEDCO's Board determined, case by case;- the rate to be charged
on any particular loan. Following a Bank suggestion that SEDCO systematize
and consolidate its interest rates on the basis of specific categories of
borrowers, SEDCO agreed at the negotiations to charge 18X p.a. on loans to
projects in urban areas and 16% p.a. to projects in rural./communal areas.
SEDCO also agreed to review its interest rate structure every 6-12 months
in the light of prevailing market and economic conditions and the criteria
set forth in its policy statement.
2.16      SEDCO also cbarges a one-time administrative fee on a scale
ascending with the amount of loan from 0.5X to 5%; this would increase the
actual cost of funds to its borrowers (from a minimum of 16.4% to a maximum
of 19%). Since most SEDCO loans are likely to be made to projects in urban
areas, the average interest on its loan portfolio is likely to be over 17%
which should enable it to cover its financial intermediation costs by FY86
and to generate small surpluses on its financial assistance operations
thereafter. With these increases, SEDCO's interest rates are
satisfactory. They compare favorably with the commercial bank prime rate
of 13% p.a. and with the 14% to 18% charged to other clients including SSEs
on a short-term, revolving basis. These amounts, when rolled over,
constitute an Important source of term finance. SEDCO's variable interest
rate structure with regular adjustments, as appropriate, based on market
developments, is also compatible with past inflation rates ihich during the
last few years have averaged about 14%. Inflation is likely to stay in
that range in the coming years.
2.17      Foreign Exchange Risk.  Under its policy statement, SEDCO is
required to protect itself against exchange risk on its foreign currency
borrowings. Since Bank funds would be used by a large number of relatively
unsophisticated small-scale entrepreneurs, it would not be appropriate to
pass on the exchange risk to them or to charge them a fee in lieu thereof.
In view of this, the Government agreed at the negotiations to assume the
exchange risk on the loan and to on-lend the credit component to SEDCO in
the equivalent local currency. The Government wili not charge SEDCO a fee
for assuming the exchange risk because SEDCO's interest rates are already
higher than average commercial bank rates. Moreover, by not charging SEDCO



- 16-
a fee for assuming the foreign exchange risk, the Government will provide
SEDCO with an additional financial margin during its formative years
enabling it to quickly build up a record of profitability.
2.18      Fees for Technical Assistance Operations.  SEDCO's technical
assistance operations consist of: (a) development activities cDmprising
identification of investment opportunities and preparation of feasibility
studies and project profiles, and (b) management counselling and training
activities. If SEDCO were to pass on the full cost of these services to
SSEs, the average cost per client would be $Z 750 per annum for both
training and consultancy, an amount which (i) is too high for many
entrepreneurs to bear; and (ii) would serve as a disincentive for SSEs who
most need to take advantage of these services. Therefore, SEDCO has
proposed that the client bear 30Z of the cost of training and consultancy
services, amounting to approximately $Z 225 per annum. For SEDCO clients,
this amount could be included in and amortized as part of the loan. SEDCO
also contemplates providing training and management consultancy to
small-scale entrepreneurs who are not SEDCO borrowers; such entrepreneurs
would be charged at a rate of $Z 20 per training or consultancy day,
payable in advance. To make up the revenue shortfall in carrying out these
activities, which are extension-type operations normally performed and
underwritten by Government for other sectors, the Government agreed at the
negotiations to provide funding for SEDCO's -development- activities and
share the major financial burden for SEDCO's training and consultancy
services to its clients. Bank projections show that Government would need
to provide SEDCO with on average $Z 650,000 per annum during the next five
years to fund these activities.
2.19      Procedures.  Appraisals are carried out at SEDCO Head Office ii
Harare for projects in the Mashonaland Province and at regional offices for
projects in their respective regions, but the power to approve projects at
present vests only with the Board. Borrowers submit a loan application and
are interviewed by project analysts to ascertain the seriousness of their
application before SEDCO staff begin their appraisal. Project analysts in
regional offices conduct site visits, prepare a short appraisal report and
present it to senior management and the Board. SEDCO's Loan Committee,
consisting of the General Manager and all department heads at headquarters,
evaluates all loan proposals before Board presentation. At present, all
projects, including those for which the project analyst has recommended
rejection, must go to the Loan Committee and Board. Given the large number
of applications received by SEDCO (over 1,000 in its first 7 months of
operation), of which relatively few represent viable projects, requiring
Loan Committee and Board review of rejections is a heavy burden on SEDCO
management and is inefficient. It is understandable, however, that the
Loan Committee and the Board during the early period of SEDCO's operations
would like to know the nature and purpose of all applications received by
SEDCO and the reasons for rejection of any application. This procedure,
however, should be revised after the initial phase of SEDCO's development.
SEDCO's management has informed the Bank of its intention to seek Board
approval to delegate the authority to reject unsound applications to the
General Manager; this is likely towards the end of FY85.



- 17-
2.20      Although SEDCO's project analysts have had some experience in
evaluating SSE projects, particularly sole proprietorships, their
capability to appraise more complex projects remains weak. Furthermore,
SEDCO staff need training in appraising construction sector projects
(para. 2.41). SEDCO has devised a standard format for appraisal reports
and a flowchart detailing its project cycle, but these formats need to be
improved. While for many of SEDC0's projects cash flow analysis will
suffice, for loans in excess of $Z 50,000, SEDCO should introduce more
sophisticated project appraisal techniques. It was, therefore, agreed at
negotiations that as part of its normal appraisal procedures SEDCO staff
would calculate the financial rate of return on all projects considered for
a loan exceeding Z$50,000 and that no loan in excess of this amount would
be approved unless the FRR for the project is at least equal to the
interest rate proposed for the loan. Furthermore, the terms of reference
for the proposed Operations Adviser (para. 2.12) would include the
development and documentation of appraisal guidelines (including FRR
calculations) as well as the development of a training program for project
analysts in project appraisal.
2.21      Supervision.  As SEDCO started approving loans in August 1984,
its project analysts have spent most of their time to date appraisin-
projects. SEDCO's Acting Project Manager has drawn up a monitoring
"checklist", detailing the standard loan agreement covenants for which
compliance should be verified (insurance, accounting practices, etc.).
Further work on its supervision procedures is required, however, to assure
adequate coverage of projects and minimize duplication of efforts by the
Projects and Development staff. This work would be one of the tasks
undertaken by the proposed Operations Advisor (para 2.12).
2.22      Procurement and Disbursement.  In keeping with the Bank's
standard approach, the major responsiblity for procurement would rest with
SEDCO's borrowers, who would be expected to procure equipment, goods, etc.
in accordance with sound business practices, namely to purchase from the
most competit-a sources taking into account, price, quality, delivery
schedule, after sales service, etc. SEDCO's role would be to ensure that,
wherever possible, sponsors have obtained competitive quotations from three
suppliers and procured equipment from the most advantageous source. SEDCO
confirmed at the loan negotiations that this procedure was in fact
followed.  SEDCO also assured the Bank that it wi'l soon adopt appropriate
regulations to reflect this policy. Disbursements, administered by the
Finance Department in Harare, are to be made directly to supplieru or to
the borrowers after their share of investment in the project has been
verified.
2.23      Debt Collection.  The Finance Department has responsibility for
debt collection, with support from the financial staff in regional
offices. Clients will receive monthly/quarterly bills and any overdue
amounts will be followed up regularly by the financial staff. SEDCO plans
to use outside legal counsel for debt collection actions. The Finance
Manager has designed an adequate manual record system for the loan
portfolio and debt collection functions, including monthly statements of
account and aging analyses of arrears. An understanding was reached at



- 18-
negotiations that SEDCO would establish a special unit at headquarters to
focus on loan collections and that the proposed Operations Advisor would be
asked to help strengthen the existing collection procedures.
2.24      Auditors.  SEDCO has appointed Price Waterhouse as its auditors
and recently cozpleted its first audit review with them. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached with SEDCO that its future
audited accounts would be prepared and presented along the lines indicated
in the -Illustrative Form of Audit Reports for Development Finance
Companies" and submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the
financial year.
2.25      Lending Operations.  Since it commenced operations in April 1984,
SEDCO has received over 1,000 loan applications. As of November 1984,
SEDCO had approved 41 projects, for a total of $Z 483,490. Although the
sample of approvals is small at this point, Annex 6 and the following
paragraph illustrate some of the basic characteristics of SEDCO 's approvals
to date.
2.26      Of the 41 loans approved, 51.2% were for sole proprietors
(accounting for 45% of the value of loans approved) and 26.8% were for
cooperatives (amounting to 29Z of the value of loans approved). The
remaining 9 projects were sponsored by private companies and 1
partnership.  Just under 502 of projects approved were located in urban
areas.  All the beneficiaries were erging black entrepreneurs.  The
average interest rate charged for all projects was 14.3%, and average
maturity just under two years.  About 75% of the loan amounts approved will
finance working capital and over 78% of the number of projects approved
were in the commercial sector. As SEDCO begins to identify investment
opportunities through its Development Department and begins to collaborate
with finance houses, the percentage of commercial projects is expected to
decline in favor of industrial projects. Industrial projects approved as
of November 1984 included those producing leather goods, furniture, fencing
materials, canned mushrooms and textiles.
2.27      As of November 1984, SEDCO had completed appraisal reports for
approximately 100 projects, including the 41 approved. The pipeline is
somewhat more indicative of SEDCO's future portfolio, in that it contains
more services projects, such as transportation, grinding mills, printers,
etc., (24% vs. 5% of approvals) and the average loan is slightly larger.
Industrial projects account for 14% of the value of the pipeline. These
figures also reveal that SEDCO plans to finance on average just over 50% of
total project costs, well below the 75-90% limits spelled out in its policy
statement. Moreover, most of the proposed loans will finance expansion of
existing businesses or replacement of equipment, which should help reduce
the risks that SEDCO would assume in its financing activities. Finally,
although SEDCO will initially finance a substantial amount of working
capital, its future pipeline will include more industrial and services
projects which, on average, have proportionately lower working capital
requirements than commercial projects.
2.28      Technical Assistance Activities.  Technical assistance to SSEs
(other than small-scale contractors) will be supplied by the Development
staff in SEDCO's head office and regional offices; small-scale contractors



- 19-
will benefit from the training and advisory service for the construction
industry to be undertaken by the Ministry of Labor, Manpower Planning and
Social Welfare (MLMPSW) under the project (para. 2.41). SEDCO's technical
assistance services would principally focus on: (a) training in general
management, bookkeeping, financial management, inventory control,
marketing, procurement of raw materials, -equipment maintenance, etc.; and
(b) management consultancy to solve problems faced by on-going projects.
To a lesser extent, SEDCO would also carry out sectoral studies to identify
investment opportunities and prepare project profiles. Project analysts
will initially identify the training and consultancy needs of SEDCO clients
during appraisal, and will provide further recommendations during project
supervision. Staff from MIM and BDMAP will train SEDCO staff in providing
SSE training and consultancy services (para. 2.11).
2.29      Financial Performance and Situation.  SEDCO's summarized
financial statements for FY84 (for the period April 1 - June 30) are shown
in Annexes 7 and 8. As SEDCO has just begun to operate and has no track
record, the financial results of its first few months of operations are not
indicative of Its future financial condition. Indeed, to date, SEDCO has
relied largely on grants ($Z 441,000 for the year ended June 30, 1984) from
Government to cover its administrative expenses. SEDCO's only other major
source of income has been interest earned on deposits with other finaacial
institutions. As a result, SEDCO's current ratio is a very high 1G.8, and
should remain high during its first few years of operations.
2.30      Resources and Strategy.  As of October 31, 1984, SEDCO's total
resources, amounting to $Z 1.3 million, consisted of (i) $Z 1.0 million ir
loan capital and reserves and (ii) $Z 0.3 million in surpluses. As of the
same date, SEDCO had $Z 0.6 million in local currency available for future
commitments. It has since drawn down another $Z 2 million from the
Government and is planning to draw down fully by the end of June 1985 the
$Z 5 million made available by USAID to the Government.
2.31      Although SEDCO's current pipeline is dominated by working capital
loans to commercial SSEs, in the future SEDCO plans to give preference to
loans for industry, services and construction. As a new institution, SEDCO
is eager to quickly build up its portfolio, but its management wishes to
ensure that SEDCO grows at a measured pace without overtaxing staff and
institutional capability. Thus, SEDCO has stated its intention to restrict
total FY85 loan approvals to 150 and number of offices to the existing 5.
This would enable SEDCO's project staff to gain more experience in project
appraisal and supervison and receive on-the-job training before they start
handling significantly higher numbers of appraisals and approvals; the
projected number of loans approved is expected to increase to 250 in FY86
and to 300 in FY89. This program of gradual growth is a prudent one.
2.32      Government has indicated that it would like SEDCO to assist, on a
selective basis, cooperatives and SSEs in rural growth points with limited
infrastructure. Government and SEDCO, however, are keenly aware of the
potential risks of such lending to SEDCO 's financial integrity and its cost
to Government. Therefore, SEDCO proposed to the Government that to the
extent that it would make loans to these enterprises for socio-economic
reasons, such lending would be done by SEDCO only on a Managed Fund basis,
financed entirely by Government. The Managed Fund would help to safeguard



- 20-
SEDCO's capital and would provide Government on an annual basis with a
clear measure of the costs of lending to those higher risk, and higher
cost projects. Government agreed at negotiations to establish such a
fund. In working out the detailed arrangements for the Managed Fund, SEDCO
and Government have agreed on the following basic principles:
(i) only those projects which have developmental potential
but are to be located in areas with limited
infrastructure would be eligible. Even in these cases,
the minimum equity contribution required of
entrepreneurs in SEDCO's policy statement would apply;
(ii) SEDCO would finance such projects on behalf of the
Governmert without itself assuming any credit risk and
only to the extent that funds were available in the
Managed Fund;
(iii) SEDCO would be compensated for all administrative
expenses incurred in conducting such operations;
(iv) Government would ensure that the volume of these
operations would not impose an undue administrative
burden on SEDCO; and
(v) the Managed Fund operation would be reviewed annually
by the Government.
2.33      Finance House Collaboration.  SEDCO has been making efforts to
enlist the support of existing financial institutions to provide financial
assistance to a broad spectrum of SSEs. Although commercial banks remain
reluctant to significantly expand their role in the SSE sector, their
Finance House subsidiaries have expressed interest in collaborating with
SEDCO in providing term financing to SSEs. Although details are still
being worked out, the arrangements with the finance houses are broadly
along the following lines. Finance houses would identify clients needing
foreign exchange loans and would prepare appraisal reports for submission
to SEDCO. SEDCO would evaluate the loan, and if approved, would be
responsible for disbursements and supervision. SEDCO would have the option
of seeking finance house assistance in debt collection as well. SEDCO
would charge its normal rates for such loans, but would pay a fee up to 2Z
to the finance houses for their participation. This arrangement would
enable SEDCO staff to observe and learn from other institutions'
well-established credit policies and procedures, and would help improve the
overaU quality of SEDCO's portfolio.
2.34      Forecast Operations.  SEDCO's forecast operations for FY85-89 are
shown in Annex 9. Total approvals are expeated to increase from 150
projects in 1985 to 250 in 1986 and 300 from 1987 onward. This increase
assumes that SEDCO will continue to process about 900 applications per
year, but will approve a greater proportion as the overall quality of
applications increases. In addition, the loan amounts approved are



- 21-
projected to Increase by 52 p.a. in real terms, reflecting SEDCO's
increasing capacity to handle larger and more complex projects. Total
approvals over the 5 year period (including loans originating from finance
houses) will thus amount to $Z 34.6 million. Distribution of total amounts
approved by sectol is expected to be as follows: cmmmerce, 43.5Z; industry,
18.8X; construction, 5.4-z services, 16.8%; and loans origiuating from
finance houses, 16.4Z.  Commiiments and disbursements are forecast to be
95% and 85Z of approval levels. Beginning in FY86, finance houses could
channel approximately $Z 1 million through SEDCG, or about 7Z of tneir
current hire purchase financing. The finance houses anticipate strong
demand for such a program, as at present they do not have access to foreign
exchange to meet the needs of their clients.
2.36      Resource Requirements.  SEDCO's resource requirements over the
four year period FY85-88 are expected to total $Z 22.5 million, as detailed
below. This amount represents the br:st estimate of SEDCO's projected
operations, but may understate somewhat the demand for credit, particularly
from finance houses for foreign exchange resources.
Resource Requirements
FY85-88
($Z '000)
Resource Needs                                                      Amount
Expected Commitments                                                22,170
Fixed Assets                                                           358
Total                                                           22,528
Sources of Funds
Collections                                                          8,236
Unrepayable Capital (from Government out of USA.n D funds)           5,000
Borrowings -  BDC                                                   11 s  900
Total al                 ts3t
Resources Available for Future Commitments                           2,,608
The proposed 'World Bank line of credit of US$8.5 million ($Z 11.9 million)
would represent about 52.4Z of SEDCn's total resource needs. GoSvernment
would mke available to SEDCO Z$5 million from USAID as equity for lending
activities. In addition, Government will fund the proposed Managed Fund
and provide SEDCO continuing support to meet projected shortfalls ia fts
financial and tecimical assistance units (para. 2.37). Although the
preceding table shows that SEDCO would have approximately $Z 2.6 million
available for future commitment at the end of FY88, this surplus would meet
only 24% of SEDCO's FY89 projected commitments. In any event, SEDCO may
need some cushion to cover increased demand from finance houses or higher
than projected commitments.* SEDJCO plans to seek additional funding for
future operations from other sources, including bilateral and multilateral
agencies as well as the Government.



- 22-
2.37      Projected Financial Condition.  SEDCO's projected financial
statements and ratios for the period FY85 through 1989 are shown in Annexes
10-13. SEDCO's administrative expenses iu its early years are high
relative to other DFCs because (i) they have hired their full staff
complement before commencing operations; and (it) salaries, which comprise
over 60% of SEDCO's administrative costs, are high in Zimbabwe relative to
other developing countries. It is appropriate then, that SEDCO should
receive Government funding to cover its losses on financial assistance
activities during its formative years. By charging adequate interest rates
and endeavoring to keep administrative costs down to a reasouable level,
Government contributions to the financial assistance unit are projected to
be eliminated by FY86. Thereafter, SEDCO is expected to generate
sufficient surpluses on its financial assistance unit to place it on a
sound financial basis. On the other hand, SEDC0 would require continuous
Government funding for its technical assistance unit (para. 2.18). Total
Government contributions (including unrepayable capital) to SEDCO are
forecast to be about $Z 8.5 million over the five year period FY85-89 as
shown below.
Year Ending June 30                    1985     1986     1987    1988    1989
5$Z '000)
Government Contribution -
Financial Assistance Unit           321.4       -        -        -
Government Contribution -
Technical Assistance Unit           411.3      580.4   643.4   715.5  798.4
Government Contribution -
(USAID Funds) for onlending       5,000.0      -         -       -        -
Total Government Support            5,732.7      580.4   643.4   715.5  798.4
Total Government Support 1985 - 1989 = 8,470.4
Of this amount, $Z 0.3 million would fund financial assistance activities
and $Z 3.2 million would fund the technical assistance program. Although
SEDCO's financial assistance unit is likely to break-even and start making
a small profit as from FY86, agreement was reached at loan negotiations
that Government would fund any shortfall in SEDCO's income to cover the
expenses of the Financial Assistance Unit during the next 3 years. To help
SEDCO strengthen its institutional capabilities, Government agreed at
negotiations to pass on the proceeds of the proposed US$600,000 technical
assistance component to SEDCO as a grant for financing key advisers and
training SEDCO staff. To strengthen SEDCO's capital structure, the
Government has agreed to provide SEDO0 with a capital base of $Z5 million.



- 23-
Such a capital base is necessary for SEDCO to borrow funds for future
operations and to maintain its debt/equity ratio below 3:1 as required in
its policy statement. This prudent ratio is considered necessary at this
stage because SEDCO, a newly established institution, is yet to develop a
portfolio of sound projects and a record of good financial performance.
2.38      With Government providing support for its administrative expenses
as outlined in para. 2.37 above, SEDCO's financial assistance activities
should be profitable beginning in FY86. SEDCO's proflt on its financial
assistance activities is expected to be $Z 353,000 in FY87 and $Z 887,100
in FY89. Throughout the period, SEDCO's long-term debt/equity ratio would
average a low 0.5, and its current ratio would remain high at an average
13:1. Administrative expenses for the financial assistance unit would
decline rapidly from 15.6% of average total assets in FY85 to 6.1Z by
FY89. SEDCO's debt service coverage would average a high 17.0 during the
period because SEDCO's subloans will have a much shorter amortization
period than the Bank loan.
Construction Industry Component
2.39      Although the construction industry is 7imbabwe is well
established, European' firms and managers have traditionally been
dominant. Since 1980 the structure of the local construction industry has
significantly changed, with building brigades, construction cooperatives
and emergent contractors coupeting for construction contracts. Due to
emigration of a number of white Zimbabweans, however, both the Government
and the private sector are sbort of experienced personnel. In addition,
the government's policy in processing construction work and allocating
foreign exchange to construction enterprises has significantly changed in
recent years with the government wanting to play a more active role In the
contracting industry. Therefore, the Government has requested that the
Bank assist in financing training and advisory services to the domestic
construction industry.  In addition, a study was considered necessary to
provide up-to-date information on the potential and constraints of the
local construction industry and to include recommendations for improved
performance and policy adjustments taking into account the findings and
proposals of previous relevant studies.
2.40      The construction industry component of the project seeks to
assist the Government in developing the magerial capability of emerging
small-scale contractors, building co-operatives and brigade supervisors.
The component would employ consultants to:
(a)    provide training to local instructors in site and enterprise
management;
(b)    train work superintendents, inspectors and emergent contractors
in, and provide advisory services on, site mnmagement;
(c)    train emerging small-scale contractors in enterprise management;
(e)    prepare a study of the local construction industry; and



- 24-
(d)    train SEDCO staff and assist them in appraising small-scale
contractors.
The Ministry of Lator, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare (MLMPSW), which
is responsible for organizing and conducting all kinds of training under
public sector auspices in Zimbabwe, would be the executing agency for this
component. Proposed terms of reference for the training program and the
study are given in Annexes 15 and 16 respectively. The training program
would be conducted with the assistance of a Steering Committee comprising
representatives of the Construction Industry Federation of Zimbabwe
(CIFOZ), a private sector organization which includes the Zimbabwe Building
and Allied Trades Association (ZIMBATA) and the Federation of Civil
Engineering Contractors (FCEC). The participation of these two
associations would be important for the training program's success.
2.41       Site management training would be provided to managers of all
sectors of the domestic construction industry. Training in enterprise
management will be offered for domestic contractors with individual
contracts not exceeding $Z 200,000 and who lack the human, financial or
physical resources to execute construction work efficiently. Classes would
include both construction sector participants as well as SEDCO staff and
potential trainers as observers and would cover site management, tender
preparation, contractual obligations and enterprise growth management.
Advisory services and field visits would supplement the courses. Advisory
services would also be provided to SEDCO to help evaluate construction loan
applications.
2.42      Two experts would provide appropriate expertise and direction to
the program. Funds are also available to furnish other consultants on a
short-term basis to deal with specific topics, if necessary. In addition
to the experts, 10 local instructors would be trained to carry on the
program after the initial two years and to expand it beyond Harare. Local
instructors would also assist the experts in adapting training materials to
suit local conditions.   Total component costs are estimated at $Z 1.5
million, to be financed 85% by the Bank and 152 by the GOZ. It is
anticipated that the study and training would require 12 and 18 months
respectively for completion.
III. THE LOAN
Features of the Proposed Loan
3.01      The proposed Bank loan of US$10 million would be made to the
Government of Zimbabwe on variable interest rate, with a fixed amortization
schedule for 17 years, including four years of grace, and commitment
charges.
3.02      The Government would on-lend US$8.5 million equivalent out of the
proposed loan to SEDCO, under a subsidiary loan agreement, which would be
satisfactory to the Bank, with a fixed amortization schedule for 15 years
including four years of grace on the terms and conditions described below
(para 3.03). The Government would pass on US$1.5 million to (a) the



- 25-
Ministry of Labour, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare (US$0.9 million
equivalent) to finance training and advisory services to the construction
Industry and a study of the construction sector and (b) SEDCO (US$0.6
million equivalent) to finance two advisors and overseas training of SEDC0
professionals.  During loan negotiations, the Government agreed to pass on
the technical assistance component to SEDCO as a grant.
3.03      The Government would on-lend US$8.5 million equivalent by way of
a credit line to SEDCO at the rate of interest fixed by the Government for
loans to its parastatals, at present 9.75% p.s. Given the lack of
sophistication of small-scale borrowers who would benefit from this line of
credit, the exchange risk on the amount of loan on-lent to SED)O would be
borne by the Government (para. 2.17). Neither SEDCO nor the small
borrowers would be required to pay commitment charges on the undisbursed
loan/sub-loans respectively. SEDC0 is a new institution which needs time
to build its business to a profitable level. Moreover, its borrowers are
relatively unsophisticated and may misinterpret the rationale for the
charge, particularly bec-ause they would be required to pay other charges
(Annex 5) in addition to interest. The Government agreed at negotiations
to assume the exchange risk on the loan and the variable interest risk on
the credit component of the Bank loan onlent to SEDC0.
3.04      SEDCO would pass on funds from the line of credit at 18% p.a. to
projects In urban areas and at 16% p.a. to projects in rural areas, with
fixed amortization schedules depending on the nature and the debt servicing
capacity of the sub-project, but not exceeding 7 years. The sub-loans
would finance capital equipment and machinery and working capital
requirements of sub-projects.  Since most SSE equipment would be locally
fabricated with substantially imported inputs, accounting for 70% of the
equipment costs, to simplify loan administration Bank funds would finance
not more than 70% of the sub-project costs, with financing for working
capital not exceeding 50% of the sub-loan. In case of imported goods, the
Bank funds would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost. The line of
credit would also finance sub-projects for small-scale contractors. SEDC0
would ensure that the financial rate of return (FRR) is calculated on all
sub-projects receiving sub-loans exceeding $Z50,000 and that the FRR is not
below the rate of interest on the sub-loan.
3.05      SEDC0 would be allowed a free limit of US$50,000 after the Bank
has reviewed and approved the first ten sub-projects and is satisfied that
the quality of SEDCO's appraisals has reached the standards acceptable to
the Bank. These measures would enable the Bank to review about 15% of the
sub-loans financed out of the Bank's line of credit. In addition,
supervision missions will review a sample of free-limit sub-projects to
ascertain that these projects meet acceptable appraisal standards and are
in line with project objectives.
Project Implementation
3.06      Reporting Requirements.  SEDCO would be required to submit
quarterly reports which would include a summary of operations, financial
statements, resources position, statement of arrears and a statement of



- 26-
projects in difficulties. It would also be required to submit audited
annual accounts, prepared in accordance with the Bank guidelines for audit
of DFCs, by qualified auditors, acceptable to the Bank within six months
after the close of the year. MUMPSW, which would be the executing agency
for the technical assistance component for the construction industry, would
submit quarterly reports on the progress of implementation of the training
courses and the construction sector study as well as audited annual
accounts.
3.07      Procurement and Consultants' Services. Procurement of goods and
services under the line of credit to SEDCO would be in line with procedures
followed by Bank-assisted DFCs, namely, on the basis of competitive
quotations from the main sources of supply, to ensure that purchases are
made from the most advantageous source. The qualifications of consultants
selected under the project and the terms and conditions of their employment
vould be subject to the approval of the Bank. The qualifications and terms
and conditioas of employment of experts for SEDCO to be financed under the
technical assistance component would also be acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
3.08      Proceeds of the loan would be disbursed for:
(a) 10OZ of the total expenditure approved or
authorized for sub-projects by the Bank,
representing up to 70  of the cost of sub-projects
financed by SEDCO;
(b) 70% of local expenditures for services of
consultants domiciled in Zimbabwe and 100% of
foreign expenditures for services of other
consultants;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local
expenditures for equipment and vehicles.
3.09      Withdrawals for the sub-project component will be submitted under
statements of expenditure; all other withdrawals will be fully documented.
A review of our documentation requirements will be made six months after
disbursements begin.
3.10      In order to expedite disbursement of funds, it was agreed during
negotiations that the Government would open a Special Account (revolving
fund) with an initial deposit of $400,000 representing estimated
disbursements over a three month period in the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe in
SEDCO's nawe to finance the Bank's share of SEDCO expenditures. Deposits
into the account will be made through the U.S. correspondent bank of
Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. Replenishment applications will be submitted
monthly or when the fund has been diminished by half, Whichever occurs
sooner.
3.11      The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 14) is in line with
the Region-wide sectoral disbursement profile for the IDF sector (7 years).



- 27-
There are, however, good prospects that because of the establishment of the
Special Account the loan would be disbursed faster than indicated in the
historical disbursement profile. Assuming the loan becomes effective by
September 1, 1985, the credit component would be fully disbursed by the
first quarter of FY93. The last date for submission of sub-projects should
be June 30, 1989 and the closing date December 31, 1992. The technical
assistance component for SEDCO is estimated to be disbursed by the fourth
quarter of FY89 and that for the construction industry by the third quarter
of FY88. The project is expected to be completed in about seven years.
Benefits and Risks
3.12      Benefits. The project is expected to play a critical role in
strengthening the Government program to provide an effective integrated
package of technical and financial support to small-scale enterprises
(including contractors), particularly those set up by emerging black
entrepreneurs who do not presently have adequate access to institutional
credit or technical assistance. Institution building assistance to SEDCO
in its formative years would considerably improve its operational and
financial policies and strengthen its capability to provide management
counselling and training to SSEs. The project would also help (i) enhance
the technical skills and develop entrepreneurial capabilities of
small-scale entrepreneurs, particLlarly of the black Ziubabweans, and thus
help redress the highly dualistic socio-economic structure of the country;
and (ii) increase the availability of credit to the emerging SSEs and
ensure that recipients of credit also receive adequate counselling and
training. It is estimated that the Bank funds would furnish credit to
about 470 SSEs and help create employment for about 3,900 persons at an
estimated average cost per job of only US$3,100. The proposed Bank
assistance may also play a catalytic role in attracting additional
bilateral and multilateral support to SSEs.
3.13      Risks.  There is a risk that Government, for socio-economic
reasons, may ask SEDCO to expand its operations to marginal enterprises in
rural areas with limited infrastructure. This pressure could adversely
affect SEDCO's financial integrity and efficiency particularly during its
formative years. This risk is mitigated, however, by the following actions
contemplated/initiated by SEDCO: (i) providing training and management
counselling to SSEs; (ii) appointing experienced advisers to establish
appropriate appraisal and supervision procedures; (iii) limiting lending
operations to levels which would be consistent with the capability of
SEDCO's staff to manage efficiently; (iv) meeting credit demands for high
risk projects only out of funds provided by the Government by way of a
special 'Nanaged Fund" for which SEDCO would not assume any credit risk;
and (v) adopting policies and strategies to achieve financial viability for
its financing unit. Bank supervision missions would also closely monitor
SEDCO's performance and progress in these areas.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
4.01      During negotiations agreements were reached with the Government
and SEDCO on the following:



- 28-
(a) With the Government that it will
(i) provide SEDCO with an equity base of $Z 5 million
before loan effectiveness (para. 2.06);
(ii)  fund on a continuing basis the cost of SEDCO's
technical assistance unit (para. 2.18);
(iii) provide SEDCO with financing for a Kariuged Fund'
for high risk operations in areas with limited
infrastructure (para. 2.32);
(iv)  fund during the first three years of SEDCO's
operations the shortfall in SEDCO's income to
cover the expenses of its Financial Assistance
Unit (para. 2.37);
(v) pass on the technical assistance component of the
Bank loan to SEDCO as a grant (para. 3.02);
(vi)  assume exchange rate risk and variable interest
risk on the credit component of the Bank loan
onlent to SEDCO (paras. 2.17 and 3.03); and
(vii)  establish a Special Account with the Reserve Bank
of Zimbabwe for expediting disbursements of
sub-loans and the technical assistance component
for SEDCO out of the Bank loan (para. 3.10).
(b) With SEDCO that it will
(i} appoint two experts (Operations Advisor and
Technical Advisor) before loan effectiveness
(para. 2.12);
(ii)  not modify its policy statement without prior
consultation with the Bank (para. 2.13);
(iii) charge interest rate of 18 percent p.a. on its
loans to projects in urban areas and 16% on its
loans in rural areas and review Its interest rate
structure with the Bank every 6-12 months (para.
2.15);
(iv)  have its audited accounts prepared and presented
along the lines indicated in the 'Illustrative
Form of Audit Reports for DFCs and submit them to
the Bank within six months of the close of the
year (para. 2.24).



ZIHBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Structure of Financial System
(as of December 31, 1983)
Central Bank
Total Assets a 5ZI,016a
Co _ercial Banks                       Accepting Houses                         Finance Houses                 BuildinX Societies             Discount Houses
.1. Barclaya                   1. Merchant Bank of Central Africa           1. Grindlays Industrial 61. Beverly                             1, Bard
2. Standard                    2. RAL Merchant Bank                              Commercial Finance            2. Central Africa            2. DCZ
3. Grindlay    Foreign         3. Standard Merchant Bank                    2. Standard Finance                3. Foundere
4, BCCZ       -                4. Syfrets                                  3. UDC                                                           Total Assets   $ $Z131
S. Zimbank      Local                                                       4. Scotfin                         Total Assets   $ Z652*
Total Assets - MO35n               5. Fincor
Total Aa.etb-$Z1,509m
Total Assets - $Z202m
Non-Bank Financial lnstitutions
Development Finance Institutions                  Post Office                Pension and             Inudrance              Credit       Stock  ;    Uted
Savings Bank            Provident Funds            Companies         Ins. Corp       Exchange        Finance
1. Anglo-American Dev. Corp.-                                                                                                                           Companies
2. Ipcorn                         Private      Total Asseta.$Z482m       1364 registered funds    50 companies
3. Ies                         -__a
4. Agricultural Fin. Corp.
5. Industrial Dev. Corp.          Public
6. SeuCO
7, ZDB                         I
Credit Guarantee Scheme
.                                                                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'  FEBCO         - 
Total'Guarantees
Issued
Number    Amount
EAPID                                                                       754   $Z3. 7million
December l984



- 30 -
Annex 2
S_sll-Scale Enterprl e Project
Interest Rates
(2)
End of                                      1979          1980          1981          1982        1983/1984
A. Deposdt Rates
(1) Commercial Banks
3 *ontbs                    3.00- 3.25     3.20- 3.50   8.25-14.50    9.00-10.00    10.00-13.75
12  _-c-bs                   4.00- 4.25     4.00- 4.40   8.25-12.00   10.20-10.50    10.50-12.25
24 sonths                     5.00- 5.15    5.00- 5.25   9.25-12.50   10.30-10.80    10.50-12.25
(i) Accepting louses
3 months                     3.25- 3.50    3.30- 3.75  10.00-14.25    8.60- 9.00    8.50-13.75
12 uonths                     4.00- 4.40    4.25- 4.50  12.50-14.00   10.25-10.75    11.75-12.25
24 Months                     4.75- 5.15    4.75- 5.30      13.00      10.80-11.75       12.25
(111) Finance Houses
3 nonth-                     3.00- 4.25    3.00- 3.75       8.25       7.00- 8.25    7.50- 8.25
12 nouths                    4.00- 5.25     4.25- 5.25       9.13      8.25- 9.13    9.00- 9.13
24 months                     5.00- 6.75    5.00- 6.00      10.38       9.25-10.38    10.00-10.35
(1v) Buildlng Socletles
savings                          3.50           3.50         7.75          7.75          7.75
12 months                       4.75           4.75          9.75         9.75           9.75
24 mouths                        5.25           5.25        10.00         10.00          10.00
Cv) P. 0. Savings Bank
Saving.                          3.25           3.25         7.50          7.'            7.50
12 months                       4.50           4.5C          8.50          8.50          8.50
B. Lending Rates
(i) Commercial Banks 1J                7.50           7.50         13.00         13.00         13.00
(Ninimun Overdraft Rate)
(ii) Accepting Rouses                    6.25          6.00         11.25         10.65         11.00
(Mlnliun Rate on acceptance
credits)
(iil) Finance Houses 2/               10.00-17.54    11.00-17.54  17.00-23.00   18.00-23.00    20.00-23.00
(Rlre Purchase Rate)
(lv) Building SocLetles
Resldential Property             7.75           7.75        13.25         13.25          13.25
Comoercial Property              8.50          8.50         14.75         14.25         14.25
C.  Mone_ Parket Rates
(1) Bank Rate                          4.50           4.50         9.00          9.00           9.00
(11) Bills
Treasury                         3.57           3.30         8.18          8.29          8.66
Agricultural Marketlng           3.95           3.75         8.70          8.75          8.75
Authority
(iii) Discount Houses
Call Mloney                   3.00- 3.75    2.80- 3.50   6.50- 7.65        7.75       8.00- 8.75
3 sonths Bankers Acceptances    4.25           4.00          9.50         8.90           9.25
Negotiable C.Ds.
3 months                   3.50- 3.80    3.80- 4.50  14.00-14.90    9.50-11.00       15.00
6 months                   3.75- 4.15    4.05- 4.70  14.00-14.60    9.75-10.50    14.25-15.00
12 months                   4.60- 5.00    4.60- 5.20  13.25-14.50   10.00-10.75    14.00-14.25
24 months                   5.10- 5.55    5.20- 6.10  14.00-15.00   10.50-11.25    14.00-14.25
1/ No maximum.
2/ Maximum rates.
EAPID
March 1985



Small Scale Enterprime Project
Small Knterprlua DOvelopmnt Corporation
Orgtisatton Chart
GICBtRL HAI^GER
nEVELOPHENT DIVISION| PDIT  DIISO              FINC  D|IO           AD ITArol(ooo D     Io  |
|  9.Vrsla-ioXals
GI^lU
NASVINCO
2 kotongoaloolj                            H
2 kftolesoals
RAPID
January 1985



- 32 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 11
ZIMBABWE
Suall-Scale Enterprise Project
Small Enterprises Development Corporation
Policy Statement Action Plan and Strategy Statement
1.        Policy Statement
General. In line with the objectives for the development of
co-operatives and small scale commercial and industrial enterprises set out
in the Transitional Development Plan SEDCO's functions as laid down in
section 18 of the SEDCO Act are to:
(a) encourage and assist in the establishment of
co-operatives and commercial or industrial enterprises;
(b) provide assistance, whether in the form of financial
assistance, management counselling and training,
information advice or otherwise, to co-operatives and
small commercial or industrial enterprises;
(c) advise the Minister on all matters connected with
co-operatives and small commercial or industrial
enterprises;
(d) do all things which by this Act or any other enactment
are required or permitted to be done by the
Corporation.
2.        Definition
For purposes of SEDCO's assistance, a small scale enterprise is
defined as one with total fixed assets not exceeding a value of $200,000 or
employing lesa than 50 permanent workers.
3.        Organizational Structure
3.1       In order to meet the objectives and carry out the functions
outlined above, SEDCO will establish an organization structure which will
provide both financial and technical assistance, directly or in
collaboration with other institutions, to cooperatives and small scale
commercial and industrial enterprises, including those engaged in building
and civil engineering contracts and related trades both in urban and rural
areas through its head office in Harare and branch/regional offices.



- 33 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 11
3.2       Allocation of Responsibilities within the Organizational
Structure.  SEDCO will maintain the following Divisions with duties
ascribed as under:
(a) Administrative Division
(i) All the Corporation's secretarial duties.
(ii) Preparing all documentation in respect of loans.
(iii)  Ma'intaining records in respect of all clients.
(iv) Personnel management.
Sv) Co-ordination.
(vi) Public relations.
gvii)  Legal issues and arrangements for valuation of
security.
(viii) General administration.
(b) Development Division
(i) Research into new opportunities.
(ii) Enterprises development and feasibility studies.
(iii)  Comprehensive consultancy services.
(iv) Liaise with professional, educational and business
institutions.
(v) Identification of markets/exports.
(vi) Establishment of training requirements.
tvii)  Seminars and conferences.
(viii) In-service Staff Development both in house and
external.
(ix) Liaison with the Financial and Project Divisions
but staff will not be involved in debt collection.



- 34 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of I1
(c) Project Division
(1) Assessment of loan applications.
(ii) Project irvestigations/reports.
(uti)  Recommendation of loans.
(iv) Monitoring and followp.
(v) Reporting on doubtful cases to the Finance and
Development Divisions.
(d) Finace Division
(i) Disburseamt of loans.
(ii) Credit controlldebt recovery.
(ii) Inspection of client's accounts.
(iv) Preparation of monthly/yearly accounts and
schedules.
(v) Budgets.
(vi)  Financial structure of the Corporation.
(vii) Financial reports of the Corporation.
(viii) Advising the Projects and Development divisions of
doubtful loans.
4.        Office Acco_odation
SEDO will work on the existing basis of the Read Office in
Earare and four branch offices in Bulawayo, Gheru, Masvingo and !utare.
5.        Staff
The staffing component shall be maintained at the minimal level
required to achieve the optimal norn of loans that may be muonitored
efficiently. The staff complement, will also be subject to consideration
being given to the furtherance of Government policy endeavour to achieve an
equitable geographical spread of the 8ervices of the organisation.



- 35 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 11
6.        Collaboration with Existing Financial Institutions
6.1       In providing financial assistance to small-scale enterprises
SEDCO shall seek, as far as possible the collaboration of existing
financial institutions in the country with a view to providing services to
the approved entrepreneurs as near their places of business as possible.
For this purpose SEDCO may enter into agreements individually or
collectively with the financial institutions setting out the procedures of
collaboration and terms and conditions of providing the assistance,
including arrangements for sharing credit risks.
6.2       In cases where because of lack of security, inadequacy of
collateral or some other reason (such as remoteness of the area) the
financial institutions are unwilling to provide assistance to an applicant
who in the opinion of SEDCO is considered capable of undertaking a project
which meets SEDCO's normal criteria of project selection, SEDCO may provide
financing to such applicant directly without the collaboration of a
financial institution.
7.        Priority Areas
7.1       In accordance with the principles  laid down in section 20 of the
Act priority shall be given to:
Ca) Industrial enterprises;
(b) Commercial and service enterprises in growth points;
(c) Commercial and service enterprises where these do not
exist.
7.2       In selecting projects for assistance, SEDCO shall give priority
to projects which are designed to utilize economically domestic raw
materials and are labour intensive. Other criteria shall be:
(a) Skill formation and development;
(b) Promotion of national savings;
(c) Foreign currency earnings or savings;
(d) Provision of necessities to underdeveloped areas;
(e) Development of technology and improvement of
efficiency;
(f) Decentralisation of economic activity.
8.        Eligibility
Applicants for financial assistance may be registered
co-operativep, sole proprietors, partnerships or limited liability
companies. Applicants shall be Zimbabwe citizens or co-operatives and
companies registered under the laws of Zimbabwe.



- 36 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 11
9.        Financial Policy
SEDCO shall:
(a) establish its operations on sound financial principles and
thereby create an effective and viable institution for the
implementation of Government stated policy of co-operatives,
small-scale commercial and industrial enterprises;
(b) obtain from the Government adequate capital grants for carrying
out its operations and establish a de facto equity base
consisting of unrecallable capital. However the Corporation
shall not at any time borrow funds internal or external in excess
of three times its unimpaired unrecallable capital;
(c)  seek funding for its technical assistance services not only frou
Government but also from all possible alternative sources,
national, overseas or international;
(d) establish as soon as possible after the commencement of its
operations a reserve fund by appropriating sufficient amounts
from its Income, to provide for possible loan losses and any
other unforeseen contingencies;
Ce) maintain at all times a satisfactory balance between the
maturities of its obligations and those of the loans it grants;
Cf)  at all times seek to protect itself against exchange risks on
foreign currency borrowings;
(g) finance only those projects which are technically feasible,
economically sound, financially viable and competently managed,
and in assessing viability pay due regard to the following
factors:
(i) the existence of an adequate infrastructure;
(ii) the experience of the applicant in the particular
project sector; and
Ciii)  in the case of an existing enterprise the
desirability of expansion.
(h) create a -managed fund' to enable the Corporation to meet high
risk projects.  The managed fund would be obtained from
Government and managed by SEDCO. High risk projects are those:
(i) set up in areas of poor or inadequate
infrastructure or
(ii) sponsored by persons who have no previous
experience and little or no investments of their
own.



- 37 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 11
(i) with the objective of being financially self sufficient by 1990,
seek further funding from Government for purely developmental
costs which are not attributable to a particular project or
projects. To implement this SEDCD will provide for separate
accounting systems for technical assistance and development.
10.       Type of Financial Assistance
10.1      SEDCO's finamcial assistance may be for:
(a) acquisition of fixed assets such as building, machinery
equipment, permanent working capital or
(b) short-term working capital.
10.2      Loans for fixed assets or permanent working capital shall be for
medium-tern (2-5 years) or long-term (5-10 years) depending upon the
ability of the borrower to service repayment and on the economic life of
equipment. Short-term loans for workdng capital requirement would be for
periods not exceeding 2 years.
10.3      All loans shall have adequate grace periods depending on the
nature of projects but will not normally exceed three months for short-term
loans, one year for medium-term loans and 2 years for long-term loans.
10.4      SEDCO's total exposure to any one borrower shall not exceed
z$100p000.
11.       Condition of the Loan
11.1      SEDCO shall not finance in any circumstances the full cost of a
project. In case of projects whose total costs do not exceed Z$20,000 the
borrower if a co-operative will be required to put in as equity
contribution 10-15X, and 15-252 for loan amounts above Z$20,000. For all
others 15-25Z equity for loan amounts below Z$20,000 and 25-30% equity for
loan amounts above Z$20,000.
11.2      As a general rule, SEDCO shall adopt a scale of charges, fees and
interest rates which will enable it as soon as possible to meet its own
administrative and financial expenses without subsidies or subventions from
the Government, although during its formative yers it would need support
from the Government.
11.3      SEDCO shall charge an application fee of Z$5 for co-operatives
and Z$10 for other applicants payable at the time of application.



- 38 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 11
11.4      SEDCO shall charge a one-time administrative charge at the time
of first disbursement of the loan to cover its expenses in administering
and supervising the loan. This charge will be calculated according to the
following formnula:
C - N ( N + 1) , 2 where C is the charge and N
the number of thousands of dollars of the loan.
11.5      In deciding on a structure of interest rates to be charged to its
borrowers SEDCO shall endeavour to ensure that as far as possible such
interest rates are positive in real terms and are in line with rates
charged by other financial institutions for similar loans and are
sufficient to cover its administrative costs, provide for possible loan
losses and enable it to earn a reasonable profit. In cases where, in order
to implement Government policy to reach out and provide financial 
assistance in remote areas, it has to reduce its interest rates and otber
charges and take additional risks it will seek specific compensation from
Government for undertaking such operations as stated above.
11.6      Specific conditions in respect of provision of managerial or
technical experience or training may be imposed.
12.       Financial Disbursement
12.1      SEDCO shall in furtherance of Government policy endeavour to
achieve an equitable geographical spread within the provinces.
12.2      Total disbursement In the following years will depend upon:
(a) Experience gained in the first year of operation.
(b) The amount of Government grants to SEDCO for loan
purposes.
(c)  Possible overseas aid.
(d) SEDCO's ability to raise loan finance.
12.3      Total disbursements shall be subject to the capability of the
staff to provide effective and adequate appraisal, analysis, consultancy
and monitoring requirements.
13.       Methods of Financing
13.1      The Corporation may consider in the implementation of its
financial policy any or all of the following:
(a)  Share financing loans
(i) Category A
The Corporation may extend loans to Zimbabwean
executives up to maximim of 2 years income for



- 39 -
4.
Page 8 of 11
purpose of acquiring shares in a particular
company. The important prerequisite is that they
mst be employed by' the compan and receive
regular or fixed remeratio  and allowences.
(ii) Category B
Under this category, the Zimbabwean individuals
need not necessarily be in full-tim employment in
that company, The applicant can be any Zimbabnean
citizen or d IOOZ owned Zimbabwean company and
co-opcz.cive.
14.       Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
This scheme my be offered to companies with a specific plan to
enable the employees to purchase and own shares in the compadegs.
15.       Guarantees
The Corporation may also offer medium and long-term guarantees
for industrial mschinery and equipment financing extended by machinery
suppliers or otber financial ns titutions.  A guarantee fee will be payable
on the guaranteed amount outstanding. The criteria, limits and security
requirements shall be the same as for loans where applicable.
16.       Leasing or Plant Hire
The Corporation may also offer leasin:g facilities up to five
years. After the expiry of the primry lease period the lessee will be
given the option to either carry on leasing the items at a reduced rent or
to acquire the item  at preferential prices.
17.       Technical Assistance Policy
17.1      SEDCO shall provide technical assistance to the extent feasible
and needed in the form of promotional assistance, training and       ement
consultancy to all co-operative and small-scale enterprises who are
recipients of its loans directly or who obtain loans from other financial
institutions wbo are collaborating with SEDCO In furthering its objectives.
17.2     SEDCO shall charge adequate fees for providing technical
assistance.
17.3     Where SEDCO Is required in the furtherance of Government policy
In respect of technical assistance to provide:
(a) out-reach services to remote areas or geographically
isolated projects or



- 40 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 11
(b) where such services are to be provided in any special
or general category below the real cost of the service.
SEDCO shall seek funds from Government to the extent that rever.e from fees
falls short of actual cost.
18.       SEDCO shall provide appropriate technical assistance In one or
more of the following areas on a continuing basis:
(a) Information on technical, export market, labour and
legislative utters affecting small enterprises.
(b) Intensive entrepreneurial and management training to
maximize response to inducements by means of:
(i) Seminars and conferences.
(Ii) Localised individual training In co-operatives,
comercial and industrial techniques and where
possible at the site of the enterprises.
(iii)  Workshops at local level for entrepreneurs from
different sectors of interest.
(iv)  Encouragement and creation of strong links between
small and large enterprises to promote sector
interaction.
(v) Advice and guidance to co-operatives, associations
and entrepreneurs on methods of self-help.
(vi) Utilisation of a wide variety of advisory service
mechanisms, in addition to its own staff including
banks, private consultants and appropriate
professional, technical and educational
institutions.
(vii)  Management services on an agreed fee basis where
appropriate.
(viii) Close collaboration with training institutions and
associations in providing relevant technical
assistance in order to implement its programme.
(ix) Appropriate uanUals for use by entrepreneurs.
These will cover inter alia financial
appreciation, operational-appraisal, ranagement
accounting and costing, improving utilisation of
resources, basic management skills, marketing and
sales, casb management, bookkeeping and inventory
control.



- 41 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 11
(x) A system of business improvement groups. This
will be based on the branches ani provide for
groups of beneficiaries in the area. The training
will be continuous with probably one session per
month per group of entrepreneurs. Groups will not
normally exceed 15-20 participants.
(xi) Faults diagnosis clinics. These will be designed
to train managers to identify problems that exist
in their own enterprises. They will be held
locally and an essential component will be a
follow-up by consultants at premises of the
enterprise.
19.       tesearch and Development Policy
Implementation of a planned programme., This would include the
following activities:
(a) Carrying out sub-sector studies at the national level
on the problems and assistance needs of small
enterprises.
(b)  Carrying out subsector studies on a regional level to
determine specific regional industry problems.
(c) Identifying new industries which should be promoted.
(d) Identifying areas of domestic market assistance.
(e) Identifying export opportunities and with advice from
Ministry of Trade and Commerce recommend means of
export promotion.
(f)  In collaboration with Government bodies and
institutions identifying technologies and products
appropriate for small enterprises and disseminate
information.
(g) Assistance in providing information on the purchase and
procurement of new machinery and equipment from local
and external sources.
(h)  In accordance with clause l(c) of this statement,
advising the Minister on incentive scbemes for the
encouragement of co-operatives and small-scale
commercial and industrial enterprises.



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 11 of 11
20.       As SEDCO is- embarking on a programe of assistance to small-scale
enterprise for the first time it will follow operational strategies wlich
will enable it to maxmize its Impact and ensure the success of its
operations.
21.       During the next three years, SEDOO vill take steps to strengthen
its institutional capabillties so as to increase Its efficiency and
effectiveness in providing financial and technical assistance to
small-scale enterprises. To achieve this objective, SEDCO will:
(a) establish and implement appropriate procedures for
project proootion, appraisal, lmplementation, loan
administrations, supervision, training and consultancy
services, and procurement, disbursement and loan
collection.
(b) institute an Intensive staff training programme, taking
advantage of local and overseas training facilities,
its own training staff and consultants. Training will
eWphasize iMproved appraisal and monitoring capacity,
financial management and consultancy skills
development.
(c)  utilize advisory services either local or overseas with
proven-and appropriate experience to provide in house
training to SEDCO staff and in particular in the areas
of project analysis, engineering and financial
mnagement. Such advisory services may be employed on
a continuing or ad hoc basis as deemed appropriate.
22.       To wake this training programme effective SEDCO will use the
expertise of:
(a) Manitoba Institute of Management in collaboration with
the Barbados Institute of Management and Productivity.
(b) United Nations Industrial Development Organisation.
(c) Local professional bodies.
(d) The Zimbabwe Institute of Management.
(e) Local Educational Institutions.
(f) Its own training staff.
(h) Otber appropriate sources, national, overseas or
international.
EAPID
April 1985



- 43 -
Annex 5
ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Small Enterprises Development Corporation
Lending Terms
I. Maturity of Loans and Grace Periods
(a) Short-term loans not to exceed 2 years with a grace period of
3 months
(b) Hediur-term loan8 over 2 years and up to 5 years with a grace
period of 1 year
(c) Long-term loans over 5 years and up to 10 years with a grace
period of   years
II. Borrower's Contribution to Project Costs
Ca) Projects costing not more than Z$20,000
Ci) Cooperatives not less than 10%
(ii) Other sponsors not less than 15%
(b) Projects costing over Z$20,000
i) Cooperatives at least 15Z
(ii) Other sponsors at least 25%
III. Fees and Other Charges
(a) Application fee
Ci) Cooperatives $5
(ii) Others $10
(b) Administrative charge for project supervision
According to the following formula
C - N (N + 1) divided by 2, where C is the charge and N the
number of thousands of dollars of the loan
IV. Interest Rates
16% to projects located in rural areas, 18% to those in urban areas.
EAPID
March 1985



- 44 -
Amx 
Fil-Scale Enterprise Proect
SW.-' nntepdse 1Xvelp.nt Corporatimx
apses of Pipeline md Approwl
I. Analysis of MM Pipelne
(as of 1vemke 1984)
AveraW     Z Loan
Z Loon        AmeaM           lb I for
z        Amurts      Prodect Size       Size      &oddg        Z
Sector          Projects                 ($ '000)        (Z '000)    '           Pojc
Quuierce          64.9        52.0          27.7           18.3        67.9        22.2
Tilust!y          10.3        13.9          79.1           30.9        30.9        10.0
-oostructltm       1.0         0.1          23.0           10.0       100.0         0.0
Services          23.7        34.0          70.1           32.7        27.2        26.1
Total            100.0       100.0          43.0           22.9        54.8        21.6
IL  knal         C& SEDOD
(as of Noeme 1984)
A. Sector
I loan
1 Total      Arerap     Used for
Anzmt        2 Total       Abwts        Loa Sim    Worklig
Sector          NmA)er     (Z$ '000)      P                          (Z I0)
commerce          32         396.8          78.0           82.1        12.4        81.5
Industzy          6           65.0          14.6           13.4        10.8        47.7
Canltruction       1          10.0           2.4            2.1        10.0        1O0
Services          2           11.7           4.9            2.4         5.9         0.0
Total           41         483.5          100.0         100.0        11.8         75.4
B. Size                                           C.  O ip
AvNDt                                                 hunt
Nuh      (SZ 000)                                   Kabr ($Z MM)
Up to SZ 10,000      20      115.5                Sole Prqrietor         21       217.1
SZ 10,OO0-2,000      17      238.6                Cooperative            11      140.0
Over SZ 20,000        4      129.4                Private Cobapy          8       116.4
Total            41      483.5         j      Pa Irezsbp              1        10.0
Total
EAPID
Januay 1985



- 45 -
Annex 7
ZIMABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise ProJect
Small Enterprises Development Corporation
Summarized Income Statement - FY-1984
(SZ '000)
1984 I/
Income
Interest on Loans                                                   -
Fee Income                                                          2.6
Interest on Deposits                                               10.4
Administration Grant                                              441.1
Subtotal Income                                                 454.1
Expenses
Administrative Expenses-Financial Assistance                      172.3
Administrative Expenses-Technical Assistance                       10.0
Depreciation                                                       29.2
Financial Charges                                                   -
Subtotal Expenses                                               211.5
Net Profit (Loss)                                                   242.6
1/ 6 months ended June 30, 1984.
EAPID
January 1985



-46 -
Annex 8
ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Small Enterprises Development Corporation
Summarized Balance Sheet -  Y-1984
($z '000)
1984 1/
Assets
Cash, Deposits and Short Term Investments                              946.3
Interest Receivable and Prepaid Expenses                                 7.0
Current Maturities of Portfolio Loans                  -_-
Total Current Assets                                               953  .3
Loan Portfolio (Net)                                                     -
Equity Investments                                                      25.4
Net Fixed Assets                                                       142. 7
Total Assets                                                     1,121.4
Liabilities
Sundry Creditors                                                        18.5
Staff Expenses Payable                                                   6.3
Total Current Liabilities                                           24.
Loan Capital 2/                                                        854.0
Total Liabilities                                                  878.8
Net Worth
Capital Reserve                                                          -
Surplus                                                                242.6
Total Net Worth                                                    242.6
Total Liabilities and Net Worth                                      1,121.4
1/ 6 months ended June 30, 1984.
2/ Received from Government - to become 'unrepayable capital".
EAPID
January 1985



ZIMBWE
Small-Scale Enterprlse Project
Small Enterprises Dovelopment Corporatlon
Projected Operatlons FY1985-1989
($Z '000)
Year Ending June 30                                        1985          1986          1987          1988         1989
Approvals
Commerce                                                1,298.6       2,291.5      3,235.2       3,798.4       4,449.6
Industry                                                  383.3        788.7       1,286.7       1,733.4       2,317.5
Construction                                               45.1         124.5         245.1        452.2         927.0
Services                                                  450.9         830.3      1,225.4       1,507.3       1,854.0
Finance Houses                                              0.0       1,000.0       1,200.0      1,440.0       1,728.0
Total                                                 2,177.8      5,035.0       7,192.4       8,931.3      11,276.0
Commitments
Comwerce                                                1,233.7       2,176.9      3,073.4       3,608.5       4,227.1
Industry                                                  364.1        749.3       1,222.4       1,646.7      2,201.6
Constructlon                                               42.8         118.3        232.8         429.6         880*6
Services                                                  428.4         788.7      1,164.2       1,431.9       1,761.3
Flnance Houses                                              0.0         950.0      1,140.0       1,368.0       1,641.6
Total                                                 2,069,0      4,783.3       6,832.8       8,484.7      10,712.2
Disbursements
Commerce                                                  92562       1,941.1      2,849.3       3,474.7       4,072.4
Industry                                                  236.7        559.9         999.0       1,427.2       1,943.7
Construction                                               32*1          99.4        204.2         380.4         767.9
Services                                                  321.3         698.6      1,070.3       1,365.0       1,678.9
Flnance Houses                                              0.0         475.0        807.5       1,206.5       1,447.8
Total                                                 1,515.3      3,774.1       5,930.3       7,853.9       9,910.8
Collectlons                                                 212.1       1,020.7      2,641.4       4,362.0       5,996.7
bE
EAPID
January 1985



Z IMBWE
Small-Scale tnterprlse Project
Small Enterprlsea Development Corporation
Projected Incom Statements FY1965-1989
(ZS '000)
Year Ending June 30                                       1985         1986        1987          1988         1989
Income
Interest Income                                         110.8        455.6        969,2      1,545.5      2,175.0
Application Fees                                          1.4          2.1          2.5           2.4          2.5
Admlnlstratlve Fee                                       17.4         50.4         86.3         125.0        203.0
Subtotal                                              129.6        508.1      1,058.0      1,672.9       2,3S0.5
Investment Income                                         113.5        474.4        288.3        161.3        142.2
Consulting/Tralning Fees                                   48.2        120.5         133.6        148.5        165.7
Total Income                                              291.3      1,103.0      1,479.9       1,982.7      2,680.4
Expenses
Administrativo Expenses - Flnancial Asslstance Unit   519.0          621.4        684.0         755.4        837.0
Administrative Expenses - Technical Assistance Unit   459.5          701.0        776.9         864.0        964.2
Subtotal Adninlstrative Expenses                          978.5      1,322.4      1,460.9       1,619.4      1,801.2
Flnanclal Charges                                         -           43.S         174.7        394.1        625.4
ProilsIons                                               19.5         60.8         90.6         101,7        111.1
Depreciation                                             26.0         35.O         44.0          53.0         62.0
Subtotal Other Expenses                                    45.5        139.3        309.3         548.8        798.5
Total Expenses                                          1,024.0      1,461.7      1,770.2       2,168.2      2,599.7
=.u...mu     uuu...U.    monsoons    ........       . ....mmU.
Net Profit (Loss)                                        (732.6)      (358.7)       (290.3)      (185.5)        88.7
of which
Nwt Profit (Loss) Flnancial Assistance Unit              (321.3)       221.7        353.0         530.0        887.1
Net Profit (Loss) Technical Assistance UnIt              (411.3)      (580.4)      (643.3)       (715.5)      (798.4)
Governmant Contrlbution                                   732.6        580.4        643.4         715.5         798.4
EAPI 0
March 1985



ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise ProJoct
Small Enterprlses Deelopmant Corporatlon
Irojected Balance Shoots FYB5-89
(Zs '000)
Year Ending June 30                                         1985         1986         1987          1988          1989
Assets
Cash, Deposits and Short-Term  Investments                3,953.6      2,402.4       1,344.4       1,185.2        984.9
Interest Recelved/Prepaid Expenses                          49.2          62.9          68.4          74.8         82.0
Current Maturities - Portfollo Loans                        606.1      2,115.7       3188i.8       5,513.7      7,105.9
Total Current Assets                                 4,608.9       4,51d0       5,294.6      6,773.7       8,172.8
Gross Loan Portfollo                                        697.0       1,940.8      3,463.7       5,323.6      7,645.S
(Loss Provislons)                                         (19.5)       (80.4)       (171.0)       (272.7)      (383.8)
Not Loan Portfollo                                          677. S     I860.4        3,292.6       5,050.9      7,261.7
Investments                                                 25.4          25.4          25.4          25.4         25.4
Gross Flxed Assets                                          260.0        350.0         440.0         530.0        620.0
Accumulated Depreciatlon                                    (55.2)        (90.2)      (134.2)       (187.2)       (249.2)
Net Fixed Assets                                            204.8        259.8         30Me8         342.8         370.8
Total Assets                                              5,516.6      6,726.6       8,918.4      12,192.8     15,830.7
Llabilltles and Net Worth
Sundry Creditors                                            195.7        26445         29242         323.9        360.2
Staff Expenses Payable                                       78.3         1058        116.9         129.6         144.1
Current Maturities - LTD                                      0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0        655.5
Total Current LlabilIties                               274.0        370 3         409.1         453.5      1,159.8
Long Term Debt                                                0.0        892e0       2,692.0       5,392.0      7,436.6
Total LlabIllltes                                           274.0       1,262.3      3,101.1       5,845.5      8,596.4
Unrepayable CapItal                                       5,000.0      5,000.0       5,000.0       5,000.0      5,000.0
Surplus                                                     242.6        464.3         817.3       1,347.3      2,234.3
Total Net Worth                                      5,242.6       5,464.3      5,817.3       6,347.3       7,234.3
Total Llabilitles and Net Worth                           5,516.6      6,726.6       8,918.4      12,192.8      15,830.7
.....m...... ......    .........*- ...*- .umu.ua    u...u.. ..   uU.m. 3 
EAPI0
March 1985



ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Small Enterprlses Developemnt Corporation
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds FYB5-89
(ZS '000)
Year Ending June 30                                         1985        1986          1987         1988          1989
Sources
Net Profit (Loss)                                       (732,6)       (398.7)       (290.3)      (185.5)         88.7
Depreclatlon                                              26.0          35.0          44.0         53.0          62.0
Provislons                                                 19.5         60.8          90.6        101.7         111.1
Cash from Oneratlons                                     (687.1)      (262.9)       (155*7)       (30,8)        261,8
Lcwi, Collectlons - Principal                            212.1       1,020.7      2,641.4       4,362.0       5,996.7
Equlty                                                 4,146.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
Government ContrlbutIon                                  732.6         580A4        643.4         715$5         798.4
Borrowlngs - IBRD                                          0.0         892.0       1,800.0      2,700.0       2,700.0
Total Souroes                                          4,403.6       2,230.2       4,929.1      7,746.7       9,756.9
..susuuu     "nuseamu       mu.:...:    mu...g..    *--------
Uses
Change in Working CapItal                                (207.0)       (82.5)        (33.2)       (38.0)        (43.6)
Fixed Assets                                              88.1          90.0          90.0         90.0          90.0
Loan Dlsbursements                                      1,515.3      3,774.1       5,930.3      7,853.9       9,910.8
Loan Repayments                                             0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
lotal Uses                                             1,396.4       3,781.5      5,987.1       7,905.9       9,957.2
Annual Surplus (Deficit)                               3,007.2      (1,551.3)    (1,058.0)       (159.2)       (200.3)
uu*uu...        .....  mu.......   ........  ur........  uuu .mu.".. *-
Cunmlative Surplus (Deficit)                           3,953.6       2,402.4       1,344.4      1,185.2         984.9
EAPID
March 1985



- 51 -
Annex 13
ZtI nbabwe
Smtl1-Scale Enterprise Project
Small Enterprises Developwmnt Corporation
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios FY84-89
Actual              Projected 3/
Year Ending June 30                                1984 I/ 1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Ince Statement Items as
% of Average Tota I Assets
Gross Inco                                        2.3      8.8   18.0   18.9   18.8   19.6
Loan Income                                       0.5      3.9    8.3   13.5   15.8   17.4
Flnancial Administative Expenses                 30.7    15.6   10.2    8.7    7.2    6.1
Total Admintstrative Expenses                     1.8    29.5   21.6   18.7   15.3   13.2
Net Profit                                       43.3   (22.1)  (5.9)   (3.7)   (1.8)   0.6
Financial Assistance Unit Net Profit             43.3    (9.7)   3.6    4.5    5.0    6.5
Profitabilily Indlcators
Net Profit as % of Year End Net Worth            22.1 2/ (14.0)   (6.6)   (5.0)   (2.9)    1.2
Fln. Net Profit as % of Year End Net Worth       22.1 2/  (6.1)   4.1    6.1       8.4   12.3
Loan Inceme as % of Average Loan Portfolio        n.a.   19.0   18.6   18.4   18.6   18.6
Cost of Debt as % of Average Long-Term Debt       n.a.    n.a.   9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Financlal Structure Indicators
Current Ratio                                    38.4    16.8   12.4   12.9   14.9    6.5
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio 2/                    0.0      0.0    0.2    0.5    0.8    0.9
Provisions as % of Average Portfolio              n.e.    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Debt ServTce Coverage Ratio                       n.a.    n.e.  30.4   18.4   13.5    5.9
Arrears as % of Portfollo                         n.a.    7.0    8.4    9.0   10.1   10.2
Collections Ratio (Principal) - S                 n.a.   70.0   75.0   80.0   80.0   80.0
1/ Includes SZ 441,100 received from Government as administratlon grant.
2/ Includes SZ 854,000 "Loan Capital" tn Year End Net Worth.
3/ Profitablitty ratios exclude potential contrTbutions by Government In calculating net profit.
EAPID
March 1985



- 52 -
Annex 14
ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
CUSs'000)
SEDCO           Construction
Technical      Industry     Cumulative
IBRD-FY                  Onlending Assistance       Component      Total
1986
First Quarter               -             -             -              -
Second Quarter            212.0          37.5         120.0         369.5
Third Quarter             212.0          37.5         140.0         759.0
Fourth Quarter            212.0          37.5         160.0        1,168.5
1987
First Quarter             322.0          50.0         130.0        1,670.5
Second Quarter            322.0          50.0         110.0       2,152.5
Third Quarter             322.0          50.0          50.0       2,574.5
Fourth quarter            322.0          50.0          50.0       2,996.5
1988
First Quarter             482.0          37.5          80.0       3,596.0
Second Quarter            482.0          37.5          30.0       4,145.5
Third Quarter             482.0          37.5          30.0       4,695.0
Fourth Quarter            482.0          37.5           -         5,214.5
1989
First Quarter             482.0          34.4           -         5,730.9
Second Quarter            482.0          34.4           -         6,247.3
Third Quarter             482.0          34.4           -         6,763.7
Fourth Quarter            482.0          34.3           -         7,280.0
1990
First Quarter             322.0           -             -         7,602.0
Second Quarter            322.0           -             -         7,924.0
Third Quarter             322.0           -             -         8,246.0
Fourth Quarter            322.0           -              -        8,568.0
1991
First Quarter             214.0           -             -         8,782.0
Second Quarter            214.0           -             -         8,996.0
Third Quarter             214.0           -             -         9,210.0
Fourth Quarter            214.0           -             -         9,424.0
1992
First Quarter             107.0           -             -         9,531.0
Second Quarter            107.0           -             -         9,638.0
Third Quarter             107.0           -             -         9,745.0
Fourth Quarter            107.0           -             -         9,852.0
1993
First Quarter             148.0           -             -        10,000.0
EAPID
April 1985



- 53 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Construction Industry Component
Training and Advisory Services
Outline Terms of Reference
1. Introduction
1.1       The Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ) has identified certain segments
of the local construction industry, which need strengthening by providing
training and advisory services to their managers. These segments include
emergent contractors, building brigades and road construction units,
building and construction inspectors of the relevant ministries, and
SEDCO ' appraisers of contractors. The required services are to be
provided by consultants.
1.2       In addition to conducting the initial trainirg courses with the
above identified participants, the consultants will also train 10 local
instructors for about eight months, who will subsequently carry the
principal burden of the training and advisory services. Most of them will
have been employed with large local construction companies and will be
released by these companies for a two-year secondment.
1.3       The Ministry of Manpower will be the Executing Agency for the
provision of these services. The Zimbabwe Master Builderst and Allied
Trades Association (ZIMBATA), the Federation of Civil Engineering
Contractors (FCEC), CIFOZ, the Ministry of Construction and National
Housing and other appropriate organizations will jointly assist the
Ministry in administering the execution of services under a separate
arrangement.
1.4       The consultants' agreement will also include a study of the
construction industry in Zimbabwe under separate terms of reference.
2. ObJective
The objective of this assignment is to improve the efficiency of
certain segments of the domestic construction industry with particular
attention to the development of their managerial capability (i.e. in site
and enterprise management) and cost-effectiveness. These segments include
about 60 small contractors, 48 work superintendents of force account units,
48 inspector of the relevant ministries and supervising Engineer/
Architects, 4 appraisers of lending institutions and 10 local instructors.



- 54 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 3
3. Scope of Work
3.1       The consultants will provide the international experience and the
special expertise for the required training and advisory services and work
in close cooperation with local organizations and counterparts to adjust
their exoertise to conditions and requirements in Zimbabwe. The two
principal trainers, will familiarize themselves with the Zimbabwean
environment by assisting the consultants at the beginning of their
assignment in the country in carrying out the study of the local
construction industry. The contribution of these two expatriates will be
limited to assessments of manpower and training needs as well as the
related training and educational institutions in Zimbabwe.
3.2       Based on the experience gained from this initial activity, the
two principal trainers will, together with the local instructors, (a)
prepare a detailed training program on site and enterprise management, (b)
adjust, if necessary, their imported training material to the specific
needs in Zimbabwe, and (c) participate in the final selection of the ten
local instructors.
3.3       The training program will be executed in three phases. The two
expatriates will mainly perform the training and advisory services during
the first phase. Subsequently, the trained local instructors will take
over under the guidance of the consultants, and extend the services from
Harare (for West-, Central- and East Mashonaland) to at least one other
Province with its capital as (venue e.g. Masingo).
3.4       Courses, supplementing the curriculum for local instructors and
appraisers, will be held intermittently. These courses will be completed
in about eight munths; they will be simultaneously complemented by advisory
services. These services will be extended to the participants of the site
and enterprise management courses by following-up with field visits on
topics discussed in the classroom. The instructor trainees will
participate in these visits and gradually take over from the expatriates or
other more knowledgeable Zimbabwean instructors. The advisory services to
SEDCO will be provided when loan applications have to be reviewed and the
applying contractor has to be appraised. It is envisaged that, after about
six months, adequate in-house expertise will have been developed in SEDCO
that advisory services will be required for exceptional cases only.
3.5       The courses on site management will include subjects as setting
up a site; preparing a budget for the execution of work at a specific site;
setting up a system for accounting and cost control during work execution;
selection and composition of construction equipment and tools for typical
types and sizes of works; and preparation of a work schedule determining
the timing and duration of the principal work items.



- 55 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of 3
3.6       The courses on enterprise management will include subjects as a
contracto-'s review of tender documents; the preparation of a tender with
unit prices; establishing a site as a production entity including cost and
progress control; procurement of equipment and supplies; cash flow and
liquidity assessments; relationship and cooperation with financial -
institutions providing overdraft facilities, loans, bonding, guarantees and
insurances; and growth of enterprise without undue risk.
4. Resources
4.1      The consultants will provide the expatriate personnel necessary to
carry out the two-year training program. The personnel will include:
(a) the Program Director to be resident in Harare for about
18 months;
(b) the enterprise management expert to be resident in
Harare for about 8 months, and
(c) an expert or experts on short-term visits (tentatively
three visits) totalling about 3 months, as and when
required.
4.2       The consultants will provide the curricula vitae of the persons
Proposed for the first and second positions above, indicating, inter alia,
the experience, particularly in Africa,
(a) in building and civil engineering construction for the
Program Director and
(b)  in business management of a construction company for
the second expert.
4.3       The expert(s) on short-term visits will deal with special and
complex issues, if the need would arise and the appropriate expertise would
be locally not available.
Reporting
5.1       The consultants will submit an interim report within seven months
after the starting date of their assignment also indicating any
improvements or changes necessary to the training program based on the
experience gained.
5.2       Within fifteen months after that starting date, the consultants
wili submit a final report on the first and second phases of the training
program including an assessment of the results achieved and recommendations
on how to proceed with this type of training and the selection of
particlpants.
EAPID
April 1985



- 56 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE
Small-Scale Enterprise Project
Study of the Construction Industry
Outline Terms of Reference
1.        Introduction
1.1       The construction industry of Zimbabwe (CIZ) has undergone Certain
structural changes since independence i.e. April 1980. The Government of
Zimbabwe (GOZ) wishes to retain the services of consultants to be provided
with a comprehensive overview of the existing situation related to the CIZ,
its capabilities and constraints, and with recommendations for
improvements.
1.2       For the purpose of the study, GOZ will establish a Steering
Committee which will consist of representatives from the relevant
Ministries and the private sector.
1.3       The consultants' agreement will also include other related
services which the consultants are requested to perform, e.g. as trainers
and advisers, under separate terms of references.
2.        Oblectives
2.1       The principal objective of the study is to assist GOZ in
preparing a suitable strategy to strengthen those segments of the
Zimbabwean Construction Industry which cannot meet GOZ's development goals
with adequate capability and efficiency.
2.2       Particular attention will be given to the emergent enterprises
and their appropriate role in the local construction industry, focussing on
the development of their highly valued human resources.
3.        Scope of Stage I of the Study
3.1       The study will be carried out in two stages.  Stage I will assess
the basic facts, principal trends, significant indicators, major
constraints etc.. of the CIZ. Based on this review stage II will propose a
realistic strategy and an action plan for the strengthening of those
segments of CTZ, which require improvement. The focus will be on the
required near-term efforts to initiate a development momentus, rather than
to attempt to quantify the long-term needs in detail. Special attention
will be given on the small to medium emergent contractors with identifiable



- 57 -
Anex 16
Page 2 of 3
qualifications for highly repetitive and fairly simple types of contract
work sucAi as single-storey clinics and schools in rural areas, regraveling
of roads (periodic road maintenance) and sall private contracts in low-
and middle-income housing.
3.2       Under Stage I, the consultants will review the capacity and
competence of CIZ in general, related to its present status and its
development over the last three to five years. This will include inter
alia private contractors, construction co-operatives, force account units
and building brigades; performed work; existing local production of
construction materials; past experience with, and performance of, private
contractors particularly the emergent contractors including the role of
domestic enterprises as partner in joint ventures and as sub-contractors;
availability of qualified manpower at the various levels; role of the
contractor associations in Zimbabwe; and procurement practices related to
type of work and size of contract.
3.3       The consultants will assess the impact of &OZ policy on CTZ
related inter alia to construction demand for each principal segment of
CIZ, investmants in CIZ, taxation and import duties, availability of
foreign exchange, the public sector procurement systems and practices of
awarding contracts to companies and individuals, preferences for local
contractors, financial assistance to contractors, payment methods, feasible
use of locally available material and human resources, the enforcement of
contractual obligations by the public sector, and the role and practice of
the informal sector.
3.4       Related to the construction demand on CIZ, an estimate will be
prepared of the annual public-sector construction and maintenance
activities for the next five years and the part thereof to be executed
under contract of each principal category, the private sector construction
demand for the next five years, and the impact of likely available foreign
aid on construction for the same time period.
3.5       The  consultants will also review presently existing and
potential development constraints including inter alia fluctuation of
construction demand; availability of skilled manpower and managers; legal
and administrative constraints; appropriateness of tender documents for
emergent contractors; and availability of overdraft facilities (e.g. for
working capital) and term loan (e.g. for acquisition of equipment) to
emergent contractors.
3.6       Under Stage I, the consultants will also assess the suitability
of existing financial institutions for lending to emergent contractors;
CIZ's manpower requirements and the adequacy of existing education and
training institutions; the appropriateness of the applied technology by
CIZ, and feasible and practial alternatives for GOZ interventioninto CIZ to
control prices, availability of adequate construction capacity, and local
participation in the construction process.



- 58 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
4.        Report on Stage I of the Study
The consultants will present their findings and conclusions of
Stage I in a draft Interin Report to the Steering Committee not later than
four months after the starting date.
5.        Scope of Stage II of the Study
5.1       Based on the findings and conclusions of Stage I, the consultants
will-rank the previously identified needs; propose a strategy on bow to
meet the identified demands e.g. for assistance, reforms and incentives;
and resulting from the above, prepare an action plan for at least the next
three years.
5.2.      To the extent practicable, the consultants will prepare estimates
for the proposed near-term actions indicating the required financial,
manpower, material, physical, and institutional resources in such detail
that an adequate basis would be provided for GOZ to proceed in preparing
the next steps to secure the outlined resources.
5.3       The consultants will also offer their views related to the
feasibility and practicability of creating a permanent Construction Council
to GOZ. The Council would monitor the implementation of GMZ policies
related to the construction sector and of the consultants recommendations
accepted by GOZ.
6.        Report on Stage II of the Study
The consultants will present their findings, conclusions and
recommendations in a draft Final Report to the Steering Committee not later
than eight months after the starting date.
EAPID
January 1985



- 59 -
Annex 17
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Small Enterprises Development Corporation (SEDCO)
1. Assumptions for Operations and Financial Forecasts.
2. Schedule of Approved Loans as of November, 1984.
3. Unaudited Financial Statements April-October 1984.
4. Budget Reports April-October 1984 - 1986.
5. Proposed Debtors System.
6. Draft Loan Agreement, Lease Agreement and Notarial Bond.
7. SEDCO Act.
8. Sample Loan Application Form.
9. Organization Chart and Description of Divisional Functions.
10.  Loan Regulations Workflow.
11. Training Division Background Notes.
12. MDI Proposal for Program Support to SEDCO.
13.  Background Notes on Proposed Scope and Funding of SEDCO Technical
Assistance Unit.
14.  Project Pipeline Data.
Construction Industry
15. ILO Paper on the Development of Small-Scale Construction Enterprises -
May 1984.
16. ILO Paper on the Appropriate Rural Technology in Zimbabwe - Problems -
Prospects - Proposals, September 1983.
17. Sample Contracts, Registration Schedules.
18. FCEC Membership.
19.  ZIMBATA Constitution, Rules and By-Laws.
20. Final Mission Report on the Construction Industry Componenr by
R. Kaden tConsultant).
Zimbabwe Industrial Advisory Service (ZIAS) (formerly Small Industries
Advisory Service)
21. The Role and Modus Operandi of the Small Industries Advisory Service,
February 2, 1978.
22. Consideration on the Form and Extent of Future Assistance to and
Development of Small Business in Zimbabwe - Rhodesia, July 1979.
2?. Observations Extracted from IBRD Report (1971) on 'Development of
African Enterprise", July 20, 1979.
24. Annual Reports FY 79-81.
25. Industrial Estates: Consideration in Relation to Zimbabwe, 1981,
December 6, 1980.
26. Operating a Small Business with Particular Reference to Marketing,
Stock Control and Credit, August, 1981.



- 60 -
Annex 17
Page 2 of 2
27. Chief Executive's Report for September 1981.
28. Report on the Activities of ZIAS for the Mouth of October 1981.
29. An Appreciation of Small Industry as a Factor in Development and a
Five Year Programme of Assistance, September 1980 and February 1982.
Institute of Business Development (IOBD)
30. Pamphlets on IOBD.
31. Annual Report 1980/81.
32. A List of Non-Sponsored Courses 1982.
33. A Perspective of the Institute and a Three-Year Development Programme
Ministry of Labour and Social Services - Department of Employment and
Employment Development
34. Draft Papers on the Informal Sector in Zimbabwe.
35. The Legal Constraints on the Informe.l Sector in Zimbabwe.
36. The Role of Women in the Informal Sector.
Development Finance Company (DFC)
37. Papers on the Organization, Investment Guidelines, Objectives and
Policy Statement and Act of the DFC.
38. Financial Reports of DFC.
Finance Trust for Emergent Businessmen (FEBCO)
39. Monthly Statistical Report, April 1984.
EAPID
January 1985



- r;   --)i  1|1   s16 
l    Z a' b...  h y Irla L4,UId6Fo' SWI  &1A ,*f Ih. Cc~. of
O. '   3..W-   Tb.. r-O.- ,n .1 b.     Tr.  Fml C*,orWV    .
a'l Pb. frg-. Dl.*'rwr s.;s1,' r.,cn.. .n rn.uwSrr.sb  orse ...ctrc 0h! Cq n 03.Jv*
) AMAMAA                                         A ND
NQ~
BOTSWANA                                  AA
20r
Hard Surfacec Roods-
RoIroadsL
A.ded                                                    *i, @        J M..t>h 
-Prowence Boundorwsu
_. -    tnr.,nol enol Boundor,is
-22'                  0           50         100         15C
KILOMETERS                                                            BOTS *
miLES 
0S                50100
26'                                             2,.8



IBRD 17026
2A- 30                        32-           lMARCH 1963
Z I M B A BWE
PROVINCES
Baithnd              .O MOZAMBIQUE
TO Lusaka                                                                   Jg'R 16'-
SOUTH  AFA                 M A S H  O        N D
N---.   3 L A N
X   f      T             9"ry  X               <  E~~~~Mongi-  N TX R A
{' t>'   (   \X 2 N V A~HN                  D LAND
aA <Che9~~~~~~~~~~uto J frg
ASSX  XX\d   $m\ e                         X XU<.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r r
\   U_  t       A       s          k       X           /          <        1~~~~~u  t  A 
_4               ou  \       )t          X   X       ./~~~~~~~~~~wn 
Pi ~-v  t\D u    \
N ~       ~       OT                           AFRICAA  / 
2- r                         30   r                        32-






