Docxumentof
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-4033-ZIM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
ZIMBAWE
FOR A
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
April 22, 1985
This docmpent has a restricted distibudon and may be used by eciplents only in the perfonmance of
thei offiei   dutes, Its contents may not otherwise be disosed without World Bank authorizaion.



:
CURRECY EQUIVALTS
(November 1984)
US$1.00 = $Z 1.40
SZ1.00   =  US$ 0.71
A_ BREVIAIIONS/ACRONM
CIFOZ    Construction Industry Federation of Zimbabwe
DCD      Department of Cooperatives Development
DFC      Development Finance Company
FEBCO    Finance Trust for Emergent Businessmen
IDC      Industri .L Development Corporation
MCNH     Ministry of Construction and National Housing
MLMPSW   Ministry of Labor, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare
RBZ      Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
SEDCO    Small Enterprises Development Corporation
SSE(s)   Small Scale Enterprise(s)
USAID    United Scates Agency for International Development
ZIAS     Zimbabwe industrial Advisory Service
GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE AND SEDCO
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



zmuu                 FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
lOAN AND PROJECr SQQlUK
Borrower:       Zimbabwe
1
Beneficiaries:  Small Enterprises Development Corporation (SEDCO) and the
Ministry of Labor, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare
(MLMPSW).
Amount:          US$10.0 million
Terms:           Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace with
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:          The Government would onlend the credit component (US$8.5
million) to SEDCO at the interest rate that it charges on
loans to its parastatals (currently 9.75X p.a.) and
with a fixed amortization schedule for 15 years including 4
years of grace. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. SEDCO would relend at 18% p.a. for
sub-loans in urban areas and 16% p.a. in rural areas with
maturities up to 7 years including a grace period of up to
2 years. The technical assistance components totalling
US$1.5 million would be made available to KLMPSW
(US$0.9 million) and as a grant to SEDCO (US$0.6 million).
Objectives and
Project
Description:    This pilot SSE project would support the Government's
program of providing urgently needed financial assistance,
training and management counselling to small-scale
entrepreneurs. The project would also strengthen the Small
Enterprises Development Corporation (SEDCO). More
specifically, the project would:
(i)  provide a line of credit to SEDCO for on-lending to
an estimated 470 SSEs; and
(ii) provide technical assistance to improve the
institutional efficiency of SEDCO and to help
finance a management training program for small
contractors and a study of the construction sector and
its potential for small construction firms.
Benefits and
Risks:          The project would play a critical role in strengthening the
Government program to provide an effective integrated
package of technical and financial support to small-scale
entrepreneurs. It would help enhance the entrepreneurial
and technical capabilities of small-scale entrepreneurs,
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-iUi-
increase the supply of credit to them, and build up SEDCO
into a strong aud effective Institution.   The project
would create nearly 4000 jobs at an average cost per job of
only about US$3,100. There is a risk that SEDCO may
expand its operations for socio-economic reasons to
marginal enterprises in rural areas with limited
infrastructure.  The risk is mitigated, however, by SEDCO
providing training and management counselling to SSEs,
strengthening its supervision capabilities, and by funding
high risk operations only through a special Government
financed "Managed Fund".
Estimated Cost:                                     Local   Foreign   Total
US$million
1. Line of Credit to SEDCO                           6.8      7.6       14.4
2. Technical Assistance                             0.6       1.1       1.7
Total Cost                                     7.4       8.7      16.1
Financing Plan:
1. Bank Loan                                         1.3       8.7     10.0
2. Local contributions                               6.1       -        6.1
Total                                          7.4        8.7     16.1
Esimated Disbursements: Bank FY1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
US$ million
Annual                             1.2  1.8  2.2  2.1  1.3  0.8  0.5  0.1
Cumulative                         1.2  3.0  5.2  7.3  8.6  9.4  9.9 10.0
Rate of Return:   NA
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5413-ZIM, dated April 16, 1985
Map:              IBRD 17026
.



INT RN&TION&L BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELDPHENT
REPORT AND RECOSUENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO ZIMBABWE
FOR A SHALL SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Zimbabwe for US$10.0 million payable in 17 years, including four
years of grace with variable interest rate, to help finance a Small Scale
Enterprise Project.
PART I - THE ECONOHY
2.        A report entitled 'Zimbabwe -  Country Economic Memorandum' (No.
3234-ZIM), was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1981. Since
then a second economic mission as well as sector missions visited the
country. Their major findings are incorporated in the following para-
graphs. Annex I provides basic country data.
3.        Zimbabwe is a landlocked country of about 390,000 sq km, bordered
by Mozambique on the east, Botswana on the southwest, Zambia on the north-
west and the Republic of South Africa on the south. The population in 1983
was estimated to be 7.5 million, 98% of whom are of African origin. The
non-African population of the country consists of an estimated 100,000
Europeans, 10,000 Asians and 23,000 people of mixed origin. The growth
rate of the African population is estimated to be about 3.4% per year,
while the number of white Zimbabweans has been declining due to emigration.
4.        In 1982 GNP per capita was US$850 but declined to US$ 740 in
1983. Distribution of income and assets, however, is extremely skewed.
The Land Tenure Act of 1969 updated legislation of the 1930s and confirmed
division of the country's total land area into roughly two equal parts for
African and European settlements. The Europeans possessed most of the best
land with Africans being restricted to communal areas with generally
inferior farming conditions. Given the difference in the size of the
populations of the two groups, the division resulted in an allocation of
land at independence of approximately 2.5 ha per African and 65.2 ha per
non-African. Similar disparities exist in the distribution of other
productive assets and income.  In 1978 the average annual cash earnings for
Africans were roughly one tenth of the level of Europeans.
5.        Prior to Independence, the economic development of the country
was affected by two major events. Following the Unilateral Declaration of
Independence (UDI) in 1965, external relations were subject to economic
sanctions imposed by the international community. However, the sanctions
were only partially effective. Between 1965 and 1974, real GDP grew at
about 7% per year and per capita income at about 3.5%. The sanctions



- 2 -
stimulated development of local import substitution capacity, so that by
1979, consumer goods were only about lO of total imports, compared with
222 in 1964. Sanctions also encouraged the diversification of commercial
agriculture and the rapid growth of investment in, and exports from, the
mining sector.
6.        The second major pre-Independence event with considerable socio-
economic effects was the civil war between 1975 and 1979.  This, together
with increases in the oil price and two droughts, caused an economic down-
turn with real per capita income falling by 351 to its 1965 level. The
dramatic increase in the cost of imports, particularly oil, made it
necessary to restrict imports drastically. As a result, domestic output,
real investment and employment declined significantly.
7.        At Independence, the Government was faced with a number of diffi-
cult issues including (i) the extremely unequal distribution of income,
capital, landholding, and access to basic social services; (ii) rapid
growth of population and labor force; (iii) a physical capital stock which
was to some degree depleted and out-of-date as a result of sanctions and
the civil war; (iv) the loss of efficient and skilled manpower; and (v) un-
settled internal and external socio-political problems with considerable
economic repercussions including transport bottlenecks and high freight
costs.
8.        Despite these constraints, the new Government inherited a well-
diversified economy with good potential for growth and with a sophisticated
administrative and physical infrastructure. The economy is well balanced
with large and diversified agriculture, manufacturing and mining sectors
contributing 11% (162 before recent droughts), 21% and 6%, respectively, of
GDP in 1983, and together providing 48 percent of formal employment.
Agriculture and forestry account for more than 260,000 jobs or 26% of the
total; manufacturing for 175,000 jobs and mining for 60,000. Most of the
remaining formal employment is provided by service sectors such as domestic
services, public administration, and education. Mining and agriculture
earn significant amounts of foreign exchange and supply most inputs for
manufacturing, which in turn accounts for between 30 and 35% of Zimbabwe's
merchandise exports, mainly processed agricultural products and steel and
ferrochrome.
9.        After Independence, the Government took several measures to en-
courage growth with more equitable distribution of income.  In the expecta-
tion of greater availability of external resources, including aid, public
expenditures were increased, foreign exchange allocations were raised and
monetary policy was relaxed. To improve income distribution, minimum wages
were increased and restrictions were placed on dismissal of employees.
Public expenditures on social services, particularly education and health
were expanded, and government outlays for rural development, including
resettlement and rehabilitation programs, were increased.
10.       While the Government espouses a socialist philosophy with strong
elements of nationalism, it has been pragmatic in its dealings with the
private sector, as well as in the conduct of its economic policies.



- 3 -
Foreign exchange allocations are tightly administered and there is a wide
range of price controls, but these were inherited from the pre-Independence
government. The new government is honoring commitments on external debt
made by the previous government and retiring white government officials who
emigrate are given pensions in convertible currency subject to certain
restrictions. The Government has been attempting to attract overseas
investors into the country and no fundamental changes in trade practices
have been introduced in relations with South Africa.
11.       In 1980 and 1981, the economy rebounded strongly under the im-
petus of a bumper crop, growth of exports, high gold prices, improvement in
the terms of trade, inflow of external funds, and expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies. As a result, imports rose by 45% in 1980 and 23% in
1981, facilitating increase in capacity utilization. Growth was extremely
strong in agriculture, which benefited from good weather in 1980 and 1981
and incentives provided by the Government's price policy. Consequently,
real growth of GDP was 11% in 1980, and 15% in 1981.
12.       While the domestic economy was performing strongly, there was
evidence of strain on balance of payments, a result of rapidly rising fac-
tor payments associated with retirement of civil servants and emigration,
remittances of companies' profits and dividends together with burgeoning
imports in 1980 and 1981. The current account deficit rose from $Z194 mil-
lion in 1980 to 5Z580 million in 1982, or 12% of GDP. The Government had
to draw increasingly on private external loans with predominantly
short-term maturities and other nonconcessional terms since foreign aid
inflow was slower than anticipated.
13.       In 1982, there was a dramatic turnaround in the economy as the
world recession caught up with Zimbabwe, exports faltered and gold prices
fell. In addition, the agricultural sector together with agro-industries
were severely affected by the first of what proved to be three successive
years of severe drought. Foreign exchange allocations had to be reduced in
1982, 1983 and again in 1984, which restricted the supply of imported
inputs. This, in turn, contributed to a decline of domestic activity. In
1982, real GDP fell by almost 2% and, after four years of growth,
employment stagnated. In 1983 the continuation of drought, world recession
and declining foreign exchange caused a further reduction of GDP by more
than 2% and a loss of employment. Preliminary estimates suggest that the
x           economy continued to stagnate in 1984 with virtually no growth.  However,
prospects for 1985 appear more favorable since agricultural production is
projected to reach high pre-drought levels thanks to recent abundant
rainfall and the overall level of economic activities is rising.
14.       Facing a deteriorating balance of payments situation and rising
inflation, the Government took measures in the course of 1982 and 1983 to
curb the growth of domestic demand and encourage exports. The Zimbabwean
dollar was devalued, import allocations, travel allowances and profit
remittances were cut back, minimum wages were frozen, food and transport
subsidies and other government expenditures were reduced, tax rates were
increased and growth of money supply and credit expansion were restrained.
These were prudent measures taken in a responsible manner by the Government



- 4 -
even though these policies contributed to a slow-down in the pace of social
reforms and an increase in the price level. The package of policy measures
was also supported by the IMF with which the Government agreed on a
stabilization program in April 1983.
15.       The Government subsequently was unable to maintain fiscal
stringency. In February 1984, the Government adopted a supplementary
budget, mainly to finance subsidies of agricultural marketing boards, to
increase wages in education and defense expenditures and to provide
additional assistance to drought-stricken areas. The supplementary budget
included some $Z300 million of additional expenditures and added about
$Z100 million to the overall budget deficit. In addition, new foreign
exchange measures were introduced in March 1984 in the anticipation of
imports of food which will be necessary as a result of a partial failure of
the present maize harvest. These measures included temporary suspension of
payments of dividend and profit remittances, reduction of emigrants'
settling-in allowances, acquisition of externally-registered securities,
release of blocked funds of companies and suspension of income
remittances. The Government has indicated that these foreign exchange
measures are designed to he temporary and that inflationary pressure will
be contained by appropriate monetary policies. The Government and the IMF
are discussing implications of these actions on the stabilization program
and are actively pursuing the preparation of a new standby arrangement.
16.       Zimbabwe's future growth of income and employment will be cons-
trained primarily by the balance of payments. The debt-service ratio of
about 27Z of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1984 is considered
by the Government to be too high and the Government intends to refrain from
further borrowing, except on concessional terms and for development
projects. Hence, the financing of imports and debt service will be
increasingly dependent on the growth of exports.
17.       The promotion of exports must, therefore, be a cont'nued high
priority of the Government. Another important priority for future growth
is the need to increase the level of domestic savings. This is underlined
by the fact that foreign assistance is unlikely to be sufficient for the
financing of necessary investment. Another problem is the high level of
spending by the Government, which is a net dissaver thus reducing resources
normally available for investment in the private sector. Also, public exp-
enditures are biased towards recurrent expenditures while capital outlays
have been progressively cut.
18.       Given these constraints, the prospects for a return to a rapid
growth of income and employment in the medium term are not encouraging.  In
the short run, the primary objective of the Government is to continue with
the stabilization of the balance of payments situation, which will require
continued pursuit of prudent fiscal and monetary policies. Fiscal policy
wlUl have to concentrate on a reduction of the budget deficit. The
monetary authorities will have to restrict growth in the supply of credit
and only allow moderate growth in the money supply in line with development
of real GDP. Since these policies tend to restrain the growth of domestic
demand, it is important that producers be given appropriate incentives, in
particular by flexible exchange rate and price policies.



19.       In the longer term, Zimbabwe's growth potential can only be fully
exploited if the Government pursues vigorously a comprehensive development
strategy which would include (i) the provision of incentives for both
domestic and foreign investment, (ii) accelerated development of the
technical and managerial skills of the African population, (iii) the
promotion of agricultural output and incomes, especially in communal areas,
(iv) the restructuring of public expenditures with a view to encouraging
investment, and (v) the provision of incentives to and institutional
support for traditional as well as new exports.
20.       Zimbabwe emerged from 15 years of sanctions and the civil war
with relatively low external indebtedness. In December 1980, foreign debt
totalled USS700 million and the country's gross foreign exchange reserves
equaled about US$176 million, or an estimated two months of imports. By
the end of 1984, public foreign debt outstanding amounted to about US$1.5
billion and the debt service ratio increased from 4% in 1980 to some 27% in
1984. This rapid rise in debt service reflects heavy external borrowings
with relatively hard terms.   Debt service obligations are expected to
remain relatively high throughout the remainder of this decade. However,
the ratio should fall towards the end of the decade, if domestic demand and
non-essential imports are restrained. In the past, the Government has
acted responsibly and promptly to changing economic and financial
conditions and Zimbabwe has been scrupulous about servicing its debt. In
light of this and the country's potential for future growth and
development, Zimbabwe is creditworthy for Bank lending. However, given the
country's large external resource requirements, the expected high level of
international interest rates and relatively hard repayment terms of
nonconcessional borrowing, as well as domestic savings constraints,
Zimbabwe needs part of its exterrnal assistance for local cost financing.
Also the country would continue to need part of the foreign aid on
concessionary terms for priority development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       Before 1965, the Bank made five loans totaling US$140.3 million
benefiting Rhodesia -- two directly to the Government for agriculture
US$5.6 million) and power (US$28.0 million), two loans totaling US$87.7
million to the Central African Power Corporation (CAPCO), and a US$9.5
million loan to the Rhodesia Railways. As a guarantor of each of the
loans, the United Kingdom serviced them after 1964. The loans for
agriculture, power and railways have been repaid, and CAPCO resumed
servicing its two loans after the lifting of sanctions on December 21,
1979. The Bank's lending strategy over the past few years since Zimbabwe
became independent and joined the World Bank Group has focussed on longer
term development issues in directly productive sectors and selected
priority needs in the country's infrastructure. Since FY81 Zimbabwe has
received seven Bank loans and four IDA credits totalling USS 444 million.
Three operations addressed urgent needs in the agricultural sector,
especially development of communal lands (US$51 million); two projects
supported critical reconstruction efforts and Government's emerging export



promotion programs in the manufacturing sector (USS 136 million), and two
operations helped finance energy development in the country (US$ 106
million). Three operations in the transport sector (US$ 108 million)
focussed on vital reconstruction and rehabilitation activities including
training and manpower development in the railway sub-sector. An urban
development project (US$43 million), which was approved last year, will
primarily help increase the supply of affordable low-cost housing and
related services in the country's key urban and economic centers.
22.       IFC's first investment in Zimbabwe, approved by its Board in
February 1981, was in the Wankie Colliery Company Limited, to help
primarily finance a project for producing coal for the nearby thermal power
station. The original investment was in the form of a US$38 million loan
(552-ZIM), including participation but was subsequently reduced to a total
of US$22.8 million, of which US$12.0 million was for IFC's own account and
US$10.8 million for commercial bank participation. IFC was also
responsible for arranging a further US$10.3 million of commercial bank
financing related to a loan by the Export-Import Bank of the United
States. In March 1984, the Board approved IFC's second investment in
Zimbabwe, in UDC Limited, a hire purchase/factoring institution. The
aggregate amount of US$2.2 million equivalent, of which US$2.0 million
would be in the form of a loan and the balance in the form of equity will
assist in the expansion of the Company's capital base and in the
localization of ownership.
23.       Bank-assisted projects in Zimbabwe in general have been
implemented rather effectively during the past few years. Recent
experience showed, however, that appropriate staffing and adequate
counterpart funding have emerged as problem areas affecting ongoing
operations in varying degree. Exodus of experienced personnel, frequent
staffing changes in the public sector, and moves of qualified officials to
the more attractive private sector have contributed to a decline of the
country's absorptive capacity including project management capacilities.
Budgetary constraints as a result of deteriorating economic and financial
conditions primarily due to prolonged severe drought and world wide
recession caused difficulties in counterpart funding. The Government
showed willingness in reviewing and discussing emerging implementation
problems and generally took corrective measures in time.   Since the Bank's
first operations in Zimbabwe were quick-disbursing reconstruction and
export promotion loans in the manufacturing and transport sectors,
disbursement rates during FY82/83 were relatively high averaging close to
60% but declined to about 24% in FY 1984 which compares favorably with the
Regional average of 19% and a Bank-wide average of 21%. Since Bank lending
to Zimbabwe is very recent, the Bank Group exposure is still low.  At the
end of 1983, the Bank accounted for 6%, and the Bank and IDA combined for
about 7% of Zimbabwe's external public debt disbursed and outstanding.
24.       Bank Group's future strategy in Zimbabwe will focus on growth and
employment creation through continued support of directly productive
sectors, such as agriculture, industry, mining and energy. The Government
plans to exploit more fully the country's export potential based on its
comparative advantage and to stimulate export promotion and diversification



in its development strategy. The agricultural sector, in particular
further development of communal lands, will play a crucial role in
Zimbabwe's future growth and employment policies and in the Government's
efforts to redress the country's highly skewed distribution of income and
assets and to alleviate poverty especially in rural areas. The Bank
intends to support priority Government programs addressing pressing
socio-economic constraints in agriculture and through the promotion of
small scale enterprises. Future Bank activities will also focus on human
resource development including manpower development, education, population
growth and health. Finally, the Bank's strategy will continue to assist
the Government in its efforts to maintain and selectively expand and
modernize the country's existing infrastructure network which is vital to
this landlocked country. Bank Group lending to Zimbabwe has been
coordinated with that of other donors; in 6 of the 11 projects, joint
parallel financing was arranged totalling US$275 million, and expanded
co-financing is being actively sought for several projects under
consideration.
25.       A key element of the Bank's strategy in the country is a more
extensive policy dialogue with the Government on its emerging macro and
sector strategies and related institutional reforms. During the past few
years the Bank carried out sector studies in agriculture, energy, mining,
telecomminications, education, urban, population, health and nutrition.
Further economic and sector work is being carried out or planned in key
areas including industry, transport, and export promotion to provide the
analytical under-pinning for policy discussions, longer-term investment
planning, and project activities including policy-based lending.
PART III - THE SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE/FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Small Scale Enterprise Sector
26.       Zimbabwe's economy, one of Sub-Saharan Africa's most diversified,
offers considerable potential for the emerging small-scale enterprise (SSE)
sector. In 1984, there were about 5400 formal sector and 7000 informal
sector SSEs which together contributed some 15% of GDP. Small scale
enterprises provide about 20% of non-farm employment and cor.sLitute over
e          80% of all non-farm establishments.  Of the approximately 90,000 people
employed in SSEs, about 40% are in trade, 28% in services and 18% in the
manufacturing sector.
27.       The low labor absorption capacity of SSEs outside trade and
services is largely the result of restrictive pre-Independence policies.
These policies contributed to the concentration of non-farm activities,
including SSEs, in the urban centers of Harare in the Mashonaland East
province and Bulawayo in the Matabeland North province where only 15% of
the country's population lives. These two provinces are home to nearly 80%
of small manufacturing firms, 65% of small traders and 77% of small
construction firms. The new Government abolished restrictive
legislation and the number of small-scale enterprises in the informal



- 8 -
sector is rising. During the past few years black Zimbabweans have
established a number of small firms by purchasing on credit equipment
andstocks from emigrating small entrepreneurs. Most new entrepreneurs,
however, have gone into trade and service sectors where lack of capital and
technical expertise is less of a constraint to start a business. The
majority of SSEs are sole ownerships and partnerships. Since Independence,
however, the number of cooperatives, supported by Government, has increased
sharply.  In 1984, 159 industrial cooperatives, 194 retail trade
cooperatives and 32 transport cooperatives existed with a total membership
of 12,000.
28.       Small enterprises generally face several important obstacles.
Lack of managerial experience including financial planning and proper cost
accounting severely limit their growth. SSEs also tend to have inadequate
equipment as a result of lack of technical know-how and access to credit
and other financing facilities. Moreover, most small firms suffer from
working capital shortages leading to frequent production slowdowns.
Finally, small enterprises often cannot afford necessary in-house training
programs. All these factors contribute to low labor skills and
productivity as well as poor quality of goods and services offered.
29.       Lack of an established track record and lack of collatoral, such
as land, limit the access of SSEs to adequate credit or bank overdraft
facilities. High cost of land makes it difficult for SSEs to own property
in urban areas despite the removal of the restrictive policies of the
previous Government. Rural businesses also cannot offer title deeds as
collateral because in the communal areas land normally is not privately
owned. The Government is trying to resolve this problem by granting title
deeds in selected growth centers in communal areas. Recently created
cooperatives suffer from a lack of mutual understanding among largely
inexperienced members about appropriate performance standards. Government
agencies have not been able to provide more support to them mainly because
of staff constraints and lack of coordination. Small construction firms in
particular suffer from lack of management training.
30.       The proposed loan is designed to help overcome these constraints
by strengthening Zimbabwe's Small Enterprises Development Corporation
(SEDCO), which was created to provide financial assistance, training, and
advisory services to SSEs. The project would also provide specific
assistance to small firms of the domestic construction industry. The
project would thus support important recent Government initiatives and
priority socio-economic programs. Government policy statements have
repeatedly stressed the need to support the development of the small
business, particularly in rural areas, as well as the creation of
cooperatives. The Government views the development of SSEs in both urban
and rural areas as a way of achieving its objectives of developing a
broader based business community and of providing additional employment to
the country's growing population.
31.       In the past, the Government has adopted a pragmatic strategy for
achieving its socio-economic objectives. It has basically followed
market-oriented policies by supporting the formal, predominantly privately



- 9 -
owned sector which is the country's main source of foreign exchange.
Simultaneously, the institutional basis has been set in place to spur the
development of small, labor intensive, resource based enterprises in both
rural and urban areas. The Government has started to implement its
strategy by ti) creating SEDCO to provide financial acd technical
assistance to small enterprises; (ii) granting title deeds -- which can be
used as collateral for bank loans -- to small businessmen in selected areas
of the communal lands; (iii) assisting small coooperatives through the
Ministry of Lands, Resettlement and Rural Development; and (iv) expanding
vocational and technical training in recently estabAished or expanding
existing training facilities.  To support emerging small contractors, the
Ministry of Construction and National Housing initiated a specific
promotion program in 1981. Most of the selected contractors under this
program executed small public construction projects in a satisfactory
manner.
The Financial Sector
32.       Zimbabwe has a well-developed and, by sub-Saharan African
standards, a fairly sophisticated financial sector. The sector has an
array of diverse institutions, largely modelled on the British financial
institutions, consisting of the central bank, five commercial banks, four
accepting houses (merchant or investment banks), two discount houses, five
finance houses, three building societies, seven development financing
institutions, the Post Office Savings bank, over 50 insurance companies, 17
insurance brokers, about 1,400 pension and retirement funds, an Export
Credit Insurance Corporation, the Stock Exchange and a number of
unregistered finance companies providing consumer credit. A special
feature of Zimbabwe's financial structure is the integration and
concentration that has taken place in recent years. Most commercial banks
also have accepting and finance houses as subsidiaries and are shareholders
in a discount house. These financial groups provide a complete range of
banking and other financial services.
33.       The commercial banks with a network of over 100 branches provide
a full set of banking facilities. Three of them are wholly-owned
subsidiaries of British banks and two are joint ventures with the
Government. Commercial banks accept deposits of all types and typically
provide short-term (revolving) loans and overdrafts. The accepting houses
or merchant banks specialize in the financing of foreign trade through
acceptance credits, letters of credit, and foreign bills. They accept both
demand and time deposits and lend to corporate customers; they also provide
other financial services such as flotation of bonds, mergers, acquisitions
and capital reconstruction.
34.       Three of the five finance houses are subsidiaries of the
commercial banks ooerating in Zimbabwe.  The finance houses special Le in
providing medium-term financing, mainly in the form of hire-purchase and
leasing finance. They normally lend to established businessmen with a good
track record and credit rating who would be able to repay the loans within
3-5 years. Finance houses obtain about 50% of their deposit by issuing
certificates of deposit which are predominantly purchased by



- 10 -
instititutional investors. Among the larger development finance
institutions, the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) provides short and
long term agricultural credit and the Industrial Development Corporation
(IDC) promotes and provides financial assistance to industrial enterprises,
mainly through equity participations. It has gradually evolved into a
Government bolding company for a number of subsidiaries. The Development
Finance Company (DFC) was established in the late seventies to provide
Uinancial assistance to emerging small-scale entrepreneurs, but ic now in
voluntary liquidation. The Zimbabwe Development Bank, established in 1984
to provide medium and long-term finance primarily to the industrial sector,
started operations recently.
35.       Monetary resources in the country are mobilized quite efficiently
by commercial banks through their branch network, accepting houses, finance
houses, building societies and the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB).
Commercial banks have the largest share of deposits, followed by building
societies, POSB, accepting houses and finance houses. Total deposits of
these institutions grew from $Z1.6 billion in 1979 to $Z2.7 billion in
1983, at an average annual increase of 13.2%. As of December 31, 1983,
fixed term deposits constituted 35Z of total deposits followed by savings
deposits (32%) and demand deposits (20%).
36.       Since Independence, Zimbabwe has followed pragmatic and flexible
i.aterest rate policies and adjusted its interest rate structure to
prevailing economic and monetary conditions. For instance, interest rates
for 12 month deposits went up from between 4%-5.25% in 1980 to between
9.75%-12.25% in 1983. The Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RZB) exercises some
control over the interest rate structure in close collaboration with the
financial community. It determines the minimum lending rate for commercial
banks, deposit and lending rates of building societies, and the deposit
rate~s of the Post Office Savings Bank. RBZ fixes the maximum deposit and
lending rates of finance houses but places no restrictions on deposit rates
offered by commercial banks. The maximum lending rates for commercial
banks are presently 18% and for the finance houses 20Z-23%. Past and
projected average inflation rates are estimated at about 14%.
37.       Small-scale enterprises in the modern sector, which are
predominantly oiwned by white Zimbabweans or foreign investors, have
traditionally secured adequate financing through equity contributions
including retained earnings, medium-term loans from accepting and finance
houses and short-term (revolving) loans from commercial banks.  Lack of
foreign exchange in recent years, however, has restricted their
modernization and expansion programs. The emerging, predominantly black
entrepreneurs, on the other hand, have faced considerable difficulties in
obtaining credit, even for short-term working capital requirements, mainly
due to inadequate collateral and credit rating. On an experimental basis,
the Government, therefore, established the Development Finance Company
(DFC) as a wholly-owned subsidiary of IDC in 1979 to provide loans to
emerging, mostly black entrepreneurs, who did not qualify for loans from
the existing financial institutions on conventional terms. DFC's initial
funding amounted to $Z3 million. Mainly due to improper decision making
and inadequate policies, DFC dissipated its resources in poorly prepared or



- 11 -
politically motivated loans, many of which meanwhile had to be written
off. DFC is virtually defunct now and IDC has initiated steps to put it
into liquidation.
38.       The Government took another initiative to promote SSEs and
created the Finance Trust for Emergent Businessmen (FEBCO) in 1978. As a
non-profit institution, it is owned by RBZ (60X) and commercial banks (40X)
and operates a credit guarantee scheme. Under the scheme FEBCO and
commercial banks share credit risks on commercial banks' short-term loans
to SSEs on a 50:50 basis, with the FEBCO share of potential losses borne by
RBZ. Conservative policies by commercial banks and small entrepreneurs'
lack of a track record and adequate collateral, however, have resulted only
in a modest level of FEBCO operations. During the past few years, FEBCO
assumed credit guarantees at an average annual level of about US$0.6
million per year to 144 entrepreneurs. This level of operations was
clearly inadequate to meet the growing credit needs of the emerging SSEs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
39.       The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed project in
Zimbabwe's expanding SSE sector. The Government has been attaching great
importance to the sector in its evolving development strategy and has asked
for Bank assistance. The Bank's involvement is timely because the
Government has recently set up a new institution, the Small Enterprises
Development Corporation (SEDCO), to implement a revitalized action program
to fully exploit the potential of SSE development within Zimbabwe's well
diversified economy. In identifying and preparing the project, the
Government and Bank have established a dialogue on critical sector issues
and strategies as well as institutional and procedural arrangements. The
proposed proiect would, therefore, support priority Government objectives
and programs underway or planned in this Important sector.   It would also
strengthen institutions operating in the sector and would complement
contributions by other donors in this field.
40.       The project was appraised in July 1984 and negotiations were held
in Washington from March 25-28, 19B5. The Zimbabwean delegation was led by
Mr. A.T.M. Charamba, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Economic
a          Planning and Development.  The Staff Appraisal Report No.5413-ZIM is being
circulated separately. A loan and project summary is given at the
beginning of this report and a supplementary project data sheet is provided
as Annex III of this report.
Project Objectives and Description
41.       The proposed pilot operation in the small scale enterprise sector
is designed to (i) assist SEDCO to improve its management and operational
capabilities to provide technical and financial assistance more effectively
to small scale enterprises; (ii) provide increased resources to the SSE
sector and to exploit more fully its potential for development and
employment creation both in urban and rural areas; (iii) help develop



- 12 -
entrepreneurial capabil ties on a larger scale; and (iv) improve the
efficiency of the emerging small construction firms. It would thus support
key Government programs of providing financial assistance, training and
management counselling to emerging SSEs in Zimbabwe Including small
contractors.
42.       The project to be implemented over a seven-year period would
consist of the following main components:
(i)  a line of credit of US$8.5 million to SEDCO for
onlending to 470 SSEs, for capital equipment and machinery
purchases and for mecting part of their working capital
requirements;
(ii)  technical assistance (US$0.6 million) to SEDCO to help finance
two expatriate advisors, overseas training of SEDCO staff, and
the purchase of urgently needed office equipment to improve
SEDCO's management and accounting systems; and
(iii)  technical assistance (US$0.9 million) to help finance training
of small contractors in site and enterprise management and a
study of the construction industry and the potential for small
construction firms.
Support to SSEs/Small Enterprises Development Corporation (SEDCO)
43.       Given the inadequacies of the past institutional framework and
financial assistance to emerging SSEs, the Government set up SEDCO as a
publicly-owned institution to provide financial assistance, management
counselling and training to cooperatives and small commercial and
industrial enterprises. SEDCO started operating as a development bank for
SSE financing in April 1984 and will provide extension services to SSEs in
the near future. In discussions with the Government and SEDCO, the Bank
was asked to support SEDCO as the principal institution providing both
financial intermediation and training and advisory assistance to SSEs. The
Bank agreed to this approach, but suggested that a number of necessary
improvements in SEDCO's capital structure, organization, policies and
procedures be carried out to ensure SEDCO's efficiency and financial
viability. With these improvements SEDCO should progressively evolve into
an effective institution in support of SSEs.
44. Capital. SEDCO's statute does not require it to have a conventional
paid-in capital base. Since it is important for a sound financial
institution to have adequate equity and financial criteria to guide its
operations, the Bank suggested to the Government that one of its first
steps in transforming SEDCO into an autonomous and financially viable
institution should be to provide it with an appropriate equity base.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that $Z5 million (US$3.6 million
equivalent) as equity would be provided to SEDCO before loan effectiveness
(Sections 4.02(a) and 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Such a capital
basis is necessary for SEDCO to borrow funds for future operations and to
maintain its debt/equity ratio below 3:1 as required in its policy



- 13 -
statement. This prudent ratio is considered necessary at this stage
because SEDCO, a newly established institution operating in a difficult
sector, is yet to develop a portfolio of sound projects and a record of
good financial performance.
45. Organization. SEDCO's Board currently consists of seven members, with
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Trade and Commerce acting as
Chairman. The present composition of the Board is fairly evenly
distributed between civil servants and private sector members. In order to
strengthen the expertise of the Board, the two remaining vacancies on the
Board will be filled with persons having experience in finance, business
and/or law.
46.       SEDCO would be carrying out both financial and technical
assistance activities. The technical assistance activities are extension
service-type operations for the benefit of SSEs which are normally carried
out by the Government, as a public service in this and other sectors. In
consultation with the Bank, SEDCO has, therefore, taken steps to set up two
distinct units to carry out these activities and to maintain separate
accounts. Therefore, the responsibilities of the two units have been
carefully delineated. The Technical Assistance Unit would be responsible
for all development, promotional training and management counselling
activities, and the Financial Assistance Unit for project appraisal,
supervision, disbursements, debt collection and financial management
functions.  In view of the extension-type public services provided by
SEDCO, Government should fund SEDCO's development activities and share the
major financial burden for providing training and consultancy services to
SSEs. However, in an effort to recover some of the training and
consultancy costs from SEDCO's clients, SEDCO proposes to charge trainees
30% of the cost of training and consultancy services. In the case of those
receiving sub-loans from SEDCO, the cost of such services would be included
in and amortized as part of the sub-loan. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that Government would provide the required funding for SEDCO's
development, training and advisory services of the Technical Assistance
Unit on a continuing basis (Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
For the next five years such Government contributions are estimated to
total about US$2.6 million.
47. Management and Staffing.    SEDCO has its Head Office at Harare and
four regional offices in Bulawayo, Masvingo, Mutare and Gweru, Zimbabwe's
major urban centers, to ensure broad geographical coverage throughout the
country. As of October 1984, SEDCO had a professional staff of 33,
including 12 at regional offices, and a support staff of 35. SEDCO's
professional staff is generally competent but lacks experience and,
therefore, needs further training in project appraisal and the provision of
training and management counselling to SSEs. SEDCO has already obtained a
grant of US$0.7 million equivalent from Canada (CIDA) to finance technical
assistance for its training activities. However, to further improve
SEDCO's institutional and operational capabilities, additional technical
assistance is needed. An operations adviser and a technical adviser are
needed urgently for about two years, the former to train SEDCO staff in
project appraisal, supervision, and financial management and the latter to



- 14 -
provide technical extension services to SSEs and to train SEDCO staff in
this area.   Agreement was reached at negotiations that these advisers
would be appointed before loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
48.       Policies.  In its operations SEDCO is required to follow sound
economic and financial principles and have due regard to the Government's
economic policy and the national interest of Zimbabwe. SEDCO's Policy
Statement defines a small-scale enterprise as one with fixed assets of less
than US$143,000 equivalent or employing less than 51 workers, and sets the
ceiling for a single loan at the equivalent of US$71,000. Borrowers must
contribute between 10% to 25% of project cost, depending on the size of the
loan and the legal status of the borrower. SEDCO's debt to equity ratio is
limited to 3:1. SEDCO is required to finance only those projects which are
technically feasible, economically and financially sound and competently
managed. Agreement was reached at negotiations that SEDCO would calculate
financial rates of return for all sub-loans exceeding US$36,000 equivalent
and that the financial rate of return for such sub-loans should be at least
equal to the interest rate applicable for the sub-loan (Scnedule 1, Part A,
3 of the draft Project Agreement). SEDCO's policy statement is
satisfactory and would not be changed without with prior consent of the
Bank (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
49. Lending Terms and Interest Rates. SEDCO is authorized to lend money
for capital goods from 2 to 10 years including a grace period of I to 2
years and for working capital for up to 2 years including a grace period of
3 months. SEDCO's policy statement requires that interest rates should be
positive in real terms in line with the market rates, and adequate to cover
administrative expenses including provision for possible losses, and yield
a reasonable profit. In line with this policy, SEDCO has adopted an
interest rate structure for its loans as follows: 18% p.a. for loans in
urban areas and 16% p.a. for loans in rural areas. With a one-time
administrative fee ranging from 0.5% to 5% of the loan amount, actual costs
of funds to borrowers amount to 16.4% to 19% p.a. SEDCO's interest rates
are satisfactory. They provide an adequate spread to cover expenses,
provisions and a reasonable level of profits and compare favorably with
Commercial Bank rates of 13% (prime rate) and 14% to 18% for other clients
including SSEs on a short-term revolving basis. SEDCO's variable rate
structure with regular adjustments, as appropriate, based on market
developments, is also compatible with past and projected inflation rates of
approximately 14%. Agreement was reached at negotiations that SEDCO would
apply these interest rates for all its loans and review with the Bank its
interest rate structure in light of prevailing economic and financial
conditions every 6-12 months, taking into account the criteria set out in
its policy statement (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement). By
charging adequate interest rates and endeavoring to keep administrative
costs down to a reasonable level, SEDCO is projected to show a profit in
FY 1986. Until then, the Government will cover any losses incurred by
SEDCO's Financial Assistance Unit; Government contribution is tentatively
estimated at about US$0.2 million equivalent during FY85. To ensure that
SEDCO will remain fully funded in the case that it might take longer to
show a profit, agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government



- 15 -
would fund any shortfall in SEDCO's income, to cover the expenses of the
Financial Assistance Unit until FY 1988 (Section 4.02(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
50. SEDCO's Strategy. SEDCO has prepared a strategy statement to serve as
a guide during the next three years. It emphasizes strengthening of
SEDCO's institutional capabilities through (i) establishment and
implementation of appropriate operational procedures, and (ii) intensive
staff training in project appraisal, supervision, financial management, and
consultancy skills development. These strategies are satisfactory. The
Government has asked SEDCO to assist on a selective basis cooperatives and
SSEs in rural growth points, where infrastructure is limited. Government
and SEDCO are aware of the potential risks of such activities to SEDCO's
financial performance. For this reason, Government has agreed to establish
a "Managed Fund", financed entirely by Government contributions, from which
SEDCO could finance projects it considers too risky to finance out of its
normal resources but which the Government considers important for
socio-economic reasons. This would also provide Government with an
indication of the cost of such lending on an annual basis.   SEDCO would
not assume liability for any losses on these -Managed Fund operations, and
would only make such loans to the extent that Government funds were
available and Government reimburses SEDCO for related administrative
expenses. Agreement was reached at negotiations regarding the proposed
funding, scope and administrative arrangements of the "Managed Fund"
operations (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51. Collaboration with Finance Houses. SEDCO has been making efforts to
enlist the support of existing financial institutions to provide
comprehensive financial assistance to a broad spectrum of SSEs. Although
commercial banks remain reluctant to significantly expand thei- role in the
SSE sector, their finance house subsidiaries have expressed interest in
collaborating with SEDCO in providing term financing to SSEs. Under
arrangements to be firmed up, finance houses would identify and appraise
prospective clients for SEDCO approval. SEDCO would be responsible for
disbursements and supervision and would have the option of seeking finance
house assistance for debt collection as well. SEDCO would charge 16X-18%
for such loans, but would pay a fee of up to 2% to the finance houses for
their participation. SEDCO would continue to seek collaboration with other
private financial institutions as appropriate.
52.       Lending.  As of November 1984, SEDCO had approved 41 loans
totalling US$0.36 million equivalent. Moreover, it had appraised some
additional 60 sub-loan and project applications. SEDCO's approvals are
expected to increase from 150 projects in 1985 to 300 from 1987 onward.
SEDCO's resource requirements over the four year period FY85-88 are
expected to total US$16.1 million equivalent and the proposed World Bank
line of credit of US$8.5 million would represent about 53% of SEDCO's total
resource needs.
53.       Support to Small Local Construction Firms.  In response to the
Government's request to assist small indigenous construction firms, the
construction industry component of the proposed project seeks to help



- 16 -
develop the managerial capability of emerging small contractors, building
co-operatives and brigade supervisors. Moreover, the component includes a
study on the potential and constraints of the construction industry.
Consultants financed under the proposed project would provide urgently
needed training to local instructors, small contractors, and SEDCO staff
and prepare a sector study which would include recommendations for further
development. The Ministry of Labor, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare
(MLMPSW) would be the executing agency for the training program with the
assistance of the Ministry of Construction and National Housing as well as
private business organizations, Construction Industry Federation of
Zimbabwe (CIFOZ), Zimbabwe Building and Allied Trades Association (ZIMBATA)
and the Federation of Civil Engineering Contractors (FCEC).
54.       Construction site management training would be provided to
managers of the small domestic construction firms, building cooperatives
and brigade supervisors. Training in enterprise management would be
offered for domestic contractors with individual contracts not exceeding
US$143,000 equivalent who lack human and other resources to execute
construction work efficiently. Two experts would provide expertise and
guidance to the training program. In addition, 10 local instructors would
be trained to carry on the program after the initial two years and to
expand the geographical scope beyond Harare. They would assist in adapting
training materials to local conditions.
Financial Arrangements
55.       The proposed loan of US$10 million would be made to the
Government of Zimbabwe with a fixed amortization schedule for 17 years
including 4 years grace. The Government would on-lend US$8.5 million
to SEDCO, at the rate of interest fixed by the Goverment for loans to its
parastatals, at present 9.75% p.a., for 15 years iucluding 4 years of grace
under a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and SEDCO
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The foreign exchange risk would be assumed by the Government. The
Government would also assume the variable interest rate risk of the line of
credit to SEDCO. The Government would pass on US$1.5 million to (a) the
Ministry of Labor, Manpower Planning and Social Welfare (US$0.9 million) to
finance training and advisory services to the construction industry and a
study of the construction sector and (b) SEDCO (US$0.6 million) as a grant
to finance two advisers and overseas training of SEDCO professionals
(Section 3.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       SEDCO would pass on funds from the line of credit to its
borrowers at its normal interest rates of 18% or 16% p.a., with maturities
not exceeding 7 years depending on the nature and the debt servicing
capacity of the sub-project.   The sub-loans would finance capital
equipment and machinery and workirg capital requirements of sub-projects.
Since most SSE equipment would be locally manufactured with substantially
imported inputs, accounting for about 70% of the equipment cost, the Bank
funds would finance up to 70% of sub-project costs. Financing for working
capital would not exceed 50% of the sub-loan. In case of imported goods,
the Bank funds would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost. SEDCO
would be allowed a free limit of up to US$50,000 after the Bank has
reviewed and approved the first ten sub-projects and is satisfied that the



- 17 -
quality of SEDCO's appraisals is satisfactory to the Bank. (Section
2.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Reports and Auditing
57.       SEDCO would submit quarterly reports and audited annual accounts
in accordance with Bank guidelines for audit of DFCs by qualified auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, within six months after the close of the year.
MLMPSW, would submit quarterly progress reports of implementation of the
training courses and the construction sector study as well as audited
accounts. SEDCO would have its audited accounts prepared and presented
along the lines indicated in the "Illustrative Form of Audit Reports for
Development Finance Companies' and submitted to the Bank within six months
of the close of the financial year.
Procurement
58.       Procurement of goods and services under the line of credit to
SEDCO would be in line with procedures followed by Bank-assisted DFCs,
i.e., on the basis of competitive quotations from at least three sources of
supply. Services for technical assistance and training would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
59.       The loan proceeds would be disbursed within 8 years to cover the
following expenditures: (i) 100% of total expenditures approved or
authorized by the Bank for sub-projects representing up to 70Z of the cost
of sub-projects financed by SEDCO; (ii) 70% of local expenditures for
services of consultants domiciled in Zimbabwe and 100l of foreign
expenditures for services of other consultants; (iii) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for equipment and vehicles.
Withdrawals for sub-loans would be submitted under statements of
expenditure; all other withdrawals would be fully documented. To expedite
disbursements, a Special Account (revolving fund) with an initial deposit
of US$400,000 would be opened in the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (Central
Bank) to finance the Bank's share of SEDCO expenditures and would be
replenished in accordance with an agreed procedure (Section 2.02 (b) and
Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
60.       The project is expected to play a critical role in strengthening
the Government program to provide an effective integrated package of
technical and financial support to small-scale entrepreneurs who do not
presently have adequate access to institutional credit or technical
assistance. Further institution building assistance to SEDCO in its
formative years would considerably improve its operational and financial
policies and strengthen its capabilities to provide management counselling
and training to SSEs. The project would also help enhance the technical
skills and develop entrepreneurial capabilities, and thus help redress the
highly dualistic socio-economic structure of the country. It would



- 18 -
increase the access to credit to the emerging SSEs combined with adequate
counselling and training. It is estimated that about 470 SSEs would
benefit directly from the line of credit. The project would help create
employment for about 3,900 workers at an estimated average cost per job of
only about US$3,100. The proposed pilot operation is also expected to play
a major catalytic role in attracting and mobilizing additional assistance
from foreign donors and co-financers.
Risks
61.       There is a risk is that SEDCO may come under pressure to expand
its operations for socio-economic reasons to entrepreneurs in primarily
rural areas with limited infrastructure which could adversely affect
SEDCO's institutional efficiency and financial viability particularly
during its formative years. This risk is mitigated, however, by SEDCO
providing training and management counselling to SSEs, and strengthening
its supervision capabilities. Moreover, credit demand for high risk
projects would be met only out of funds provided by the Government through
a special "Managed Fund-, for which SEDCO would not assume any credit risk.
PART V -  LEGAL ISTRUMENTS AND AUTHORM
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between Zimbabwe and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and SEDCO and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of effectiveness would be that (i) Government would
provide $Z5 million (US$3.6 million equivalent) as equity to SEDCO (para
44); (ii) two advisors to SEDCO would be appointed (para 47); and
(iii) a subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank, between
Government and SEDCO would be executed (para 55).
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI -  REOMAENDTION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C
April 22, 1985



19                                 AlE 
Page I of 5
T A I L r -34
ZIMUAME                - SWInAL INDICATORS DATA SNtRH
mtR                                 RFRENAC  GOPS (wEICD AVERES) a
MOST                (NOTS RECENT ERIHAT) f
RECENT       WIDDLI 1NCOME         NIDLE 13NC1K
ano&l    1970T      EShTINAThIh    ORICA S. OF 5A4RAtA   N. AFRICA L HID EAST
Anff (name uq. in)
TOTAL                              390.6        390.6     390.6
ACRICULTURAL                        67.1         72.4      75.3
GNP PC CATU  (UB$)                    210.0       320.0      650.0           1112.9                   1149.6
PIER? CO_SUlE  PER CAPITA
(KIWLORAS OF OIL EQUUALENT)           ..       748.0      576.0            529.0                    622.1
POULTIOI AD VITAL STATISTICD
POPILATION,KID-TEAR (THOU5AfS)    3605.0       5261.0    74".4
URBUN POPULATION CR OF TOTAL)       12.6         16.9      24.3             29.7                     48.2
POPUILATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION 1 YEAR 2000 (KILL)                           16.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                             62.3
POPULATION nMunLVUI                                       2. 1
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 31.                        9.2         13.4      18.4             55.6                     36.3
PER SQ. D1. ACRI. LAND            53.7        72.4       95.4            111.5                    461.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                         45.4         46.5      47.3             45.4                     43.6
IS-64 YIRS                        51.8        50.5       49.9             51.7                     53.1
65 ANO AIVE                        L7          2.7        2.6              2.9                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              4.0          3.7       3.0              2.8                      2.6
URBAN                              5.7         6.7        6.0              5.2                      4.5
CRUDE 31LRT RATE (PER 1300)         55.4         55.3      54.4             47.0                     40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PM THOIIS)        16.5         14.0      12.3             15.2                     11.5
CROSS REPRODUCTON RATE               3.9         3.9        3.3              3.2                      2.6
FAMILY PLANNIN
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TOM)             .          18.6 /c  507.0 /d
USRS (: OP Hal  WE  )  15                                  .0                                      22.2
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPlTA
C1969-71-100)                       76.0        93.0       87.0             91.6                     97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAIJRIES (2 OF REQUIRDNITS)      111.0         97.0      90.0             98.2                    110.6
PROTiINS (CRAMS PIR DAY)          78.0        69.0       55.0             56.7                     70.1
OF 1511CR AND"L. AND PULSE      21.0         21.0      22.0 /.          17.0                     17.8
CHILD (ACES 1-) DFATR RATE         19.0         16.0      14.0             18.7                     14.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YER)         49.2        53.2       55.5             51.7                     57.5
INFANT NO?r. RATE (PER TS0)        100.0        90.0       83.0            102.7       ,            101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                                                                     35.6                     59.7
URBAN                                          .                          54.1                     84.5
RURAL                                            .                        27.3                     36.4
ACCESS TO EICRTEA DISPOSAL
(R OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
t'                 UBAPon                               ..          ..         .                 ..
RURAL                                     ..          .
POPULATION PER PFtSICII           4790.0      6290.0    5840.0           11948.3                   4365.1
POP. PE NURSIGC PERSON            1000.0 /f   1080.0    1190.0 ,&         2248.9                   1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL NrJ
TOTAL                            250.0        290.0     350.0 /h         966.9                    632.9
URBAN                                -         70.0                      368.7                    545.5
RURAL                                .       1010.0        ,,           4012 1                   2513.5
AIMISSIONS PR HOSPITAL NED            ..         30.5      24.5 /h                                   26.2
-SI
AVERAGE SIZE OP 3005130WL
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URA                                 ..          ..         ..
RMtAL
AVERACE NO. OF PERSOISI/ROI
TOTAL                                .                      ..
URBAN                              0.6         0.7
RURAL
ACCESS To ELECT. (2 oF IMELLINS)
OAL                                 .            .                                                 46.2
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..               ..                     77.7
R1URAL                              ..           . .       ..               .16.1



20
ANNEl I
Page 2 of 5
T ~~~~Al(HSTNEUTIIINTE
im                   lxoci" lmt%%s PC awn) (t                    AArI)I
RECENT       NIUEICOME  MM              DDLIT
r        ~~IIIIIDLS                IZD       A M
196oLb.    MON11      E3TffTZb   AfRcA s. or SAHAA    M. AFCA 6 MID BUT
AIJUSTSD E       NT  SATIOS
PRINARIs   TOTAL                    96.0          74.0      126.0              91.0                       U.3
IM                      107.0         61.0       230.0              90.5                      102.
FEIALE                   86.0         66.0       121.0              73.6                       73.6
SECONM AYs TOTAL                     6.0           7.0       15.0              17.4                       43.0
MALE                      7.0          9.0        16.0              23.7                       52.3
FMALE                    4.0          6.0        13.0              14.8                       33.0
VOCATIONAL (l OF SECONDY              17.0           1.5        0.4               5.3                       10.3
PUPIL-TBACHER RATID
PRIKAY                              38.0                     36.0              38.6                       30.3
BECO3AY                             21.0          22.0       24.0              24.3                       23.1
ACULT LITERACY RATE (2)               39.4  f         ..       6S.6              35.6                       43.5
COEUTOU
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND PDP           22.2         23.9          ..              20.7                       17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            ..          27.7       45.7             100.8                      13S.8
TV RECRIVERS/TUOUSAND POP              1.7           9.5       11.0              18.5                       46.1
NEWSPAPER (DAILT CENERAL
IlNTEUEST) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             24.7          15.8       16.6              17.2                       31.2
CINU ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAITA             ..           .          .                0.3                        1.7
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           1364.0       I545.0      2437.0
rIEALE (PERCENT)                    30.4         30.1        29.2              33.                        10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               69.0          64.0       60.0              57.1                       42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0         13.0        15.0              17.4                       27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               37.6          35.2       32.5              36.3                       26.2
MALE                                53.3         49.7        46.0              47.6                       46.4
FEKALE                              22.7         21.0        19.0              25.1                        5.8
ECONOmIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3          1.4         1.5               1.4                        1.8
INCOME DISTRIDUTIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED DY
HICHEST 5S OF HOUSROILDS                                       .      
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS                           . 
LOWEST 202 OF NOUSEHOLDS                                       ,
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS
PonERT    WST mOS
ESTIMTED ABSOLUTE POVERTr INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                         525.3                      274.8
RURAL                                  .                                      249.0                      177.2
ESTIMATED REIATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                         477.4                      402.6
RURAL                                                                         186.0                      284.9
ESTXIMATED POP. BLOW ASOLUTE
POVERTn INCOME LEVEL CZ)
URBAN
RURAL                                 ..
NOr V;aILABLE
MOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are popultion-veighted arithmtic emam.  Coverae of countrie. myg the
indicator. dependa on availability of daca and Is not umiform.
/b   Unleae otherwise noted, -Dat for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970  betwee  1969 and
1971; and data for -Moat Recent Estiu&te- betwee 1980 and 1982.
/c  1972; /d 1978; /e 1977; /f 1962; /L 1979; l 1976.
JUNE. 1984



21.
ANNEX I
Pa~ge3 7of 5
.. rawiiiS.itiNli.  Bums.  ..... A.d ".-me.e                     -ay.sBli auI-,  lfinr.i.i PBAR i Cd.iBs.s..
1kv   . -i.e   sts v-i.  IIIi  i- eatE    isi   .5 i.~ .hl.is  -nspad tIle  ej.s,,, utp .51k .... ail hut..  -iim. Lii- ii-. It. Aivil, dt.ap if ski
.fti.IBe.t.B  it  taB.....  tair  it. ih.eaTe.. i.e  haal...  valjkli  etBIiBl in     e ar let  miil. liiei  aid akinapsw  ia- aitde          .   k.-IaS. 
isis B. Ci.  s 5.5  idii.ii.   s  .at.av a  nimBi.   We IS                     S        aad     - hit. itBlkili1.1    daB. Wad B. -   vir l. teiB IWAt,s he
'TA`1:1.1.                        ICMW .'sta-ta.   -            rv~ ~ ~~ ~  fp.eB..  1.CMit*ak. i  pavlef
ytiitC  ii.           ii Si-aS%..  -I. .itit-. is=,                  l.vi W  ..iqiuiB.de.. a sdva  .vh.1    i  .aBi.iB I       ;   lnt.       a
Cast.                                                      ttu.ltl I -  rtti..l~~~~~~~~ Petit. - Pipilassi~~L  . Ct,-e  hyiN,o  patti
Iv.Ba. ....t....ta.. hIat.  "as"t.  .. t  B  5.1li   lit,                         uetii,n"iBItatsi
lil, aid  t    ii                                                                         fnjj4.ri.L                 NB-aii at.., ai14d tasi   Ngb...dte pllt.I.a
Ad, ! U, .1  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ihiTidste  Cliddh  iheit  aIpisi    N    thiBa 
veeuia .t.da.~ iiiIC tu    Its.   lut-il heii                          ehahiilte   .it.NaihBbteptiilmll
aId iaa.vul ieceip    ithilv-a a. U i" i   ataei.i  b. cplia    ttsid.M                                  a ltliia    ag  ii iiat- taulai.
,FDBri.qMNCPT                     -.   p.- .  lil1y i. liSty. use,.vii                                                                                      (wutb,iA uit-
dali                                                                                        LaitIpe'.   -..::.P ie.eat.Bd    W..eviau.   Wth..   .B     Bg~..iv.. aid- ttd
.rhId va1414c            A LAa.k  -          1 N i,.  ........ ..i ieia   -pipla BIa..            - ala.4.vt A    ait.5d .  at a1  tI.aIp ist Laditat   i.a .tthsjat
ilia.    JJloot 4.BiS1ia                  .  taaepvhily-   v.                                     i   hl   S-a.        eta it'   B.a idy -te,A- L.s  -  BBdad am.
19e  aiatli  list,  lii  a.  i,  a.                                                           it. ha.aatf..ldft .sea lasti  Pitts..
UM~tL~yiwTtlu                                                                               t.tt   vii  steAa   attii-sesECt..a   ttlitsi   .i
t.t.   I.   .t.i sI-o   sltyvt  ..   ie.sr.  lii.l.                                   t sa.L..tt.. X    suati CaBB.s  uv.anl)
.e..ai .g  sn .S.iis.ai   eidi  a. u.n    t   e   pa-s stl B
pNai   .t.ttaI.    l. WAnlS sh.e.e.     1- .5 sit  isiai~
ii- eqail ti sheMasvt, s- e a-imII il.as. I. at....saaiis  eMit.ivs Lv with  Nadtal- atel.tsitsaiyieSi    ai
ds.ah te. iiitt .maatlethital.3.iaaLaa..I.atia                                                          el ad.h  a                   ahn  t  ll  'L.a aetn   .aa. _
bali  t it.pt.JasuC  s.tvsltsaste if  t. tt.itasa.i r. sh   islviaistas-se.tl edt                                     1a.Ciu.  -               e om    .IdC-vt-
adivi.  i h  tN -I. d                o.ttt   v  s la- vis  Idn talIiea. les.__-                  - vdi.ta t.qvirn          ife. .al-   ii   .isda .12ii Tii.d  ietW ltstte-
Is. an   .I.  at. -ivy.uiaitaki tteti  aiiTh.e                                                   tnI-l- vt.l.aiid.                         WI..   W-1p
h-L   ieth  Pivtei.v   ih.fs   tt   iatd-tatfhv!ci.at.ie4 ivtaacaidet.t -y.ctlv.  a..ss. A--dA"
Wmt. -W aaatIi.at   s.gelissi  -St .. PPli -Iia. p.. t ka.-.                                  lt~diliFtii1 hetiiieasv   pv
LetC. liii Cs..                                             .1Pailltehi  tBe     tiai ad-                                ittvedeeu-Tll  si..aiidB
L"       -ai  aatvlaP I-n15-iv5115 7eseiae                                             sita-,ait,i _itii1.
iCiii1liiUiy                    l  Ca`.-il  lliet  tat., tsetsii -1 Lsats Wds.  -aa  I   i-   idtltli
it-eId.adttsdlttvt   d..t-   ifsvii   l-iiPeiitCr. liar tePI=   aiaiat. .aa  ae5i tq                                                                               14.i 41 ta
siaeli   il    it.. vssAW ai                                                         eats1 aIli, l       h.  aBeZ.)  Piiia      I,td.  Nalit.  -n,        -11...    ad
Cs.ii isi  ba  tn  thsiill    ..aulSn   th    e  5.vedi .el.-.                             s. i.eIF.- atai1   at  saMui~              .iv  p- he tmsdt   iF-e  -.
int s.iasn    u.   iita   Gtds.tialv  hSa.dica.
tisi.-a;   t.         Z-st  e.   n    at.s-v   gal                                                                  t      -ne  ..mmaat-s  s.ti. a,u         -Ladf    stai-ti-
tuh   liuu  -A-essii lairi iii`,.dal- tI.v  iseha  vII  ersepi                                    ta hedal       Ai Lt Piass  a. SsIiti-s   de- I  aT.           E   f
fWall                                                                                          scis  ii  dtuash -.ltla-u  eavi.  S  dtiaitIa
psitlli              nn      CaIa5yeitaii-I iv-W v-Cin:sLC  in.b.aiatslu   siC
thS t-t..lsg ii ii  IantSty        tie  li-ti  at..I, ut  en                         y-ft    e.(heia  - tii.vvt aV."                           aiti    uIdysn
-   S  iib-iBlta md      gaaamaW,   1                .T-                                                 r.,t  hat, sit.W aid liii itt.-.
lade  - tad   t~eiin  at Caai Slsi-str      - ie.v  -s   itia                          !F-h~5    -  utethi ir -9   sita.tt                    v  Siasli.'         e.
PAN-.   prdrlaND'I  idt,tsa    trcttratSsdi iidai                                                 ev. bug   e          -b)   Ilaha  ta! t S11   fasi,fs.iy    us    i
saul-laee.   _i Ie.-vi.?i.ii I.s.   lByyvvi  e..                                                                                           .-       ytetve  1  tall_sivev   la,li.  i  ., dt
hita  a. Lvsn   tnv    tdtt  et   ii.                  ilt.          -It. Fis  hat                  Iihi use,M-a    L 4
lesa,                                                                                        sirs dw  irlahit%-   a mitt.-A'tiie(.is.  - aia. tl.s. eaC -I-.s    - Sai -lp cS  at
is   sS.iyyii   iisv   stisi  tsa.ta   -Ciiid5a.viai   es.e w-uda  ti,va.   dtit  tCttyit
utst  .vlle    vs n    ia-.a Psla   .iiilhS    5I etet-y it teylse Iw?itvii   tsst ii   Sstl    aaaai teiai   .mtsa
evilils   he.ls  eunli tl,s     d-te.inse p t.ipseta. hi  ai- h.                         t      19ieaa We  1ta  "Id   TweuS-asai (sheaf ited  il-tAt
I                           .e~~~ .ii    dIva tahet~~~in it%aitsaia .l   .idaIvai  I vr-is tied -ansiIM I-                                                  1.WICt
etlauel   te:   u-t  l        1ast ad        .. litil Ca..                        1i2  hsiLmi-it-tia
Si  nieuI  i   tte.fra    u  dt  AM%-1.acasy lt W.      tai ii  itp         _elaF~                     W         WeB  ie.   lii   -4taa  N  LIed6)   -ttsdbysan
ai  ani-titps   - -tu)lyi   ti   t  iiidv   t,.   5-yeet toat  ttss                                                e..I itesa i--aia   iyt. 
u.aiaivts  i.  ll  iasis  vtetBaiaC  ay talttiBdvsat.1.-                h.ietaildv.C`
Sa"isiPv maiali uta    5ia  .aIv   v1i avtt ..-Iy.aasts  .t-.         rTi-                     v,itiTa TaITf si C   iOUtP         i  hali-tnsbndit 
dsta-..                                                                                   atr.-iIdihl-0  .
fteste.."  ds  eli     taIt   il;lt. =lit. .i_.iN;.Cvi.                                          yanvis ft It_    L.t Sh  vtt..'-hi Lvit            IM thid tm    hen
-rx o, a  f-d                    -Ltint_is PinnsttbOa   tti                   is  .i)i   na
aseWtti                                                                                    tai atid tnalvtsa. biMI."    thI'lis[  PetyIii-en  (n4 sic  9- y
itL hl    -Al situ, lit.a  iii:  ldati.                                                          pe &l    "    b-ttt  w  -"W     f-
yavvt  rttlt.avtv(etcthii.ai t - Aei,iatdeh  vi; if.  isi ._datm enP.
-e  t- via. 4it  tad   tan ltat.: l;IA.. t  Iad liii dvi.0a..I                                                      t         -.T      b      1             f    lw 
Anti. au  uy sauce  ietivustvt.visttsuiip - tcvl ith..a,sWres.
iainnuw    ut.s-  In-h vi ia   yr..--Iatt.C-eydmiti, steesi.                                                                           We         tn. li
Idt. a itP-tehetadadv .              esug aINC , niviteh awl    e..a.    tu
h.-:    -I. nttyssnihv-tvinaesa  ihe  it.t -  a
hue  i    ausIttt Wtia   i  sarltiai. P    it b- ebtet dsl.p.e  a._["
at  sL-vtla aL.     daii.et  wit  it, ilhi       .sti   t iftn.  -set
d0 iisisei  i.tttv.aiea Ishe via it sss- stI'l 'Id 
ulile   aaa ttaastae.19   .%t                    -     1. _.d



22
AN1 I
gTe 4 of 5
ZDM
N PR CAPTA sI 1983 1E$740
GFDSS NATIL  EGXXN 31 1984 a                             AIO   AMAIE RAZ OF GPOM
(,ostant 1969 prices)
US$ in.   X                   1970-75    1975-79    1979-83
GN at Maxlmt PdI              4,974   100.0                  5.3        -0.3        6.0
Gros Dometic Investwent      1,072    21.6                  11.2      -154         17.8
Gross National. Savirg         649    13.0                   3.6       -13.5        2.7
Current Acoant Balance        -423    -8.5
Exports of Gods, NFS          1,109    22.3
Iinorts of Qaods, NE5        1,243    25.0
wUnrW, IAB  FP  AND EIDXiVflY IN 1984 a
Vaue Added             Labor Force               V.A. Per Worker
$ Mln.       Z%          '000      Z             W$   Zof Avera
Agriculture                     680      15.8           26.7  25.5           2,550          61.9
Iidustry                      1,484      34.4          292.9  28.0          5,066          122.9
Serviesm                      2,148      49.8          486.4 46.5           4,416          107.1
Total/AvraW                4,312     100.0         1,046   100.0         4,122          100.0
ceral Gav          b                   Central Q   rent C
(Z$  ln)      ZaEf GDP                 (Z$ Mn)         % of  P
1982/83    19883    1980/81             1983/84 1983/84 1980181-883
Cwrent Reaeipts                                                        1,940.2    28.2          27.0
Crrent Eqenditure                                                      2,232.7    32.4         29.2
Qurent Surplus                                                          -292.5    -4.2         -2.3
Capital Expetures                                                       2D7.9      3.0          3.0
External Asistane (t)                                                    101.0     1.5           2.0
a Prelimnary estinae.
b Figure to dD not itEr sific ly fram "entral Qoven.et".
C Fisml year - July 1 to June 30. GIP data (in nmRket prices) refer tD caleniar yeas.
.. nt  ailable
,not pplic*e
Aprl 



23
L'ue 5 of 5
MIE!, 1(MT aid PRIM                1979    1980    1981    1982    19s3    1984 a
- (?FcuiZ$             endZ;aM i d)
rqey ad Qui Mrw                     993   1,214    1,399    1.693    1,663   2,004
auk Credt to Eblic Sector          199      371      333      524      594     484
BIrk Credt to Prvste Sector        724      827    1,188    1,340    1,543   1,743
h                                                                               (PercnrtSe or Index Munbers)
Hony ard Q        Imobneya Z  of CDP    38   35       32       34       29       29
Gnerl Price Index (1964-100) 2*      0      211      238      264      325
Ahul parwAte dmrea in:
eneral PrICe TIdaK                  12.6      7.3    13.9    14..o    19.6    18.2
aRek Cit to abJlc Sector            -6.1    86.4   -10.2    78.4   -11.8   -21.0
Brk Credit to PEiute Sector          1.8    14.2    43.6    12.8    15.1    13.0
BAIA   CCF EA'S (MAS Millii)                                  NOMA=  EMSlS (average 1980 -t
1982  1983  1986 a
(i%iWJ)                                                3$ll         (2)
Exports of QXXIB, NeS      1,495  1,221  1,274                 Iture                      434         36
luports of Gb, NFS         1,891  1,387  1,193                  Og   c                    150         13
RPaue Gap (defidc i   -)  -394  -166  -216 8                    Mf      g                 496         42
Other                       112         9
-reat Paymits (net)        -113  -14B  -138                           Total             1,192       ICU
lxdkets' ulittms              -3    -2
OtbIr Factr Papents (net) -116   -9        .
Met Tl.fets                 -140  -110   -68                  IEiAL Esr, F 4DE    31, 1984
Balann  on Oixent Accout  -766  -516  -423                                                   tMS Mn.
DIrect Forein  1nv -nm        0    -2
aet mu       1rm                                              Rlic  bt, 1ml. guaraie         1,497.2
DLnlarse,nt                478   426    ..                  momanteed Priwte 1De.
Amortizgtian               102   132    ..                 TIal Outstadig & DMsbear             .
S9bttal.                  376   29       .
Capital  ans                  77    35    90                  Imu SEW13: R=T  RR 1984 d
Otlbr Capital (net) f        146  -175    57                                                    Z
Other Itea  n.e.i.            67   178   103
!_K1e8~e in Rres (-)        100   186   -22                   MUlc Debt, un. gwxanbeed    27.0
_N-Quarantead  rvate Deb
rss Fseies (end year)    272   168    ..                     Total. otstandirg & disbzrsad    27.0
Net Reseres (end year)      -10  -380
Fuel & Related Materials
TnP,:                      311   201
of Rirh: Petrolm          248   198
Eqxpts                       16
Of utich: Pecrolen          -      -
E MlMl. LOINC, Mardh 1985    (uSS Hiifm)
R _ES OF E_ _                                                                                 DIRID mI
198D  1981  1982  1983  1984
US$L.00 .Z$        .6426  .6913  .7573 1.0106 1.2422         0utstaliUg &  IsbTsed            165.7  31.2
$1W.0   15$       1.5561 1.4465 1.3205  .9895  .8037         Ikdislrs                        226.0  22.7
0=tstanlirg indl. Umiszrssd   391.7  53.9
A preltdlmzy Estieme
b Defld as edible food ard fats pbs nor-edible agricultural OA= icsh as tobwl , cotton, forestty
promcts-. etc.
C Defizd as crude ustdA  ard mirerals, gold ani poctssed ,irdx  etials - mauinly mifabricated  tals.
Ptch of thds mLght, by aStber elasS ficatnb lx Cisded    ifactri ii  wcput.
d Ratio  f debt serce to exports of godB ard servies  (preiminlry esthete).
Amere of Ht*er ad Imaer I mgrp
f sot-tem capitai.
5 Inlude Get nou-factor werirs (US$251 mWSO  otldo').
..nt avallble
Arnot l   i9 a
April 1985



24
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of end of March 31, 1985)
Amount in TJS$ Million
Loan   Credit
No.    No.      Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans and one credit fully disburseud                       137.70 15.00
1994            1981   Zimbabwe           Transport Reha-
bilitation Imports       42.00            17.27
2212             1983   Zimbabwe          Electricity Suppply
Power Commission        105.00            82.17
2239             1983   Zimbabwe          Manufacturing Export
Promotion                70.60            13.60
2282             1983   Zimbabwe          Highway                  26.40            18.89
2335             1983   Zimbabwe          National Agricul-
tural Extension          13.10            11.96
2342             1983   ZiAbabwe          Railway Development      40.00            39.17
2445a/           1984   Zimbabwe          Urban Development        43.00            43.00
1291     1982   Zimbabwe          Small Farm Credit                30.40    16.52
1296     1982   Zimbabwe          Petroleum Fuels Supply
Technical Assistance             1.20      0.24
1368     1983   Zimbabwe          Rural Afforestation               7.30     5.95
Total                                             477.80 53.90   248.77
of which has been repaid                           85.07   -         -
392.73
Amounts sold                          41.99
of which has been repaid            40.99        1.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   391.73  53.90
TOTAL undisbursed                              226.06  22.71
a/ Signed but not yet effective.



25
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
ZIMBABWE
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Investment                               Type of               US$ Million Equivalent
Number       Year                        Business              Loan            Equity
552-Z1M      1981   Wankie Colliery
Company Limited     Coal Mining            22.8              -
1984   UDC Limited         Finance                 2.0              0.2
(Hire/purchase)
Total gross commitments                    24.8              0.2
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    2.7               -
Total now held by IFC                      22.1              0.2
Total now undisbursed (including            2.0              0.0
US$2.7million for participants)



26
ANME1 III
Page 1 of 2
SMALL SCALE ENEE RM'RS  PE)JEC
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.       Timetable of Key Events
a) Time from project identification to
appraisal                                8 months
b)  Preparation by                           Government & Bank
c) First Bank mission to consider the
project                                  October 1983
d)  Appraisal mission departure              June 1984
e)  Negotiations                         :March 1985
f)  Planned date of effectiveness            September 1985
II.      Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
III..    Special Conditions
A. The Government would:
(i) fund SEDCO's TA activities on a continuing basis
(para 46); and                                                      )
(ii)  provide SEDCO with financing of a separate 'Managed
Fund' (para 50).
B. SEDCO would:
Charge interest rates for Bank-financed sub-loans at its
normal interest rates of currently 16Z-18%p.a. and review its
interest rate structure every 6-12 months (para 49);



27
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
C.  Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be that:
(i) Government would provide $Z5 million (US$3.6 million
equivalent) as equity to SEDCO (para 44);
(Ui) two advisors to SEDCO would be appointed (para 47);
and
(iii) a subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank,
between Government and SEDCO would be executed (para
55).
C



.0  ZAI;EN       NAtt                                  28                                    3o
* f   S k   .   .  .                                            Z I M  BA  BWE
ZAMmA* p                                                           PROVINCES
n    \ ~lb    J  -% J __ 
fl    t~j~   r*  1  INDIAN                                                         8h' '
oFRA \        OCEANT
04q*. o1nfil VW   a o Th. <bnn dWt fm    kFhv   Dm t A  x
1 S&lrs wpee hvrdan' - NW endo,entd o ecpln of mruc boaavtnee  7/r,
Mhongura
f ,/eJ   \        a    OW  E S T        gd r A
a              -~~~~I r
Z AM BI                       qfjy   
To Lusaka
Chguta  < 
_~~~~~~~~~~~ Ar T?                                                                 dif
'\  _ ' '                  e                          o       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~K<odomao
)   rat A  T  ; B  199\N   9        W\Roddilf                  irur-.-I D    A N 
\ N                                               d R                S
BOTSWANA
TO Framncs aw
Hard Surfaced Roads
-4-----.- Railroads ,                          (,S
^Airfields                                            M A T ABELE              N D
-    Rivers                         N
- - --- Province Boundons                   -T H
Inrernarionol Boundaris        I
-22             0        s0      100       150
KILOMETEUS       SO,  10__   __O                     BOTSWANA                i
MILES                                                                                   Be''b dge
0            50tO
ft SOUTH AFRICA
26'                                 2r                                   30' 
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )                             



IBRD 17026
21  I  I     MARCH 1M
28'                           3O                             3'2-
ZI MBABWE
PROVINCES
r              (/ i)    I   MOZAMBIQUE
|        MASH MASHONA tAN D|
- A L     H O N       A N D
Mhonguro               C-E N T R A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{f w ~~ > A, W  E   T tz   
/  6,   (    ,        A        N       D      y         ;    R       -|~AN
to.~~~~~gt
A\ i,w,, _ < \ a Wa MO
IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
...J E   L9 N    D          N                                               tar............   'o &   L AN  r8 F
t~~~~~--''
6 ) \ S tS+' I N P W r I D L
j~~~~~~~-                  (     ~    ovn    0D0 , T .                   x.
T                                                                      A L AD  \LE f D    ,a- ia
SulAASJa
,<_  H  SOUTH AFRICA           S XV
W v                         30'          J       \        32N






