Report. No. 14159
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN)
Annexes to Part I, and Part III
March 29,1995
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department 2
South Asia Regional Office






85                                Annex 1
Page 1 of 40
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN)
ENVIRONMENTAL INPACTS AND MANAGEMENT
I. Project Background and Environmental Context
1.    At the time the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project was being prepared and appraised,
the environmental regulatory regime in India and the Bank's operational guidance mechanisms with
respect to environment were still being formulated, or were in the early stages of implementation.
For example, the Bank's Operational Manual Statement 2.36 was not promulgated until May 1984.
It described environmental concerns as "those pertaining to the natural and social conditions sur-
rounding all organisms, particularly mankind and future generations. These concerns encompass
human ecology and occupational health and safety." Recognizing that some environmental effects
may not become identifiable for a long time, the 1984 manual stated that the environmental aspects
of projects should be considered in a longer time-frame than may be appropriate for most other
aspects of cost-benefit analysis. In particular, the Operational Manual specified that projects with
unavoidable adverse effects on the environment should contain an outline of measures needed to
avoid or mitigate these effects as well as a component to implement these measures. This statement
was subsequently replaced by an Environmental Operational Directive in 1989, which was in tum
strengthened and made more stringent (with respect to operational requirements) in September
1991.
2.    In India meanwhile, a similar evolutionary process was underway with respect to environ-
mental management. Several national committees had analyzed aspects of India's deteriorating
ecology, particularly adverse impacts on forest cover and made recommendations for mitigation
measures. These culminated, among other things, in the establishment of a Department of Environ-
ment and Forests (MOEF) in the Central Government and the issuing of the Forest Conservation
Act in 1980. It was not until 1985, however, that the growing public environmental awareness
and concem resulted in forceful action at the center - in January of that year, a new Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MOEF) was established and the Prime Minister himself assumed the
portfolio. Among other responsibilities, the new ministry was charged with environmental
clearance of selected development projects. A year later, in 1986, the Govemment of India passed
the Environmental (Protection) Act, 1986, empowering the Central Government to take necessary
measures for protecting the quality of the environmenL
3.    During the period leading to the project approval by the Bank in 1985, a number of environ-
mental studies were prepared by the Borrower to obtain the environmental clearance. These
studies were undertaken by the State Governments (Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh particularly) and
related primarily to impacts on fisheries, flora and fauna. But the environmental clearance was not
provided and more studies were to be prepared. In any event, the projects were approved by the
Bank's Board in March 1985 and became effective on January 6, 1986 without a formal forest
clearance from the MOEF. Finally, a conditional environmental clearance was given in MOEF's
letter of June 24, 1987 subject to the completion of several environmental studies relating to: (i) re-
habilitation master plan; (ii) phased area catchment treatment scheme; (iii) compensatory afforesta-
tion plan; (iv) command area environmental assessment; (v) survey of flora and fauna; (vi) carrying
field capacity of surrounding areas; (vii) seismicity; and (viii) health aspects. The letter noted that
existing surveys were incomplete and full details would have to be submitted by 1989 as per an



A.nnex 1
86                              Page 2 of 40
agreed schedule. It also indicated that the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) "will ensure that
environmental safeguards measures are planned and implemented pari pasu with progress of work
on projects". Finally, the letter made it clear that the release of forest lands for the project would be
subject to the Forest Conservation Act of 1980 and to prior approval by MOEF.
4.    Subsequently, on September 8, 1987 the MOEF gave the requisite clearance for the submer-
gence of 13,385 ha of forested areas by the Sardar Sarovar Dam subject to the several conditions
relating to: (i) submission of detailed compensatory afforestation plans by September 30, 1987; (ii)
compensatory afforestation would be double the area affected; (iii) preparation of a catchment area
treatment plan by November 30, 1987; and (iv) no forest lands would be utilized for the
resettlement of oustees. This latter condition was in contradiction with the project Legal
Agreements as will be seen in the next paragraph. Finally, in October 1988, the Government of
India Planning Commission also gave its formal endorsement to the project, again subject to
several conditions relating to environment as well as R&R.
5.    It should be noted that the Bank's appraisal report and legal documents also dealt with
environmental aspects in the following ways:
a.    the Staff Appraisal Reeport contained a summary discussion of the project's
environmental impact focussing particularly on fish and fisheries, the reservoir,
forests and wildlife, public health, water distribution and drainage network, training
(ref. Annex 1, Supplementary Volume L pages 52 to 55);
b.    the Staff Appraisal Report also required the preparation of an environnental work
plan for environmental effects anticipated including training programs for
responsible staff and a watershed management study. (SAR p.29 and Table 22
p.102);
c.    the Development Credit Agreement (Credit 1552-N. May 10. 1985) called for the
Borrower to provide forest land, if necessary, in carrying out the project (Section
3.02); and
d.    The Gujarat Project Agreement (Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN both of May 10.
19i8 called for Gujarat in collaboration with Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra to
prepare and funiish the Association for approval:
i. by December 31, 1985 an environmental work plan to include suitable training
programs for project staff in all the three States (including plans, schedules,
costing, etc) [Section 2.11 (a)];
ii. by December 31, 1985, studies and implementation schedules for fish and
fisheries, forests and wildlife and public health aspects [Section 2.11 (a)]; and
iii. suitable training programs and called for Gujarat to implement such approved
programs in collaboration with Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra [Section
2.1 I (b)].
6.    The deadline for submission of these covenants WaS formnally amended to December 31,
1989.



Annex 1
87                              Page 3 of 40
II. Project Implementation
7.    The project was regularly supervised at six-monthly intervals by Bank missions from
inception to Credit closure. In 1985 to 1987, the Bank put much pressure on GOI for releasing the
environmental clearance so that construction works could starL The clearance came on June 24,
1987. The first Bank review of the environment component was made in October 1988 and, as
the project was not performing well on several fronts, the Bank and the Borrower signed a Memo-
randum of Understanding in December 1988 which stated that (i) a comprehensive environmental
framework and its subsequent institutionalization in the concemed states should be prepared; (ii)
studies on fisheries, forest, wildlife and health should be initiated or completed; (iii) appoint an
Environmental Director at the newly created SSNNL; (iv) an Environment Cell should be created in
the MOEF to monitor the activities of SSP; and (v) the recruitment of an expatriate environmental
consultant to assist the Environmental Cell in preparing the environmental framework stipulated in
the legal documents. However, the meeting also agreed that in view of the creation of the Environ-
mental Cell it would not be necessary to engage an environmental specialist in NCA.
8.    During that period, the Bank commissioned in 1987 an overview of the environmental
aspects of the project to be carried out by an environmental consultant. The publishing of the
report was delayed for various reasons to 1989. It made a number of observations and
recommendations in particular that the Bank should intensify its supervision and enter into
supplemental agreements to strengthen the environmental aspects of the projecL
9.    On March 31, 1989 theWater Delivery and Drainage project Credit Closing Date was
extended by three months and then by one year to July 1, 1990 subject to certain conditions
relating to the release of land for R&R in Maharashtra, R&R policies to be in line with the NWDT
award, and other conditions relating to RWS. An Environmental Review carried out in April 1989
indicated that the specified time-based environmental work plan was yet to start and its absence
was hampering the monitoring of environmental studies. It insisted in an action letter to DEA and
MOWR that a consultant should be recruited as per agreed TOR for preparing the environmental
work plan. It also recommended that the plan should be completed before institutionalizing the
environmental components within NCA, MOEF and the three states. The mission recognized that
some progress had been made on the studies on fisheries, compensatory afforestation, and
archeology but none on health.
10.   An other environmental review mission took place in December 1989. It observed that the
environmental work plan that was originally due in December 1985 was still not started and that the
staffing of NCA and SSNNL environmental cells was still inadequate. It recommended the Borro-
wer to approach USAID to assist in the preparation of the work plan and made several suggestions
on the studies relating to: (i) compensatory afforestation which should include habitat and linkages
with natural reserves, (ii) catchment area treatment, (iii) wildlife in the submergence area, (iv) up
stream and down stream fisheries, and (v) archeological aspects. The action letter to MOWR of De-
cember 13, 1989 which stipulated the conditions for a second one year extension of the Water
Delivery and Drainage Project beyond July 1, 1990 emphasized the R&R aspects that should be
met such as the release of land in Maharashtra for R&R but made no reference to the pending
preparation of the environmental work plan.
11.   The May 1990 environmental report indicated that the preparation of the environmental
work plan had made no progress. However, the Annex on Status of Compliance with Covenants
indicated wrongly that the covenant relating to the work plan was in full compliance. The report
also indicated that the position of Member Environment in NCA was still not filled. The supervi-
sion mission determined that the conditions relating to R&R had been met and particularly that
2,700 ha of forest at Taloda had been released for the resettlement of oustees in Maharashtra. The
Water Delivery and Drainage Project was, therefore, extended for an other year to July 1991.



Annex 1
88                              Page 4 of 40
12.   The June 1991 the environmental supervision mission paid much attention to the progress
made on compensatory afforestation, catchment area treatment, wildlife, fisheries, archeology,
health, training and NCA. It indicated that environmental training was yet to start '. It also said
that the Environment Member of NCA had been posted recently but that this organization had no
clear program and was not effective in coordinating and integrating environmental studies. The
June 8, 1991 action letter emphasized the need to prepare and implement an environmental training
program.
13.  In July 1991, the Water Delivery and Drainage Project was extended for a third and last
year on the basis of the progress made in the civil works component and also in the implementation
of the R&R component of the Dam and Power Project. The January 1992 supervision mission,
which included for the first time a malaria specialist, observed that there was no specific anti-
malaria program for the project and that the incidence of malaria had increased in the villages
surrounding the damn construction site. He also stressed that the Public Health Service was not
geared to meet the special needs of the project and that a Heath Cell should be established in
SSNNL.
14.   As a result of the commissioning of an Independent Review of the SSP project, the Bank
recruited an environmental specialist to assist SSNNL in preparing an EIA for the command area in
view of a possible Phase I of the Water Delivery and Drainage Project. The consultant then
published an Environmental Information Volume2 which listed and summarized the large number
of existing or ongoing studies and proposed a work program for the preparation of the command
area EIA. This effort and the presence of the Independent Review Team helped in focussing the
Borrower's attention on the environmental aspects of the project
15.   The last supervision mission conducted in August 1992, determined that the environmental
work plan had still not been formulated as well as the malaria control action plan requested by the
previous mission.
III. Independent Review Report
16.   The Independent Review Team initiated its field work in September 1991 and published
and circulated its final report in June 1992. It contains seven chapters dealing with environmenL
The report comprises an analysis of the legal background and status of compliance. It observes
that by the end of 1988, all required agreements had been reached between the GOI, the States, the
implementing agencies of which NCA, and the Bank to ensure that an adequate assessment of the
environmental impact of the Sardar Sarovar Projects would be made by 1989. However, it notes
that by the time of the review, most of the Bank's 1985 legal requirements and most of the condi-
tions attached to the MOEF environmental clearance had not been met and concludes that, by any
standards, this ought to be unacceptable. The report also criticizes the "pari pasu" approach which
subverts any acceptable notion of ecological plnning and defeats the very purpose of preparing
environmental assessments to anticipate and prevent impacts and incorporate remedial measures in
the project design.
17.   After giving some background information on the project design, the report analyzes in
more detail the major environmental aspects of the project including the impacts on the Narmada
River upstream and downstream of the dam, the reservoir and the catchment areas. It concludes by
I     Report on R&R and Environmental Training by World Bank Consultant, May 1991.
2     SSP Environmental Information Volume by World Bank Consultant,1992



8nnex 1
89                              Page 5 of 40
saying some good work has been done on specific topics in the first part of the command area, but
it does not come together to meet the requirements of a good environmental assessment and in the
end, this project is likely to perpetrate the deficiencies noted in past projects.
18.   On health aspects, the report states that by the time of the project appraisal the dangers of
water-borne diseases in irrigation projects were well known and documented particularly those
related to malaria and schistosomiasis. The report quotes a status report on malaria and other
health-related aspects prepared by the Bank's consultant in January 1992 which states that the
project has been planned, designed and executed without incorporation of health safeguards and
that the levels of malaria in villages near the dam site were nearly double that of the other villages
served by the health center in that area. The report concludes that the Bank and the state govem-
ments had failed to address the issue of public health adequately.
IV. Management Response
19.   The Bank issued a Managemnt Response on June 23, 1992. This document agreed with
the Independent Review report on the description of the delays which occurred in completing the
mandated environmental studies, and on the need for a more effective central management or
coordination function in the Narmada Basin on environmental impact studies and mitigation
programs. The Management also agreed on the need to accelerate work on health matters in
Guiarat. In particular, the Management noted that greater urgency was needed on the analysis of
impacts on the estuary (particularly fisheries) and on the treatment of health issues. However, the
Management did not share the conclusions of the Independent Review about the severe
environmental consequences of the study delays. With regard to wildlife management, the
Management believed that adequate work had been done or was in hand. On hydrology, and
sedimentation the Management disagreed with the analysis and particularly the assumptions behind
the upstream Narmada Sagar dam. However, the findings of the PCR and the Bank's consultants
indicate that the Independent Review had made a good point with regard to sedimentation. The
Management's Response appears to defend the Borrower's pari-pasu approach to environmental
management and seems to believe that, with an adequate environmental monitoring system, most
impacts would be identified and mitigated long before reaching any damaging dimensions. This
PCR has not endorsed this position and believes it is always preferable to carry out preventive
measures based on prior assessment than to implement corrective measures based on monitoring
and evaluation.
20.  In July 1992, the Bank mounted a major mission (14 persons) to review the status of imple-
mentation and compliance of the project with the Bank's Legal Agreements in the light of the fin-
dings of the Independent Review report. The mission reported that the Borrower had completed
22 studies prior to the MOEF environmental clearance in 1987, that 11 had been completed since
then and that 15 were underway or proposed. The mission confirmed that there had been no seve-
re environmental consequences to date due to study delays. Nevertheless, the mission recommen-
ded that a detailed Environmental Management Plan be produced as soon as possible. This plan
would include a synopsis of all the studies completed to date, underway or planned, and details of
future work needed in the estuary and on health issues.
21. On health aspects, the mission noted that the Government of Gujarat had accepted the fin-
dings of the January 1992 mission conceming the expansion in and around the dam construction
site, the risk of cerebral malaria and the inadequacy of the primary health care services. The recom-
mendations of the mission included the setting up of a Health Planning and Monitoring Cell in
SSNNL, preparing an environmental health management plan, and setting up an anti-malaria Unit
at the dam site (Kevadia) to be followed by others in the command area later.



Ainnex 1
90                              Pp.ge 6 of 40
22.   Folowing the July mission, the Bank sent an action letter dated August 10, 1992 which
requested the Borrower to submit a schedule for producing an Environmental Management Plan
within the next six months and a plan to address the health issues. The letter contained a detailed
draft action program on the R&R aspects of the projecL
V. Borrower Response
23.   Following the Bank's mission and letter, the Borrower, in their letter of September 1,
1992, assured the Bank that GOI would address with urgency the positive concerns raised by the
Independent Review and Bank missions and that management and organizational weaknesses in
the R&R program would be removed. The attachment to the letter indicates that a comprehensive
environmental action plan comprising such activities as catchment area treatment, compensatory
afforestation, command area development, health plan, fisheries, flora and fauna, archaeological
studies, etc., on which action has already been initiated, has been prepared and is presently under
review by NCA. Also attached to the letter is a bar chart showing a list of environmental studies
completed, ongoing and proposed.
VI. Board Benchmarks
24.   A formal report entitled "Review of Current Status and Next Steps" was then prepared and
submitted to the Board on September 11, 1992. The report gives a detailed description of the R&R
and environmental issues identified by the Independent Review and Bank missions and indicates
the most recent steps taken by the Borrower to remedy the situation. The guiding principle of the
Management's response has been to seek with the Borrower constructive solutions to the issues
rised in view of its belief that, even after full allowance is made for the costs of the R&R and rele-
vant environmental mitigating measures, the SSP projects remain economicaUy sound and develop-
mentaUy important. The Management's position also recognizes that the benefits of the SSP pro-
jects must not be achieved at the cost of reductions in the standard of living of affected persons.
According to the report, environmental costs and risks - particularly those related to health, loss of
fisheries and possibility of waterlogging and salinity in the command area - have to be handled
through an appropriate combination of ex-ante studies and the creation of capacity within the
project to take timely ameliorative action.
25.  In the section on Next Steps, the Management proposed to the Board three options:
a.    a formal or informal suspension of disbursements pending completion (and where
necessary enhancement) of steps identified in the Borrower's response;
b.   reappraisal of the R&R and environmental aspects of the SSP projects as a basis for
follow up projects to support: (i) R&R of those displaced by the reservoir; (ii)
sustainable command area development; and (iii) implementation of an agreed
Basin-wide Environmental Management Plan; and
c.    continuation of the support for the project on the basis of responses received from
the Borrower, and subject to the confirmation of continued improvements over the
next six months, to be monitored against actions already agreed and benchmarks for
assessing progress in implementation.
26.   The Management stated its preference for the third option which builds upon the results
achieved and maximizes the prospects for successful implementation of the steps noted in the Bor-
rower's response which are scheduled to be completed in the next few months. The Management,
nevertheless, recognized the risk of these steps not being taken in a timely or effective manner and
proposed that, in that event, remedial action be taken through suspension of disbursements.



Annex 1
91                              Page 7 of 40
Should financial or skill gaps emerge which prevent timely action, IDA would be prepared to
consider supplementary support.
27.   The Board of Executive Directors met on October 23, 1992 to discuss the Review of
Current Status and Next Steps prepared by the Bank staff. The Executive Directors agreed with
the analysis of the Independent Review which had identified a number of deficiencies in the Bank's
appraisal and the Borrower's implementation of the projects. Many Directors had concerns about
obstacles which still had to be overcome. They emphasized the need for full consultation with the
affected people, the importance of satisfactory R&R programs in all three states involved and the
importance of a timely and comprehensive analysis of environmental aspects. The Board agreed to
the Management's third option to continue support to the projects because they wished to give the
benefit of the doubt to the new Government of India which had recently made considerable efforts
to address the projects' problems and because it was the best available option.
28.   The Board determined a number of benchmarks that the Borrower would have to meet by
March 31, 1993. These included:
a.    Terms of Reference for the preparation of a Narmada Basin Environmental
Management Plan;
b.    Completion of a prioritized environmental overview report for the Sardar Sarovar
Projects, including: (i) a summation and qualitative analysis of the 22 studies
already completed, as well as the 11 now underway, and covering upstream and
downstream impacts on such areas as wildlife, flora and fauna, archeological and
religious sites, catchment area treatment, reforestation; and (ii) an environmental
work plan covering works remaining to be done in both the upstream and
downstream areas; and
c.    Adequate implementation of Gujarat's malaria control program at the SSP project
site in line with the specific recommendations of the July 1992 Bank mission.
29. The Board requested that a special review mission should visit India during April 1993 to
assess progress in the implementation of the agreed action plan. Continuation of the Bank's
support after April 1993 depended on meeting the agreed benchmarks for assessing progress.
During the Board meeting, the UK Executive Director proposed that the Overseas Development
Agency (ODA) could assist the Borrower in meeting the benchmarks. Subsequently, a Trust Fund
of £1.0 million was opened and deposited with the Bank for that purpose.
VII. Borrower Actions and Present Status
30.   Beginning November 1992, a Bank mission headed by the Director, India Department
visited the heads of all agencies concerned in India to discuss the benchmarks and agree on a work
program for meeting these by end March 1993. This mission was followed by action letters dated
November 9, 1992 to MOWR, NCA, and the three states concerned which contained a detailed list
of time-bound actions that each implementing agency was to carry out In particular, they were to:
a.    The states were to submit to NCA updated information on environmental works
relating to catchment area treatment, compensatory afforestation, fisheries,
archeological sites and health;
b.    Gujarat was to submit to NCA a comprehensive overview report for SSP covering
the upstream, downstream and command area impacts with particular emphasis on:



nne 1
92                              Page 8 of 40
(i) expanding the estuary studies to take into account the latest estimates of probable
water releases patterns from SSP dam; and (ii) providing a set of downstream
scenarios which can be used to plan protective ameliorative measures;
c.    Gujarat was to submit a detailed report on implementation of malaria control
progran for SSP project site;
d.    NCA was to complete TORs for the preparation of comprehensive Narmada Basin
Environmental Management Plan;
c.    NCA was to update the Environmental Work Plan covering upstream and
downstream impacts including priorities for future work, budget and timetable for
the Sardar Sarovar Project; and
e.    NCA was to complete its staffing arrangements as per earlier Bank reports.
31.   The Borrower and the Bank, thereafter, prepared detailed TOR and recruited in December
1992 two well known consultant firms to assist the implementing agencies in meeting the
benchmarks. Specifically, these consultants were contracted to:
a.    assist NCA and SSNNL in preparing (i) the Environmental Overview Prioritized
Action Plan of the Sardar Sarovar Projects; and (ii) the TOR for the formulation of a
Narmada River Basin Environmental Management Plan.
b.    assist NCA and SSNNL in preparing (i) Sardar Sarovar Projects Command Area
Environmental Impact Assessment; (ii) Environmental Changes Downstream of
Sardar Sarovar Dam; (iii) Sediment and Back Water Aspects of Sardar Sarovar
Project; and (iv) notes on Sardar Sarovar Project Hydrology.
32.   The two consultant firms worked in India from January to March 1993 in association with
the Borrower's implementing agencies. Although not formally part of the benchmarks, it had been
agreed that the consultants would also review the project hydrology and downstream impacts
which had been criticized in the Independent Review Report. In spite of the magnitude of the task
the two consultant firms managed to submit their contributions by mid-March 1993. However, for
various reasons, the Borrower requested the Bank by letter of March 29, 1993 to cancel the
remaining portion of the Loan for the Dam and Power Project, thus terminating to the Bank's
financial assistance to the Sardar Sarovar Projects. However, the Borrower, in doing so, reiterated
their commitment to sound R&R and environmental practices and indicated they would meet the
benchmarks fixed by the Board.
33.   The Borrower's compliance with the environmental benchmarks was submitLed to the Bank
in NCA's letter of August 5, 1993 to which was attached the following reports:
a.    Evolution of Institutional Arrangements for R&R, Environmental Safeguards and
the World Bank Involvement;
b.    Environmental Overview and Prioritized Action Plan;
c.    Terms of Reference for the preparation of a Narmada Basin Environmental
Management Plan;
d.    Environmental Changes Downstream of Sardar Sarovar; and



Annex 1
93                              Page 9 of 40
e.    Sardar Sarovar Project Command Area Environmental Impact Assessment, Interim
Report in three volumes.
34.   The findings of the Environmental Overview and the downstream impacts, prepared by the
Bank consultants, are summarized in Section K of this annex.
VIII. Bank Performance
35.   At appraisal the Bank's procedures for environmental clearance were not as rigorous as
they are now. As a result, the project was approved without an Environmental Impact Assessment
or an Environmental Management Plan to mitigate the impacts. There was also no formal environ-
mental component to mitigate the adverse impacts. However, these aspects were not overlooked
since the SAR and the Legal Documents required that an environmental work plan including an
assessment of impacts on catchment area, fisheries and forests together with measures to minimize
risk of malaria, filaria, schistosomiasis and other water-related diseases be prepared by December
1985.
36.   The Bank let the deadline for the preparation of the Environment Work Plan lapse twice,
once in December 1985 and again in December 1989. On two other occasions, when the Borrower
requested the extension of the Water Delivery and Drainage Project, the Bank did not use its condi-
tionalities for requiring the completion of the Environment Work Plan. In retrospect, the Bank
proved to be weak on the environmental front. This point was the source of strong criticism in the
Independent Review report. It is clear now that appropriate action was not taken on time. The
engimeers supervising the project, in agreement with the Borrower, were confident that environmen-
tal aspects had been taken into account through the preparation of a number of environmental
studies. However, none of these were assembled in a comprehensive Environmental Work Plan as
required in the Legal Documents. The argument later used by the Bank that the situation was not
critical since no environmental damage had occurred as a result of the project appears weak because
this is true of any project which is being constructed and is not an excuse for not preparing the
required Environmental Management Plan. Throughout project preparation and implementation, the
Bank supervision missions paid more attention to the engineering than to the environmental aspects
of the project. After seven years of implementation the Bank took appropriate action by fixing
environmental benchmarks to be met by March 31, 1993.
37.   Similarly, the Bank supervision missions did not pay enough attention to the health aspects
of the project and relied too heavily on the Borrower's assessment of the situation. It is only to-
wards the end of the project when the Independent Review team was at work that the Bank recrui-
ted a malaria specialist to assess the situations. His findings were critical of the prevailing situation
and help in redressing what had been a lacuna.
IX. Borrower Performance
38.   The Borrower's conditional environmental clearance was somewhat ambiguous when GOI
agreed to the preparation of environmental studies "pari pasu" with the implementation of the
project. It is certain that a project of this magnitude does not require that all possible impacts be
assessed in detail particularly for those areas which are to be implemented in two decades time.
However, with modern computer modelling and remote sensing technologies, it is possible and
necessary to study in some detail the most critical impacts so that the project design can incorporate
the most likely impacts. The Borrower's performance on this point has been weak even though a
number of environmental studies had been carried out. Throughout project implementation, the
Borrower had difficulties in integrating the various studies into a comprehensive Environmental
Work Plan. It claimed, on several occasions, that the impacts would be monitored closely as
project is implemented and the remedial action would be taken as and when necessary. This



94                              1AnnexI
Page 10 of 40
procedure is not compatible with sound planning and can only lead to expensive crisis
management. For example, one should not wait for the salinity in the estuary to rise to
unacceptable levels before taking the requisite mitigating measures. It is always preferable and less
expensive to carry out preventive measures as part of the project design from the start of the project
then to carry out corrective measures during implementation.
X. Lessons Learned
39.   The fli lesson is that the Bank should not approve a project, particularly one that involves
a large dam, without a proper Environmental Impact Assessment and management plan. The
seond lesson is that no project should be approved until a formal environmental clearance is
obtained from the Borrower. A third. lesson is that, in the case of a project with a large
environmental impact, a mitigating environmental component should be made an integral part of the
project supported by strong legal covenants. A fQurlh lesson relates to the need for the Bank to use
highly qualified environmental specialists to supervise the environmental component and, as
needed, to provide guidance to the Borrower in the resolution of special environmental issues. A
fifh lesson is that, nowadays, there is no excuse for not making ample use of remote sensing and
computer modeling technologies for assessing environmental impacts of large projects such as
SSP.
XI. Major Impacts and Mitigating Measures
INTRODUCTION
40.   The following sections summarize the findings of the Environmental Overview and
upstream and downstream environmental studies prepared by consultants.
41.   The project will provide irrigation water and domestic and industrial water supplies for
millions of people in a drought-prone area of Gujarat and generate a large quantity of renewable
power and energy. In addition to these environmental benefits, the impoundment of the River
Narmada and the diversion of water will also have other environmental impacts. The following key
areas need to be addressed in order to assess these impacts and to plan the project's environmental
management:
a. Compensatory Afforestation - to replace forest lands submerged or diverted for
resealement;
b. Catchment Area Treatment - to check erosion and assist soil and moisture
conservation in the catchment area within the immediate vicinity of the reservoir;
c. Terresia Ecology - to conserve terresrial flora and fauna;
d. UptamAuat Eni             - to conserve important natural fauna;
e.  blic Heah - to provide health care facilities to displaced people and to construction
workers and prevention of the spread of disease;
f. Cultural Haigm - to identify and protect culturally valuable artifacts in the
submergence area; and
g. The Downstream River and Estuary - to mitigate the potential effects of changed
freshwater discharge patterns on the environment downstream of the dam.



95                                  Annex 1
Page 11 of 40
42.   This Annex of the PCR reviews the above topics with reference to govemment regulations
and conditions, studies and investigations, potential impacts, mitigation measures, and the current
status of implementation. Sections of this Annex also deal with Hydrology and Sediment and
Backwater Effects; this is in response to questions raised on these topics in the Report of the
Independent Review (june 1992).
COMPENSATORY AFFORESTATION (CAF)
43.   The Forest Conservation Act (1980) prohibits the transfer of land designated as forest for
development without prior clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF).
Clearance will only be granted, if at all, subject to the condition that Compensatory Afforestation
(CAF) be undertaken on an area of land equivalent to the area of forest submerged. The usual
requirement is that for every hectare of designated forest taken, one hectare of non-forest land
should be afforested and declared as forest or, if suitable non-forest land is not available within the
entire state, two hectares of degraded forest should be reforested. Non-forest land anywhere
within the boundaries of the state may be afforested in compensation. Approval for the clearance
of forest land for the project was granted by the MOEF in 1987, but eleven conditions were
attached relating to the planning and conduct of CAF and other measures to protect the existing
forest. Principal amongst these were the following stipulations:
a. for every hectare of forest land submerged or diverted for construction of the project,
there should be Compensatory Afforestation on one hectare of non-forest land, plus
reforestation on two hectares of degraded forest. This represents a two-fold increase of
the usual requirement;
b. for the 2,700 hectares of forest land in Maharashtra which is to be used for R&R3, an
equal area of non-forest land or double the area of degraded forest should be planted;
and
c. the governments of the three states involved should prepare plans detailing their
proposals for Compensatory Afforestation and submit these to the MOEF before work
in the forest area is due to commence.
Area of Forest Affected
44.   Forest land needed by the project totals 17,943 ha and includes:
a. 13,386 ha submerged by the reservoir in the three states;
b. out of a total submerged area of about 37,000 ha, 357 ha of designated forest in Gujarat
required for the construction of the dam and the irrigation system; and
c. 4,200 ha of the Taloda forest in Maharashtra4 to be used for the resettlement of people
displaced by the projecL
3     This rea is to be increased by about 1500 ha.
4     Initially 2,700 ha, to which 1,500 ha were added subsequently.



Annex 1
96                             Page 12 of 40
Impact and Management
45. There have been a number of studies in the three states aimed at assessing the extent and
significance of the loss of forest lands attributable to the project. These include:
Sardar Sarovar (Narmada) Project Development Plan, Volume II prepared by the Narmada
Planning Group (NPG) in 1983 contained a chapter on the various environmental aspects
of the project. Details of land use and forest cover derived from aerial photography are
included.
Studies on Ecology and Environment by MS University of Baroda (MSU) in 1983, used
satellite photography, statistical sampling techniques and an extensive program of
fieldwork to determine the density, species composition and productivity of forests in the
submergence area of Gujarat.
Sardar Sarovar Project: Preparation of Environmental Work Plan by the Forests
Department of Maharashtra in 1988, was a survey listing all important flora in the
submergence area of Maharashtra.
Eco-Environmental and Wildlife Management Studies on the Sardar Sarovar Submergence
Area in Gujarat reported on work done between November 1989 and May 1992 by MSU.
This provided more detailed reports on the status of the forests in the submergence area and
environs of Gujarat
Impact Assessment of Madhya Pradesh Land to be Submerged Under Sardar Sarovar
Project and Adjoining Ecosystems is an ongoing study, which began in September 1990
and for which quarterly reports and two interim reports (1990-1991 and 1991-1992) are
available. The study is being conducted by the State Forest Research Institute (SFRI) in
Jabalpur and financed by the Narmada Valley Development Authority (NVDA); the final
report will be available in mid-1993. A detailed analysis of the growing stock and species
composition of forest to be submerged is almost complete and a preliminary assessment of
the status of the forest is given in the first and second interim reports.
Status of Flora and Fauna in and Around Sardar Sarovar Project, Maharashtra is a
preliminary report of an on-going study by the University of Pune which began in 1992
and is due to run for two years. Pune has used satellite imagery and GIS techniques
coupled with an extensive program of field work to report on the density and species
composition of forest areas in Maharashtra.
46.   The MSU studies demonstrated that the forest areas in the submergence area of Gujarat are
of low density and quality. Although they could be classified as dry, deciduous teak forest and
must once have supported a rich fauna, pressure from human and animal activities and severe soil
erosion has reduced these areas to low productivity, highly degraded forest
47.   Interim reports from Madhya Pradesh suggest that the situation is similar there. Fires,
overgrazing and shifting cultivation have led to severe damage to the forest and caused acute
erosion.
48.   Detailed surveys are on-going in Maharashtra, but forest areas in the submergence zone are
contiguous with those of Gujarat on the south side of the Narmada and are reportedly in the same
poor condition. Preliminary reports by the University of Pune and field visits by NCA officials
suggest that over-exploitation, encroachment by people for agriculture and consequent erosion has



Annex I
97                             Page 13 of 40
reduced much of the area to a highly degraded state. The forests to be used for resettlement in
Maharashtra are also heavily degraded so that, of the total designated forest area to be diverted in
Maharashtra, less than 50% currently has a significant tree cover.
Proposed Management Measures
49.   MOEF has specified that the project will compensate for forest lands taken by the projects
as shown below. The project is also required to supply construction workers at the dam site with
fuel wood.
QUarat   Mabmhsa        Madbya    IAa1
Pradesh
Forest area taken by the project  4,523 ha   9,188 ha  2,732 ha  16,443 ha
Degraded forest to be replanted  9,300 ha  12,980 ha   6,547 ha  28,827 ha
Non-forest land to be afforested  4,650 ha   9,190 ha  2,190 ha  16,030 ha
Total area for CAF             1950 ha  22,170 ha      8.737ha h 44.857 ha
Action Plans
50.   In compliance with the conditions set by the MOEF, each state has prepared an action plan
for CAF within its boundaries. The relevant documents are:
Govemment of Gujarat Work Plan for Management of Environmental Effects, Section on
Forests and Wildife: The Compensatory Afforestation Plan for the Rann of Kutch. 1986
Projectfor Afforestation in Sardar Sarovar Project ImpactAreas due to Diversion of Forest
Lands for Sardar Sarovar Project (Gujarat).1 989
Compensatory Afforestation Scheme in Lieu of Sardar Sarovar Project in Dhule District,
Maharashtra State. 1991
Action Plan of Compensatory Afforestation for Sardar Sarovar multi-purpose river-valley
project: Govemnment of Madhya Pradesh Forest Department .1989
51.   The three states have provided land, as far as possible, within the immediate vicinity of the
project-affected areas. In Gujarat, however, there is not enough suitable non-forest land available
owing to the large areas set aside for catchment treatment and other project-related workl For this
reason, land away from the catchment of the Narmada was selected, including areas within the
Rann of Kutch - an arid area to the north-west of the dam site. The feasibility of CAF in these
areas was carefully studied before being approved by the Gujarat Forest DepartmenL
Public Participation
52.   None of the original CAF plans contained provision for the involvement of local people as
envisaged in the National Forest Policy, 1988. The tight schedule of CAF implementation at first
precluded the direct involvement of local communities, but to ensure the success of the planting
program, the project authorities have now made arrangements with the local people to protect the
new planting for three to seven years, depending on tree species. Also, provision has been made
to reforest degraded forest areas rotationally to avoid the need to close off large areas of forest
which may be used for grazing animals.



Annex 1
98                             Page 14 of 40
53.   Efforts are now underway to enlist the support of the local population in a participatory
management approach in accordance with National Policy. Madhya Pradesh, for example, has
issued a Note on Participatory Management in Madhya Pradesh. This provides for the formation
of Forest Protection Committees at the village level with full representation of the various
groupings within the village community. The Committees will assist the Forest Department in the
selection of tree species to be planted; policing and enforcing forest protection measures; and
sharing of the intermediate and final yields of the forest. A similar approach is being adopted in
Gujarat and Maharashira
Implementation
54.   The total area afforested to date is over 29,000 ha out of the planned total of about 45,000
ha. Progress is good in all three states: Gujarat (62%), Maharashtra (69%), and Madhya Pradesh
(55%). Under the Forest Conservation Act (1980) the Government is required to appoint an agen-
cy to monitor the implementation of the provisions of the Act. Five regional offices have been
established for this purpose around India. The Office of the Regional Chief Conservator of Fo-
rests at Bhopal is responsible for monitoring CAF for the project on behalf of the MOEF, and each
state forestry department has set up its own monitoring arrangements.
55.   The areas treated under the CAF program are declared designated forest under the Forest
Act of 1927 and will ultimately become the responsibility of the state forest departments. The CAF
associated with the project is a small part of the total reforestation work being undertaken by these
departments which are managing vast forest resources. They have, in the process of the work,
acquired valuable experience which will be of advantage in ensuring the success of CAF for the
project.
CATCHMENT AREA TREATMENT (CAT)
56.   The MOEF environment clearance order stipulated that a phased catchment area treatment
should be completed prior to reservoir filling. Subsequently, GOI decided that the project will bear
the costs of treating critically-degraded watersheds draining directly into the reservoir. These
watersheds were identified as those classified as either "very high" or "high" priority categories by
the All India Soil and Land Use Survey (AISLUS). The project would also be responsible for the
treatment of those areas of the catchment which are directly damaged by the project activities.
Sources of Erosion and Objectives of CAT
57.   High rates of erosion prevail in the catchment where the soils have little vegetative cover,
where steep slopes are farmned or felled without precautions to prevent erosion; and where there is
overgrazing. CAT in the Narmada catchment will involve re-vegetation of barren areas and
physical measures to protect unstable surfaces. These will give rise to a number of direct and
indirect benefits, including a reduced rate of sediment runoff; an increased supply of fuel, fodder,
minor forest products and small timber for the local population; and an increase in agricultural
productivity through better moisture retention. The improved forest cover can also increase the
carrying capacity for wildlife.
Management Plans
58.   Surveys and studies have been undertaken to aid the development of a management plan for
CAT in the catchment; these include the following.
Report of Inter-Departmental Committee on Soil Conservation and Afforestation, (the
Dewan Committee Report), 1985 presented the findings and recommendations of an inter-



nnex 1
99                             Page 15 of 40
departmental committee set up by the Ministry of Agriculture to report on conditions in the
catchment; suggest soil conservation and afforestation measures; and prepare a phased
program of work and financial outlays. The committee reviewed proposals for CAT
submitted by the three states and the soil survey work carried out by local forestry officers.
It recommended further work to identify critically degraded sub-watersheds for priority
treatment and gave advice on procedure and methodology for CAT in the Narmada Basin.
Report on Prioritization of Sub-watersheds in Sub-catchments of Narmada Catchment,
1991 presents the results of a three-year study conducted by AISLUS in accordance with
the recommendations of the Dewan Committee. The catchment of Sardar Sarovar was
divided into eight sub-catchments and each of these was further divided yielding a total of
more than one thousand sub-watersheds. Each sub-watershed was then subject to detailed
survey to establish the potential for erosion through consideration of such factors as slope,
vegetative cover, soil characteristics, surface condition, physiography, etc. This
information was used to derive a 'Silt Yield Index' (SYI) which was, in turn, used to
prioritize the sub-watersheds for CAT. Almost 30% of the total catchment area falls into
the 'very high' and 'high' categories, most susceptible to erosion.
Proposed Measures for CAT
59.   The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has carried out catchment treatment work in many areas
of India and has developed detailed guidelines for CAT in all kinds of terrain. The states of
Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have selected treatment regimes for priority areas from
these guidelines taking into consideration land use, soils, topography, vegetative cover, and
agriculture.
60.   There is considerable variation in the sub-catchment types in the catchment. A variety of
measures were, therefore, selected for CAT in the three states. Mechanical measures include the
construction of gully plugs, check dams, terraces, and contouring. Agronomic techniques include
afforestation, rehabilitation of degraded forest, pasture development and protection of existing tree
growth.
Action Plans
61.   GNiarai accepted the recommendations of the Dewan Committee and, since the catchment
area to be treated in Gujarat is relatively small, decided to treat the entire catchment area without
waiting for the prioritization of the sub-watersheds by AISLUS. An action plan for CAT was
included in their Work Plan for Enviromnental Effects. This plan was reviewed and updated by
the Forest Department in the light of the results of a stock mapping survey and thematic mapping
work. Thematic mapping was carried out under the guidance of the Indian Space Research
Organization using satellite imagery provided by Indian satellite IRS-IA and corroborated by the
French satellite imagery System Pour l'Observation de la Terre (SPOT). A revised program for
CAT was developed by dividing the forest within the catchment area into three categories according
to the density of tree cover. Category 1 (canopy cover <0.4), Category 2 (canopy cover 0.4-0.6)
and Category 3 (canopy cover >0.6). In Category 3, only mechanical measures for soil
conservation are deemed necessary. More degraded areas will, in addition, be subject to
afforestation, the density of planting (400 to 2,000 plantstha) being determined by the extent of
degradation. CAT in Gujarat applies to 27,000 ha of forest - Category 1(12,600 ha), Category 2
(11,900 ha) and Category 3 (2600 ha). Also, there is in Gujarat 3,000 hectares of non-forest land,
almost all of it agricultural and mainly privately owned, where proposals for treatment must be
agreed with the individual owners. This work is being carried out by the Land Development
Corporation of Gujarat.



Annex 1
100                            Page 16 of 40
62.   Maharashtra. An action plan for CAT in forest and non-forest areas is based on survey
reports which were submitted to MOEF in 1988. Implementation awaited the outcome of survey
by AISLUS to prioritize the catchments. After publication of the AISLUS survey results in 1991,
Maharashtra was able to submit revised action plans for the treatment of those 'very high' and
'high' priority sub-catchments draining directly to the reservoir. As in Gujarat, catchments were
divided into three categories for treatment, although to take account of the specific conditions in
Maharashtra, the slope was considered in addition to the percentage forest cover. Treatment is
proposed for about 24,360 ha (20,000 ha forest area and 4,360 ha non-forest area) of which about
50% is in Categories 1 and 2. The extent of land to be treated under each category is currently
being revised since additional directly draining priority sub-watersheds have recently been
identified.
63.   MadhyaPradesh. The Forest Department of MP has prepared a map of the degraded areas
to be treated and classified forest areas into three groups. Areas with a low existing tree density
will be brought under intensive planting. Areas where the density of existing forest is
comparatively high (<0.4) will be treated under a program of rehabilitation of degraded forests.
Forest and non-forest areas which are unfit for seedling planting will be developed for pasture. The
total area to be treated is about 125,725 ha (51,930 ha forest area and 73,795 non forest area)
However, a large part of the catchment (about 22,806 ha) in Madhya Pradesh is privately-owned
agricultural land with flat to gently rolling topography. Mechanical measures to prevent erosion
will, therefore, be used wherever considered necessary, including contouring and a variety of
check dams. For the forest land, most of which is highly degraded, an action plan has been
prepared to detail methods for planting and the species to be used; mechanical and vegetative
barriers will be erected in these areas.
Implementation
64.   The areas identified to be subject to CAT by AISLUS were given as gross areas of each
sub-watershed. These areas include land uses where no treatment is necessary or possible
including house, towns ,vfllages, roads and water bodies. The gross area also includes high areas
and steep slopes where topsoil has completely eroded away, leaving exposed rocl. In
Maharashtra, in particular, there are many such areas. Survey work conducted in areas currently
being treated suggests that the net area on which CAT can actually be carried out is 50 to 60% of
the gross area.
65.   Gujarat has already treated 16,500 hectares. This is around 53% of the total area to be
treated. The plan envisages completion of the program by the end of March 1995.
66.   Mahamashtra only finalized its action plan when the results of the AISLUS survey became
available. Maharashtra prepared detailed action plans separately for agricultural and forest areas
which were submitted in 1992. However, work could not start according to schedule due to
agitation by anti-project residents. In Maharashtra, a substantial part of the CAT area is designated
as forest but has, in fact, been encroached and used for agriculture by local people. These people
are reluctant to allow local forestry officers on to the land until the matter of the legality of their
tenure has been resolved. The Union and State Govemments fear that, if the issue is resolved in
favor of the encroachers, this will encourage further encroachment into forest areas and undernine
the purpose of the Forest Conservation Act. Nevertheless, work has now commenced in the areas
free from dispute and is scheduled to be completed by March 1996.
67.   Madhya Pradeh submitted a detailed action plan in 1991 and CAT work commenced that
year. The targets were not met, however, due to failure of the monsoon and a revised programme
had to be prepared. To date, 17,000 hectares of land has been treated, and the entire program will
be complete by March 1997.



Annex 1
101                            Page 17 of 40
68.   The present schedules envisage completion of the CAT programme in all three states by the
end of the 1996-97 financial year. Full impoundment of the reservoir is not due until 1998 so
these schedules are in accordance with the condition of the MOEF that the entire program of CAT
should be completed before reservoir filling
Public Participation
69.   The long-term success of implementation of CAT measures depends on the cooperation and
involvement of local residents and local interest groups. This is to be achieved through
consultations between the implementing agency and District Land Improvement Committees.
Before any CAT work can be undertaken, the implementing agency presents a proposal to the
Committee giving such details as: area and location of the sub-watershed; physical and soil
characteristics; likely benefits of CAT work; present land use details; and CAT treatment menus
based on survey results. The Committee must approve these proposals before CAT work can
commence. In addition, where the land is privately-owned, the owner must give consent If the
owner has objections, the Committee will consider them and negotiate on his behalf with the
implementing agency. Where CAT is to take place on encroached forest land, however, there is no
requirement for consultations with farmers (although work can obviously take place if participation
and cooperation of local people is obtained).
Monitoring
70.   Overall responsibility for the monitoring and quality control of CAT work belongs to the
NCA. The arrangements for monitoring are similar to those for CAF. However, because of the
large amount of agricultural land contained in CAT areas in Madhya Pradesh, the Chief Agricultu-
ral Officer of the state will also have a duty to oversee implementation. In each state, senior fores-
try officers are responsible for monitoring and the production of reports for the Chairman of the
Environment Sub-Group of the NCA.
TERRESTRIAL ECOLOGY
71.   The areas to be submerged by the dam were once part of a large forest ecosystem suppor-
ting a diverse range of plant and animal life. These included plants and fungi, invertebrate life,
birds and reptiles, small mammals and larger animals such as tigers, bears, panthers, deer etc.
Although much of the forest is now degraded, there may still be valuable plant and animal resour-
ces which are worth conserving and, where practicable, enhancing as part of the environmental
management of the projects.
72.   Wildlife is protected in India by the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) which contains schedu-
les listing rare, endangered and threatened species requiring special protection. The guidelines of
the MOEF require that when environmental clearance for large projects is sought, surveys of the
terrestrial ecology are conducted so that the flora and fauna present can be assessed, listed species
can be detected, if present, and appropriate conservation measures devised. On the basis of such
studies, the MOEF was able to issue clearance for the project in 1987. A condition of this clea-
rance, as far as it relates specifically to the terrestrial eco-system, was that further more detailed
studies of flora and fauna would be carried out to confirm the absence of rare or endangered
species. In addition, the World Bank Loan Agreement called for preparation of an environmental
work plan covering forest wildlife.



102                                 Annex 1
Page 18 of 40
Sources of Impact on Terrestrial Ecosystems
73.   Several aspects of the darn have potential to cause adverse effects on the terrestrial ecology
of areas upstream of the dam, principal amongst these being the submergence of forest land and the
resettlement of people in new areas. The dan also has considerable potential to have beneficial
effects on ecological resources, owing to the creation of new and regenerated forest habitat; the
establishment and improvement of wildlife sanctuaries; and the greater availability of fresh water.
Impact Assessment and Management
74.   There have been surveys of the flora and fauna in all the project-affected areas. In general,
the aim of these surveys has been to establish the composition and status of the terrestrial ecology
resources. This information can then be used as a basis for further studies, which will assess any
potential impacts and develop mitigation measures and management strategies. Important survey
work has included the following:
* The Environmental Impact Study of 1983 prepared by (MSU). This study included a
botanical survey of the forest submergence areas in Gujarat. Lists of tree species and
medicinal plants were compiled and recommendations for further, more detailed, work
were made.
* Preliminary Report on First Botanical Exploration and Plant Collection from Narmada
Valley by the Botanical Survey of India in 1986. This reports on field survey work
carried out in the different phytogeographical zones of the Narmada Basin. More than
700 specimens were collected for laboratory study and a detailed species list of the flora
was prepared. The areas investigated were located within the proposed Narnada Sagar
Dam Complex (NSC) in Madhya Pradesh, outside the submergence area of the dam,
but within the same ecological zone.
* Report on the Survey of the Narmada Sagar Area by Zoological Survey of India,
1988]. This reports on a two-week field survey undertaken by a group of zoologists
with expertise in five different animal groups in the submergence area of the proposed
Narmada Sagar Project (NSP) in Madhya Pradesh. A list was compiled of animal
species which were either found to be present or had been reliably reported in the area
* Note on Sardar Sarovar Project - Preparation of Environmental Work Plan for Forest
and Wildlife by the State Forest Department, Maharashtra, 1988 This short note lists
the main flora and fauna present in the submergence area of Maharashtra and comments
on their frequency of occurrence in the state.
* Status of Flora and Fauna in and Around Sardar Sarovar Project, Maharashtra is a
preliminary report of an ongoing study by the University of Pune. Section 3 of this
report lists species of plants found in the submergence areas and reports on such
aspects as the species abundance, density, frequency of occurrence, etc. It also lists the
animal species identified in the same areas with the aid of field visits and interviews
with the local population. Pune is due to complete its study in the submergence area by
the end of 1993 and all other work by the end of 1994. In the interim, they will
conduct more detailed qualitative and quantitative surveys of flora and fauna using
standard, intemationally recognized, methods.



103                            Page 19 of 40
Eco-Environmental and Wildlife Management Studies in the Sardar Sarovar Area in
Gujarat, 1992, by MSU reports on extremely thorough and comprehensive surveys of
flora and fauna in the state of Gujarat. The surveys had the aim of assessing the
present status and composition of flora and fauna in the submergence area and environs
and noting the presence of any rare or endangered species. More than 70 field trips
spending more than 2,000 staff days over a period of two and a half years were used to
collect data in accordance with a rigorous statistical sampling regime.
* Impact Assessment of Madhya Pradesh Land to be Submerged Under Sardar Sarovar
Project and Adjoining Ecosystems is an on-going study, which began in September
1990 and for which quarterly reports and two interim reports are available. The study
is being conducted by the State Forest Research Institute (SFRI) in Jabalpur and
financed by the NVDA. The final report will be available at the end of March 1993.
Botanical surveys have been conducted, species lists have been compiled and the
condition and utility to the local population of the flora are being assssed. Species lists
of fauna remain to be compiled, although survey work and interviews with local
residents have been conducted.
75.   In Gujarat, the botanical survey work by MSU confirmed that much of the submergence
area and surrounding catchment has all the characteristics of a highly degraded eco-system. In
particular, the north bank of the proposed reservoir has very little vegetative cover apart from a few
isolated patches of forest. On the south bank, there are still some areas of fairly good forest cover,
however, located within the area designated as the Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary. These are
somewhat degraded, but the presence of small numbers of indicator species of teak forest show
that the area was once a good forest and has the potential to recover. No rare or endangered
endemic species were found. The MSU identified important flora, which although not endangered
or rare in the sub-continent as a whole, occur infrequently in Gujarat. Specimens of these were
collected and are preserved in the University's nurseries.
76.   The study of animal life also showed a marked difference between the degraded north bank
and the comparatively diverse fauna of the Shoolpaneshwar Sanctuary. The north bank is almost
devoid of wildlife. South of the river, however, particularly within the original boundaries of the
Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, there is diverse fauna. Overall, 539 species of animal were
identified including 173 species of bird and 28 mammals. The presence amongst these of such
notable species as the Heartspotted Woodpecker, the Rusty spotted Cat, the Barking Deer and
others makes the Sanctuary a high priority conservation area.
77.  In Maharashtra, the submergence area is highly degraded forest which has been subject to
over-exploitation and encroachment for agriculture. The submergence areas are contiguous with
those on the south bank of the Narmada in Gujarat and can be expected to support a similar, if
reduced, flora and fauna. The survey done by the Forest Department and the preliminary report of
the more detailed work being undertaken by the University of Pune confirm these expectations.
Plant life includes only commonly occurring species. Animal life is not as abundant as it once
was, but there is still a wide diversity of invertebrates, reptiles and birds. Larger mammals have
almost disappeared from the area, although some traces of large cats were found.
78.  In Madhya Pradesh, studies of the Narnada Basin catalogued a very rich and diverse flora
and fauna, but no rare or endangered plant species were identified. These studies were undertaken
as part of the preparatory work for the Narmada Sagar Project and so concentrated on the
submergence area of that dam. Nevertheless, the study areas were in the same ecological zone as
the submergence area of Sardar Sarovar in Madhya Pradesh and, therefore, the same species of
flora and fauna can be expected to be endemic in the two areas, unless the natural biota has been
disturbed by anthropogenic activity. The second annual interim report of the SFRI, however,



Annex 1
104                            Page 20 of 40
reports that the submergence areas in Madhya Pradesh are very highly degraded. Moreover, in
Madhya Pradesh, only a small patch (2,732 ha) of very poor quality forest will be submerged by
the reservoir. Ground flora such as grasses, herbs and shrubs are altogether absent in some areas
and under-stocked, small and bushy in others. In the absence of vegetational cover, and with the
scarcity of water holes and the lack of fodder, the area harbors little or no wildlife of value.
Management/Mitigation Measures
79.   There will be extensive tree and grass planting as part of the CAT and CAF programs, and
this will greatly extend and improve the wildlife habitat. Since no rare or endangered plant species
are endemic in the submergence areas of the dam, and since areas in Gujarat and Maharashtra are
contiguous with far larger areas which will be preserved and enhanced by the project, there is no
need for further measures in the submergence area to preserve flora or to increase carrying
capacity.
80.   Fauna of the submergence areas will be preserved by: creating new wildlife sanctuaries or
extending existing ones; encouraging migration to the surrounding forest areas; providing escape
routes from the submergence area; and enhancing the carrying capacity of the surrounding areas.
81.   A key mitigation measure for the project will be the preservation and enhancement of the
Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary including the participation of local people in the sanctuary's
management. To assist and inforn the development of the wildlife management strategy and to
facilitate the preparation of action plans, however, several more studies were undertaken which
examined the available options. These included:
Workshop on Approaches to Integrated Wildlife Management in Gujarat: A Report, by
the SSNNL, October 1990. This reported the outcome of discussions of an event
organized by the Wildlife section of the Gujarat Department of Forests in conjunction
with the SSNNL The 90 participants included representatives from the World Wide
Fund for Nature, MSU, and other organizations. Papers presented discussed the
vanous approaches to the management of wildlife reserves as well as specific issues
relating to the wildlife of the reservoir area
People's Involvement in Wildlife Management, by VlKSAT in 1991. This report was
prepared for the World Bank and looked at local people's use of forests and attitudes
towards wildlife in conjunction with the aims and objectives of the Shoolpaneshwar
Sanctuary. It suggested several approaches for the development of the sanctuary
including the proposal that tribal people be allowed to remain within its confimes and
that they should be involved in its management.
* Wildlife Management Studies in the Submergence and Catchment Areas of Narmada
Project: With Special Reference to Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, by the
SSNNL, 1992 studied the distribution and status of flora and fauna in the submergence
areas of Gujarat and went on to suggest management measures for the Wildlife
Sanctuary.
82.   The proposals of the three states for the conservation of wildlife are as follows:
Gujarat. The area of the Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary is to be enlarged to 607
sq.km, almost four times its original size. The northern boundary now extends to the
shore of the reservoir, providing access to the waterfront for the animals, and steps are
being taken to improve the habitat in the sanctuay.



Anx 1
105                            Page 21 of 40
M4aiaha   Animals will be able to migrate from the submergence area of Maharashtra to
a contiguous area within the Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Gujarat, and to the
surrounding forest. A felling plan has been prepared to ensure that animals are not trapped
on islands when the reservoir begins to fill. The University of Pune is studying the
carrying capacity of the surrounding areas to assess their ability to support the influx of
fauna from Maharashtra, but since only a small number of animals reside in the affected
area and large-scale planting of the receiving areas is planned under both the CAF and the
CAT programs, no problems are anticipated.
Madhya Pradesh. The study in progress by the SFRI has recommended the creation of
wildlife sanctuaries in Madhya Pradesh and (in an adjoining area) Maharashtra. In
addition, they have prepared a plan for felling the forests which provides corridors for
whatever little wildlife remains in the submergence areas. Final decisions on how to
respond to these recommendations will be taken when the study is complete and the final
report has been received.
Action Plans
83.   To ensure that the wildlife conservation measures outlined above are implemented
effectively, action plans for the three states are required including:
a. felling plans for Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh which will avoid the possibility of
animals being trapped in the submergence area;
b. plans for improvement works in the wildlife sanctuaries of Gujarat;
c. plans for increasing the carrying capacity of forest areas receiving wildlife from
adjoining submergence areas, where appropriate; and
d. plans for preserving the gene pool of important flora.
84. The following plans are available to date.
*  Scheme for Clear-felling the Forest Areas to be Submerged in Sardar Sarovar Project, by
the SFRI, 1991. This presents a plan for felling the trees in the submergence area of
Madhya Pradesh. The plan takes account of the need to leave corridors for the migration of
wildlife, but notes that due to the heavily degraded nature of the forest in the submergence
area, animals appear already to have moved deeper into the forest.
*  Action Plan on Development of Shoolpaneshwar Sanctuary, prepared by the SSNNL,
1992. This includes details of construction work to be carried out, a timetable and a cost
estimate based on the recommendations of the SSNNL study described above. The Forest
Department, Gujarat is responsible for implementing the plan.
85.   Improvement of carrying capacity has already taken place in Shoolpaneshwar and is an
inevitable consequence of the CAT and CAF programs taking place in areas adjoining the dam in
Gujarat. Action may be needed on habitat improvement in the Sanctuaries proposed in Madhya
Pradesh and Maharashtra, but plan development must await submission of SFRI's final report and
the evaluation of the recommendations by an expert committee.
86.   The study by Pune University includes a felling plan for the submergence areas of
Maharashtra prepared for the Forest Department, which is responsible for the felling.



Annex 1
106                            Page 22 of 40
Implementation
87.  Initial improvements to the habitats of the Shoolpaneshwar Wildlife Sanctuary were
completed by the end of 1992. There is also provision for five years of maintenance. Details of
the work are recorded in NCA reports. The Government's policy is that no felling within
submergence areas is to be undertaken until no more than six months before filling of the reservoir,
so the felling plans for Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh await implementation.
Summary of Work Outstanding
88.   Baseline studies and analysis of management/mitigation options to conserve terrestrial flora
and fauna have been completed for a majority of the area affected by the dam. These studies have
indicated the condition of wildlife in the project affected areas of Maharashtra, but the final report
of a detailed study of this area is awaited. Plans for developing sanctuaries in Maharashtra and
Madhya Pradesh await the final recommendations of the on-going studies. Management strategies
for all sanctuaries in the project are under development.
UPSTREAM AQUATIC ENVIRONMENT
89.   The impoundment of the Narmada by the SSP dam will convert a stretch of river between
the darn site and the upper limits of the reservoir from a comparatively shallow, free-flowing river
into a narrow lake of about 210 km with a depth of up to 120 meters at the dam site. Also, where-
as previously 90% of the annual flow occurs during the monsoon period, the dam will regulate the
flow and a substantial amount of water will be retained throughout the year. As a consequence,
there will be considerable changes in the aquatic environment.
90.   A condition of the environmental clearance given to the project by the MOEF was that flora
and fauna be surveyed including fish in the river from a conservation aspect Also, the Loan Agree-
ment with the World Bank stipulated that studies on fish and fisheries should be carried out.
91.   The results of studies on the effects of the project on the aquatic environment upstream of
the dam and the proposed actions to manage these are summarized below. A review of the
downstream aquatic environment is given in the PCR for the Water Delivery and Drainage Project.
Sources of Impact on the Upstream Aquatic Environment
92.   The impoundment of a river affects its physical characteristics such as the depth, water
quality, grain size and nature of the sediments and therefore the nature of the ecological niches it
provides. The dam itself also constitutes a physical barrier to the movement of fish. lmpacts of
the project can therefore be expected to include changes in the composition of the aquatic flora and
fauna within the reservoir. Two ldnds of impacts are of greatest potential significance upstream of
the reservoir. First, there may be physio-chemical changes in the benthic environment or the water
column and consequent impacts on the food chain leading to effects on important fish species.
Second, there may be a loss of breeding grounds with adverse impacts on commercial fisheries.
Studies
93.   A number of studies have been carried out to establish a baseline and help to predict future
conditions for aquatic life behind the Sardar Sarovar Dam. Many of these studies predated the
planning of the project,. but have provided a useful basis for further work and have been reviewed
and synthesized by the Central Inland Capture Fisheries Research Institute (CICFRI). Other
studies undertaken as part of project planning include the following:



Annex 1
107                            Page 23 of 40
The Environmental Impact Study of 1983 prepared by MSU. This catalogued the flora along
the river banks and examined the planktonic flora and fauna. Data on fish catches was also
examined and some preliminary conclusions about the potential for increased fish yields were
reached, although further in-depth studies of likely conditions in the deeper parts of the
reservoir were recommended.
Narmada Basin Water Development Plan: Development of Fisheries, 1984, was prepared by
the Narmada Planning Agency, Madhya Pradesh. This was a desk study to synthesize many of
the earlier limnological and fisheries studies and develop proposals for fisheries management
within the reservoirs planned on the Narmada. A detailed description of the physio-chemical
characteristics and the biota in the upstream environment is given together with an analysis of
fish catch statistics. Potential impacts of impoundment are discussed and a plan is proposed for
future fisheries development
Rapid Reconnaissance Survey of Limnological Aspects Parts I, II and III, 1984, carried out
for Gujarat in compliance with the MOEF requirement for environmental information for their
appraisal of the impoundment projects on the Narmada. The stretch of the river within Madhya
Pradesh was divided into three zones, east, central and west, of which the western zone abuts
the reservoir area. The physio-chemical and biological status of each zone was assessed by
means of samples taken on several occasions at a number of sites in each of the three zones.
This rapid survey provided background information for the setting up of a more detailed study
described below.
Narmada River Basin Development Project: Fisheries Component, 1991. Consultants studied
the potential for fisheries development in: the catchment area of the Narmada River; the
Command Area; and the estuary of the Narmada River. The report covers the logistics and
costs of fisheries development in the Narmada Basin, and also provides a summary of the
environmental conditions in the Sardar Sarovar reservoir and makes recommendations for
further studies.
Sociological Survey of the Fishing Families of the Narmada River, 1991. This study records
the results of an investigation into the socio-economic status of the fishing communities of the
Narmada Basin. Over 8,000 families in 453 fishing villages were interviewed and the results
analyzed to provide information on the income, secondary occupations, demography, fishing
methods, culture, access to social services etc. of the fishing families. The report also
recommended strategies for fisheries development
Aquatic Fauna (Fish) Studies in Indira Narmada Sagar Submergence Area, 1991, on behalf on
the NVDA reported on the fish fauna of the Narmada. These studies were carried out for the
Indira Sagar (Narmada Sagar) Dam; however, due to similarities in the limnological
environment, comparisons can be drawn with the Sardar Sarovar Dam. The status of the
present fauna was assessed, the changes which can be expected after impoundment were
predicted and the ecology of more than twenty of the most important fish species described.
Pre-and Post-Impoundment Limnological Studies of Narmada Basin, 1989-1993, involves the
three universities involved in the Rapid Reconnaissance Survey and is coordinated by
Barkatullah University for the NVDA. The final report will not be completed until mid-1993,
but two annual reports have been issued. They report the results of detailed limnological
investigations in free-flowing regions of the Narmada and in some of the impoundments
already completed. Analysis of around 20 physio-chemical parameters was carried out monthly
for two years. In conjunction with this, sampling was undertaken to identify and assess the
abundance of large plants and of the planktonic and benthic biota.



Annex 1
108                            Page 24 of 40
Studies on Fish Conservation in Narmada Sagar, Sardar Sarovar and its Downstream is a desk
review sponsored by the NCA and undertaken by CICFRI. The review was commissioned in
October 1992 to summarize the existing baseline information on the fisheries of the Narmada
Basin, investigate potential adverse impacts on the aquatic environment and to recommend
strategies for the conservation of important fish species. CICFRI considered over 140 articles
of published research on fisheries in the Narmada, in the Indian sub-continent and in
impoundments around the world. They also consulted 30 scientists and administrators familiar
with the fisheries aspects of the Narmada Basin.
Ecology and Fisheries of the Narmada Estuarine System with Special Reference to Proposed
Impoundment (Sardar Sarovar Dam), is an on-going study begun in 1988 by CICFRI. This
comprises five sub-projects as follows:
(i) monitoring of ecological parameters;
(ii) assessment of fishery resources;
(iii) biological investigations and stock evaluation studies;
(iv) artificial breeding and rearing of Elsa; and
(v) identification of point pollution sources and monitoring of discharges.
The study was due to end in 1993, but has recently been extended to develop models of estuary
water quality under different scenarios. In addition, pre-impoundment investigations for
developing rational management practices are also being undertaken by CICFRL
Findings
94.   None of the aquatic fauna of the Narmada is listed as rare or threatened in the International
Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) 'Red List'. Nonetheless,
CICFRI compiled a list of eight species which it suggested could be considered 'vulnerable' in the
Narmada Basin, though they are present elsewhere in India in abundance. Past experience of
Indian impoundments has shown that all these species can adapt to the conditions in reservoirs and
will usually thrive. The CICFRI review also presented findings on the artificial hatching and
rearing of key fish species. The report concluded that, if appropriate management practices are
adopted, there will be no threat to important fauna. The earlier CICFRI report and the report by
GOPA recommended specific mitigation measures and CICFRI has also stressed the need for
training of fisherTnen in techniques appropriate to the changed fishing conditions in the reservoir.
Proposed Mitigation Measures
95.   Key measures to manage effects of the project on the upstream aquatic environment focus
on the preservation of valuable fish species and proper management of fisheries in the reservoir.
Protection of valuable fish fauna will, to some extent, be dependent on maintaining acceptable
water quality upstream of the dam. In order to monitor water quality, the NVDA, CWC, CPCB
and CICFR have already set up water quality monitoring stations on the Narmada and its
tributaries. The three state governments have submitted action plans on fisheries as follows:
The Narmada Basin Water Development Plan: The Development of Fisheries, 1984. This
comprehensive plan for Madhya Pradesh addressed the development of fisheries in the
Narmada Sagar, Omnkareshwar, Maheshwar and Sardar Sarovar areas. Phasing and
programming with respect to pre- and post-impoundment, clearance of the forests, training of
fishermen, cooperative societies and post-impoundment management were proposed.
Environmental Work Plan. Sector Fish and Fisheries, Gujarat 1986 This work plan, prepared
in compliance with the agreement of the World Bank included the establishment of fish



Annex 1
109                             Page 25 of 40
hatcheries and fish farms, training of fishermen, establishing primary cooperatives, and
establishing an Inter-State Fisheries Board. In addition, it included proposals for conducting
hydro-biological studies, studies on the morphology of the river, investigations into the
physical and chemical characteristics of the water and soil, and studies on flora, fauna, fish
yield, plankton, and productivity in the reservoir.
Preparation of Environmental Work Plan for Fisheries Development in Maharashtra, 1987.
This plan included proposals for the felling of trees in the reservoir submergence zone, fish
seed, hatcheries, stocking, fishing, manpower requirements, and training and management
through the Inter-State Board. Projections of funding requirements were also included.
96.   Subsequently, the state governments revised their plans to address further issues as they
arose. The revised plan for Gujarat included proposals for the fishing population to be resettled on
the periphery of the reservoir or in R&R sites in Maharashtra. In addition, the establishment of
low-cost hatcheries and irrigation tanks, the development of pen cage culture fisheries, and
intensive fish farming were proposed.
97.   Detailed plans for fisheries development and exploitation were presented in the CICFRI and
GOPA reports described above and have been accepted by the project authorities. The main
elements are as follows:
a. selective stocking of the reservoir with a combination of indigenous fish species;
b. research into and instigation of pilot projects for the artificial propagation of important
species;
c. setting up of an Interstate Fisheries Development Board (IFDB) to control and monitor
fisheries exploitation and to coordinate research and development;
d. monitoring of potential pollution sources;
e. training and/or rehabilitation of fishermen; and
f. completion of studies to predict the post-impoundment condition of the reservoir.
Progress of Implementation
98.   CICFRI has established one hatchery in Gujarat for augmenting the numbers of the Hilsa
fish in the reservoir. This currently produces around 250,000 spawn per year. CICFRI has also
been commissioned to monitor the whole of the estuary and their study has been extended to
examine pollution and to undertake modelling studies in the downstream environment
99.   A draft plan for the creation of an Interstate Fisheries Development Board (IFDB) has been
prepared by the NCA and agreed, in principle, by the governments of Gujarat and Maharashtra.
The organization will be constituted in accordance with the recommendations of GOPA and
CICFRI and is expected to be set up and fully functioning prior to reservoir filling. The IFDB will
be an autonomous organization, with the NCA represented on the Board.
100.  In order to avoid any possibility of the formation of hydrosulphuric sludge after the
inundation of forests, all three state governments have prepared plans for the clear-felling of the
forest areas due to be submerged. Execution of felling will await the commencement of
impounding.



Annex 1
110                             Page 26 of 40
101.  Gujarat has provided 16 hectares of land to the project for the development of fish farms.
In addition, the State Fisheries Department is exploring the development of riverine fisheries and
the development of the reservoir for commercial and game fisheries.
Summary of Work Outstanding
102.  Survey work has identified the ecologically and commercially important aquatic fauna and
provided information on the likely water quality in the reservoir. Detailed recommendations have
been made concerning the development and exploitation of fisheries in the reservoir. A plan for the
development of a coordinating body for fisheries development has been drawn up but remains to
be implemented and in-depth limnological studies to predict the productivity of the reservoir are yet
to be completed. These studies may generate further recommendations for the implementation of
fisheries development strategies. Implementation of the recommendations, if any, will be the
responsibility of the IFDB. A socio-economic survey of fishing families for the entire basin has
already been completed and a contingency plan for the rehabilitation of fishing families is in prepa-
ration. The IFDB will have the responsibility for the detailed planning of fisheries development,
including training and rehabilitation of fishermen and the planning and control of fishing activities.
PUBLIC HEALTH
103. One of the benefits of the project will be the increased availability of fresh water for
domestic, agricultural and industrial use in areas otherwise prone to drought; this improved access
to domestic water supplies has the potential to yield substantial public health benefits. There are
also health risks since, without proper control, the transport and storage of water can lead to a
higher incidence of water-related diseases. Plans are needed to control disease vectors and to
provide health facilities for migrant construction workers and the resettled population.
104. Health provision in India is defined by the National Health Policy (NHP) and national
disease programs such as the National Malaria Eradication Program (NMEP). The NHP entitles all
Indians to access to medical facilities, the number and distribution of which is determined by the
local population density. The NMEP was developed as a nation-wide strategy to combat the
spread of malaria. All three state govemments will integrate development of new facilities for the
project with proposals already made under the NHP and NMEP. Such integration will avoid
duplication, maintain parity within the project area, and provide better access to health care than
would otherwise be achieved.
105.  In addition to the general obligations of the states under national policy, a specific
requirement for the project contained in the MOEF Clearance Order (1987) was the provision of
health facilities to workers and residents of the affected areas. The World Bank Loan Agreement
also stipulated that each state should take necessary measures to minimize the risk of malaria,
filaria, schistosomiasis and other diseases associated with water that may result from
implementation of the project
Sources of Impact
106. There are three main potential sources of health impact associated with the reservoir and its
irrigation system. First, the occurrence of pools of standing water, during construction and
operation of the reservoir and irrigation system may provide breeding areas for disease vectors,
especially mosquitoes that spread malaria. Second, the spread of irrigation may expose more
people to water-borne diseases. Third, construction workers may bring with them diseases or
parasites, to which the permanent population has low immunity. Diseases associated with water
are sub-divided into several groups as summarized below:



Annex 1
111                            Page 27 of 40
Water-borne: Water supplies contaminated by faeces from a human carrier of the infective
organism (typhoid, cholera, dysentery, giardia, diarrhoea).
Water-based: Infections caused by worms, flukes and trematodes. Faeces from infected
humans containing worm eggs enter secondary host through contaminated water. Larvae then
invade human host (schistosomiasis, guinea worm infection).
Water-related: Insect vectors breed in or around water and transmit disease by biting
infected human host, then feeding on unaffected human (malaria, sleeping sickness,
onchocerciasis, viral diseases).
Water-washed: Faecal-oral transmission associated with poor hygiene, lack of washing.
Incidence decreased by improved water availability (diarrhoea, ulcers, scabies, trachoma,
fungal infections).
The project is expected to confer significant public health benefits, since increased water
availability will help to reduce the incidence of 'water-washed' and 'water-borne' diseases which
are associated with poor hygiene and restricted water supply. Management of the potential health
impacts of the project will focus primarily, therefore, on the exclusion and/or control of the disease
vectors which spread 'water-based' and 'water-related' diseases.
Studies
107. A large number of studies have been carried out on the health profile of villages in the three
affected states. The key studies are summarized below.
Narmada Program - Schistosomiasis - Back-to-Office Report, 1986 describes the
schistosomiasis assessment carried out by the National Institute of Communicable Diseases
(NICD) and the World Health Organization (WHO). The assessment confirmed the incidence
of schistosomiasis in Gimvi Village, Ratnagiri District, Maharashtra. This is the only location
in India where the disease had been recorded. The report also concluded that the Ratnagiri
pocket was stable and that concerns expressed over the spread of schistosomiasis due to the
project were unfounded.
Proceedings and Recommendations of the Meeting on Schistosomiasis Research and
Surveillance 1985. In 1985, the NICD carried out a survey of several Narmada submergence
villages in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Several thousand urine samples were tested for
parasite eggs yielding negative results. The results and conclusions of the survey were
presented and discussed at the 1985 workshop.
Disease Profile of Command Area by the Commissariat of Health, Medical Services and
Medical Education (SCHMS), 1986 This study contained an analysis of the disease profile in
the Command Area and formed the basis of the Gujarat state work plan for environmental
health. As part of the study, the potential impacts of the project on public health were
considered and discussed with the World Bank and Government officials. Conclusions from
these consultations were used to assist in formulation of the work plan.
Health Statistics, Maharashtra, 1987. The state department of health produced a report on the
health profile of 33 project-affected villages in Dhule District, Maharashtra. This report
concluded that
(i) schistosomiasis was only found in one village and was unlikely to spread because of the
project;



Annex 1
112                            Page 28 of 40
(ii) the influx of laborers, formation of irrigation canals and cesspools along the canals could
lead to increased incidence of malaria;
(iii) measures should be taken to prevent the possible spread of cholera and gastroenteritis due
to misuse of irrigation waters for washing etc; and
(iv) filaria is not present in the project areas, but careful monitoring should be undertaken to
ensure it does not enter the area
These results were used to formulate the initial Maharashtra action plan for public health and the
modified plan was finalized in 1992.
Health Statistics 1982-84, Madhya Pradesh. 1985 presented an analysis of the distribution and
prevalence of water-related diseases in the Narmada Basin and provided baseline data for the
state action plan for public health. The study concluded that malaria, guinea worm infections,
goiter, gastroenteritis and worm infestations were the most common diseases. Schistosomiasis
and leishmaniasis were not found to be endemic to the area The study concluded that careful
monitoring for malaria and filaria would be needed, but that guinea worm was likely to be
eradicated once the reservoir was fulL
The Sardar Sarovar Narmada Project Studies on Ecology and Environment by MSU in 1983
considered public health in Chapter 3. To obtain an overall picture of the health profile of the
Narmada River, MSU visited 42 sites from Hanf to the river mouth. Data was collected from
public health centers and public health units to establish the rates of occurrence and distribution
of disease over the previous five years. This data was used to produce an assessment of the
likely health impacts upstream and downstream of the dam site.
Health Aspect and Water Quality by the NVDA, 1988 reports on the status of the more
common diseases in the Narmada Sagar area, but suggests that its conclusions apply also to the
Sardar Sarovar Project
Studies on Water Related Diseases in SSP Command Area including the Area Downstream of
the Dam], is an ongoing environmental assessment of the health impacts of the SSP on the
Command Area commissioned by SCHMS in December 1992. This assessment will include
the cataloguing of existing facilities in Gujarat, the collection of time-series data on diseases,
the identification of problem areas and a summary of recommendations for additional facilities
required. A final report is expected by end of March 1993.
Findings
108. The MSU study of 1983 and other studies concluded that the most common diseases in the
Narmada Basin were malaria, scabies, dysentery and diarrhoea. Of these diseases, only the threat
of increased incidence of malaria need be of concern to the project authorities. Occurrence of other
diseases is, in general, related to poor hygiene, poor sanitation and the lack of drinking water. The
study concluded that the incidence of these hygiene-related diseases would be reduced by better
water availability.
109.  Several other studies have also identified malaria and Japanese Encephalitis as the greatest
potential health threats in the project-affected areas, but have indicated that timely mitigation
measures would gratly reduce any risk. The SCHMS report, for example, pointed out that parts
of the Command Area were already under irrigation and that the addition of new areas would not
have a marked impact on malaria incidence. Moreover, the vector would not be able to breed in the



Annex 1
113                             Page 29 of 40
irrigation branch canals under flow. The report did recommend, however, that the incidence of
malaria should be subject to surveillance and recommended that practical measures be implemented
where necessary, to protect agricultural communities.
110. A consensus was reached that schistosomiasis will not constitute a serious health issue.
This view was put forward in the NICD report and confirmed by the subsequent World
Bank/WHO missions.
111. According to the MSU report of 1983, filaria is confined to the coastal areas of Saurashtra
and South Gujarat. Filaria has also been reported near to the reservoir site, but the study
concluded that the disease was unlikely to spread to the reservoir area.
112.  The NVDA report concludes that, given the rise of the water table and consequent reduced
potential for cyclonic proliferation, the likelihood that guinea worm infestation will increase is
extremely remote.
Proposed Management/Mitigation Measures
113. As required by the Government guidelines and in compliance with the World Bank Loan
Agreement, each of the three states affected by the project have submitted environmental work
plans covering public health. Studies on the disease profile in the region and past experience with
major water resources projects suggested that health action plans for the project should focus on
the following:
a. provision of health care for displaced people and migrant workers;
b. control of malaria and potential breeding sites for malarial vectors; and
c. monitoring for the incidence of other water-related and water-borne diseases with a
view to preventing their establishment.
All three states have submitted action plans for public health to the Central Government. The
principal components of these plans are discussed below.
114.  Gujarat. The Gujarat work plan covers villages within a 10 km radius of the reservoir
including resettled populations and makes provision for the monitoring, surveillance and control of
malaria. The 1986 plan is still in force, although modifications and additions have been made since
its publication. The principal features of Gujarat's program are:
a. establishment of a hospital at Kevadia near the dam site;
b. strengthening of laboratory facilities including establishment of a mobile unit;
c. provision for laboratory technicians in existing public health centers (PHCs) and
expansion of malaria treatment depots;
d. an Urban Malaria Scheme for centers over 40,000 (anti-larval operations) not currently
covered;
e. strengthening of state level health organization to ensure monitoring of malaria, filaria,
dengue and encephalitis;
f. strengthening of district level health organizations for monitoring or implementation;
and



114                            Page 30 of 40
g. residual insecticidal spraying operations;
115.  Mhaharht plans to strengthen state and district health facilities in existing villages and in
resettlement areas. These provisions included the establishment of a monitoring and laboratory cell
at the Rural Hospital and strengthening of the existing Primary Health Center.
116.  MadhadPsh. This plan included a summary of the existing health profile in the
submergence villages and discussed the likely impacts of the SSP. The plan contains specific
provision for.
a. strengthening of health facilities already in place under the NHP and Minimum Needs
Program of the Seventh Five Year Plan;
b. establishment of a Health Monitoring Cell;
c. establishment of health centers for construction workers; and
d. strengthening of district organizations for malaria control established under the NMEP.
117. In addition to the State Health Plan, Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal will undertake
monitoring of malaria and other diseases through a study of mosquito vectors in the Narmada area
and the collection and analysis of time-series data on disease incidence.
Implementation
118.  GuiaraI The entire population of Gujarat will receive protection under the National Malaria
Eradication Program, the extended Urban Malaria Scheme, and project-specific programs. By the
end of 1992, the intensified malaria control program was underway in several vilages, impacted
by the project in Gujarat and the construction of a 25-bed hospital at Kevadia was complete.
119.  Maharashtra. In accordance with state provision for health care facilities, two cottage
hospitals, eight primary health centers and 55 primary health units have already been established in
Dhule District. Taling into account the inaccessibility of some of the villages, provisions were
made for eight additional public health units, 10 mobile units and a floating dispensary for villages
within 10 km of the submergence zone. One hospital at Somawal resettlement village is already
functional.
120. MadhyaPradesh. During 1992, Gandhi Medical College continued surveillance studies of
the impact area of Madhya Pradesh and work commenced on additional facilities for the Nisapur
village hospital, Dhar district. Extension of the Nisapur hospital is due for completion by 199495
when submergence of areas in Madhya Pradesh is due to commence.
CULTURAL HERITAGE
121. The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 charges the
Central and/or State Departments of Archaeology with responsibility for the protection of important
cultural sites. Under the Act, sites are classified into three categories as follows:
Type 1:   monuments of national importance which are protected by the Central Govermuent;
Type 2:   monuments of religious or cultural importance which are protected by the State
Governments; and



AnLnex 1
115                            Page 3l of 40
Type 3:   monuments which are neither Centrally nor State-protected, but which are
considered to be an important part of cultural heritage.
Under the same law, authorities charged with the protection of the monuments are permitted to take
suitable measures to ensure the preservation of any protected site under threat from decay, misuse
or economic activity.
122. In the case of Sardar Sarovar, where several sites may be submerged, the NWDT award
stipulated that the entire cost of relocation and protection should be chargeable to Gujarat.
Relocation work is to be supervised by the Department of Archaeology under the provisions of the
1958 ACL
Sources of Impact on Sites of Cultural Interest
123.  The principal impacts of the project on the cultural environment are likely to be: the loss of
access to historical, cultural or aesthetic sites which are submerged by the reservoir and direct
disruption or damage to sites through construction activity, or indirect effects resulting from
resettlement of people.
Studies
124. The three state govermnents carried out a complete survey of cultural and religious sites
within the submergence zone. The principal aim of these surveys was to list all archaeological
sites, identify and namne any sites under state protection and further identify sites of religious or
cultural significance which, although not protected under national law, are of sufficient value to
merit relocation. These studies are summarized below:
Archaeological Survey of Nineteen Villages in Gujarat Submerged by Sardar Sarovar
Reservoir, 1989. The Department of Archaeology has surveyed archaeological sites in 19
villages of the submergence zone in Gujarat.
Maharashtra: Survey of Department of Archaeology. A survey was carried out by the
Department of Archaeology of cultural sites in 24 villages of Akkrani Taluk and nine villages
from Akkalkuva Taluk, Dhule DistricL A brief summary note was submitted by the Director of
Archaeology in February 1992 which stated that no State-protected monuments were located in
the area, but recommended the preservation of monuments at the village of Manibeli, Dhule
DistricL
Madhya Pradesh: Survey of State Department of Archaeology and MuseunL The Archaeology
Department of Madhya Pradesh compiled a detailed report of archaeological sites in 120
villages likely to be affected by the project. A second study of 73 villages was completed in
July 1991. Each study contained photographs together with detailed descriptions of the current
use and historical significance of the sites.
125. In addition to baseline studies on archaeological aspects, work has been carried out on the
anthropological heritage of the Narmada Basin, including examination of evidence of ancient
dwellings and cultural artifacts. The principal studies in this area are described below:
Anthropological Survey of India. Narmada Salvage Plan. The Narmada Salvage Plan contains
detailed background data on palaeo-anthropological, human ecological and other aspects of the
Narmada Valley. By May 1992, surface scanning of 17 sample villages coming under



Annex 1
116                            Page 32 of 40
submergence had been carried out and 424 specimens including ancient tools etc had been
collected.
Anthropological Survey of India Peoples of India This project entailed a complete survey of
33 tribes of India including those of the Narmada Basin. The study covered all aspects of tribal
culture in India and was published in 61 volumes in 1992.
Parishad4 At Survey of Material Culture in the Narmada Valley. Work was completed and a
report published by the National Museum of Humanity, Bhopal, on cultural objects from tribal
artisans in Madhya Pradesh in 1990. Copies of the interim report were circulated to the
Ministry of Environment and Forests and the Narmada Control Authority in April 1991.
Findings
126.  No centrally or state-protected cultural sites are located in the submergence area of the
project. Baseline studies, however, identified several sites which were considered of cultural value
and should be relocated where practicable.
127.  Gijara The Department of Archaeology concluded that the temples of Shoolpaneshwar
and Hamfeshwar were important monuments and should be moved to high ground. Six other
temples within the submergence zone were not considered of sufficient value to merit relocation.
128.  Maharashtra. No state-protected sites were found in the viUlages surveyed; however, the
Department of Archaeology and Museums recommended the relocation and proper preservation of
the Shoolpaneshwar temple in the village of Manibeli, which lies on the border of Gujarat and
Maharashtra states.
129.  Madhya Prds. Following the initial survey of the State Department of Archaeology and
Museums, a list of temples and other monuments was prepared for further consideration. This list
comprised 15 monuments from Khargone, 20 monuments from Dhar and 2 monuments from
Jhabau. No state-protected anthropological sites were found within the submergence zone.
Proposed Management Measures
130.  Guiarat. In Gujarat, the Shoolpaneshwar temple is to be relocated in 1993 and the
Hamfeshwar temple in 1994.
131. Maharra. The Director of Archaeology reports that no state-protected sites would come
under submergence.
132.  MadaPradesh. A large number of sites were identified for relocation although none of
these sites are protected under the 1958 Act. It was proposed, therefore, that any decision on
whether they should be relocated would be made on a case-by-case basis by an independent expert
panel.
133. Of the sites submitted for consideration by the panel, it was decided that six temples and
two excavation sites needed protection. In addition, 200 or so of the scattered sculptures within
the region would be moved to the Indore Museum or Lal Bagh Palace. It was also decided that
excavation work would be carried out on the burial mound at Khedinema. A draft action plan was
submitted for consideration at the end of 1992 and a final draft is expected by mid-1993. In
addition to the action plans for archaeological sites, a separate plan was drawn up for the protection
of anthropological sites from dam activities. The final plan, Anthropological Salvage Plan for



Annex 1
117                            Page 33 of 40
Narmada Valley, produced by the Anthropological Society of India, contained three main
components:
a. a study of the palaeo-ecology of quaternary fossils in the central Narmada Valley;
b. excavation of upper-palaeolithic site of Mehtakhaeda and exploration of Nimar; and
c. collection of tribal artifacts in Madhya Pradesh.
The first two elements are to be completed by Deccan College, Pune and the third by Adivasi Kala
Parishad for the Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya (National Human Museum), Bhopal.
Implementation
134. Gujarat. Sites have been selected to relocate Shoolpaneshwar and Hamfeshwar in
consultation with temple Trustees. Shoolpaneshwar has now been relocated and reconstructed
near Gora, about 15 klm downstream from the present location, and Hamfeshwar is being moved
to higher ground in consultation with the temple trustees.
135. Maharashtra. Monuments at Manibeli village have been surveyed and Gujarat has now
completed the relocation operations.
136.  Madhya Pradesh has submitted a list of proposed sites to the central panel for approval.
Phase II operations, involving the actual relocation, are scheduled for completion by the end of
March 1993. An action plan has been prepared detailing the scheduling of the temple relocations
and a Final Report is due by the end of March 1993. Some steps have been taken to acquire
additional land at Pipaliyahada which will be the main museum for sculptures; however, more
work is needed to prepare display cabinets and catalogues for new artifacts. Four sites have been
approved for excavation.
137. From the results of the three states surveys, it is clear that the impacts of submergence on
cultural properties will be minimal in the states of Gujarat and Maharashtra, although there will be
somewhat more significant impacts in Madhya Pradesh.
HYDROLOGY
Impacts
138. The natural flow of the Narmada River is highly seasonal with 82% of the annual flow
occurring during the monsoon period in the months of July, August and September. The main
purpose of the Sardar Sarovar Reservoir and other reservoirs in the basin, therefore, is to store
some of the monsoon flows for use in the dry season (October through June). The stored water
will be released in the dry months to meet urban and rural water demands in areas which presently
suffer from drought and to intensify agriculture through irrigation of land which would otherwise
be idle in the dry season. In addition, the project will produce hydroelectric power in two
powerplants, one located at the head of the main canal and one at the river bed level.
139.  Storage and diversion of water will have some impacts in the river and estuary downstm
of the dam. These will vary with time and depend on the rate of upstream development. The
combined effect of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and other proposed upstream dams, especially the
Narnada Sagar Dam (which has greater storage capacity than Sardar Sarovar) will be to increase
the downstream flow during the dry season and reduce it in wet season. These dams will also
reduce the frequency of damaging floods in the lower reaches of the river.



118                     ~~~~~~Annex 1
118                            Page 34 of 40
140.  A significant factor shaping the Basin's environment in the long-term and the planning of
its land and water development, is the apportionment of benefits derived from impoundment of the
Narmada amongst the surrounding states. The NWDT was established in 1969 to formulate an
overall development plan for the basin and to devise a system of allocating water which would be
acceptable to all the states concerned. After ten years of deliberations, the Tribunal gave its Final
Order in December 1979. As a basis for the Order, the 75% dependable flow was accepted as
being 28 MAF, and of this 18.25 MAF was allocated to Madhya Pradesh, 9 MAF to Gujarat, 0.5
MAF to Rajasthan, and 0.25 MAF to Maharashtra. The Order also specified key parameters
governing the design and operation of the two main water resource projects, Narmada Sagar and
Sardar Sarovar. A review of the basic hydrological data and the future pattem of water demands
on the Basin has recently been carried out. The main findings are as follows:
a. The basic hydrological data used by the NWDT, and in particular the record at the
Garudeshwar stream gauging site (close to the Sardar Sarovar Dam), is an acceptable
basis for the water resources planning of the Basin.
b. the 75% dependable flow of 28 MAF adopted by the NWDT is just above the subse-
quent calculation of 26.6 MAF as the long term 75% dependable virgin flow. How-
ever, Gujarat has access not only to 32.24% of that flow by right, but also to excess
flows reaching Sardar Sarovar and to substantial groundwater in the Command which
has been developed since the Tribunal sat.
c. It will be many years before projects in Madhya Pradesh have been developed to the
point where that state will be able to consume its share of water. In the meantime, the
availability of water in Gujarat will, except in unusually dry years, substantially exceed
9 MAF. As a result, power generation and flows to the downstream river as well as
irrigation diversions will be higher than envisioned for the ultimate stage in Basin
developmenL
Management
141. The NCA is responsible for coordination between the states in implementing the NWDT
Order and will, therefore, be equipped to conduct the data collection and detailed operation studies
needed to maximize multi-purpose benefits as the Basin develops, and to anticipate and manage
conflicts between different purposes.
SEDIMENTATION AND BACKWATER EFFECTS
Impacts
142. The water in the reservoir will be moving far less quickly than the waters of the Narmada
travel pre-impoundment and so its capacity to hold and transport sediment will be reduced.
Sedimentation in the reservoir will in time reduce its storage capacity, and have some effect on the
morphology of the downstream river and estuary.
Studies
143.  Many studies have been carried out to investigate and assess the impacts described above.
Key studies include the following.
Sedimentation Studies and Life of Reservoir was a report published by the Narmada Project
Dam Designs Circle in 1982. The report describes a study of predicted reservoir sedimentation
in the Sardar Sarovar Project. Estimates of the sediment load in the Narmada River were



Annex 1
119                            Page 35 of 40
derived from sediment-gauging records. Allowance was made in the study for the amount of
sediment that would be trapped by the Narmada Sagar reservoir upstream
Sedimentation Study of Narmada Sagar (1990) describes a study carried out by the Central
Water Commission. Sediment yields from sub-catchments were estimated and allowance was
made for sediment trapping by existing projects.
A study of sedimentation in Narmada Sagar carried out by NVDA in 1986, using data from
gaging stations, and used to calculate sediment yields from each sub-catchmenL It took into
account existing and proposed projects in the catchment area. Its results were comparable to
those of the above study.
Findings
144.  Estimates of sub-catchment sediment yield for Sardar Sarovar were of the order of 0.057
ha.m/sq kmlyear. These sediment yields are comparable to those determined for similar
catchments in other parts of the world. Estimates of the reservoir trapping efficiencies and
sediment yields have been used to predict the annual storage loss of the reservoir. With an
assumed trapping efficiency of 96%, the annual storage loss of the Sardar Sarovar is estimated at
0.35% of the total storage volume or 0.52% of the live storage. The annual percentage storage
loss for the project comes at the lower end of the range of data from other schemes around the
world. The half life of the storage of the project, that is, the time required to lose half the storage
volume through sedimentation, would be between 90 and 120 years. This would suggest that
sedimentation will not be a major problem. If the proposals for other projects upstream go ahead,
the life of the reservoir would be increased.
145. During a high flood, a sloping water-surface profile will develop upstream of the dam, and
this will extend some distance into the river channel above the reservoir. This is the "backwater
effect" of the dam. Studies carried out by CWC show that, for the 100-year flood, the water level
at the head of the reservoir would be about seven meters above the tail end of the reservoir.
However, the surface profile of the reservoir would eventually merge into the natural surface
profile of the river upstream of the head of the reservoir.
146.  The policy laid down by NWDT requires all land and property below Elevation of 140 m to
be acquired (this is about two meters above the full reservoir level without a flood). Between this
level and the water profile for a 100-year flood, only buildings will be acquired. Experience has
shown that this will be the preferred option of most farmers, who normally will not want to leave
their home villages simply because their land may be flooded for a short time by a relatively rare
hydrologic event.
147.  Sedimentation in the reservoir may eventually lead to some change in the 100-year flood
profile. On the basis of studies by the CWC this change might be on the order of three meters in
some 200 years. This would mean some additional inundation in a few villages at the head of the
reservoir for a 100-year flood as currently calculated. However, the magnitude to a 100-year flood
will be considerably lower by that time because of the effect of upstream reservoirs. Therefore, the
effect of sediment on the backwater profile is of no great significance. However, the Indian
practice is to make periodic surveys of sediment deposition in the reservoir, the results will be used
in studies to verify the backwater studies and to ensure future flood levels can be accurately
predicted.
148.  Sedimentation in the reservoir could lead to an increase of some three meters in the
backwater level, potentially flooding occupied land. In view of this, and since flooding due to



Annex 
120                            Page 36 of 40
sedimentation will develop slowly over the next 200 years and as surrounding land uses are
predominantly agricultural, no immediate actions are required. A flood warning system exists in
India and the NCA has proposed that a computer network be installed for real-time data collection
and flood forecasting throughout the basin. The proposal has been accepted and is currently under
implementation.
DOWNSTREAM RIVER AND ESTUARY
149. The downstream river channel and estuary of the Narmada together with the relatively
narrow strips of land on either bank which form the downstream drainage basin cover 10% of the
total drainage basin area of the Narmada River. There are two main tributaries downstream of
Sardar Sarovar, the Orsang on the right bank and the Karjan on the left. There already exists a
major dam on the Karjan (recently completed) from which a large portion of the land on the left
bank will be irrigated. Canals from the Ukai Dam on the Tapi River (the next major river south of
the Narmada) are also being built to irrigate some of the remaining lands on the left bank of the
Narmada. The Orsang is less regulated than the Kaxjan, but dams may be built in the future. Also,
the right bank of the Narmada lies within the command area to be irrigated from the canals supplied
from Sardar Sarovar.
150.  At the head of the estuary lies the town of Bharuch. This was an ancient port and
commercial center, but with the ever-increasing size of cargo vessels, Bharuch's restricted access
and high tidal range made it unsuitable as a modem port, with the result that very little traffic has
used it since the early part of this century. Commerce and industry have continued to flourish,
however, partly because the main road and rail links from Ahmedabad and Vadodara (Baroda) to
Bombay cross the Narmada at Bharuch. Industrial development is expanding on both banks (at
Bharuch on the right bank and Ankleswar on the left), with fertilizer and chemical factories
particularly dominant and a new thermal power station is being built on the right bank of the
Narmada upstream of Bharuch. In addition, reserves of oil and natural gas have been found
around the estuary and there is, at present, a rush of exploration and exploitation.
151. Any impact on the downstream region, which results from the Sardar Sarovar Dam should,
therefore, be seen in the context of the overall development of the region. In particular, there are
few areas remaining in which the natural ecology has not already been, or will soon be, modified
by human activities largely unrelated to the dam and the current and planned levels of industrial
development are likely to be dominant factors in relation to future environmental changes in the
region. However, the PCR feels strongly that the advent of SSP will add to the present
deteriorating situation through a reduction of the Narmada flows and also through irrigation return
flows in mid- and long-term. It believes, therefore, that the completion of a detailed environmental
assessment of the estuary to determine in which way these impacts could be mitigated and in
particular through regular releases from the Sardar Sarovar has become a prerequisite to dam
operation plans.
Studies
152. Two studies commissioned by the Government of Gujarat form the primary sources for
previous overviews of the downstream impacts and have been used for this report:
Sardar Sarovar Narmada Project, Studies on Ecology and the Envirornent: a report produced
by MS University in 1983 is widely quoted and its data and conclusions have never seriously
been challenged except for the fact that the field surveys were for a rather short period (6
months).



Annex 1
121                            Page 37 of 40
An approach paper on the Environmental Impact Assessmentfor the river reach dowstream of
Sardar Sarovar issued by the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL or NIGAM) in
1992 provides a more detailed technical understanding of the likely hydrological changes and
discusses possible impacts in relation to these.
To ensure that no significant impacts were overlooked, consultants used the check-list of
environmental impacts of the International Congress on Irrigation and Drainage (ICID) to identify
key issues.
Hydrological Changes
153. Before any significant water resource development took place in the Basin, the natural flow
of the Narmada was typical of rivers in a monsoon climate: high and widely varying flows in the
wet season from July to September followed by sharply declining flows in the dry season from
October until May/June. In the lower reach of the Narmada, the flow dropped almost to zero in the
dry months and the salt front moved some 70 kmn up the river from the estuary. As a result, most
wells in this reach were saline and the river was unusable for drinking or irrigation. Since the
Bargi Dam was built, there has been a marked increase in regulated flows throughout the dry
season and water is usable along the entire river throughout the year.
154.  The potential for environmental changes in the lower river and estuary have to be seen in
the context of the long-term development of the Basin. The current stage is clearly beneficial.
Three further stages can be broadly identified:
Stage I covers the period roughly from the completion of the Sardar Sarovar Dam in 1997 to
the year 2015. Events occurring during this stage include (a) the SSP canal command will have
reached full development and requires diversion of some 9 million acre feet (maf) of water,
30% of the mean annual flow; (b) the upstream demand in Madhya Pradesh will reach about 8
maf by 2010; and (c) the Narmada Sagar Dam will have been built and placed in operation.
Stage2 covers the period from 2015 to 2030 during which demands upstream of SSP continue
to grow and will reach about 12 maf, still below the volume of 18 maf that Madhya Pradesh
can take in a 75% year.
Stage covers the period up to and beyond full basin development.
155.  Considering first the impact on wet season flows, the SSP reservoir will modify the pattem
of river flows downstream of the dam. In virtually all years, the SSP reservoir will be filled by
intercepting the July floods. The August and September floods will pass through the reservoir and
will not be affected. As further upstream storage such as Narmnada Sagar is built, the August
floods will be increasingly modified by the need to fill upstream reservoirs. The effect will be to
(a) reduce the volume of wet season flow; (b) produce a more even flow with less daily and
monthly fluctuations; (c) reduce the magnitude and frequency of high floods; and (d) greatly reduce
the sediment flow into the lower river and estuary.
156. Dry season flows will continue to increase at least through Stage I and well into Stage 2.
In the ultimate development of the Basin, late in Stage 3, the dry season flow could be greatly
reduced under an operating regime which maximizes diversions for irrigation. However, system
operation to produce minimum power generation in the dry months would lead to significant dry-
season flows in the lower river. Such a scenario is not unlikely, because the need to maintain
minimum power output from the Narmada Sagar Dam and two smaller downstream dams,
Omkareshwar and Maheshwar, may outweigh the benefits to be derived from irrigation diversions
upstream of Narmada Sagar.



Annex 1
122                            Page 38 of 40
Organic and inorganic pollution
157. The project will not in itself be a source of organic or inorganic pollution. The Gujarat
Pollution Control Board has the responsibility for enforcing the State's stringent regulations
governing industrial effluents. Therefore, the control and treatment at the source will be the main
safeguard of water quality in the lower river and the estuary. To the extent that a year-round flow
is needed to dilute effluents, the project will have a positive impact for many years to come.
Clearing of vegetation from the reservoir will limit the potential for production of hydrogen
sulphide. If residual vegetation does create such a problem, it will be relatively minor and short-
lived.
Saline intrusion
158.  During the closure of the construction sluices at the foot of the Sardar Sarovar Dam in
1994, the Borrower took all necessary measures including the release of water from the Karjan
reservoir and the pumping of water from SSP to maintain a minimum flow in the Narmada River.
In stages 1 and 2, increased flows in the dry-season will reduce saline intrusion. In stage 3, the
dry-season flows will revert to the conditions prior to development of the Basin, and the flows
could drop to about zero for longer periods. Further studies are required to determine the extent to
which a certain level of releases will have to be maintained to control saline intrusion and protect
the economic and environmental conditions downstream of the SSP reservoir.
Erosion and sedimentation
159. Sardar Sarovar Dam will trap over 90% of the incoming sediment load and once Narmada
Sagar Dam is completed, the proportion of sediment trapped will be even higher. The sediment
which passes SSP will comprise only the finest particles and will be released almost entirely during
the periods when flood discharges pass over the spillway. Thus, the potential for erosion of the
downstream river channel and the effects of such erosion have to be considered. The downstream
channel has a rocky bed for 10 or 20 kIm after which the bed material changes from sands to fine
sands and silts as the estuary is reached. Degradation of the channel is anticipated, but is unlikely
to affect the five downstream bridges or the freshwater intakes since they appear to have adequate
scour protection. Deepening of the channel may lead to reduced flood levels, especially in the
reach between Garudeshwar and Jhanor. Further erosion is unlikely after Stage 1 since flood
peaks will be progressively reduced. Bank protection has been provided at the freshwater intakes
which should be adequate since the channel is not expected to be any less stable than without the
dam. Map studies have shown that the channel in the lower reaches approaching Baruch has been
relatvely stable over a period of 130 years.
Estuary morphology
160. Estuaries are seldom stable even when there are no upstream hydrologic changes and the
Narrnada estuary is no exception; channels silt and scour and islands appear and disappear for
reasons which are difficult, if not impossible to determine. The estuary is virtually devoid of any
plant life: the last small area of mangrove was cut down some years ago. It is a wintering area for
some migratory waterfowl, but apparently they thrived in the years when the dry-season flow was
almost zero and there is no evidence that modest increase in the dry-season flow will affect them
adversely. The only communities dependent on the estuary are the fishing villages. The potential
impact of the project on fisheries is discussed below under a separate heading. The impact of the
change in the river's hydrology on the estuary's morphology will be difficult to predict and there is
no evidence that changes will be harnful except, perhaps, for the fishery resource. Nevertheless,
studies are underway by several leading research organizations in India to assess a range of



Annex 1
123                             Page 39 of 40
impacts in the estuary. The Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS), Pune has
completed a study of channel morphology and is coordinating their work with the Central Inland
Capture Fisheries Research Institute (CICFRI) who are continuing work on the fisheries issue.
Fisheries
161.  The studies so far conducted have not identified any rare or endangered species anywhere
along the Narmada valley or in the estuary. A study is being conducted for NCA by CICFRI to
assess the likely impact on fisheries. Subject to the findings of this study, the following impacts
are put forward as likely to be the most important:
Hlila: Changed flow patterns during the monsoon could affect migration which appears to be
triggered by freshwater flows at the estuary mouth. Also, changes in the duration of flows
greater than a given threshold may affect the success of fry in reaching maturity. Consideration
of hydrological changes in Appendix 3 suggests that there will almost certainly be effect on
hilsa after Stage 2. However, current knowledge is insufficient to predict with precision how
soon the modifications of monsoon flows by the dam will begin to have a noticeable impact on
catches. An impact on hilsa spawning may affect the incomes of marine fishermen who catch
hilsa at sea, but data on the significance of hilsa in marine catches are not available.
Giant Prawn: Migration of giant freshwater prawn is in the reverse direction to that of hilsa.
Spawning, in this case, takes place in the mouth of the estuary. This pattern of breeding is less
likely to be affected by flows than that of hilsa, but spawning would probably be affected by
salinity intrusion and water quality changes in the estuary. However, such changes are
- unlikely to be significant for many years.
Other fish: Most other species are unlikely to be affected unless flows fall very low. Some
species may benefit if mangrove is reintroduced around Aliabet Island.
162. The impact of the above changes on fishermen will depend on how readily they can adapt
to alternative forms of employment (marine or culture fisheries, carpentry, fanning). A study of
the sociology of fishing families has been carried out by CICFRL
Socioeconomic impacts
163. The hilsa and giant freshwater prawn fisheries may decline after Stage 2, some 30 years
from now. The loss of hilsa would be significant in relation to stocks on the west coast of India,
but not in relation to global resources. Thus, loss of genetic resources is not an issue either with
hilsa or giant freshwater prawn. Likewise, loss of fish supplies for consumption is not a major
issue since new supplies will be provided from reservoir fisheries. The most significant impact
would be on the livelihoods of the fishermen. The following mitigating strategy has been
proposed by the project authorities to ensure that fishermen do not suffer.
a. retrain and equip fishermen with boats more suitable for marine fishing in the Gulf of
Cambay. This is a feasible option for fishermen in villages within the estuary, although
the economic viability of additional marine fisheries, part of which currently relies on
marine catches of hilsa, should be investigated;
b. retrain and equip as culture fishermen in brackish ponds on coastal mud flats and
freshwater ponds inland. In general, catch fishermen do not adapt readily to fish
farming, but many hilsa fishermen are already part-time farmers, so the changes may
not be too severe. The potential for fish farming is large;



Annex I
124                             Page 40 of 40
c. retrain and equip for reservoir fisheries. Undoubtedly, there is a large potential for
reservoir fisheries which, it is estimated, will more than offset any loss of estuarine and
river fisheries. However, it does not seem appropriate for river and estuary fishermen
to move to new locations around the SSP reservoir, so this cannot be considered as an
option for their rehabilitation;
d. employ the fishermen in hilsa, carp and giant prawn breeding stations to supplement
natural stocks in the river after Stage 1 and to supply hilsa to the SSP reservoir and to
brackish ponds in the estuary and giant prawn to the freshwater ponds. The artificial
rearing of hilsa has proved to be viable, but relies on obtaining spawn from adults
caught in the estuary. Whether this cycle could be maintained if hilsa migration ceases
is unknown; and
e. equip fishermen to switch to activities which they had previously practiced part-time.
Many of the riverine fishermen already spend the period when hilsa are not in season
engaged in other occupations such as carpentry and farming.
164. In addition to the above, fishermen may choose to move to one of a wide range of
industrial and agricultural employment opportunities which will present themselves in the region as
current plans for development take shape.



125
Annex 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-INlLoan 2497-IN)
RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.     Introduction ..................................                           1
II.  Background ...........                                                      1
HI.    World Bank Involvement ................................ 5
-   Bank Policy ................................... 5 
-   Bank Appraisal ...................................  6
-   R&R policy components . ............................ 6
-   NWDT Award ...................................  7
-   Narmada Control Authority  ............          ............... 9
-   Bank Negotiation ..................................  10
-   Legal understanding  ................................ 11
=   Agreements ...................................   11
IV     Project Implementation ..................................  12
-   Evolution of R&R Policies . ........................... 13
-   Criticisms of R&R Implementation  ........          .............. 19
-   The Independent Review  . ............................ 20
-  Management Response ............................... 21
-   Board Review  ...................................  22
-   Bank Performance  .................................   23
-   Borrower Performance . .............................. 24
V.    Standard of Living Before and After Relocation  ......        ........... 24
-   The Nimad Area Before and After Relocation ......          .......... 24
-   The Tribal Areas Before Relocation ........         .............. 27
-   The Tribal Areas After Relocation  .........        .............. 36
VI.    Lessons Learned ...................................   42
ATTACHMENT I Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal Award
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
ATITACHMENT II  Comparison of R&R Entitlements: NWDT and State Policies
ATTACHMENT m  Sardar Sarovar R&R Program
ATTACHMENT IV Sardar Sarovar Status of R&R Implementation as of December 31, 1993



Annex 2
126                     Page I of 61
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-IN/LOAN 2497-IN)
RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION
OF
PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS
I.  Introduction
1.  This note provides the background, genesis, and implementation experience associated with
the resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) aspects of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project in
India'. The review is necessarily limited because resettlement and rehabilitation of people affected
by the project has yet to begin in full force because the reservoir will not begin to have significant
unpacts until 1994, reaching a peak in the 1995-97 period. In March, 1993 the Government of
India (GOI) decided to cancel the remaining proceeds of the Bank loan (the associated Credit had
been fully disbursed by this time). India is proceeding with construction of the dam on its own, the
Bank is no longer directly involved in the project. The dam is expected to be completed in 1998.
A separate R&R report is being prepared for the companion Water Delivery and Drainage project
which closed in July 1992.
II. Background
2.  The idea for a dam on the Narmada, India's least used river, was initially discussed in the
1940's. However, agreement on allocation and use of the river waters by the riparian states
(Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra) proved elusive. To resolve the matter, the Govem-
ment of India, under the River Water Disputes Act of 1956, established a special tribunal in 1969
entitled the Narmiada Water Disputes TribunaL It heard intensive submission from all parties over
a 10 year period and in 1979 handed down a decision on allocation and use of the Narmada river
waters, binding on the riparian states until the year 2024. Subsequently, detailed planning for the
Sardar Sarovar dam and command area commenced.
3.  Among other things, the Tribunal stipulated the parameters under which people displaced by
the Sardar Sarovar reservoir were to be resettled and rehabilitated. During the decade of litigation,
Madhya Pradesh lobbied for its exclusive right to the waters of the Narmada River that pass
through its own territory. In 1979, the NWDT authorities granted them this license in view of the
GOI Act of 1935 and Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. The ruling stated:
I     Loan Agreement between India and IBRD, Narmada River Development (Gujarat) Sardar Sarovar Dam and
Power Project, 10 May 1985, loan amount - S200 M. Development Credit Agreement between India and
IDA, Narmada River Development (Gujarat) Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project, 10 May 1985, credit
amount - S100 M.



127                     Annex 2
page 2 of 61
"The Narrmada River belongs to the state whose territory the river passes and the Union of
India has no right of ownership of the river bed."2
Under historical English law, an owner had the right to take profit from the soil. In India, such a
right is regarded as a benefit which arises out of the land and is referred to as "immoveable
property." Gujarat did not protest this right of Madhya Pradesh. Hence, the NWDT Decision
stipulated that Gujarat, having no legal right to the Narmada waters that do not pass through its
own state, would be liable to pay for the irrigation, drinking water, and power benefits it would
receive due to construction of the dam. The NWDT Decision addressed the oustees of the states of
Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and created a scheme by which Gujarat initially would pay for
the resettlement of these people as indicated in the following para.
4. The jurisdiction of the Tribunal with respect to oustees had three components: acquisition,
compensation, and rehabilitation. The Tribunal effectively directed Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra on land acquisition methodology, gave Gujarat compensation directives, and provided
rules for all three states to follow for the rehabilitation of oustees from Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra. The provisions of the Tribunal with respect to R&R are contained in Attachment I to
this document and are summarized below.
The compensation directives are as follows:
a. Gujarat shall pay compensation and other properties, charges and expenses incurred
with regard to the resettlement of oustees within Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh or
Maharashtra initially. However, all cost incurred by Gujarat on acquisition of land and
rehabilitation of oustees in respect of Sardar Sarovar shall be charged to SSP estimate
Unit I-Dam and appurtenant works3;
b. Gujarat must provide civic amenities for the resettlement villages. This includes one
park, one village pond, one dispensary, one Panchayat Ghar for every 500 families as
well as one primary school for every 100 families and one drinking water well and one
tree platform for every 50 families. Additionally, a house plot with dimensions 60'x
90' along with a resettlement grant of Rs. 750 must be provided to each oustee family
by the GOG;
c. Gujarat shall pay to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra all costs, charges and expenses
required to be incurred by them for the rehabilitation of the oustees in their respective
territory in accordance with the NWDT directions;
d. Submergence will not take place until all compensation is made.
The land acquisition directives are as follows:
e. Within 1 year of the decision of the Tribunal (1980), Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra
will identify the land to be acquired and the number of oustees willing to move to
GujaraL;
2     Namada Water Disputes Tribunal. Now Delhi, 1979. Volume n, p. 113.
3     NWDT Awad Clause XI. sub.clauwe V (12)



128                     Annex 2
Page 3 of 61
f.  Within 2 years of the decision of the Tribunal (1981), the general location of
rehabilitation villages in either Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra must be
determined; and
g. One year in advance of the submergence, Gujarat should make irrigable land and house
sites available to the oustee families.
The entitlements for oustees can be summarized as follows:
h.  Every "landed" oustee who loses more than 25% of their land is entitled to a minimum
of 2 hectares of irrigable land elsewhere. If the value of resettlement land is greater
than compensation received for submerging land, an interest-free loan will be provided
by the Governments of Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh with a payback
scheme involving 20 yearly installments.
As implied above, the Tribunal award does not apply to the "landless" although the percentage of
oustees who were categorized as such ranged from 23% in Gujarat to 47% in Madhya Pradesh.4
Estimates of PAP numbers has increased over time, partly due to increase in population over time,
partly due to incorrect enumeration, partly due to the addition of people affected by temporary
backwater effect and, in the case of family numbers as opposed to numbers of people, due to the
liberalization of the R&R policies and the later inclusion of landless (agricultural and non-
agricultural labourers), major sons (and daughters in Maharashtra) and encroachers.
5.  The difference in the number of affected families between SAR estimates and PCR estimates
(10,758 compared to 41,014 persons) is explained largely by changes in eligibilities and definition
of oustee families. It also results from improved surveys, enumeration and population growth. In
1979, the NWDT authorities estimated the number of oustee families at 7,366 or - using an average
multiplier of 5 - a population of approximately 36,830 persons. By utilizing 1981 Census
Population and growth figures of 2.2% per year, the Bank Appraisal estimates in 1985 grew to a
total population of 67,340 persons. These estimates were thereafter revised at negotiations to
11,850 families or about 74,230 persons as per NCA's Supplementaty Report of October 1984.
The latest estimates which are now based on partial house-to-house surveys and new categories of
oustee families such as adult sons, landless laborers and encroachers lead to a figure of about
41,014 families corresponding to a population of about 131,245 persons using an average
multiplier of 3.2. However, these figures are still not final because of uncertainties regarding the
total number of PAFs in Maharashtra and MP because of anomalies still persisting in NCA's
quarterly R&R Status Reports. For example, in NCA's R&R Status Report of May 1994, the
multiplier coefficient between the number of families and the population affected works out to 4.0
in Gujarat, 7.0 in Maharashtra and 2.7 in MP. These strong variations show that: (i) the states are
not using the same criteria for reporting the number of affected families; and (ii) NCA is not
exercising adequate control over the figures submitted by the states. The high multiplier in
Maharashtra leads the PCR to believe that this state is still not counting adult sons and maybe other
categories of PAPs, and the low multiplier in MP, on the contrary, could mean that this state is
inflating the number of PAFs by perhaps counting a larger number of adult sons than actually
exist. Though the resurveying of families in MP is said to have been completed, the PCR has some
doubts as to its accuracy with regard to the number of families and population affected.
6. In order to operationalize the NWDT award, both Maharashtra and Gujarat embarked upon a
series of socio-economic surveys to determine with more precision the dimensions of the problem
4     Staff Appraisal ReporL Narmada Development Project - Gujarat Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project.
February 1985, p.42.



Annex 2
129                     Nee 4 of 61-
as well as the social and economic milieu of the people affected. Madhya Pradesh, however, was
not known to have completed any socio-economic studies available at the time of Bank appraisal in
1985
Guiarat
7.  Since the NWDT did not stipulate R&R provisions for the oustees of Gujarat, the Irrigation
Department of the GOG requested a socio-economic study be conducted to investigate the impact
of the SSP upon the citizens of Gujarat. This study analyzed the 19 submerging villages in Gujarat
and was carried out by Professor Vidyut Joshi, a sociologist from Gujarat, through the Center for
Social Studies of SuraL
8. Within three years, 17 village reports were developed and the main findings of the study were
presented to the Bank in 1983. Later two books entitled, "Submerging Villages - Problems and
Prospects" (1987) and "Rehabilitation - A Promise to Keep" (1991) were published, focussing
upon the work completed in 1983. The study emphasized a census survey; also, "participant
observation" was a central objective of the survey and helped to gauge the attitudes of the oustees
towards resettlement and rehabilitation. These works contributed significantly to the understanding
of R&R issues, specifically with regard to tribal oustees. The salient message of this work can be
summarized as follows:
a. A tribal village is not one, single, homogenous social uniL There are ethnic as well as
secular differences. Hence, en masse rehabilitation of entire villages is not desirable;
and
b.  A tribal village is not an isolated and relatively stagnant entity. It changes with
progress of the larger society, however it must have the autonomy to decide its own
fate and the pace of such change. Such villages are separate and distinct, yet, are also
increasingly part of the larger society.
Maharshtra
9. The Tribal Research Institute (TRI) in Maharashtra conducted socio-economic studies of
tribal people displaced in the process of general public works projects. There was no evidence of
incorporation of this data into either the Bank's R&R pre-appraisal work or the Government's
R&R plan at the time of project appraisal in 1985. The Tata lnstitute of Social Sciences, however,
began using these studies in 1987 to create baseline data for further socio-economic studies of
Maharashtrian oustees, so that by about 5 years prior to the first inundation this work had
contributed to an understanding of the situation.
Madhya Pradesh
10. Though it is not known whether Madhya Pradesh had completed socio-economic surveys of
tribal population affected by the project in 1985, this possible lacuna was remedied in August
1993, when NCA submitted to the Bank two extensive studies as part of the benchmarks fixed by
the Board. The first study was carried out by the Indore School of Social Work and entitled
"Socio-Economic and Cultural Milieu of Tribal Submergence and Resettled Villages"; and the
second study was prepared by a team of consultants for the Narmada Valley Development
Authority and entitled "The Bhil Track - A Study of Displaced Tribals in 17 Villages". These
studies are amply described in Chapter V of the present Annex.



130                     Annex 2
130              ~~~~~Page S of 61
III. World Bank Involvement
Bank Policy
11. At the request of the Government of India for financial assistance, the Bank initiated project
preparation work in 1980. Six preparation missions were undertaken; 2 pre-preparation missions
in August and December of 1980 and 4 appraisal missions starting in March 1983 and ending in
August 1984. The earlier missions in 1980 and 1983 focussed primarily upon the technical and
economic aspects of the SSP. In September-October, 1983, however, a Bank consultant,
Anthropologist, was sent to India, accompanied by 3 members of the Bank staff, to embark upon
the first in-depth evaluation by the Bank on the social impacts of the SSP. The GOIs initial
reaction to the Consultant's mission was seen as defensive; the GOI differed with the Bank's
opinion that India's past R&R programs have not met Bank standards.5
12. The consultant's's report highlighted what he termed the inadequacy of the information
available on the magnitude and implications of displacement by the SSP. He also concluded that
India's past record on R&R did not meet Bank standards. The consultant explained this record
through the absence of a national R&R policy, inappropriate legal instruments to acquire property,
and an inadequate means to implement R&R programs. He also reported what he characterized as
the GOIs bureaucratic insensitivity and apathy towards the social and communal aspects of
relocation. The consultant emphasized that the NWDT Award does not apply to the majority of
oustees within the submergence area who are landless. He found the GOGs cost estimates and
R&R plan both inappropriate and unreliable. Given these problems, the consultant doubted the
GOGs intentions to establish an adequate R&R program for the SSP oustees. He concluded that
(a) it would be desirable to handle resettlement in a way which does not further delay loan
negotiations; and (b) "provided the necessary planning starts now, there is still time to plan and
implement a sound resettlement program"
13. During this pre-appraisal period, the Bank's operational guidelines were in effect for both
involuntary resettlement and tribal people. The 1980 Operational Manual Statement on Involuntary
Resettlement recognized the rehabilitation needs of PAPs:
"...the major objective is to ensure that settlers are afforded opportunities to become
established and economically self-sustaining in the shortest possible period, at living
standards that at least match those before resettlement"6
The policy also explicitly called for an agriculturally based resettlement package for a large
percentage of displaced people.
14. The 1982 Operational Manual Statement for Tribal People in Bank-Financed Projects
emphasized the responsibility of the Borrower to implement R&R measures with respect to tribal
people:
5     Internal Bank Correspondence
6     Operational Manual Statment Social Issues Asociated with Involuntary Resettlement in Bank-
Financed Projects.' February 1980. par&. 18.



131                     Annex 2
Page 6of 61
"The Bank will assist projects only when satisfied that the Borrower can implement measures
that will effectively safeguard the integrity and well-being of the tribal people."7
The Bank guidelines also recognized that tribal people have specific needs that should be attended
to:
"Experience has shown that, unless special measures are adopted, tribal people are more
likely to be hanned than helped by development projects that are intended for beneficiaries
other than themselves...the design of projects should include measures or components
necessary to safeguard their interests and, whenever feasible, to enhance their well-being."8
The policy statement addressed the need to have tribal people participate in the decisions affecting
themselves. Additionally, a project cycle was outlined for tribal specific R&R.
Bnk Anpaisal
15. Appraisal of the SSP Dam and Power project devoted much attention to the R&R aspects of
those persons living in the submergence area. The Staff Appraisal Report included a detailed
outline of the R&R policy components, action items on the part of the state and national
governments involved in the SSP, application of the NWDT award, the establishment of the
Narmada Control Authority, cost estimates for R&R implementation and finally the treatment of
R&R within the economic analysis. The following discussion will provide the salient points from
the Bank's appraisal and/or legal documents for each one of these R&R dimensions.
R&R Policy Components
16. The Bank specified the ovemll R&R program to include the following:
a. A time-bound schedule for land acquisition, payment of compensation, resettlement of
oustees was envisioned by NCA on the basis of the NWDT directives and construction
schedule of the dam approved in December 1989;
b. Oustee preferences should be considered when identifying resettlement villages;
c. The program should include an adequate social and physical rehabilitation package that
ensures the oustees are integrated into their respective host communities and regain their
previous standard of living; and
d. The program should also include a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system
which includes semi-annual reports and an annual revision of the R&R plan based upon
the past year's experiences.
Action on the part of GOi
17. The Bank stated that the GOI may have to relinquish land, currently protected under the
Forest Conservation Act of 1980, to accommodate construction of resettlement villages in either
Gujarat, MP, or Maharashtra. With the assistance of the Narmada Control Authorities (NCA), the
7     Operational Manual Statement 'Tribal Peopk in Bank-Financed Projects.' February 1982, para. 5.
8     Ibid, para. 4.



132                    Annex 2
Page 7 of 6 I- -
GOI must also furnish the Bank with semi-annual and annual R&R evaluation reports,
commencing on June 1, 1986.
Action on the part of GOM. GOMP and GOG
18. It was agreed between the Bank and the three riparian states (and later incorporated into the
legal agreements) that the states should adopt and implement within their respective boundaries an
R&R plan consistent with the Bank's guidelines and the NWDT Award. The states should also
assume an integral role in the institutional, monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the R&R
component of the SSP. The states agreed to provide the necessary funds, facilities, and services to
enable the NCA to assist the GOI with monitoring and evaluating R&R. It was further agreed that
the states would respectively establish institutions to provide for the planning, coordination and
implementation.
'Me N)WDT Award
19. At the time of appraisaL the Bank was in full agreement with the provisions of the NWDT as
outlined in 1979. However, the Bank stated:
"[The] NWDTs compensatory package would have to be expanded to include the landless
and other provisions necessary to ensure that living standards and conditions for all oustees
would be equal to or better than those existing prior to displacemenL"9
Salient among these "other provisions" was the need to relocate oustees as communities rather than
individual households. Additionally, the Bank stated that Gujarat shall establish rehabilitation
villages for its own oustees as well as for those from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra who prefer
to resettle in Gujarat. The Bank added that the civic amenities associated with the NWDT
established resettlement package should apply uniformly across all oustees, regardless of their
resettlement location.10
20. As stated above, the Bank recommended extending the NWDT Award to include landless
oustees. This relocation effort would require establishing Integrated Development Programs
within each resettlement community to provide the landless with a full range of employment
opportunities.
21. The Bank resettlement guidelines also applied to those residents "marooned" in villages
where more than 75% of the people left as a result of partial submergence. The Bank contended
that the remaining population is adversely affected by removal of the larger part of the community;
therefore these people should also be granted oustee status."I
22. Also emphasized by the Bank was the need to base compensation upon the current market
value of resettlement land, comparable in size, location, and quality and in an area acceptable to
each oustee. Moreover, the Bank advocated full compensation in the form of "land for land" as it
9     Staff Appraisal Report Narmada River Development - Gujaat. Sdar Sarovwr Dam and Power ProjecL
February 1985, p.26.
10    Staff Appraisal ReporL Narmada River Development - GujaraL 6 March 1986. SupplemenLaiy Data
Volume, Part 1, p. 42.
11    Ibid, p. 44.



133                      Annex 2
Page 8 of 61
believed this approach to be more equitable for compensating oustees. The Bank questioned the
advisability of giving the oustees cash compensation as these funds may be diverted to purposes
other than land acquisition. Additionally, the Bank perceived the yearly installment payments to be
unduly complicated and for this reason also became a proponent of "land for land" rather than
purely cash compensation. This viewpoint reflected the Bank's belief, as expressed in the 1980
Operational Manual Statement on Involuntary Resettlement, that cash compensations should not be
made in substitution for actual rehabilitation.
Clarity of Entitlements
23. In a February 1992 memo, the Bank's legal department re-emphasized the distinction
between R&R entitlements as defined in the Tribunal and the entitlements outlined in the 1985 legal
agreements. The SSP IDA/IBRD agreements reached with Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and
Gujarat respectively, confer R&R benefits upon project affected persons whereas the NWDT
confers these benefits upon project affected families. Under the agreements, an oustee is defined
as:
"...any person, whether landed or landless, who, since at least one year prior to the designated
benchmark date has been ordinarily residing or cultivating land or carrying on any trade,
occupation, or calling or working for gain, in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, and who
would be displaced from his usual habitat due to the carrying out of the Project."12
24. Since the resultant focus is upon the PAP, the agreements do not explicitly address the
entitlements to members of families, such as major sons. Under the language of the agreements,
the entitlements of a major son should be determined subsequent to categorizing the PAPs as either
a landed or landless oustee. The agreements provided definitions for both landed and landless
oustees as follows:
a.  "Each landed oustee shall be entitled to and allotted irrigable land....of equal size to that
which he owned prior to his resettlement..."13
b.  "Each landless oustee shall be rehabilitated in the agricultural or non-agricultural
sectors, as the case may be, and shall be entitled to stable means of livelihood."14
Accordingly, the compensation provision for a major son is determined by his landholding status.
For purposes of the agreements, encroachers are also included within either the "landed" or
"landless" category. It must be noted that the Borrower has given a broader meaning to PAPs by
considering them as project affected families including their wife, minor children and other
dependents. Major sons and their families have been treated as separate families and counted as
PAPs. This interpretation is logical as the benefits can only be provided to the heads of families
and not to their minor children or dependents.
12    Development Credit Agreement between India and IDA. Nannada River Development (Gujarat) Sarda
Sarovar Dam and Power ProjecL May 10, 1985. Section 1.02(q).
13    Ibid. Scbedule 3. Paragrph 3.
14   Ibid. Schedule 3, paragrapb 4.



134                       Annex 2
Page 9 of 61
The Narmada Control Authority
25. The Narmada Control Authority (NCA), created as an interstate organization, would
implement the NWDT's directions and decisions, including those relating to the implementation
and monitoring of resettlement. Additionally, the Narmada Review Committee (NRC), comprised
of the GOI Minister of Irrigation, now Ministry of Water Resources, and the beneficiary state chief
ministers was established to review the decisions of the NCA. The role of the NCA was defined in
the 1985 appraisal document as follows:
"[the NCA will] do any or all things necessary, sufficient and expedient for the
implementation of the Orders with respect to ....compensation and rehabilitation and
settlement of oustees."15
To facilitate a more uniform relocation policy among the three states, the NCA was to play an
active role in coordination of the R&R policy.
26. In October 1984, the NCA produced a document entitled the "Sardar Sarovar Project R&R
Program" outlining the R&R responsibilities of each state as well as the GOI. Monitoring and
evaluation of the R&R programs was to be the responsibility of each respective state whereas the
NCA was responsible for coordination amongst the three states. Semi-annual and annual
evaluation reports were to be furnished by the appropriate state governments to the NCA for
overall R&R evaluation.
27. The Supplementary Report attached to the appraisal document included a detailed plan for
Stage I (up to contour level 350 ft) R&R, covering 52 villages from the period of initiation to June
30, 1987. Additionally, the document provided the number of PAPs to be displaced over both
Stage I and Stage II (up to FRL 455 ft) of the SSP; Estimated at 2,876 and 8,974 families
respectively, the aggregate displacement across the 234 total villages in all three states was at that
time projected to be 11,850 families or approximately 59,250 persons.16
28. Additionally, in response to the land acquisition cost calculation by the Bank's August 1984
appraisal mission, the project authorities increased their initial estimate of US $100 M for R&R
published within their April 1984 R&R document entitled "Sardar Sarovar Project, Land
Acquisition and Rehabilitation of Oustees", by 50%.
Cost Estimates
29.  In October 1984, the project authorities estimated the costs associated with the SSP land
acquisition and rehabilitation to be US $201 M (Rs. 2416.6 M at prevailing exchange rate),
comprising less than 5% of total project costs. A breakdown of this total estimate was included in
table 14 of the February 1985 appraisal document.'7
15    Staff Appraisal Report Numada River Development - Gujarat. Supplementary Dat Volume Prt 1.
Mwch 1985.
16    Note: The multiplier for translating affected families to people had normally been S in the Narmada
project. However, as more scio-economic data and the broadening of R&R entitlements revealed the
number of major sons as 'single family beneficiries, the multiplier was changed from 5 to 3.2.
17    Staff Appraisl Report Narmada River Development. Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project. 12
February 1985. Table 14 p. 93.



135                     Annex 2
Page 10 of 61
30. Gujarat is essentially the payor of the land acquisition and rehabilitation costs although there
has been some dispute arising from the NWDT language. Under NWDT stipulations, Gujarat
would compensate both Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra for the majority of the submerging land
they must acquire below FRL of 455 ft (138.7 m). Gujarat must also pay the GO for government
lands made available to them for the purpose of the SSP. For the area affected by backwater flood
lift between 455 ft. and 460 ft. and only buildings with appurtenant lands would have to be
acquired by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Although the NWDT stipulated that Gujarat must
undertake all R&R costs, R&R costs resulting from submergence are chargeable to the designated
"Dam and Appurtenant Works" of which Gujarat pays 50.6% and Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra,
and Rajasthan collectively pay the remaining 49.4%. 18 This has led to different interpretations of
the NWDT award.
Eonomi jAnalysis
31. In the appraisal document, the economic costs for R&R are referred to in Annex 10
(paragraph 33) of the Supplementary Data Volume, Part I. While the opportunity cost of lost
production was included in the economic analysis the financial costs of land acquisition were
excluded since this is treated as a transfer cost within the economy.
32. Negotiations for the Sardar Sarovar Project were held in Washington from November 8-21,
1984. Prior to negotiations, representatives from the Bank as well as from the Governments of
India, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra respectively accepted the R&R plans as outlined
in the October 1984 NCA document entitled "Sardar Sarovar Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Program Supplementary Report".
33. During negotiations, the GOG, GOM, and GOMP agreed to take all action necessary to adopt
a full R&R plan prior to the effectiveness of IDA credit. The GOI agreed to finance a specialist to
monitor and evaluate the overall R&R program. Additionally, the GOM, GOMP and GOG agreed
to consider the Association's suggestion to purchase land for those landless oustees who wish to
receive rehabilitation by "land" rather than cash assistance. This land could then be resold to the
landless oustees with 50% of the sales price regarded as an interest-free deferred payment to be
recovered over 20 years.
34. Attachment I to the "Agreed Minutes" (negotiations) document was specifically devoted to
R&R. It noted the desirability of extending the NWDT award to include landed oustees from
Gujarat, phasing of R&R implementation with construction of the reservoir inundation schedule
and appointing a commissioner of rehabilitation within the GOG. Additionally, the attachment
stated that the GOI should consider the release of forest land on a case-by-case basis if no
alternative land is available to protect the rights of the oustees. Finally, the association accepted an
overall R&R plan together with the more detailed R&R plan of the 52 Stage I villages.
18    Staff Appraisal Report Narmada River Development. Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project.
Supplementary Data Volume, Part 1. 6 March 1985, p.103.



136                     Annex 2
Page Il of 61
Legal Understandings
35. Legal understandings, with respect to R&R issues, were reached during negotiations and
incorporated into the Loan and Credit documents, in May 1985, as well as the Staff Appraisal
Report in February 1985. The agreements reached with the GOI are as follows:19
a. "Take all actions necessary to release forest lands as per the provisions of the Forest
(Conservation) Act, 1980, within boundaries of the State of Gujarat, MP and
Maharashtra if required for the purpose of implementing the Sardar Sarovar Dam and
Power Project including the resettlement of rehabilitation programs and plans";
b.  "With the assistance of NCA, carry out the overall monitoring and evaluation of the
resettlement and rehabilitation of the Sardar Sarovar darn and reservoir oustees within
the boundaries of the participating states of Gujarat, MP and Maharashtra"; and
c.  "On June 1 of each year, commencing on June 1, 1986, and thereafter until June 1,
1995, furnish the Bank semi-annual and annual reports, of such scope and detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, regarding the resettlement and rehabilitation of Sardar
Sarovar Darn and Reservoir oustees within the State boundaries of Gujarat, MP, and
Maharashtra".
Also by September 30, 1985, the appraisal agreement stated that the GOI must employ for the
NCA, a social scientist with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
36. The legal agreements that were reached with the state governments, with respect to R&R
issues, are as follows:20
Agrments with Govemment of GiQiarat
"Carry out the project in conformity with appropriate...resettlement and rehabilitation
components including evaluation and monitoring activities that lie within its state
boundaries..."
Agreements with GOM. GOMP
"...provide to NCA as needed ....carrying out its responsibilities under the NWDT decision
related to inter alia, the overall operation and maintenance of the hydro-meteorological
network and carrying out the overall monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement and
rehabilitation of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Reservoir oustees."
"In collaboration with one another, furnish the Bank for its approval by December 31, 1985,
a suitable training program of R&R of the oustees for the responsible staff of GOG, GOMP,
and GOM..."
37. The Bank recommendation of an IBRD loan of US $200 M and IDA credit of US $100 M
was conditioned upon meeting the "Conditions of Effectiveness" as outlined within the appraisal
document
19    Staff Appraisal Repoit. Narmada River Development - Gujarat. Sardar Sarovar Dam aDd Power Project.
February 1985, p. 63.
20    Ibid, p. 64-68.



137                    Annex 2
Page 12 of 6l
"As a condition of effectiveness....all the necessary govemmental actions have been taken
for adopting and thereafter implementing a plan satisfactory to the Bank for resettlement and
rehabilitation of all persons who would be displaced (oustees) as a consequence of the
project, in accordance with the decisions of the NWDT and with the principles, objectives
and institutional, monitoring and evaluation requirements..."21
38. The Credit Agreement between India and the IDA contained Schedule 3 - Resettlement and
Rehabilitation of the Oustees. This schedule reiterated the R&R objectives to ensure the oustees
improve or regain their standard of living, relocate according to their preferences, become fully
integrated into the host community and receive appropriate compensation and rehabilitation. The
Schedule also described entitlements for both landed and landless oustees and added that cash
compensation should not be used in substitution for rehabilitation.
39. In a Meeting of the Executive Directors of the Bank on March 7, 1985, a discussion
concerning the lines of responsibility for the SSP resettlement program was initiated. The
Directors queried the staff on how the responsibility for implementation and monitoring of the
resettlement program had been allocated among the states involved and the Government of India.
The staff responded that each state had established a resettlement wing, staffed with responsible
and experienced officers. The staff added that the states were also expected to contract with
independent research institutions that would monitor and evaluate its implementation.
Furthermore, the central Government and the interstate Narmada Control Authority would
coordinate overall monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement plan.22
IV. Project Implementation
40. Attachment m gives the current policies for R&R in the submergence area for each state.
Attachment I shows the original NWDT award. It is clear from this that very substantial strides
have been made in R&R policy. The main elements of improvement have been the provision of 2
ha. of irrigable land for the landless in Gujarat, and for all landless agricultural laborers who wish
to move to Gujarat, the provision of 1 ha. for the landless in Maharashtra., the de facto recognition
of encroachers in Maharashtra, the inclusion of major sons as eligible in all states and of major
daughters in Maharashtra. In addition, there have been a number of improvements in the cash
elements of the compensation.
41. Differences in the R&R entitlements between the three states has been an ongoing area of
concern while addressing the improvement needs for the overall R&R implementation process.
These differences are highlighted in Attachment m to this documenL Gujarat's R&R entitlements
are by far the best of the three as its provisions go much beyond the guidelines of the Tribunal
Award. In 1987, Gujarat added both the landless and encroachers to its definition of a PAP,
thereby granting both these categories of oustees a minimum of 2 ha. of land. Additionally,
Gujarat offers ex-gratia payments - applied only to non-government land - to cover the difference
between compensation for the acquired land and the purchase price of the resettlement property.
42. Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh mainly lag Gujarat in allotment of land to landless and
major sons. The R&R policies and provisions of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have
improved and only a narrow difference now remains. MP is now guaranteeing the rehabilitation of
21    Ibid, p. 69.
22    Summary of Discussions at the Meeting of the Executive Directors of tbe Bank and IDA, March 7, 1985.
Dated March 21, 1985.



138                    Annex 2
138             ~~~~~~page 13 of 61
the landless and encroachers with the allotment of 1 ha agricultural land for encroachment upto 1
ha and 2 ha for encroachment above 2 ha Regarding landless families, Maharashtra is providing I
ha land to each family, and Madhya Pradesh is providing cash compensation upto Rs.40,000.
Madhya Pradesh is offering full cash ex-gratia payment to landed oustees of SC/ST and other
categories with land holding upto 2 ha Further those owning land from 2 to 8 ha will be eligible
for an additional amount of Rs.2,000 per ha or 50% of the difference in the cost of allotted land
and the compensation received whichever is less. The R&R policy as stipulated by NWDT award
has been liberalized by the party states from time to time, keeping in view the improvement and
upliftment of socio-economic and cultural conditions of the displaced persons. The issue,
however, with respect to differences in R&R entitlements in relation to the Bank's guidelines
should not be whether they are different but whether, in any of the three states, R&R policies do
not meet the standards required to regain the previous standard of living. It is not a part of the
Bank guidelines that other states should be forced to pursue the most generous state on R&R. We
argue here that the policy of Gujarat goes beyond what is necessary to meet the principles of
adequate resettlement, that the policy of Maharashtra is adequate, and that the policy of Madhya
Pradesh is barely adequate and should be improved to the level of Maharashtra. We do not accept
that a difference in entitlements is prima facie an unacceptable situation. R&R in India is a state
subject - differences are inevitable, and, because of differences in local situations, may well be
desirable.
Evolution of R&R Policies
43. Guiarat: Although work on the dam did not begin in earnest until 1987, acquisition of land
for the establishment of the colonies and infrastructure associated to the construction of the SSP
was initiated in the 1960's. During the early 1960s, the Government of Gujarat acquired land
belonging to residents of six villages to build project headquarters at the Kevadia site in Gujarat.
Several hundred families lost land for which they received a smaU cash compensation. Although
some family members received jobs in the project, the issue of adequate cash compensation soon
emerged as a contentious matter that drew the attention of NGOs and eventually senior Bank
management. Gujarat's policy at the time was limited; cash compensation was given to landed
oustees who were left to buy replacement land on their own. However, land was often
undervalued in official records for purposes of tax evasion so in the absence of alternative
employment replacement land in the resettlement villages would not always ensure an "equal
standard of living" as stipulated by Bank policy guidelines. Additionally, the large percentage of
the oustees were landless and were thereby excluded from land compensation benefits. As a
result, hardship ensued, protests were initiated, and many NGOs became inextricably involved in
taking up the cause of the submergence oustees. The problem was compounded by issues
associated with oustees from Maharashtra and MP who indicated a preference to move to Gujarat.
The award of the Narmada Tribunal effectively provided an option to landed MP and Maharashtsra
oustees of resettling within the Gujarat command area. To accommodate such oustees, Gujarat
was required under the Award to acquire and prepare with Award-stipulated facilities land at
specific sites. For MP oustees, Gujarat made available about 200 hectares of land classified as
forest at Guttal. For Maharashtra oustees, some 470 hectares of land classified as forest were
made available at Parvea. Developments at these two sites in the early stages fueled the Narmada
controversy further because of allegations of poor planning, inadequate infrastructure and, in the
case of Parveta, allegations by the Maharashtra state monitoring agency, TISS, that several infants
of oustees had died because of poor sanitation.
44. In 1983, Arch Vahini, a prominent NGO in Gujarat, wrote to the Bank protesting on behalf
of the families being displaced by the early construction stages of the dam. Arch Vahini's major
criticism was that the poor and illiterate tribals should not be expected to purchase their own
replacement land. Furthermore, the waiting period for "basic amenities" was excessively long.
Arch Vahini referred to the consultant's findings.



139                     Annex 2
Page 14 of 61
45. In response to escalating protests, the GOG, in 1985, extended the NWDT policy decision of
1979 to include oustees from Gujarat. Subsequently, a Bank mission in April 1987 uncovered
inadequate facilities at the resettlement sites and encouraged the GOG to ensure equitable treatment
for all oustee categories. Later in 1987, the GOG expanded its policy to include both encroachers
and the landless within the definition of a PAP. Gujarat made this decision on the rationale that the
majority of PAPs resettling within Gujarat were tribals or members of isolated communities. In
fact, approximately 95-98% of the oustees in the submergence area were primarily Tadvi, Bhil, or
Ratthwa tribal people.23
46. In 1988, the GOG further extended its R&R policy to include major sons (those sons 18 or
older), of both the landless and landed, as PAPs. Within the same year, Gujarat also allowed co-
sharers (joint holders of agricultural land) and their major sons to be extended the same
compensation benefits as PAPs. Eventually, Gujarat's liberalizing policy engendered a change in
the position of many NGOs towards the construction of the dam. Both the Arch Vahini and Anand
Niketan Ashram, prominent NGOs in the Narmada Valley, turned into supporters of the SSP as
most of their criticisms were addressed and the GOG seemed committed to fulfilling the Bank's
R&R guidelines. However, the focus of concern for the NGOs, quickly became, and still is, to
ensure proper implementation of Gujarat's R&R policy.
47. Maharashtra: GOM's first statement of policy was a Government Resolution (GR) passed
only in June 1989, after the first World Bank SSP resettlement and rehabilitation review mission to
visit Maharashtra noted the lack of any R&R policy there. GOM's 1976 Resettlement of
Displaced Persons Act did not apply to inter-state projects such as the SSP. The April/May 1989
mission imposed a condition for extending the credit for the loan beyond June 1989 that
Maharashtra policies should meet the requirements of the Tribunal's award and "legal aspects of
the Projects".
48. The June 29, 1989 GR was amended in a GR of February 26, 1992. This latter GR tried to
clarify entitlements and made minor changes in them. Under the new GR, benefits were allocated
according to whether oustees were classified as "landed" or "landless." "Landed" included those
with land title; encroachers before March 31, 1978; and those whose encroachments were
regularized. They and joint holders were allotted a minimum of 2 hectares of land.
49. "Landless" were major sons and major unmarried daughters of "landed" oustees (except
those recorded as "joint holders"); encroachers who encroached after March 31, 1978 and
encroachers whose encroachments were not regularized; landless agricultural laborers; village
artisans; and persons engaged in non-agricultural trades and callings. These were allotted a
maximum of one acre of irrigable land if it was available near the relocation site and if the oustee
moved with the other oustees to the resettlement site. A grant-in-aid was offered to those unable to
avail of this option, which was on a first-come-first-serve-basis. Major sons of the "landless" still
had no status as either "landed" or "landless" and hence did not qualify for any land. The major
change between the 1989 and 1992 GRs was in giving major sons of the "landed" oustees a claim
to land, albeit only one acre if available.
50. The IRR criticized GOM's 1989 policy for being in "fundamental conflict" with the 1985
SSP Bank agreements. A major portion of lands, it said, were encroached after 1978. Major sons
made up between 30 and 50 percent of oustees. One acre was not a viable agricultural holding.
And GOM had no policy commitment to acquire sites large enough to accommodate both landed
and landless oustees, even at the level of one-acre plots. The majority of "landless" were only so
23    Joshi. Vidyut. Submerpin9 Vil arev Problems And Prospects. Gujarat: Anjanta Publications. 1987.



Annex-2
14')                    Page 1S of 61
under law. They were, in fact, tribal farmers with both family plots and forest resources under
customary usage. GOM's offer of training and employment opportunities in lieu of the lost
resources would represent a fall in economic status - from farmer to laborer.
51. The IRR found the GOM 1992 policy in conflict with the Bank's ODs which, inter alia,
recognize de facto resource use versus purely legalistic criteria. They were of the opinion the
policies of GOM and GOMP did not fully conform with the spirit of the 1979 Tribunal award.
52. The Maharashtra policy's treatment of major sons and encroachers and the inadequacy of its
provision for the landless were major criticisms by the IRR, by Bank missions and by the
Narmada Bachao Andolan (NBA). The latter carried the criticism a step further. It asserted that
any discrepancy between the three State policies meant injustice for those oustees covered by the
less liberal provisions, that, in fact, Gujarat's policy had faced up to problems which were endemic
not only to its population but to the socially and culturally identical tribals across the state borders.
The Bank, on the other hand, took the position that some discrepancy was unavoidable given the
federal system of government in India and that the issue was more simply whether or not legal
agreements were met and oustees would likely regain their former standard of living. This
remained a fundamental difference in approach throughout the Bank's direct involvement in the
project. This PCR argues that the Bank's position was correct, and that the issue is simply
whether any of the policies in the three states are inadequate to regain living standards.
53. Other criticisms directed by the Bank at Maharashtra alone were that GOM did not provide a
year's subsistence allowance as Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh did and that resettlers had to bear the
cost of land development. Maharashtra also modified its policy to treat villagers whose lands
would, in effect, be surrounded by water ("Tappu", or Island, oustees) the same as those directly
affected. Likewise, MP made similar provisions.
54. In its response to the IRR, the Bank reiterated its "incremental' approach of attempting to
replicate the advances in Gujarat's policy in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh through persuasion
and sometime threat of suspension. GOM, for its part, resisted any liberalization of its policy,
arguing that the precedent for its many other projects would be too costly. It also did not respond
to Bank suggestions, that at least with regard to major sons of "landed" families, it bring its policy
into line with the 1976 Resettlement of Displaced Persons Act which provided land according to
family size.
55. After the July 1992 mission, sent to evaluate the IRR findings and make recommendations,
Maharashtra's policy was again amended as part of a series of actions agreed to between the Bank,
GOI and the three principal SSP states. The Master Plan for Resettlement and Rehabilitation of
Project Affected Persons of Maharashtra State dated December 31, 1992 describes these changes in
the light of "tribal needs." The preparation of an updated R&R plan taking into account tribal needs
was one of the benchmarks the Bank had, by that time, laid down.
56. The 1992 Master Plan for R&R said that the February 26, 1992 GR had been 'partially
revised" to increase land allocation to the landless and major sons and daughters. It based its
analysis of tribal needs on studies by Gujarat in its tribal submergence area and by the Tribal
Research Institute, Pune, both carried out in the early 1980s; on TISS studies from 1988 onwards;
and on "interaction of Govt. field agencies with the tribal PAPs over the years."
57. The new provisions gave each landless family one hectare, on the grounds that 'legal
ownership is only a formality in the tribal areas." Each major son belonging to either landed or
landless families was likewise to be given one hectare, to "compensate for the lack of expandability
of agricultural land at the resettlement site." The new plan provided transition allowances of
Rs.4,500 per family and provided land and irrigation development free of cost. The plan also



AnnLex 2
141                    Page 16 of 61
provided for the reservation of a minimum of 5% of the total agricultural area for intensive
growing programs for fodder and fuelwood.
58. This latest policy went a long way towards addressing Bank concerns that one acre was a
non-viable land holding and that the encroachers and major sons should receive land benefits.
Bank field trips to the area prior to March 31, 1993 to assess the ongoing efforts at meeting the
benchmarks also found that many tribals had apparently accepted this compromise and were, for
the first time, willing to take advantage of GOM's R&R program.
59. By the time GOM's December 1992 R&R master plan was published, the focus had shifted
to whether or not enough land could be made available within Maharashtra to meet even the
requirements of the previous and more modest policy. By the March 1993 deadline, Maharashtra
had still not met the benchmark that it obtain formal release of about 2,000 additional hectares of
unencumbered forest land for R&R or acquire an equivalent amount of other suitable land.
Subsequently 1,500 ha of forest land identified by GOM has been released by MOEF.
60. Madhya Pradeh: GOMP's policy for SSP oustees resettled in Madhya Pradesh was, like
that of Maharashtra, formulated only in 1989 as a response to the Bank's April/May mission of that
year. This mission noted that a central problem for MP's R&R was "the lack of policy in Madhya
Pradesh." As with Maharashtra, the new policy statement was a response to Bank conditions for
extension of the Credit Closing Date past June 1991.
61. The 1989 SSP R&R policy was a revision of policy approved by GOMP for the oustees of
the Narmada Sagar, where MP seems, in general, to have been more proactive in R&R. This, in
turn, was based on a combination of the terms of the Tribunal award with MP's own 1985
legislation for the resettlement of people displaced by any public utility project, the Madhya
Pradesh Project Displaced Persons (Resettlement) ACL
62. The 1989 R&R policy was included as Annexure m of the Sardar Sarovar Project: Action
Plan of Rehabilitation & Resettlement of Oustees of Madhya Pradesh, January 1992. Under the
R&R policy, only revenue landholders were entitled to land on resettlement. The policy provided
that those families with legal title to their land, confirned by government records, would receive,
in addition to compensation, two hectares of irrigated land. If the land was un-irrigated, GOMP
would provide assistance with irigation. Families would receive four hectares of un-irrigated land
if the land received was deemed un-irrigable.
63. On occasion, NVDA officials gave Bank missions verbal assurance that the landed oustees
remaining in MP could receive land in nearby project command areas. The NVDA's own Jobat
command area was mentioned as a possibility. The Jobat project was within a reasonable distance
of the 76 tribal villages in MP scheduled to be entirely inundated by the SSP, and the tribal
configuration was the same. However, Jobat appeared to have its own displaced people to resettle,
and the GOMP's main intention appears, from the beginning, to have been that landed and other
oustees would go to the SSP command area in Gujarat. From MP's point of view, this was
considered a liberal solution in line with its own 1985 R&R legislation and the Tribunal award.
64. Encroachers who encroached prior to April 4, 1987 were to receive compensation for the land
acquired and be allotted a minimum of one hectare and a maximunm of two hectares of land, even if
more than two hectares was acquired. No mention was made of irrigation nor of the means of
establishing the date of encroachment.
65. Land would not be allotted to major sons, encroachers who encroached after 1987, or the
"landless." Special benefits for the "landless," which included major sons, encompassed
occupational training and a three-year income supplement grant. Among other provisions more or



142                     Annex 2
Page 17 of 61
less standard between the states, such as civic amenities and houseplots, MP provided a
rehabilitation grant of Rs.  1,000 to all small and marginal farmers and all SC/ST. All agricultural
landless labourers and SC/ST labourers Rs. 11,000 each. All other labourers and landless families
Rs.5,500 each. It also gave a rehabilitation grant of Rs.5,500 each to all other farmers.
66. While the 1989 policy endorsed the main objectives of the 1985 credit and loan agreements
and the terms of the Tribunal award, its specific terms of policy did not always concur with these.
The IRR judged that it differed only in detail from the Maharashtra policy and likewise that "the
overall effect of this policy is that encroachers and major sons, who are agriculturalists on lands
they regard as their own, are threatened with dispossession."
67. Bank missions subsequent to 1989 emphasized a need to "harmonize" MP's policy
provisions with those of Gujarat. The intention was that some differences would remain, provided
the overall principle was maintained. GOMP, for its part, categorically refused to alter its basic
policy principles, citing a large number of other inter-state projects that would be affected by any
precedents in the SSP's R&R. GOMP's position was that Gujarat could afford a more liberal
policy because the SSP was its only inter-state project.
68. Previous to 1992, the Bank had been satisfied that the policies of the three states largely met
the stipulations of the Tribunal award. With minor modifications over time, the policies of
Maharashtra and MP could also meet, it was felt, the "overarching principles" of the 1985 credit
and loan agreements. By July 1992, however, the Bank had come to view the gap between the
policies of the three states as "impeding project implementation." The Bank mission sent to India
that month was charged with, to the extent possible, closing the gap.
69. Instead of Maharashtra's land-based compromise of one hectare, GOMP's actions, agreed
with the Bank after July 1992, offered a managed bank account to major sons, landless and
encroachers. The "landless" were given Rs.40,000 to be used for land purchase or for small
businesses. The non-agricultural landless, such as small business owners or artisans, were to
receive Rs.25,000. Major sons of landed oustees had the option, according to GOMP, of being
treated as landed oustees by registering as co-sharers or opting to be treated as landless to receive a
managed account.
70. The benchmarks set by the Bank for compliance by March 31, 1993 included for MP
identifying and beginning to purchase 2,000 hectares of land to carry out its in-state R&R policy
and reaching agreement with Gujarat about certain outstanding policy differences between the two
states regarding MP oustees resettled in GujaraL This particularly refered to awards for oustees in
marginally affected villages. As in the other two states, the benchmarks also included studies for a
tribal needs assessment and incorporation of the findings into an updated R&R plan. This R&R
plan was to be based on a computerized data base for linking dam construction and the
submergence schedule with progress in R&R. In MP, the R&R plan would accurately categorize
oustees according to their entitlements for the rirst time.
71. The Bank sent an agricultural expert to assess the 1,000 hectares identified in MP by March
1993. Fifty percent of the land was scattered in 20-50 hectare blocks of cultivable waste or fallow
lands, the rest was in smaller sizes. Although the land was in tribal areas similar to the
submergence area, much of it was far away, 65-120 kilometers. About seventy five percent of the
identified land was govemment land near irrigation sources and usually near roads. Other land
was being offered by private sellers responding to GOMP advertisements through offers in writing
including expected prices, ranging from around Rs.12,000 per hectare for unirrigated to
Rs. 18,000 for irrigated land. GOMP expected to obtain this land through consent awards under
the Land Acquisition Act. According to NVDA, offers were continuing to come in at a promising



143                     Annex 2
Pag,e 18 of 61
rate. The NVDA and GOMP authorities reported an estimated 5,000 hectares would eventually be
identified. 24 It thus did appear that purchase of land in MP was possible.
72. With regard to agreement between MP and Gujarat on eligibility criteria for various oustees
including landless and major sons, the two states agreed that: (a) Gujarat's policy of not giving
land entitlements to non-agricultural based landless would prevail; (b) MP's wishes would be
respected by Gujarat that the eligibility of major sons would be decided on the basis of one year
before Section 4 of the LAA rather than January 1, 1987 as Gujarat had wanted; and (c) MP would
agree to accept Gujarat's case that if a family's major sons are given 2 hectares of land each, the
father should be limited to 2 hectares, not up to his previous holdings in MP as would otherwise be
the case.
73. Prior to the above benchmark, the two states had already agreed as part of the post-July 1992
action plan that landless agricultural laborers in marginally affected villages in MP would be
entitled for R&R in Gujarat if (i) their house was submerged and (ii) land on which they were
working was to be acquired by the SSP.
74. This latter agreement was important (as were the others cited above) because Gujarat's policy
towards the various categories of "landless' and "encroachers" had been designed for the tribals.
While almost all submergence villages in Gujarat in and Maharashtra were tribal, 140 of the 193
submergence villages in MP are situated in the fertile agricultural belt of the Nimad, where the
population is non-tribal and a large proportion of the population is made up of agricultural laborers.
Only 79 of the 193 villages would lose more than 10 percent of their land. Of these latter, 76
villages are mostly tribaL located in the narrow valley closest to the dam site. In the generally more
level areas of the Nimad farther upstream from the dam site, houses are submerged rather than
land. These are usually in compact, nuclear villages. To Gujarat, providing the Nimad's
agricultural laborers, many from marginally affected villages, with land under a policy designed for
remote tribal villages would have created an intolerable burden of sheer numbers. Even with the
above agreements with MP, Gujarat expects about 4-5,000 of the approximately 20,000 oustee
households in the upper Nimad to choose resettlement in the SSP command area.
75. Because agricultural land more generally is not submerged in the upper Nimad, the movement
of villages to new abadi sites usually 2-3 kilometers away is less problematic with respect to
restoring incomes. Much of MP's R&R program in this area has been focused on planning and
construction of the new village sites. Of 55 abadi sites to be built, some 51 were planned in
January 1993; layout plans were approved for 28; and construction was under progress in 10 sites.
During 1993, the NVDA expected to have another 35 sites under construction. While critics
argued that there would be an emergency situation during 1997 when the bulk of resettlement in
MP was scheduled to take place, many of these ignored or underplayed the differences between
the upper Nimad and the tribal areas downstream with respect to R&R policy requirements. The
NVDA, in fact, was making considerable progress in providing new village sites for the large
population in marginally affected villages coming under submergence during the later phases of the
SSP.
76. In compliance with the benchmarks, GOMP carried out a tribal needs assessment. This has
been deemed by the Bank to be well done. GOMP also established, as did the other two states, an
accurate computerized data base for purposes of linking construction with R&R progress and
prepared an updated R&R plan based on this data base. Unfortunately, the Bank withdrew from
the project before a full assessment of MP's new R&R plan could be carried out. It is, however,
24    Back-to-Office Reportm SSP Asseument of Suitability of Land Identified for R&R of PAPc in MP. April
12, 1993.



144                    Annex 2
Page 19 of 61
unlikely that the results of the tribal study were incorporated into its provisions, since both the
tribal study and the R&R plan were completed about the same time.
77. While theoretically the most recent changes in MP's policy might conceivably have allowed
its "landless" oustees to purchase land within the state through managed bank accounts, it has not
been possible to ascertain how this proposed solution has actually worked on the ground. It
should be noted that a similar provision has had some success in the Upper Krishna Irrigation
Project II, and one of the lessons of this PCR is that such arrangements might in some cases not
only be acceptable but allow for greater flexibility for oustees to choose their own land in their own
time.
Criticisms of R&R imrkmentation
78. Retained by the Bank in 1989 as a consultant to a Bank supervision mission, the consultant
returned to the Narmada Valley to compare the current R&R situation with findings from the 1983
preparation mission. His main conclusion was that the 1989 situation, with respect to R&R, had
significantly deteriorated from those conditions in 1983.
79. The consultant reported R&R planning efforts for land acquisition as poor in both Madhya
Pradesh and Maharashtra; neither state had identified land for the majority of oustees who chose to
relocate within their own territories. The consultant concluded that the absence of land acquisition
plans reflected the desire of the M.P. and Maharashtrian officials to have the PAPs move to
Gujarat, rather than stay within their respective states. Additionally, the consultant criticized the
GOG for providing an R&R package which focussed heavily upon resettlement rather than
rehabilitation.
80. The consultant also criticized the R&R implementation process. In M.P., disillusionment and
frustration among the oustees ensued after preparation of Guttal - the first resettlement village for
MP oustees within Gujarat - had been delayed for over a year, according to the consultant. In
addition, the mission reported that the conditions of the village were extremely poor. The
consultant also criticized the GOGs refusal to accept various categories of oustees, such as the rock
filled dyke people, as directly affected by the project.
81. The consultant.believed that the GOG would not be able to reverse this unsatisfactory record
and was generally pessimistic about the potential for coordination between the three govenmuents
to carry out a proper R&R program which would enable the oustees to "regain or improve their
standard of living". He advised the Bank to stop disbursements for the SSP until the government
agencies were in compliance with the Bank's R&R policy guidelines, including adherence to an
R&R schedule that is synchronized with consruuction of the dam, initiation of NCA responsibilities
with respect to R&R, and purchasing oustee land through the GOG. The full Bank mission did
not accept the consultant's recommendation with respect to cessation of disbursements, arguing,
among other things, that his conclusions did not give sufficient credit to the evolving beneficial
Gujarat R&R policies and improving institutional delivery capability, and were based on very
limited field exposure (no more than a few days in Gujarat). The mission further concluded that,
from a strategic standpoint, the Bank could help achieve overall R&R objectives better by staying
with the project rather than effectively dropping out. It was agrees that this "incremental strate",
which was to be highlighted subsequently in the report of the Independent Review, had worked
and showed evidence of continuing to work.
82. Many NGOs outside of India were, at the same time, making their own pleas for a
moratorium on Bank disbursements to the SSP. In May 1990, Survival International, a human
rights organization based in London, criticized the GOG for showing little sign of implementing its
liberal R&R policy established in 1987. Survival International also argued that the cost/benefit



145                    Acx 2
Page20 of 61
analysis conducted at the time of appraisal did not include human, social and cultural losses.
Survival International noted that the costs of the SSP continued to escalate while the benefits
remained the same as stated at inception; they suggested an economic reappraisal be undertaken
before construction proceeded further.
83. Other NGOs also increased their criticism of the project: the Environmental Defence Fund of
the US, Oxfam of the UK, Probe International of Canada and Japan Friends of the Earth in Tokyo.
Their main points of opposition were India's poor track record on R&R, a lack of baseline
information with regard to oustees at project inception, no detailed R&R plans by the state
goverunents, and a lack of proper consultation with affected people.
84. The Narmada Bachao Andolan, an India based NGO formed in 1989, united different social
and environmental organizations from around the world with the PAPs of the Narmada Valley. In
May 1989, many international NGOs joined the Bachao Andolan in calling for work to be stopped
on the SSP dam and foreign funds to be suspended "until sufficient lands are identified and there is
a comprehensive resettlement plan in a form acceptable to the people affected, and the whole
project has been reappraised, on environmental and economic as well as social grounds."
85. At about the same time, a law suit was taken up by the M.P. oustees against the NCA and the
Nigam (Gujarat) with regard to the timing of resettlement and its relationship to the submergence
schedule within the reservoir area The suit was eventually brought to the Supreme Court of India
and the ruling called for additional monitoring of the R&R process for the SSP. Specifically, the
Court designated the central Ministry of Social Welfare to prepare quarterly reports on R&R,
focussing particularly on the submergence schedule and its potential impact.
86. While the Bank continued funding to the SSP, on May 22, 1990 the Japanese aid agency
decided to halt disbursement of the remaining US $130 M on its initial loan (US $150 M) for SSP
turbines and generators. The decision appeared to be a result of the strong, local opposition in
India and growing opposition in Tokyo.
The Independent Review
87. In June, 1992, R&R policy concerns raised by the Bank's Board and various NGOs led the
Bank president to commission an Independent Review of the Sardar Sarovar Project focussing on
R&R and environmental aspects of the projects and appropriate remedial measures.
88. The main conclusions of the Independent Review on R&R may be summarized as follows;
on the Bank' side, the main problems were:
a.  despite the existence of explicit operational guidelines with respect to involuntary
resettlement and tribal peoples, the Bank failed to insist on proper preparation of R&R
plans by the Government and accordingly did not appraise adequately the resettlement
components of the Sardar Sarovar projects;
b.  the Bank's preparation and appraisal similarly did not address displacement of people
by the Sardar Sarovar cana  system in GujaraL  There was, and is, no agreed
resettlement strategy for the canal. Elsewhere, provisions for tribals affected by the
project and who had access to, or cultivated,, land for extended periods, were
inadequate or absent because they were treated as landless; and
c.  the Bank's efforts during the last few years to compensate for the lack of an adequate
appraisal have helped to achieve some improvements, particularly in Gujarat, but this



146                     Annex 2
Page 21 of 61
"incremental approach" is not achieving the changes needed, particularly in Madhya
Pradesh.
89. On the Borrower's side, the principal problems identified were:
a.  insufficient baseline data gathered on the affected population. This made it impossible
to develop an effective resettlement plan;
b. lack of consultation with the affected population and a failure to inform them of their
resettlement options;
c.  lack of compliance with the provisions of the Government's Narmada Water Dispute
Tribunal Award; and
d.  failure to prepare a full resettement plan before appraisaL
90. The Review also concluded that during the last 2-3 years the Government of Gujarat had
taken several positive measures to improve the resettlement policy and institutional framework for
the resettlers displaced from the project's submergence area; however, in the canal system in
Gujarat, the report finds that there has been no progress on resettlement and very little progress on
R&R in the other two states. Madhya Pradesh, in particular, which contains the majority of the
resettlers, still lacks an adequate policy framework, capable institutions or means to ensure that
resettlers do not suffer a significantly adverse impact after resettlemenL
91. The Independent Review, while stating that it would not make recommendations, did in fact
conclude that the Bank should "steback" from the project and re-evaluate the current situation and
potential for improvement.
Management Response to the Independent Review
92. In its response of June 23, 1992 to the findings of the Independent Review (ref. Sec. M92-
849), Bank management accepted the findings with respect the policy guidelines in force and the
failure of the preparation and appraisal to take these fully into account. These deficiencies were
particularly noteworthy in areas that today have become important parts of the preparation and
appraisal process - ie., insistence on Government consultation with affected parties; development
of socio-economic data on project affected peoples; assessment of the Government's
implementation capacity for resettlemenL
93. The Management response went on to note that application of relatively new operational
guidelines in the early 1980s demanded high quality resettlement project components. This was
not a simple task for either the Borrower's or Bank staff. It required major improvements in the
practices of many Bank Borrowers as well as a comprehensive change in approaches and resource
allocation for all Bank units dealing with such projects. During this adjustment process,
particularly in the first few years after the 1980 adoption by the Bank of the new guidelines, there
were a significant number of departures from the guidelines, including in the Narmada projects.
Specifically, Bank management generally agreed with the description of R&R experience in the
three states (as contained in the Independent Review) and in the canal areas in Gujarat.
Management also agreed that (a) adequate resettlement plans were not prepared by the Borrower
for appraisal by the Bank; (b) while the development of resettlement policy in Gujarat is indeed a
notable achievement, R&R policies in the other two states needs urgent improvement and
implementation needs to be further strengthened in all the states. In conclusion, the Bank
management stated that rather than "Stepin back" from the project, the most promising course of
action would be to take advantage of the Government of India's recent agreement that Q&M



147                     Annex 2
page 22 of 61
construction should be linked to progress on resettlement. This, the management argued, provides
the basis for a new approach under which the Bank, as a matter of urgency, would work with
Government to operationalize this commitment. Practical and monitorable steps would need to be
agreed to ensure that the improvements include consultation with PAPs, a five year draft estimate
for financing R&R, improvements in R&R monitoring and clearing the backlog of PAPs waiting
for land after having selected it. Finally, the Action Program re-affirmed Government's
commitment to link the pace of dam construction to progress on R&R.
Board Review
94. On the basis of the Government's Action Program, Bank management proposed several
benchmarks for measuring project performance and recommended continued support for the
projects, provided there was satisfactory progress in meeting the performance benchmarks by
March 31, 1993. The benchmarks and related discussion were contained in the memo to the Board
dated September 11, 1992 (Sec. MR92-168), October 1, 1992 (R92-168/1) and October 20, 1992
(R92-168/2/Rev.). The Board met on October 23, 1992 and after lengthy debate endorsed the
management's recommendations.
In arriving at their decision, the Board emphasized the following points:
a. a special Bank mission would go to the field in April, 1993 to review progress as report
in a document to be prepared by the Government and presented to the Bank no later
than March 31, 1993;
b.  if, based on the findings of the mission, Bank management concluded that project
performance has failed significandy to meet the benchmark tests, steps would be taken
to suspend disbursements and the Board would be so informed; and
c.  in the event performance is judged to be satisfactory in relation to the benchmarks, the
basis for this judgement would be set out in a report to the Executive Directors and a
discussion arranged. A final decision on continued support for the project will take full
account of the sense of the Board. The benchmarks with respect to R&R included the
following:
i.   Satisfactory improvement in the data describing the number of PAPs in the
reservoir area, including an analysis of affected tribal people. This analysis of
tribal rehabilitation needs must be reflected in detailed R&R plans. The
computerized data system covering all three states must be significantly enhanced.
Additionally, both Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat must agree on the eligibility
criteria for the landless, agricultural laborers and major sons;
ii. All three states must complete a satisfactory R&R plan which includes providing
resettlement for 4000 PAPs each year beginning in 1993. Additionally, the states
must revise their R&R plans to include budget provisions; These are to be
approved by project authorities and the Bank's April 1993 review mission;
iii. The state governments must strengthen the institutional arrangement for
implementing R&R and include an appropriate role for local, non-governmental
organizations. Furthermore, a separate R&R agency reporting to the Chief
Minister of Gujarat should be established. The Board of Directors for this agency
should include appropriate representatives from Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra as well as a substantial representation of local NGOs. This agency
is anticipated to improve coordination of R&R among the states and should be
able to operate in MP;



148                    Page 23 of
iv.  The three states should satisfactorily demonstrate improved consultation
practices. Additionally, Gujarat NGOs should facilitate the consultation process
for oustees in Madhya Pradesh; and
v.  Both Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh should satisfactorily demonstrate the
feasibility of land acquisition on the required scale. Specifically, formal releasing
or acquiring of about 2,000 additional ha. of land should be expected for
resettlement sites within Maharashtra. In Madhya Pradesh, land purchasing
committees should start acquiring and identifying about 1,000 ha. of good quality
land for resettlement sites within the state.
Government Cancellation of Bank Loan
95. On March 29, 1993, the Government of India announced to the Board that after due
consideration of project progress and other considerations it had decided to request the Bank to
cancel remaining proceeds of the Loan for the Sardar Sarovar Project (about $170 million out of
the original loan of $200 million equivalent; the Credit of US$100 million had already been fully
disbursed). In announcing the decision, the lndian Executive Director reaffirmed the continued
commitment of the Govemment of India and the state governments to fully meet the R&R and
environmental standards of this important project. The Bank subsequently agreed to this request
and the Loan was formally cancelled.
Banki Performance,
96. The performance on R&R aspects of the project had been summarized by management in the
note to the Board in response to the conclusions of the Independent Review (ref. paras ..... ).
Clearly, Bank performance was wanting in terms of the quality of appraisal of R&R plans and the
adherance to guidelines. Later, however, during implementation, the supervision process resulted
in major strides and a great deal of catching up. Lessons learned are outlined in the next section.
However, the R&R failures and the incremental strategy issues warrant commenL
a.  There was a failure to prepare and appraise the R&R aspects in accordance with the
Bani's operational guidelines in effect at the time. The explanation for this failure was
that these were new guidelines and it takes time to build up the expertise, the processes
and the methodologies to react rapidly to such guidelines. An R&R plan was reviewed
and found acceptable at the time of negotiations. While this plan was weak by present
standards, over the subsequent years there has been a great improvement in the quality
and detail of the R&R plans including quite detailed computerized schedules for steps to
be taken. The continuing criticism that there were no R&R plans (some critics still
claim there are no R&R plans) is not supported by the evidence;
b. The 'incremental strategy' pursued has been widely criticised and at one point, this
criticism was accepted by Bank management. It is argued here that whether or not this
strategy failed remains debatable. Clearly it did not achieve ideal R&R policies.
However, it did achieve unprecedented strides in policies and implementation over a
period of 8 years. The change from essentially a land for land policy with nothing for
landless and nothing for major sons to a minimum of 2 ha for all in Gujarat, together
with a range of other compensation elements and the evolution of the Land Purchase
Committee process and the improved planning and data systems has been by far the
most significant stride ever made in R&R in India. It has already had enormous India-
wide benefits. For the landless, who constitute 23% in Gujarat and as much as 47% in
MP of the oustees, the policy now is an exceptionally good policy which will transform



149                     Annex 2
1Page 24 of 61
the livelihoods of many of these families. It is difficult to argue that one strategy failed
unless there is a clear alternative strategy that would have produced better results. The
altemative strategy could only have been an early, or earlier, withdrawal of the Bank
from the project. This is a card that can be played only once. It is improbable that a
strategy of an early withdrawal from the project would have resulted in better R&R
performance by 1993 than the "incremental strategy" that was followed.
Borrower Performance
97. The performance of the Borrower with respect to R&R was mixed and different in the three
states. The Borrower failed to follow through sufficiently quickly on agreements with respect to
detailed plans as agreed at negotiations and incorporated into the legal agreements. While there
was some socio-economic information about affected people, it was limited and was not fully used
in designing the R&R plans. A detailed survey had been done in Gujarat in the early 1980s (which
was not acknowledged by the report of the Independent Review) but had been used while
designing Gujarats R&R plans policies in the early stages. Gujarat policy has evolved into the
most enlightened in India in that it provides land for landless, land in the irrigated command area, a
full complement of assistance for people moving, innovative mechanisms such as the Land
Purchase Committee in which willing buyers and sellers could resolve issues and a range of other
assistance. Progress also eventually was made in Maharashtra, even though there were, and still
are, protracted and periodic problems with availability of forest land for resettlement and continued
difficulties in consultation due to activist obstruction of the process. The issue of forest land posed
a dilemma within the environmental community between those advocating the best possible deal for
affected peoples and those more concerned with preservation of forest Madhya Pradesh also
made progress on both policies and data and implementation but, given the magnitude of the
problem and no doubt the fact that the state stood to gain very little benefit from the SSP project, it
did not have an incentive to comply promptly with R&R requirements. There is still some concem
regarding the implementation of R R policies in Madhya Pradesh. It has been slow and the
procedures for allocating land in MP as well as benefits to landless and adult sons could be
improved.
V.   Standard of Living Before and After Relocation
98.   It is not possible within the context of this PCR to systematically compare living standards
before and after relocation. It also may not be fair to attempt to do so. Only after PAFs are
permanently relocated, without recourse to their old villages, and are provided promised irrigation
and other economic generation schemes, will a fair comparison be possible. Even then, it will
take seven to ten years before an adequate evaluation of rehabilitation is possible. There are two
distinct areas affected by submergence. One is the wide valley in the upper Narmada of Madhya
Pradesh known as the Nimad. The other is the tribal area just above the dam site, where the valley
is narrow and PAFs are from all three states. The very different nature of the Nimad Plains in
Madhya Pradesh from the tribal areas closer to the dam further complicates the discussion.
99.   For the tribal a=, the main issues are whether the Bhil sub-tribes from the more remote
subsistence agriculture areas can learn to live without the large areas of reserve forest lands they
have traditionally encroached; and can they adapt to a new agricultural regime on lands very
different from those they are used to. For the more "advanced" Bhil sub-groups, this is not
considered a problem. Again, it is too early to make a judgment, because for the most part
relocatees have not fully committed to their new lands. This will only happen when submergence
occurs, and full rehabilitation will be possible only when irrigation has been supplied. This is still
some way off.
100. The Nimad Plains Before and After Relocation: While there are many socioeconomic
studies on the tribal areas, the Nimad does not seem to have received the same attention.
Nevertheless, the area contains 19,380 families, approximately half the SSP's 40,725 PAFs and
sixty-percent of Madhya Pradesh's 33,104 PAFs.



150Ane2
150              ~~~~~~Pag!e 25 of 61
101. Of the 79 villages in MP that suffer inundation of more than 10% of their land, 76 are
tribal. Only three of the 79 villages are in the Nimad. Relocation is mostly closely compact
villages moving back 2-3 kilometers from the river's edge, leaving agricultural lands unaffected
except by one in a hundred year floods. While Madhya Pradesh is currently laying out and
constructing new abadi sites for these relocated villages, most of the Nimad relocation will not take
place until 1997 monsoon.
102. The IRR describes the lands affected in the Nimad as "low-lying, fertile lands that are
intensively farmed and that already benefit from an elaborate irrigation system." Irrigation is by "a
plethora of irrigation pumps with a network of pipelines reaching as far as 5 km from river." The
Kanbi-Patidars who settled in the Nimad during the last century installed these irrigation systems.
The Kanbi-Patidars are "prosperous farmers, many of whom well educated and have connections
with members of professional and political groups of the region, are competent to use the Land
Acquisition Act process to ensure that compensation for their lost lands is not minimized, although
in so far as they work areas of land over and above state ceilings they are at some economic risk."
103.  Electrification of the region in the early 1970s has made it possible for landholders to
"grow three crops a year, including chilies, cotton, papayas, bananas, sugar cane-produce with
high market values." The IRR describes many families farming 20 to 30 hectares and employing
as many as 30 to 40 permanent farm workers. The authors give the impression that inundation will
destroy the irrigation network making this possible, although this seems unlikely.
104. Madhya Pradesh officials continually assert that the Nimad's large farmers are concerned
about the jeopardy to their land holdings beyond the state ceilings, in MP about eight hectares.
R&R officials suggest that the large landholders have secretly registered many of these lands in the
names of scheduled caste and tribal agricultural laborers. Now, by virtue of the SSP, they will
become PAFs. As PAFs, these workers are eligible for compensation and for land in the Gujarat
command area Whether these assertions are true or not, officials say the greater concern for large
landholders is that valuable agricultural laborers who help bring in the region's commercial crops
will be lost to R&R.
105. Officials also assert that, prompted by these concerns, wealthy farmers in the Nimad
provide much of the funding for the NBA's opposition to the SSP. The NBA, in tum, focuses
anti-dam attention on the welfare of tribal PAFs who in the Nimad, along with scheduled castes,
are ironically the agricultural workers.
106. Apparently not aware of this issue, the IRR took a sanguine view of the Nimad's
agricultural laborers, one not likldy shared by many social activists in India. "The Scheduled Tribe
and Scheduled Caste families, a large proportion of whom are not literate and whose land is not
recorded in government records, are more vulnerable. Their sense of security comes from
occupving a particular place in an integrated network of laborer-landowning relationships. which is
threatened by the resettlement process":25
Again and again the men and women of landless families expressed to us their reliance
upon a place in community life. They have secure working relationships with particular
landowners.
107. It is not exactly clear why these laborers are vulnerable, since most of the land in the Nimad
will be unaffected except occasionally during severe floods. The relationship between scheduled
castes and the upper castes in India has not been as trouble free, especially of late, as the authors
suggest. Rise of political parties espousing the causes of the former castes suggests the
relationship is often adversarial. It is not likely that the Nimad area is different in this regard.
25   IRR (1993), pp. 174, 181-83.



Annex2
151                      Page 26 of 61l
108.  Inundation of the Nimad does not occur until after 1995 at the earliest, and mostly in 1997.
Nevertheless, Gujarat officials have taken measures to avoid large numbers of, in their view, non-
qualified landless agricultural laborers aniving to claim PAF status and land in the command area.
Concern over this issue prompted Gujarat to put pressure on Madhya Pradesh to agree that only
agricultural laborers whose houses are submerged may claim PAF status, unless MP officials
certify that such laborers are employed on permanently submerged land. The two states reached
his agreement only after July 1992.
109. Further, Gujarat officials claim that many Nimad PAFs have already been allotted land in
Gujarat, although submergence for the Phase I command area irrigation does not affect the Nimad.
Phase I will be operational in August 1995 for Baroda and Baruch Districts. Since late 1992,
Gujarat has tried to restrict the numbers of Phase II command area oustees until it takes care of the
first 17 tribal villages affected by Phase I submergence.
1 10. Without systematic information, it is difficult to verify or quantify very much of the above.
The IRR criticizes the Bank and the SSP for failure to collect baseline information. Because of this
lack, the IRR relied a great deal on anecdotal data from the team's field visits. Among its Gujarat
field trips, the IRR team visited Gutal, a resettlement site for Madhya Pradesh PAFs in Gujarat.
PAFs from the village Bhawati in the Nimad expressed "intense dissatisfaction" with their new
resettlement site. Bhawati relocatees told the team that they could get three crops per year at
Bhawati and therefore "one and a half acres at Bhawati equaled five acres at Gutal."
11.  All the PAFs from Bhawati claimed that they were worse off for coming to GujaraL They
said that they had been promised large, pukka houses such as the host villagers had. They told the
team that half the Bhawati PAFs had left such large, pukka houses behind. Irrigation promised
had not appeared. By coming to Gujarat, the Bhawati PAFs felt as though they had lost their
parents. The "community leader" told the team, "We are like dead people. What is the point of
living like dead people? When you are submerged, you are dead."
112. The IRR says it was puzzled by the difference between Gutal and other MP PAF
settlements where the mood was more opdtimistic. The team decided it might have been because
Gutal was larger and they spoke to more people there, or else it was because "once people have
been persuaded to resettle, provision of services to them declines."
113.  Head of Madhya Prdesh's M&E monitoring unit told the IRR that the relocation to Gutal
from Bhawati was "a direct result of landless' persons seeking benefits in Gujarat." The team
could not "confirm or qualify this statement" but did verify that Bhawati appears "on the
submergence schedules for the year 1996-97."26 Submergence would not affect the Rhawati
PAFs at Gutal for a minimum of another five years27 IRR's uncritical acceptance of the intense
dissatisfaction of Bhawati PAFs over their resettlement appears, in this context, questionable. The
team might have asked why the Bhawati PAFs came to Gujarat so far ahead of submergence given
the lack of any immediate need for them to do so. They might have asked whether and in what
way their dissatisfaction was justified, given the apparent voluntary nature of their presence in
Gujarat and the fact that from landless they became landed with 2 ha holdings each.
114. Besides the above described encounter with Nimad relocatees in Gujarat, there is little to go
on for describing the before and after situations for the Nimad. Very little resettlement has taken
place there. Where it has, it appears to have been voluntary relocation to Gujarat some time before
strictly required.
26    IRR (1993), pp. 186-7, 191-193.
27    ibis is confumed by: NCA. 1991. Submereence of Vilanes in GularaL Mahara-htra and Madhya Pradesh
with the Construction of Sardar Sarovar ProiecL Indore. Macb. This detailed schedule, known as the
'Blue Book' shows Bhawati (speLld "Bbawadiin the Blue Book and "Bbawati' on NVDA maps) affected
by temporary submergence in 1996 and permanent submergence in 1997.



152                      Annex 2
Pasye 27 of 61
115.  The Tribal Areas Before Relocation (Gujarat): A series of anthropological baseline studies
carried out in Gujarat's submergence villages between 1980-82 quite well documented the before
relocation situation in Gujarati tribal villages. The Centre for Social Studies (CSS) at Surat caried
out 19 individual monographs.28 The monographs describe, in great detail, infrastructure, social
structure, economic conditions, leadership patterns, and attitudes toward rehabilitation in each
affected village. These monographs also contain a great deal of ethnographic information about
tribal culture and society. The researchers point out, however, that they carefully edited this data
for relevance to R&R concerns.
116. The methodology included a census, village maps, household surveys, and participant
observation. CSS's 23 researchers included different disciplines: Sociology, social anthropology,
human geography, social work, and political science, and 11 tribal youths. The latter, who
administered the household survey, were high school graduates. CSS gave them a month's
"rigorous" classroom and field training in research methods.
117. The researchers evolved a common framework through a two-day seminar before the field
work. They used a long list of research "check points" provided by the World Bank to assure
coordination with the R&R policy the Bank adopted only a few months earlier. CSS appended
these to the main report and the research team critically appraised them. CSS carried out the
research in close collaboration with NGOs and social activists in Gujarat, some of whom
participated in its field work.
I 18. The general report that summarizes the monograph findings contains a detailed review of
R&R experience in India, including an assessment of the Kevadia Colony and Rock-Fill-Dyke
villages displacement29; a review of NGO involvement in the SSP R&R; a critique of R&R policy
in India; and a list of policy, implementation, and organizational recommendations that eventually
became the basis of Gujarat's liberal R&R policy and its effective implementation program. In
describing the report, the study's principle author pointed out
This study is a furst of its kind. Though there are several socio-anthropological studies
dealing with specific problems of the tribals, almost all are post facto analysis of the
specific situations. It is for the first time that we are dealing with a problem, and that too a
very sensitive and complex one, beforehand. There are no ready made theoretical
approaches available to analyze this sort of situation, and it is through trial and error that we
could develop ... understanding ... Hence, it would be too much to expect ready made
models for the solutions . . . This study provides sound descriptive and analytical
understanding of the problem on the basis of which more sophisticated work can be done
in the future.
119. The CSS report describes the tribal submergence area in Gujarat as "more or less
undulating topography and scattered habitation amidst scanty forest." Its house-to-house survey
fou-,:J a population of 14,214 in the 19 villages. From infrastructure, extemal market linkages,
and socioeconomic development, the report divided the area into three zones: (1) five rock-fill-
dykes villages; (2) six dam site villages; and (3) eight interior villages. The following table shows
the distribution of these various criteria across the three zones. The CSS used such data to show
how facilities, access to markets, and socioeconomic development declined from zone one to zone
three:
28    The 19 monographs were summaized in: Vidyut Joshi. 1983. Rehabilitation of Submeraine Villages.
General Report Sardar Sarovar Prqject Surat. July.
29    These five displaced villages are among the nineteen monographs. Fourteen of the monographs are on
submergence villagecs.



Annex 2
153                       Page 28 of
Infrastructure Facilities in Submerging Villages: Zonewise Distribution
FAC1LIY                  Rock-Fill-Dyke  Dam Site   Interior   Total
Zone I       Zone 2    Zone 3
Primary Scbool           6             7          1            14
Post Office              1             2          -            3
Dispensary               I             I         -             I
Pukks Road               2             1         -            3
Kachcha Road             3             3          1           7
Bus                      4             2          -           6
Grain Shop               4             4          1           9
Distac from Market (in Kms)  5         15        25
Facility and Population Coverage
Rockc-Fill-Dyke IDa Site    Interior
one I   _ Zone 2       Zone 3
opulation per bcyool               104          146         608
o4ulation per watoc               1624_540 _
poulation per dispensary          1624_   _      _
i erent i of landowning HHs                                     alt2%  76%  93%
of ladessHs_                                  24%t        7%
differ." of litera l s9%                        23%          2%
Pouaon per bicycle               36           116         3,804
Poplaon per watch                27           41           476
Puation pe radio                  73         0 100         634         _
120. 'Me CSS found the social, economic and leadership patterns between and within villages
{different in each zone. It concluded "their problems of and attitude toward rehabilitation will also
difffer." The following briefly summarizes their findings for the three zones.
121.  CSS described the Rock-Filled-Dyke zone one with 597 households and a population of
3,894, as "a developing and advancing area' occupying one-third of the total submergence area. It
had a modem market economy and considerable institutional networks. Because land was a
commodity, land alienation in the 1980s had already been underway for about twenty years, and
quite a sizeable percentage (38%) of the community was landless. The literacy rate (39%) was
above the national average, and some families had three generations of educated members. "The
villages of this zone are very much like non-tribal villages near towns."
122. The Tadvi tribes, who consider themselves descendent of Rajputs, are the majority. Early
work on the dam site had helped in creating occupational diversification, and well defined
economic strata had emerged over a much longer period. The four layers were: big land holders,
job holders, small farmers, and many landless laborers. Concerning resettlement, each of these
represented a different interest group. The large landowners, mostly Dhanka Tadvis converted to a
'Bhagat" form of strict Hindu observance, were educated and "don't mind going to far away
places, away from their kinsfolk, if they can buy cheaper land there." The oustees who secured
permanent jobs in the vicinity, often the SSP, "do not want to shift to far away places." Both
groups, the CSS found, were small.
123.  On the other hand, a larger group of small farmers -- Dhanka Tadvis and lower status
Tetariya Tadvis -- preferred to "resettle in nearby villages amidst their kinsfolk." These were
divided in their preferences to location. CSS identified the fourth group as the Kevadia Village and
Rock-Fill-Dyke village oustees, who were "the poorest of the poor" and for whom no R&R policy
124.  The Dam Site Villages zone two with 1,019 households, a population of 6,490, and more
than one-third of the submergence land area, was "less developed in terms of infrastructural



Annex 2
154                     Page 29 of 61
'facilities." For instance, although two villages were well-known centers of pilgrimage, not one
village had medical facilities. "The houses in the villages of this zone are more scattered as
compared to the houses of the first zone. In this zone one still finds persons who have not seen
Rajpipla [the nearest large town], never eaten in a restaurant and never travelled by a bus or train.
They welcome outsiders and spared ample time for the researchers." Forty-six percent of the total
PAFs population was from this zone. Two tribes, Tadvis and Bhils live in this zone.
125. The CSS examined leadership and attitudes in the second zone concerning the comparative
position of the Tadvis and Bhils. They found the Bhils followed their traditional Dayas (wisemen)
in social mauers, but new leaders were emerging around "the issue of rehabilitation which demands
education and exposure to the outside world." Traditional Tadvi leaders were more
knowledgeable; however, "the issue of rehabilitation [had] not emerged in a crystal-clear form in
this zone" and leaders were yet undivided on the issue. Leaders were claiming that villagers would
shift en masse, but the CSS made detailed predictions on how the oustees would be divided once
"some definite proposal will start taking place."
126.  The Interior Villages zone three with 608 households and a population of 3,840 was "the
most backward and relatively isolated' of the three areas. "To get a fairly good picture of the
interior villages merely by reading about them is like asling a princess, who has never gone out of
her palace, to write an essay on poverty. This is the area where we saw the poorest of the poor,
working and struggling hard for getting enough food for mere survival." "There are no roads, no
bus, no post office, no electricity and no dispensary in the entire zone. Almost no non-tribal
population. There is only one primary school. Out of 608 households only six possess radios and
eight households possess wrist watches." The zone is inhabited mostly by Dungari Bhils, although
there are also many Rathwa and Naika tribals:30
Agriculture is the main source of livelihood. Ninety-three percent of the households own
land. As land is rocky and situated on the terrains of the hills, its yield is very poor. They
take only one crop in a year. Most of the households also cultivate forest land. As
agriculture does not provide enough subsistence, they depend on other means like food-
gathering, hunting and fishing. As there is no surplus production, economic differences
have not emerged. All look almost alike in terms of economic conditions. But the social
differences between the Bhils, the Rathwas and the Naikas are sharp.
127.  The CSS found the traditional leadership in the third zone the most powerful, "while the
new leadership that can understand the complex problem of rehabilitation is not likely to emerge in
the near future ... All the traditional leaders are against shifting ... No one dares to utter a single
word 'for' rehabilitation, because such an utterance is considered to offend the Dayas."
128. The Dhungari Bhils said that when the water came they would simply shift to higher
ground, where encroachable land was yet available. Where this was not possible, as with one
village, the leadership hesitated as yet to question this strategy. They would, however, likely accept
relocation via an enlightened R&R program.
129. Rathwas and Naikas wanted to shift but were heavily dependent on encroached land, not
covered under the 1983 Gujarat policy, so they were hindered from agreeing to official relocation.
130. A World Bank Consultant has more recently conducted a case study in a remote Dhungari
Bhil "dam site" village, Makhadkhada. Bhils in this village prefer to call themselves "Vasavas," a
higher status term denoting a putative Rajput descendency. The village is very isolated and has no
facilities such as electricity, shops or even transport. The community is agricultural but is also
dependent somewhat on forest produce. It is a self-sufficient economy, except clothes and
jewellery, which the villagers buy for cash. They also barter for salL The villagers have their own
30    Joshi (1983). pp. 9, 51-53, 186.



Annex 2
155                      PaLye 30 ofa
religious beliefs that cannot be identified as Hinduism and they have a pantheon of village and
household level gods. The society is organized by clans and by kin groups.
"The terrain in Makhadkhada is hilly, and slopes are cultivated without any terracing. The ground
is very stony and allows for ploughing to a depth of approximately six inches. The hilly terrain
allows for the water to drain off so that ploughing, sowing and weeding can be done at almost any
time throughout the monsoon period." There is only one monsoon crop per year, and ploughing,
sowing and weeding is required only at this time. Villagers sow a variety of crops within a year
because rain is unpredictable. This is a risk reducing strategy. The villagers prefer to be self-
sufficient in food. "Agriculture is camed out on a relatively loose time basis within the boundary
of the monsoon months." A single monsoon crop in the hills leaves villagers free from January to
June to attend fairs, rituals and weddings. Because the agricultural work is spread over a longer
period in the new sites, villagers regard it as needing more efforL31
131.  Dependence on jungle produce such as fish, wild roots, fruits, leaves, flowers and berries
is highest in the monsoon when these are freely available. This is a critical time when grain is low
and famine continually a possibility in rainfed a . "Villagers always stress that they could
survive on roots if the crop fails, but observation shows that most families eat barely 3-4 meals of
roots in a year. . . the value of forest edibles is not that they are a major component in village
consumption, but that they provide a fall back if ever needed, as well as providing variety to what
is otherwise a very monotonous diet." The stress is on feeling independent and mental security.
132. The Tribal Areas Before Relocation (Madhya PrAdesh1: This has been documented to some
extent by the monitoring and evaluation efforts of Doctor Hari Singh Gour University. In 1992,
the Bank set as one of its benchmarks for continuing SSP funding that NCA and the project
authorities carry out socioeconomic studies on the tribals of the three states and at the resettlement
sites. This was prompted by concern about the IRR's findings that social and cultural aspects of
the tribal community had been left out of R&R planning, that initial socioeconomic studies had not
been carried out as Bank R&R policy requires, and that monitoring and evaluation was not a
substitute for such studies.
133. The NCA Madhya Pradesh carried out studies in Jan-Feb 1993 using rapid rural appraisal
techniques. NCA summarizes the findings of these tribal studies, their recommendations, and how
they have been incorporated into state R&R plans, in its 1993 Annual Action Plan (1993-94) and
Indicative Long Term Plan for Resettlement & Re-habilitation. (Indore. May. Chapter 13).
134. NCA commissioned a set of case studies of six tribal villages, two in Madhya Pradesh, two
in Maharashtra, and two resettlement sites in Gujarat. These case studies are in the ISSW's 1993
Socio-Economic & Cultural Milieu of Tribals of Submergence & Resettled Villages - An
Assessment (Indore School of Social Work: Indore, April). The NVDA carried out a study of the
seventeen tribal villages to be the first affected by submergence in Madhya Pradesh. This 1993
NVDA study is in 'Me Bhil Track: A Study of Displaced Tribals: 17 Villages - Sardar Saroyar
P[Qjec (NVDA. Bhopal, March).
135. Unfortunately, these studies were not of the quality and thoroughness of the previous
1980-83 CSS studies in Gujarat, nor could they be. As the Bhil Track study commented: "A study
of this kind should have been undertaken at the very beginning before the atmosphere began to be
31    1993a. Indi& - Sudar Sarovar (Narmada) Project Tribal Peoples Survey - R&R Programs: Draft Cae
Study Report for Makhadkhads Submergence Vilage in GujaratL New Delhi: World Bank consultant.
February; and Bank consultanL 1993b. Resettlement & Rehabilitation in the Context of Vasava'
Culture: Some Reflcctions.' Pae prepared for the Namada Fornm & Workshop, orgraized under the
Economic Security Program of the Centre for Development Economics (Dchi School of Economics) in
collaboration with the Institute of Economic Growth. Delhi, December 21-23.
pp. 1, 7.



156                      A2
15~~~~~~~2r pe31of 61
vitiated by the ... anti-dam activists." Nevertheless, despite their obvious limitations, the set of
studies presents a comprehensive overview of important dynamics of tribal culture and society.
136.  The Bhil Track puts the submergence villages in MP into the larger context of the Bhil
homeland in that state. Of the first 17 villages facing submergence, 12 are in Jabhua District, four
in Dhar Distict and one in Khargone DistniCL These three districts represent 76% of Bhil tribals in
MP. Jhabua and Dhar districts are on the Plateau of Malwa, whereas Khargone is part of the
Nimar plain, known as West Nimar.
Percentage Distribution of Bhils by District Population in Madhya Pradesh32
State/District             Population    % of Bhil
1931         Population
Madbya Pradesh             2,500,530    100
Khargone                   685,006      27
Jhabua                     662.029      27
Dhar                       546,764      22
Ratlam                     165,142      7
KhaDdwa                    131,122      5
hInde                      60,405       2
Mmndsur                    58,757       2
Dowu                       52,394       2
Guna                       39,946       2
Rajgarb                    20,580       1
Shajapur                   17,780       1
Ujain                      17,138       1
Sebore                     19,175       1
TotL 13 Districts          2,476,239    100
137.  Although the submergence villages have been described as isolated and unable to cope with
change, the Bhil "homeland" has many urban centers. It is in part electrified, is criss-crossed with
black-top roads, and contains major NVDA irrigation projects besides the SSP. Alirajpur, Jhabua
District's headquarters, is a large town, as are those of the other two SSP-affected districts.
138. The Bhil Track describes the Alirajpur area as "almost entirely hilly intersected by narrow
valleys and low Vindhya ranges covered with small jungle. In this district, as also in the rest of
the Bhil areas, forests and vegetation have been indiscrminately destroyed for decades and as a
result, soil erosion has caused havoc at places ... The terrain becomes harsher and harsher as one
approaches the Narmada. The plains give way to slightly and then sharply undulating topography
formed of treeless, hump-shaped, eroded hillocks." Villages are not compact, corporate entities
but are scattered out in small hamlets, or "phalias," with individual homes close to fields. These
share common water source and are largely family and clan based. Villages cover areas of about
2-3 kilometers.
139. The five major sub-tribes of the area are in a caste-like hierarchy, ranking as follows:
Bhilala, Barela, Bhil, Mankar, and Naika. The dominant 'Bhil" tribal group in these three
districts, the Bhilala, specializes in many cash crops and has a generally progressive attitude
toward developmenL Barela is in many respects similar to Bhilala
140. The "Bhils" are Dhungari Bhils, as described by the CSS, in five of the villages closest to
the Gujarat border. They are in the most remote and inaccessible part of the MP submergence
32    NVDA (1993), pp. 22, 34.



Anex2
157                     Page 32 of
area. Their relocation promises to be the most problematic, as these Dhungari Bhil, or "Vasava,"
villages have been strongholds of anti-dam sentiment.
141.  Mankars and Naikas are landless for the most part and rely on fishing, forest produce,
illegal logging, ferrying and migratory labor for survival. In Madhya Pradesh, Naikas monopolize
fishing and Bhilala agriculturalists look down upon them for this.
142.  The Tribal Areas Before Relocation (Maharasherl?: This is described in a study based on
TISS's ongoing monitoring and evaluation work in the Akkalkuwa tehsil submergence villages. It
is a consolidation of their understanding of the socioeconomic condition of tribals. The 1993
study is in the Report on Socio-Economic & Cultural Situation of Tribals in Submergence Villages
of Sardar Sarovar Project in Maharashtra (MISS: Bombay. February).33
143.  There are 33 villages in the submergence area, all in the hilly land of the Satpura
mountains. 16 are on the south bank of the Narmada, opposite the Gujarat submergence villages,
and 17 on the south bank opposite the first submergence villages of Madhya Pradesh. 24 lie in
Akrani and nine in Akkalkuwa tehsils of Dhule District. The population of these is almost entirely
tribal, made up of various Bhil groups including Tadavi, Vasava, and Puara In Maharashtra, the
TISS study notes that "most tribal villages in the Satpuras, while being more homogeneous than
the villages of the plains, are each inhabited by at least two ... groups," for exnample Tadvis and
Vasavas in Sinduri and Padvis, Valvis and Vasavas in Bamni village.
144.  1ISS describes 'Bhil' as a generic term. It says that from all accounts the Bhils do not
form a single group but compromise several socially and culturally interlocked groups speaking
related languages. These groups do not share a common homeland (watan), nor do they share a
common occupation today, although most are involved in agriculture. "In fact, it might not be far-
fetched to suggest that they were classed as 'Bhil' more for administrative convenience by the
British than because the groups identify with each other."34
145.  Popultion Growth and Depklon of Resources in the TribalAreas of Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra are major themes of the NCA, NVDA, and TISS reports. Unfortunately, no
systematic measurement using, for instance, satellite imagery has shown the extent of deforestation
in the tribal submergence area. However, the studies describe massive deforestation caused by a
high population growth rate, ongoing tribal encroachments onto reserve forest, collaboration in
illegal timbering, and in the Dhar District of Madhya Pradesh overfishing possibly using dynamite
and poison.
146.  The IRR acknowledged the "deforestation and erosion" of the area, and that elders had said
they thought the population had trebled in their lifetime; "Yet they insisted they were still able to
live well on the same resources as had always been available to them."
147.  The tribals abandoned slash and burn agriculture in the nineteenth century. This was due
partly to British laws creating 'reserve' forest, but it was also due to population increase. This, in
turn, led to a more intensive form of agriculture, with a heavy reliance on domestic animals,
especially goats. Permanent fields became the norm. 'In so far as these permanent fields were
regularized within the British administration, they constituted 'revenue lands,' and the owners paid
an annual tax. In so far as the tribals were using or creating anew fields that were not recognized,
they became 'encroachers.' In this way, a large section of tribal economic life became illegal.
Periodically, successive administrations recognized encroachers and increased the extent of
revenue land. The scale of the problem, however, is reflected in the fact that in the Narmada valley
entire villages are identified as 'forest villages,' that is, as lying outside the revenue system
altogether."
33 A similar study on the Akrani tebsil villages of Paula and Bhusia was promised by nISS for April 1993.
34   TIlSS (1993), pp. 1, 4.



Annex 2
158                     Page 33 of 61
148.  The IRR reported continued "extensive reliance on forest and forest produce" by tribals.
But, "Even where the forest appeared to be extremely degraded, [the tribals] explained that in it
there were still resources of great importance to them and that they also would travel far behind
their villages, into better forests deeper in the hills, to gather what they needed."35
149. The Indore School of Social Work (ISSW) description of a village, Chhachkuan, in
Madhya Pradesh is, unfortunately, common in the region: "The village is surrounded by
Vindhyachal ranges on the one side and the Narmada on the other side, beyond which are the
Satpura hills. Although most of the area is hilly and rocky devoid of vegetation except some
shrubs, there are limited patches of fertile soil in the valley. The land is mostly barren. The poor
vegetation cover indicates that a large part of the forest has been destroyed. This has resulted in
the disappearance of the wild life. Except for rabbits no other wild animals are reported near the
village."
150. ISSW describes Bhusha village in Maharashtra similarly: "The people living here have cut
most of the forest for their livelihood so very few trees are seen here. It can be observed up to a
couple of kilometers that the forest surrounding the village has been completely cut off and
cleared." Describing another village it studied in Madhya Pradesh, the ISSW says, "In the village
Kakrana, the Vindhya ranges offer the Bhilalas teak wood, bamboo, fuel, fodder, tendu leaves,
fruits, honey, gum, etc. Most of these are available only on the other side of the [Narmada] river in
the Satpura ranges."
151.  Deforestation is thus a widespread phenomena in the tribal submergence area. It is not,
however, universal. The Rhij Track described considerable reserve forest left in two of the
seventeen villages it studied in Madhya Pradesh, Akadia and Chilkada. It credited this to their
distance from urban centers where timber could be sold.36 The ISSW described Dhankhedi of
Maharashtra in similar terms. A village located "in an interior and inaccessible area, the vilage . . .
has preserved its tribal culture.... The village is surrounded by a rich forest area."
152.  Even in Dhanledhi, however, the ISSW writes: "The dependence of the tribals on forest
keeps decreasing in proportion to the forest denudation and forest destruction." In this village,
where forest still exists, the ISSW attempted to gain some idea of the extent of dependence tribals
had of forest and river 'common' resources. Although the study qualified their exteminynina
figures, if they are believed, the 'estimated worth' of forest produce is approximately equal to
income from agriculture and livestock::
35    IRR (1993), p. 69-70, 148.
36    NVDA. (1993). p. 250.



Annex-2
159                          Page 34 ofE
Estimated Annual Income from Forest Produce for a Family in Dhankedhi
Forest Resources       Period of Availability    Estimated  Worth
Fuel wood                     12 montbs               Rs 1,600
Timber                        12 months               Rs 1,000
Fodder                        12 months               Rs 3,600
Fruit (Bor. Mahua. Temru,
Charoli, Gular)               2-3 months              Rs 550
TmduLeaf                      2 months                Rs 650
Bamboo                        12 months               Rs 125
Gum                          8 months                Rs 60
Honey                        8 months                Rs 80
Hunting (Rabbits, peacocks,
birds, titar, bter)          12 months               Rs 60
Fishing (fish, crabs, tortoise)  8 months            Rs S00
Shivali Leaves (bom Narmada
bank)                        4 months                Rs 40
Total:                                               Rs 8,265
Annual Income and Expenditure Pattem of Two Households -
Items          Income Amount             Items       Expenditure Amount
Maize               300                 Agriculture           315
Juwar               2500                Chicken               45
Millet              900                  Clothing             1000
Tuw                  1200                Food Items           4680
UWd                  1200                Festivals, Rituals   270
Ladm                 1S0                 Omaments             200
Tailoring           500                  Utensils             80
Bhadli               750                 Travelling           150
Goats                700                 Liquor, Tobacco      250
T-;du Lef            500
Total                8700                Total                6890
153.  In less isolated tribal areas, particularly of Madhya Pradesh, the ISSW  and Bhil Tmra
reported a greater reliance on income earned from illegal timbering activities. In Bhilala tribal
areas, the landless Naikas regularly supplemented their main occupation of fishing by contracting
to "carry wooden logs from distant places," about 10 to 15 kilometers away, sometimes taking
them six to seven days. In Chhachkuan, they sold firewood in nearby market centers, earning up
to Rs 7,000 per annum. The ISSW noted a "cycle of poverty and ecological degradation" in the
village. In Kakrana, also in Madhya Pradesh, a focused group interview estimated an annual
income from forest produce up to Rs 4,000.37
154. Naika earnings in fishing are not reported, although prices for fish were about Rs.25 per
lilo. While the Bhil Trak describes their use of bamboo fish traps and nets, a sociological survey
of fishing families along the Narnada suggests other means as well, leading to a decline in fish
resources:38
37     ISSW (1993) pp. 12, 45, 56,5 8, 71, 89, 92, 122.
38     Central Ialand Capture Fisheries Reserch lstitute (Indian Council of Agricultural Resarch). 1991.
Sociological Survey of the Fishing Families of the Narmada River. Barrackpore, June. p. 121.



160                      Anex 2~
160               ~~~~~Pa,ge 35 of 61
From the general opinion of the fishermen, it was evident that there was a decline in the
fishery of the [Dhar District] stretch. Fishermen of 13 villages ... cited overfishing as the
principal cause for the decline in fish yield. But two villages suggested indiscriminate
fishing by the hilly tribals using dynamite and poisons to be the cause.
155.  The Bl Trac describes a heavy dependence on forests in Madhya Pradesh villages with
no appreciable forest of their own. According to the study, the tribals of Madhya Pradesh bring
the wood six to seven days carying distance from across the Narmada in Maharashtra, eamning up
to Rs 7,000 per year.39
156. The Consultant reports the first recorded outsider to spend time in Makadkhada was a
Moslem forest cutter in the mid sixties. His presence "resulted in many villagers getting legal title
to some land in return for which they permitted him to cut and sell the trees from their land."
According to the forest laws "only a tribal can have legal title to forest land and its produce."'40
157.  Another reason for deforestation is clear cutting for the reservoir itself. The IRR reports
this beginning as early as 1975 around Manibeli in Maharashtra.41 The psychology leading to
deforestation could also be part of a much broader slowdown in development in the project area
from "the hesitancy of government and other agencies to finance development in areas which may
eventually be submerged."42 For the SSP, this period that lasted over twenty years. On the other
hand, deforestation is a striking feature throughout the Bhil homeland in Madhya Pradesh at least,
far inland from the SSP submergence area
158. Besides commercialization, TISS cites population pressures and the ongoing phenomenon
of 'encroachment,' (virtually a cultural attribute of the Bhils) as the primary reasons for widespread
deforestation in the region.
Comprehensive population statistics covering the tribal areas have not been compiled, although
population census figures for 1971, 1981, and 1991 are available. The ISSW reports an annual
growth rate for Chhachlcuan village, Madhya Pradesh, at approximately 4-5% from 1971 to 1991.
In Dhankedi, Mahamshtra, the study reports an average woman would have 8.02 live birts during
her reproductive period.43
159.  According to TISS "The current levels of fertility prevalent amnong the displaced people is
high. The total fertility rate ... is around seven. The high fertility is partly due to higher levels of
infant and childhood mortality.... The villages have expanded considerably in the last five
generations. Continuous land clearance to provide for the growing number of households has led
to a scattering of the population over a wide area." It takes over two hours to reach a hamlet at one
end of Bhamni village from a hamlet on the other end:44
According to the culture of the tribal people, upon marriage, the men set up new
households. The members of the new household with the assistance of the clan members
cleared fresh land for cultivation around the village. In the normal course, when a man had
more than one son, the last son remained with the parents and inherited the land cultivated
39    NVDA (1993). p. 253.
40    World Bank Consultant (1993b), p. 3.
4 1    IRR (1992), p. 153.
42    World Bank consultant. 1989. 'Supervisory Report on the ReseUlement and Rehabilitation (R&R)
Component of the Sardar Sarovar Project (SSP).' May 28. p. 11.
43    ISSW (1993), pp. 54, 89. ISSW cites flSS for the figure.
44    TISS (1993), pp. 111-112.



161                      Annex 2
161               ~~~~~Page 36 of 61
by the family. The elder sons married and formed new households. Such households
normally settled in newly cleared land. ... Thus, for any new household that was formed,
the land for providing sustenance came from fresh clearing."
160.  ISSW  put it more succinctly: "Obviously, there is an interplay between Vasava
demography, land holding pattem, dwelling, and encroachment. The custom is that after marriage
every son moves out and constructs a house for himself, cuts jungle and cultivates land
independently, as well as keeps his claim on his ancestral land." Encroachment has so far put off
mass migration, but whether a day of reckoning is far off remains to be seen.
161.  The studies describe a kind of "frontier psychology," in which there is always more forest
to move onto. This has had implications for R&R: "The tribals would like that the equal size of
land being given to them should include encroached land also. Further, resistance to the shift may
[be partly due to] in the interior forest there is hardly any official to check the encroachment, and
even if he does come the matters are settled. But in the new site, this privilege will be losL There
is neither forest nor land available for agriculture to accommodate the increasing population.
Hence the tribal surplus population at the new site has to forgo cultivation."45
162.  The Tribal Areas After Relocation (Guiarat): The major relocation is to Gujarat. Gujarat
appears to have had an impressive success providing land to relocatees. The IRR quotes CSS's
1991 M&E report number 13 that, "on the whole, a majority of the oustees in the villages studied
'are happy with their economic condition and standard of living'.... This conclusion suggests
that Guiarat has provided adequate agricultural plots to some oustees." The IRR described Madhya
Pradesh's resettlement as taking "advantage of the Gujarat process, in particular the energy and
thoroughness of that state's Land Purchase Committee."46 Because the IRR was so critical of
R&R overall, this is high praise. It speaks well for the prospects of Gujarat carrying out its
promises of successful land-based rehabilitation. At least as far as getting land into the hands of
the resettlers.
163. By December 1993, about 6,570 families were allotted 12,918 hectares of land in Gujarat.
This represents 42% of the 15,702 PAFs scheduled to be resettled in the state and 33% of the
39,192 hectares expected to be required (See appendix "Entitlement Benefits").47 Since only about
28% of the families receiving land in Gujarat are recognized landowners or encroachers, and only
about 15% of these had rainfed landholdings above two hectares, it appears that about 85% of
families stand a good chance of being substantially better off. A typical family of a father and three
major sons can receive as many as eight hectares of irrigated land; with two major sons, six
hectares and with one major son, four hectares of irrigated land.
164.  For some tribals, such as Govar herders or Naikas -- the lowest on the tribal hierarchy and
usually landless -- the opportunity to become land owners represents an increase in stature both
socially and economically. For others, at the top of the tribal social hierarchy, the promise of new
land appears more rewarding. Neither the IRR, nor any other study, has doubted the ability of
Tadvis, Bhils, or other tribes from less isolated areas (and further along the Sanskritization
continuum than Vasavas or Dhungari Bhils) to take advantage of the opportunity to own land in the
SSP command area. Among these more 'progressive' tribes, though not discussed in detail, are
Rathwas, Pauras, and Barelas. A breakdown in numbers of land receivers according to tribe
would, in this light, be revealing.
45    ISSW (1993). p. 54.
46    IRR (1993), pp. 125, 187.
47    Based on: NCA. 1994. SSP: Status Repgrt on R&R (Quarter Ending December 19931. Indore. February.



Annex 2
162                     Page 37 of 61
165.  These tribes already are held up as success stories. When a July 25, 1993 India Toda
article, "Narmada Resettlement: Blessing in Disguise?" describes some of these R&R success
stories in Gujarat, it refers to Rathwas and Tadvis:
Even the World Bank's Independent Review,...  which was highly critical of R&R,
praised Gujarat: "In 1987-88, Gujarat developed a policy for its villagers affected by the
Sardar Sarovar Project (SSP) that has since been welcomed as among the most progressive
packages of measures ever devised for securing the long-tern rehabilitation of people
displaced by large-scale development projects".... A journey through the 125 odd
resettlement sites in Vadodara district where 6,000 of the 30,000 displaced families have
been resettled proves this. Relocation sites around Dabhoi town are dotted with pucca
homes, something unknown to the Rathwa tribals of south Gujarat who have resettled
here. People who were previously leading a hand-to-mouth existence are living in relative
comfort and have hand pumps, biogas plants, street lights and bullock carts . .. The
Rathwas, who used to grow low quality cereals like jowar and bajra in the Narmada Valley
have opted to grow paddy in the fertile land in Vadodara district, offering stiff competition
to the traditional Patel farmers. The Patels paid just Rs 200 a bigha to farm labour; the
Rathwas are offering Rs 400. "They can afford this because in their case joint families own
anything between 10 and 40 acres," says H.L. Patel, a farmer near Dabhoi.
166.  The article also quotes Ranchobhai Tadvi "whose joint family of 15 adult males owns 75
acres in Simaliya village against a mere 15 acres earlier. Most of us were so poor in the Narmada
valley that we had to subsist on wild roots for at least three months in a year. All that has
changed'.... Bachubhai Shanabhal Rathwa and his brother used to grow Rs 5,000 worth of
crops on encroached forest land in Hafeshwar. But in Kukad, where they now live, their harvest
last year was worth Rs 60,000 from 10 acres of land. In addition, Bachubhai earned Rs 25,000 as
profit from a contract to build an approach road. Now he is building a water tank that will fetch
him Rs 4,000 ... Many of the PAPs are doing so well that they have become objects of envy for
the original inhabitants. Laxman advi, a PAP from Vadagam now resettled in Golagambi on 40
acres of land, says that the local people are helpful but often resent the PAPs: They call us sarkari
jamais (sons-in-law of the Govemment) because of the treatment we get from the Government.'"
167. The main issue for R&R is whether the Dhungari Bhils (also known as Vasavas) from the
more remote subsistence agriculture areas in the submergence zone can learn to live without the
large areas of reserve forest lands they have traditionally encroached. Can they adapt to a new
agricultural regime on lands very different from those they are used to? Again, it is too early to
make a judgment, because for the most part Bhil relocatees have not fully committed to their new
lands.
168. The Vasavas have generally been in the more remote villages, or in the more remote
hamlets of villages near the dam site. In the 1983 CSS report, they were said to prefer to wait until
the reservoir waters rose and then they would retire higher up to lands they could encroach. They,
not the Bhilalas, are providing the staunchest resistance to R&R in a pocket of the most isolated
villages in Madhya Pradesh. In Manibeli, Maharashtra, when the Tadvis moved to Parveta in
Gujarat, the Vasavas stayed behind to join with the NBA. On the other hand, the Vasavas of
Gujarat have by and large agreed to participate in R&R and move to the SSP command area. This
has been largely because of the CSS socioeconomic survey. The survey brought NGOs into the
R&R process who then gave the Vasavas a voice and perspective to insist on an R&R policy they
could live with.
169. The enlightened policy of 1987 made encroachers, landless, and major sons eligible for the
same land allotments in the command area as was given to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra
landowners by the 1979 Tribunal award and extended to Gujarat landowners in 1985. Recognition
of the tribals' rights to just compensation for encroached forest lands was at the heart of the policy
they finally agreed to accede to. It is the lack of similar recognition in Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra that provides much of the impetus for the SSP critics.



Annexa2
163                     Page 38 of l1
170. With encroachment, the focus has been on the recognition of land already encroached. In
the after relocation scenario, the focus will be on how tribals who have become accustomed to
encroachment will adjust without the right or possibility of this safety valve for a high population
growth rate.
171. The Consultant touched on the issue when she quoted a Vasava saying: "It is a very new
concept to us that we have to survive only on the 5 acres of land that is ours. Our rights are limited
only within the boundaries of the land we own. Everything else has to be bought for cash. There
are no trees to pick fruit from, no river nearby, no high mountains that we cultivate and treat as
ours. It is a very alien concept."48 The informant could have added, "There are no forest lands to
172. It is significant, The Consultant notes, that the village Patel from Makhadkhada is most
concemed about getting as many major sons recognized as possible. The issue at the time of her
visit to the area in 1992 was that the govemnment went by the age of 18 years, whereas tribals
recognized reaching of majority when a boy starts his own family or, more symbolically, he grows
a mustache. After settling in the new sites, further encroachment for sons reaching majority will
not be a possibility.
173. TISS conceptualized the issue well with respect to Maharashtra. This is discused in the
Gujarat context here, because the situations are identical:
Two dimensions of access to resources will undergo change for the people being resettled
in the Taloda forest area compared to the situation in their original habitat: 1) Non-
expandability compared to expandability, and 2) contraction compared to diversification...
In the resettled area, the people cannot expand their control over resources because of the
location. It must be kept in mind in forest land freshly cleared for the purpose. Further,
the density of the resettled population is going to be very high. Unless appropriate policy
interventions are taken, people would tend to do what they and their forefathers have done
for generations: clear fresh land for cultivation. It must be made clear to the resettlers that
expansion of the land base by encroachment is not possible in the new area. Expansion
through purchase is possible, which was never the case in the original village.
174. While at Taloda in Maharashtra, at least the tribals are near encroachable forest; in the
Gujarat command area they are surrounded by farmland. They cannot even think of encroachmenL
Two issues branch off from the question of encroachment (i) population control and (ii) more
efficient means of livelihood, including non-land based occupations. Conceming the first issue,
TISS points out that the resettled areas cannot support the high levels of fertility common in the
submergence area. These are largely, as in much of rural India, a result of high infant mortality
due to poor sanitation. "It is not that the growing population cannot be supported by the land given
to them. Improved agricultural practices can support a growing population. But to provide them
with a house and land will not be possible under the currently prevailing fertility level among the
displaced population. The couples should be made conscious of this fact and helped to limit
fertility. The people may be willing to limit fertility if the level of [infant] motality could be
brought down. Provision of better health care services along with child welfare services can bring
down the child mortality. This is an urgent task."49
175.  The second issue related to encroachment that TISS raises is "diversification of resources
and sources of livelihood." An important aspect of this is the promised irrigation to improve
agricultural productivity. In 1989, the consultant raised the issue that insufficient attention was
being paid to "how relocatees at new sites are to cope with the minimum of five to seven years
48    Bank consultant (1993b), p. 14.
49    nISS (1993), pp. 112-113.



164                      L      2
Page 39 of 61
between the cessation of their subsistence allowance and provision of irrigation water from
SSP."50
176. While Gujarat has made much progress in providing land to oustees, irrigation is still far
off. By March 1993 only about 10% of the PAFs given land had received any form of irrigation
(appendix "Entitlement Benefits"). 5 Rate of coverage varied from 34% of those PAFs from
Gujarat's submergence villages, 5% of PAFs from Maharashtrian villages, and 2% of those from
Madhya Pradesh. In a twist of irony, the project that caused the relocation of the tribals to the
command area is now required to assure their being able to adjust to post-relocation, without
access to encroachable land.
177. "Given the problem of non-expendability of land, its shortage will be acutely felt in the next
fifteen to twenty years, when accelerated sub-division of land among the new major sons starts. In
such a situation, the diversification of sources of livelihood holds the key to survival." TISS
recognizes the tribals may not be ready for non-land based rehabilitation strategies. "In this
context, education of children becomes important. If children are educated and possess technical
skills, the pressure on land could be substantially reduced."
178.  Another issue related to the non-expendability of land, or the loss of large tracts of forest
land, is livestock, particularly goats. "Goats formed a crucial aspect of the socio-economy of the
people in their original village. Currently people have about four goats per household. If we
assume that about 2,500 families are going to resettle in Taloda forest area, at least 10,000 goats
will move with the people. Such a large goat population cannot be supported by the area. It would
be ecologically disastrous to have such a large population of goats in a small area. Thus, it may
not be possible to rear goats in the resettled area."52
179. The Consultant has also provided some insights into the current dynamics of the
wesettlement areas in Gujarat. While formally "relocated," many oustees nevertheless rent out their
allotted land at the relocation sites to local farmers or leave elderly family members to watch the
crops until harvest time.53 Thus many families enjoy incomes from their land holdings in the
submergence area and at the relocation sites, while spending as little time in the R&R sites as
possible.
180. Delay in submergence puts off commitment to the new site and also subverts the economic
promise of irrigation. The Consultant, an anthropologist who spent a year studying a Gujarat
submergence village, notes that "since the new land is still considered as an additional source of
income, the vilagers have not experimented with a large variety of crops or vegetables as yet ...
they are liberal in their criticism of [the new land] and ... are reluctant to make much of an effort
on it."
181.  The Consultant points out that 'the difference in terrain, crop variety and agricultural
methods have resulted in the oustees of Makhadkhada being unable to gain the maximum potential
of their land.... The methods needed to gain maximum benefit of each type of land is very
differenL The new land becomes soggy quickly and so specific agricultural activities such as
ploughing, sowing and weeding can be done only on specific days when the soil conditions allow
iL Failure to do this results in lower yields......
50    Bank consultant (1989). p. 6.
5 1    Based on: NCA. 1993. SSP: Annual Action Plan (1993-94) and Indicative Lone Terrn Plan for R&R.
Indore. May.
52    MSS (1993), pp. 113-114.
53    Bank consulunt. (1993b). p. 10; also Centre for Social Studies. 1987. M& Report 5- Resettlement and
Rehab litationn Sardar Sarovar Proiect an the Naffnadia. Surat. September 30. p. 35.



Annex 2
165                     Page 40 of El
'The tribals have not realized the importance of the time bound nature of agriculture on the new
land. Due to the time bound nature of work, outside labor must be employed to get the most work
done under the right conditions. The community is currently limiting themselves to family labor
(half of which is in the old land). In most cases, they are still using old and traditional seed
varieties, lighter agriculturl tools conditioned for work on hill slopes, and they are not investing
enough in pesticides and fertilizers. Most of this is likely to change when they move permanently.
However, they will have difficulty adjusting to this and training themselves to work when they
have to, rather than when they want to." The Consultant, as does TISS, points to the critical need
of an agricultural orientation program for tribals to understand the requirements of agriculture in the
new land.
182.  The Consultant's observations cover a wide range and, given limitations of space, are
beyond the scope of this discussion. She notices that while women complain about a myriad of
problems at the new resettlement site, many seem to prefer staying in the command area, where the
domestic workload is less even if agricultural labor is more exacting, and there is close proximity
to towns and social services. She points out that whereas it might take a couple of hours to walk to
another hamlet, or more for another village, public transport makes it possible to visit friends and
relations in other resettlement sites much quicker. This is assuming money is available, which is a
major worry for Vasavas who have lived in a subsistence economy for generations.
183. The Consultant notices that Vasavas will only reluctantly change their consumption
patterns. They prefer com to other foods, and it doesn't grow well. They have a reluctance to
give up self-sufficiency in food and to switch to cash crops. "PAFs have gotten less than
maximum yields because they resist switching to cultivation of the grains the hosts cultivate. They
feel the new land grows only a few crops and the diet lacks the variety of edible crops and forest
produce they had access to in Makhadkhada. On the other hand, villagers are buying onions,
potatoes and aubergines, previously absent in their dieL There is also increased use of oil and
spices. Living in the new land will no doubt expose them to the food hierarchy. Observation in the
new sites shows that many will change their food habits over time."
184. While the difficulties of relocation are very real, The Consultant, like TISS, suggests many
solutions, such as agricultural orientation programs, education for children, and help in
diversifying sources of income. She does not seem pessimistic about the Vasava's chances
adapting: 'When talking about resettlement, the villagers always focus on economy. Religious and
social changes do not seem to be given much priority. They have a very accepting attitude toward
these changes. They often say, 'Of course our dances and songs will change over time, but that is
inevitable. These are specific to the mountains. If the area where we perform a rite or that we sing
about changes, the rite will change too. When we go to the 'desh', we have to adopt their ways.
We will celebrate our festivals with the host village. Once that becomes our village, that village
god becomes our god.'"54
185.  Her view contrasts sharply from that of the IRR, which stressed a tribal reference for the
Narmada and an inability to move their gods to a new location: "Even people who say they are
prepared to move, and can see that there could be advantages, told us that if they had a choice they
would stay in their isolated villages. As people said at meetings at Makadkhada, they do not want
to leave their gods behindc"55 The Consultant says that resettlement will likely decontextualize the
Vasava myths from their current geography, but that anyhow the Vasavas are "not strongly
ritualistic." "Religious rites . . . are not part of their everyday existence or thought processes. The
area of the six village dev stones [in Makhadkhada] is not visited except on the three festival days
and that too only by men boys and young girls."
54    Bank consultant (1993a), pp. 10, 12ftnt. 13, 46.
55   IRR (1993), p. 108.



166                     Annex 2
page 41 of 61
186. The Consultant says that while outsiders worry about the Vasava's loss of cultural identity,
the Vasavas themselves ". . . tend not to view the subtle pressure of the mainstream to make them
conform to their ways as a form of oppression. Rather, the ways of the mainstream in certain
spheres of activity have become their role model; this is more in their socio-religious behaviour
than in their economic behaviour. They are therefore quite willing to adapt and change in that
direction. This is why they have not developed a feeling of inferiority as has been observed with
various other isolated groups who have been thrust into the mainstream over a short span of
time.."
187.  "In the past five years, the villagers of Makhadkhada have experienced change at a faster
pace than probably took place in the last thirty years.... The main reason for this change is the
increased exposure to the outside world. Recently, men, women and even children have had
opportunities to leave the village. The catchment area program as well as the ongoing shifting of
upstream villages has resulted in trucks passing through the village occasionally. Although earlier,
most people left the village only for a specific purpose such as shopping, it is now not uncommon
to see some of them taking rides on the trucks just for an outing to the town or to another
village."56
188. The Consultant, TISS and the other studies quoted make numerous recommendations for
programs to help in the rehabilitation of the PAPs. These detailed recommendations are not dealt
with here. The Bank has closed, at India's request, the Narmada project. However, the relocation
aspects of this project will take many years to be resolved. It may be that, once the controversy
surrounding the project has subsided, the Bank may consider financing some of the rehabilitation
programs. In 1989, an intemationally known R&R expert participating in a Bank supervision
mission for the Sardar Sarovar Project reported:57
.. . while the Bank guidelines on R&R ... are the most comprehensive of any multilateral
or bilateral donor, they are also the most expensive with costs apt to vary between $2,000
and $3,000 per capita. Yet, in spite of the absence of other donors, the Bank is rarely
wiling to finance R&R implementation. Though earlier GOG requests for additional Bank
funding tied specifically to R&R issues date back at least to November 1987, in December
1988 the Chairman of SSNNL requested such financing from Bank officials. If the World
Bank really takes R&R seriously, it should be more willing to back up its policies with
finance.
189.  The Tribal Areas After Relocation (Madhya Pradesh): Although Madhya Pradesh has
begun designing and building abadi sites for the Nimad Plains, submergence does not affect large
numbers of tribals there. Within the tribal area, on the other hand, Madhya Pradesh has taken
steps to provide R&R for tribals who do not wish to dismantle their social networks within the
state to move to Gujarat. The State has identified nearly about 1,228 hectares of land for
agricultural purposes and has identified 62 relocation sites. Layout plans have been finalized for
41 and construction of civic amenities has started for 14 of which 5 were to be ready by May 1994.
190.  The Tribal Areas After Relocation (Maharashtrak: The 2,700 hectares provided at Taloda in
Maharashtra represents an ideal that was possible before the Forest Act of 1980. GOM, with
GOI's formal approval, has made reserved forest available for resettling tribals. MOEF has
released another 1,500 hectares for holding the numbers of tribals likely to choose resettlement
within Maharashtra. The sites are being developed scientifically and settlement has already started.
56    Bank consultant (1993b) pp. 20, 22.
57    Bank consultant (1989), p. 5.



Annex 2
167                     Page 42 of 61
VI. Lessons Learned
191. A number of documents have outlined the lessons learned. The PCR largely accepts these
as they stand as the main lessons from the project. These lessons are outlined in the following
paragraphs. On May 19, 1993, a Bank statement entitled 'Bankwide Lessons Learned from the
Experience with the India Sardar Sarovar (Narmada) Project" was published. Four separate
reasons were used to explain the difficulties encountered within the R&R program of the SSP and
can be summarized as follows:
a.    There was an initial lack of baseline information pertaining to the PAPs in regard
to their economic activity, level of income, future options and preferences. This
information is essential for R&R planning purposes;
b.    There was an overall lack of specific policies covering the variety of different
PAPs. Specifically, the broad policy to ensure an adequate standard of living
was not translated into a concrete monitorable policy measurement;
c.    There was a lack of institutional arrangements to implement a proper R&R
program. As a result, the R&R plans agreed to in the negotiations did not have
much operational meaning; and
d.    Finally, there was a lack of adequate monitoring arrangements at project inception
as the NCA as well as the other state monitoring organizations were unproven in
the area of R&R evaluation.
192. However, while all these criticisms are largely valid, it is also true that in all four of these
areas enormous strides were made during the early years of the project to the extent that the R&R
undertaken to date is better than of any R&R undertaken in India. Indeed, the R&R work done in
Gujarat has been used as a model for such work in other areas.
193. The May 1993 document on lessons learned underscores the need to improve the quality of
the R&R process at entry of the project; the need to empower the borrowing or executing agency to
take greater ownership in the implementation of the R&R process; the need for the Bank to
develop better communication and decision making policies with regard to R&R; and the need to
maintain strong ties with NGOs. These points were elaborated as follows:
a.    Ouality At Enty - The quality of the R&R component at entry of the project could
have been greatly improved by gaining substantive knowledge of R&R issues
through prior consultations with PAPs. It was also necessary to fully understand
the land acquisition process, transaction costs and the need for more relevant
training on tribal issues. The training program should have been developed by
obtaining more input from NGOs with local knowledge of the PAPs.
Additionally, a detailed review early on the R&R process itself would have
improved performance;
b.    Ownership - The Bank should have ensured that the borrower or executing
agency assumed greater ownership of the R&R implementation process. In the
case of the SSP, this would have required GOI to supervise execution of the
R&R policies while the Bank played an "arms-length" role, holding the borrower
to the terms under the loan/credit agreements. The SSP was particularly difficult
because the states actually execute the R&R policies whereas the GOI enters into
the financial agreements with the Bank while the states actually executed the R&R
policies. The alternative of establishing a common authority which in turn would



Annexl2
168                    Page 43 of 61
have taken charge of all operational issues as regards R&R was not considered
under the NWDT award and was not possible under the Indian Constitution.
c.    Communications and Decision Making - There were major political difficulties to
be faced in achieving R&R objectives across three states. Facilitating communi-
cations between the states should have been set as an early priority; decision
making should have been made more explicit and timely. In addition, altemate
views should have been both recognized and encouraged. A well-qualified
sociologist/anthropologist should have been hired to be in a responsible position
to handle R&R issues for the Bank. The SSP lacked this needed expertise and
authority at the early stages of appraisal and supervision; and
d.    NGO Relations - Through the development of the R&R policy for the SSP, the
Bank recognized the importance of obtaining inputs from NGOs to construct a
more acceptable policy. During the early years of project implementation in
Gujarat, NGOs played an increasingly useful role in the project With respect to
public relations, the report felt that NGO complaints should have be responded to
by the borrower rather than the Bank.
194. The Management response to the Independent Review, prepared in September 1992, also
made mention of the lessons learned from the experience with the SSP. The Management
maintained that the SSP was an economically sound endeavor, even after full allowance was made
for R&R costs; a very large drought-prone area in Western India would have access to water
crucial for irrigation and basic human consumption. However, the Management added that the
project's success would depend upon the successful implementation of its R&R component.
Additionally, the capacity must be created within the project to take ameliorative action as R&R and
environmental issues anse.
195. The "OED Special Study: Early Experience with Involuntary Resettlement - Overview",
produced in May 1993, contributes to the Bank's overall understanding of R&R issues. After a
thorough review of the R&R components of four separate agriculture and energy development
projects, one of which was Sardar Sarovar, the following main conclusions were drawn:
a.    Systematic attention must be given to minimize displacement;
b.     Attention must be given to the rehabilitation program in addition to the
displacement and resettlement process;
c.    High priority must be given to acquiring land in the command area to afford
people affected by the project the opportunity to increase their income by
resettling there; and
d.    Unlike irrigation projects, those projects which cannot promise an increase in
income for PAPs should include a separate development project. This
rehabilitation mechanism would begin after the people have moved and would
help to increase the incomes of the affected families as its main objective.
196.   In addition, the Bank and the Borrower both under-estimated the complexity and the time
required for resettling and rehabilitating over 100,000 people mostly because it was the first time
that such high standards of R&R were being applied to a project in India. Throughout project
implementation, the Bank and the Borrower went through a learning process and are now much
better equipped to tackle R&R implementation. During this process, NGOs played an important
role in drawing the attention of the Borrower and the Bank to the inadequacies of implementation
particularly in treating all categories of oustees whether they be landed, landless or tribal equitably.
This project has been the source of many improvements in R&R policies and implementation
which are now being applied to other projects. In the field of policies, the principle of land for



Annex 2
169                    Page 44 of 61
land was implemented on a large scale, adult sons were recognized as separate families, tribal
people living in Govemnment forest lands were considered as landed families, and the need for
additional assistance for subsistence and house construction was recognized. On the implementa-
tion side, Gujarat developed a unique mechanism for acquiring replacement agricultural land at
market price through Land Purchase Committees. Well developed R&R wings with central
monitoring cells were established.
197. Based on both the findings of earlier reports and the findings of the PCR it is concluded that
there are six main lessons to be drawn. The furst lesson on R&R concerns the complexity of R&R
and the need for well established and agreed objectives, policies and plans prior to project
approval. House to house socio-economic surveys following a participatory approach are essential
not only to gather data on village life and economic status of oustees but also to: (i) familiarize each
family with their rights and benefits, (ii) register the wishes of the affected persons, and (iii)
prepare realistic and implementable R&R plans. The R&R plans should cover not only the socio-
economic aspects of R&R but also the physical planning of the new resettlement centers which
includes: (i) site selection, (ii) layout of civic amenities and house plots, (iii) construction
programs, and (iv) cost estimates. The initial surveying and planning phase is a lengthy operation
which must be initiated at least three to four years prior to the date of resettlement depending on the
size of the R&R program.
198. The second lesson on R&R relates to the proper identification and classification of oustees.
Usually the Government has an official list which is based on the land acquisition procedure. This
list is incomplete as it does not take into account the persons living on government lands - often
called encroachers - or the tenants and migrating populations who own no land or house. The
implementation of a house to house socio-economic survey is not only necessary to establish the
pre-project situation but also to remedy the lacunas of the Government lists and help in preparing
the R&R plan in line with the wishes of the oustees. Following the socio-economic survey, a fial
list of oustees should, therefore, be prepared by reconciling the Government and and survey lists.
This exercise should be done through village meetings during which the villagers, the Government
officials and the surveyors discuss and,agree on a final list. During these meetings R&R Identifica-
tion Cards indicating the category and the benefits should be established for each eligible oustee.
These ID cards provide the oustees a sense of confidence that: (i) they are officially recognized as
oustees, and (ii) they are eligible to a number of benefits before resettlement takes place.
199. The thid lesson on R&R refers to the participatory approach to R&R planning. This
approach is essential to create an awareness and build up confidence between the oustees and the
Government officials. NGOs can be used but, in places where they are not active, it is useful to
select among the oustees R&R motivators who will act as intermediaries between the R&R officials
and the oustees. Their role will consist in informing and communicating the R&R policies through
meetings with oustees and distribution of leaflets describing the R&R policies. The socio-
economic survey should follow the participatory approach and each surveyor should be perfectly
aware of the rights and benefits of each oustee. At the end of the survey, the survey team should
make recommendations on the needs of the oustees and assist the R&R officials in preparing the
village-wise R&R plans.
200. The fourth lesson on R&R concerns the land for land principle for economic rehabilitation.
This principle has been applied to landed oustees because it is one of the most reliable means to
restore or even improve their living standards. This is particularly true when oustees are resettled
in the irrigation command area as was done in GujaraL However, this principle should not be
considered universal because the evidence suggest a number of small land owners may want to
move out of agriculture and be provided permanent jobs. The employment of oustees on construc-
tion sites or the provision of jobs under state employment guarantee schemes are not satisfactory
solutions because they are not permanent solutions to employmenL Therefore, economic rehabilita-
tion schemes should be geared to provide permanent jobs such as: (i) allocation of government jobs
to the extent possible, (ii) on the job training and provision of jobs in local industries or business
concerns and, (iii) allocation of financial assistance for income generating schemes.



Anne2
170                     Page 45 of 
201. The fifth lesson on R&R concerns the procedure for the application of the land for land
principle. The procedure for acquiring and allocating replacement agricultural land to landed
oustees needs to be well defined as part of project preparation and appraisal. E. it is essential to
carry out a survey on land availability, early in the program, to determine where land can be acqui-
red and the likely market price. Second. oustees preference for places of relocation and desire to
be allocated replacement land should be investigated through the socio-economic surveys. Ihil,
resettlement centers must be located close to the places where replacement land is available and
designed accordingly. And Fourth the responsibilities for financing and acquiring land must be
defined in advance. In the case of SSP, Land Purchase Committees were set up by Gujarat to
acquire land under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 while the Irrigation Department with the
assistance of the rural planners were given the task of locating, planning and constructing the
resettlement centers. Both tasks were large and the lack of coordination between the two led to
some difficulties in matching land availability with location of resettlements and oustees wishes.
An alternative to this procedure, which has been implemented with success under the Upper
Krishna II project, consists in locating the resettlement centers as per the findings of the socio-
economic surveys and, thereafter, assisting the oustees in purchasing replacement agricultural land
on their own through grants and loans deposited in advance in managed bank accounts.
202. The sith lesson on R&R concems the compensation to be paid to oustees for loss of land
and structures. Government estimates have always been under valued and have led to a large
number of court cases to enhance compensation. To avoid such situations, it is essential that
compensation be based on actual market price. This can be achieved by setting up Land Valuation
Committees comprising representatives of the Govermment and the oustees to fix a fair market price
as was done in Gujarat. However, the fair market price is usually not sufficient to purchase land
of equivalent size, or reconstruct a house and other structures such as a well or to replace an
plantation crops. While fair evaluation of fixed assets can help, it is also necessary to provide
additional financial assistance in form of grants and credit to the oustees. In cases where land
acquisition has already been completed, it is essential to set up as part of the project a mechanism to
redress inadequate land compensation and accelerate the outstanding court cases. This can be done
through special courts whose mission is to arrive at a rapid agreement on an enhanced
compensation amount followed by immediate payment by the Government.
203. Overall, there have been a wide range of lessons from the R&R experience in SSP and many
of these lessons have already been incorporated in on-going further work on R&R both by the
Bank and GOL



Annex 2
171                     Page 46 of 61
Attachment I
Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal Award
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Definition of an "oustee":
"An 'Oustee' shall mean any person who since at least one year prior to the date of
publication of the notification under section 4 of the Act, has been ordinarily residing or
cultivating land or carrying on any trade, occupation or calling or working for gain in the area
likely to be submerged permanently or temporarily." (Clause I(l)).
Compensation aspects of the NWDT:
"Gujarat shall pay to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra all costs including compensation,
charges and expenses incurred by them for or in respect of the compulsory acquisition of
lands required to be acquired as aforesaid." (Clause EII(l)).
"Gujarat shall also provide the following grants and amenities to the oustees:
a)  Resettlement Grant (Rehabilitation Grant) - Gujarat shall pay per family a sum of Rs.
750 inclusive of transportation charges as reseulement grant
b)  Grant-in-aid.
c)  Civic amenities:
i.   One primary school (3 rooms) for 100 families
ii.  One Panchayat Ghar for every 500 families
iii.  One Dispensary for every 500 families
iv.  One seed store for every 500 families
v.  One children's park for every 500 families
vi.  One village pond for every 500 families
vii. Drinling water well with trough for every 50 families
viii. Each colony should be linked to main road by roads of appropriate standard.
ix.  One platform for every 50 families
X.  Every oustee family shall be entitled to and allotted a house site, ic. a plot of land
measuring 60'x 90' free of cost. In addition, a provision of 30 per cent
additional area for roads, Government buildings, open space etc shall be made by
Gujarat under civic amenities." (Clause IV(3)).
"Gujarat shall pay to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra land revenue in accordance with the
respective Land Revenue Codes of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra in respect of all lands
in their respective territories acquired for Gujarat or conveyed to it." (Clause m(3)).
"In no event shall any areas in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra be submerged under the
Sardar Sarovar unless all payment of compensation, expenses and cost as aforesaid is made
for acquisition of land and properties and arrangements are made for the rehabilitation of the
oustees therefrom in accordance with these directions and intimated to the oustees." (Clause
IV(6) ii).
Provision for Rehabilitation:
"Gujarat shall establish rehabilitation villages in Gujarat in the irrigation command of the
Sardar Sarovar Project on the norms hereinafter mentioned for rehabilitation of the families
who are willing to migrate to Gujarat. For oustee families who are unwilling to migrate to
Gujarat, Gujarat shall pay to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra the cost, charges and
expenses for establishment of such villages in their respective territories on the norms as
hereinafter provided." (Clause IV(l)).



Annex 2
172                     Page 47 of 61
Allotment of Agricultural Land:
"Every displaced family from whom more than 25 per cent of its land holding is acquired
shall be entitled to and be allotted irrigable land to the extent of land acquired from it subject
to the prescribed ceiling in the State concerned and a minimum of 5 acres per family."(Clause
IV(7)).
"Of the price to be paid for the land a sum equal to 50 per cent of the compensation payable to
the oustee family for the land acquired from it will be set off as an initial installment of
payment The balance cost of the allotted land shall be recovered from the allottee in 20
yearly installments free of interesL" (Clause IV(7)).



173                     Annex 2
Page 48 of 61
AlTACHMENT II
ComRarlson of R&R Entitlements: NWDT Award and StWte Policies
STATE AND NWDT R&R POLICIES
Indivi dual    NWD   Award   Gujarat             Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra
Benefits
Definition of    Any person,    Same as under   Any person        Same as uner
Oustee         residing or      NWDT Award.  ordinarily residing NWDT Award.
cultivating land or              or carrying on any
carrying out any   a) Cut off date for trade or vocation   Additional: (Major
trade or worling   major son for    for his livelihood at unmarried daughter
for gain in the area (Gujarat &  least one year prior will be considered
at least one year   Maharashtra  to issuance of   separate family).
prior to issuance of resettling in  notification under
Notification under Gujarat)      Section 4 of Land  (Cut off date for
Section 4 of Land  considered as a   Acquisition Act or major son and
Acquisition Act.  separate family,  has been cultivating unmarried daughter
fixed as 01/01/87. land for at least   for considering
three years prior to them as separate
b) For MP oustees such notification in family is fixed as
to be reseuled in  an area which is   01/01/87.)
Gujarat Cut off  likely to come
date for major son under
is considered one submergence,
year prior to date  whether
of issuance of    temporarily or
Notification under permanently, due
Section 4 of Land to the project or
Acquisition ACL  otherwise required
for the proiecL
LandeOustees  25% or more land  As per NWDT    As per NWDT        As per NWDT
submerged entitled AwardJ Additonal Award. Addifional Award. Additonal
to minimum 2 ha   Benefits: Co-    Benefits: Cosharer, Benefits: Co-
irrigable land with  sharer, Joint  Joint Holder will  sharer, Joint
a ceiling set by the Holder will get   get minimum 2 ha  Holder will get
State. 50% of    rninimum 2 ha   land up to State    minimum 2 ha land
compensation     land up to State   Ceiling (8 ha). If  up to State Ceiling
payable as initial   Ceiling (6 ha). Ex- below poverty line, (7 ha). Free of
installment, balance Gratia Payment  get "land for land." cost.
recovered as 20
vear loan.
Encroacher     No provision for  2 ha land for     1      ha to 2 ha land   2 ha land for
Oustees        land              encroachment one for encroached land encroachments up
year prior to   coming under    to 31.03.78 and
issuance of notice submergence with  cash compensation
for land        13.04.87 cut-off  for the balance
acquisition, and   date and cash  land, if any.
cash compensation compensation for
for the balance of the balance of land
Iland, if any.  if any.



174                      Annex 2
Page 49 ofkl1
Individual      NWI)  Award  LGujarat             Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra
Benefits
Landless Oustees No provision for  Landless       a) Landless       (a)(b) - I ha land if
land             agricultural laborer agricultural laborer Oustee moves with
- 2 ha land with   Economic package others.
ex-gratia.       @ Rs.29,000 each.
b) Other landless - b) Other landless
Land for shop at  (except SC/ST)
esettlement site   Rs. 19,500 each.
and Rs 5,000 as
financial
assistance.    _
Major sons of   No provision for  a) Major sons of  a) Major sons of   1 ha land to each
above categories land            all categories of   SC/ST, small and  major son and
of Oustees                       Oustees except   marginal farmers  unmanied
non-agricultural  and landless    daughter. Need
landless - @ 2 ha agricultural    proof of status
land each.      laborers:         before Jan 1, 1987.
Economic Package
b) Major sons of  @ Rs.29,000 each.
non-agriculturl
landless family -  b) Major sons of
land for shop at  other Oustees.
relocation sites   Economic package
and Rs.5,000 as  @ Rs.19,500 each.
financia
assistance.
Acquisition of   Not dealt with.    Would be acquird Would be acquired Would be acquired
Private                          and owners treated and owners treated and owners treated
land/Houses                      as Oustees.      as Oustees.       as Oustees.
which get isolated
or physically cut
off.
House Plots     Oustee and major  As per NWDT    As per NWDT        As per NWDT
son will get house  Award.        Award.            Award. Additional
plot of size 60'x                                   Benefits: Major
90' free of cost.                                   umnarried daughter
also entitled
separately.



175                     Annex-2
Page 50 of 61
dnividual     NWIl l Award   Gujarat            Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra
enefits      |
Rhabilitaion    Rehabilitation grant s W D     Rehabilitation grant As per NWDT
t-in-aid,    Rs.750 inclusive of Award.      of Rs. 11,000 to   Award.
ubsistence    transportation                    SC/ST, small and
allowance, etc.  charges to each    Additional   marginal farmers, Additonal
family and major  Benefits:      landless          Benefits:
son.                             agriculatral
a) Subsistence   laborers and their  a) Subsistence
Grant-in-aid up to  allowance of  major sons.     allowance Rs.15
Rs.500 for each   Rs. 15 per day for              per day for 300
family if total  300 days.       For other Oustees  days.
compensation                     and their major
received is less    b) Cost escalation sons @ Rs.5,500  b) Cost escalation
than Rs.2,000.    @ 8% per year                   of 8% per year
from 1980 on                     from 1980 on
rehabilitation                   rehabilitation grant.
grant.
c) Productive
c) Productive                    assets up to
assets @                         Rs. 14,500 under
Rs.5,000.                        different tribal
welfare schemes.
d) Special                       (Major umnamed
Assistance of                    daughter will also
Rs. 10,000 to                    get separately).
construct pucca
house plinths.
Fransportation   Included in     Additional      Additional       Additional
Grant          Rehabilitation grant Benefits: Free    Benefits: Free  Benefits: Free
of Rs.750.       transportation will transportation will transportation will
be provided for   be provided for   be provided for
shifting.       shifting (if not    shifting.
taken, a lump sum
grant of Rs.500 to
Compen-sationbezin)
(a) Land       As per Land       As per NWDT    More liberal than   As per NWDT
Acquisition Act in  Award        NWDT Award.   Award
operation at time of             Rate of
acquisition                      compensation for
acquired land on
the basis of price of
similar land in the
adjacent command
area
(b) Houses     As per Land       As per NWDT    More liberal than   As per NWDT
Acquisition Act   Award          NWDT Award    Award
(replacement value
of acquired
houses).



176                     Annex 2
Page 51 of 61
ommunity    NWDT Award   Giujarat               Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra
enefits
ivic Amenities  Each Colonv:   As per NWDT    As per NWDT        As per NWDT
Award.          Award.           Award.
Electrification,
water supply,    Additonal       Addixonal         AddiQonal
sanitation, etc.    Benefits:    Benefits:         Benefits:
I inked to main    Provision of  Threshing ground. Play ground for
road by roads of   NWDT Award has                  school (1 acre for
appropriate      been relaxed for  Cremation and  primary and 2 acre
standards.       providing civic   Burial Ground.   for secondary).
amenities as per
For everv 50     requirement at    Social amenities for Public latrines.
fn m  I i nms:   relocation sites.  each municipal
town, viz, water   Open place for
One tree platform. Tmnsit        supply, sanitation, collection of
accommodation.  etc.             animals.
For every I100
famlies:                        Any other facility  Khalwadi
such as middle    (Ihreshing
One primary school               school which was platform).
(3 rooms).                       existing in the
affected village,   S.T. Stand.
For every 500                    and its
famaiias:                        improvement.     Grazing Land.
One Panchayat                                      Open place for
Ghar.                                              Bazaar.
One dispensary.
One seed store.                                   Cremation/burial
One children's                                     ground.
park.
Religious place of                                 Internal roads.
worship.
Transit accommo-
_dation.



Anne2
177                     Page 52 of 61
ommunity    NWl) Award   (iujarat                Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra
Benerits
Other Facilities.  Nil.          Ex-gratia payment .Grant-in-aid of    House buiding
to cover the    Rs. 1,000 per ha   (interest free loan):
difference of cost for 2 years if
of allotted land   interest-free loan is (i) Land holder -
and acquired land. not taken.    Rs.8,000;
Vocational and MTI Ex-gratia payment (ii) Landless
training to Oustee to cover the  Laborers -
families.       difference of cost  Rs.4,000.
of allocated land
Preference in    and acquired land  Preference in
employment      for SC/ST and    employment of
other land owners Class-Ill & IV
Implementation of owning land up to  Posts and
all existing welfare 2 ha. For others,  reservation in
schemes at      ex-gratia @      project
relocation sites.  Rs.2,000 per ha or establishment &
50% of the       M.
difference in the
cost of allotted land Implementation of
and acquired land  all existing welfare
which ever is less. schemes at
relocation sites.
Preference in
Government       Occupancy price
employment and   and development
age relaxtion in   cost for allotted
Government jobs. land at Taloda or
nearby in
Implementation of Maharashtra will
all existing welfare not be charged to
schemes at       Oustee famnilies.
_relocation site.



178Ane2
178              ~~~~~Page 53 of 61
Attaclunent m
Sardar Sarovar Dam Resettlement Program
Glijara    Maharash a                         Ia
SAREC  SA             E  MEB SA PC
AreaInundated(ha) 11,608 7,469 7,050 9,399   22,882 20,722   41,540  37,590
Villages (No.)        19     19    36      33       180      193        235     245
Families (No.)     1,900 4,500 1,358 3,500*    7,500 33,014**  10,758  41,014
Persons (No.)    10,59314,40011,747 11,200   45,000 105,645   67,340 131,245
* Estimate based on partial resurvey of 15 villages out of 33. It is likely to increase further
** May increase after land acquisition is completed
Source SAR, Feb. 1985, p. 24; R&R Status Report, NCA, May 1994



Aex2
179                          Page 54 of 61
AttachehI
Sardar Sarovar Status of R&R IMplementation as of December 31. 1993
T'KUJIt I AWAKL) (A)                  bil AI Ub Ab OF-    A(.lilk VtMtN I
_  December 1993 (B)  tB) AS OF (A)
1 . LAND ALLoTUMFN  B
BENECIARY
CATEGORIES: 22.227
PAFs (of total 40,805
PAFs) will be entitled to
an allotmnent of land in
one of the threeStat.
A  LANDED PAF (incl.    NW       Award-,AllStas: Z% or more
cosharers and Tapu land  lnd submerged entited to minimum 2 ha
holders)               irrigable land with a ceiling set by the State.
50% of compensation payable as initial
instaillment, balance recovered as 20 year
loan..
Gujarat  1,409 PAFs       .u;ra: Cosharer, Joint Holder will get
miinmum 2 ha land up to State Ceiling (6 ha).
Ex-Gratia Payment to cover the difference o
cos  all   ad  an1 ca1Wlad
Maha.   1,464 PAFs           haahr=     Csae, on  ile  i
,get rn=num 2 ha land up to State Ceiling (7
ha). Free of coDst.
Occupancy pnce and development cost for
allotted land at Taloda or nearby in
Maharashtra wil not be charged to Oustee
MP       9,540 PAFs        Madhy P      : Cosharer, Joint l=er
wiD get minimum 2 ha land up to State
Ceiling (8 ha).
If below poverty line, get -land for land."
Grant-in-aid of Rs 1,000 per ha for 2 years
if interest-free loan is not taken.
Ex-g,ratia payment to cover the differece
lc6t of allocated land and acquired land for
SC/ST and other land owners owning land
Iup to 2 ha. For others,ex-gratia  Rs2,000
. per ha or5SOYe%of thetifference inthe cost o
allotted land and acquired land which ever
_                  i~~~s less.                            _  _  _   _  _      _  _   _  _
TOTAL 12.413 PAFs
B. ENCROACHEK  ^FA    NWDT Award: No provision for land
Gujarat  28 PAFs                   2 ha land for ncoadunent one
year prior to issuance of notice for land
dcas  m p and cash componstim for the
bMa"c of land if anv.
Maha.   12 PAFs                       2 ha land for encrochments
up to 31.03.78 and cash compensation for
the balance land if anv.
MP       445 PAFs         yMdhvn Pradesh: I ha to 2 ha land for
encrached land conuig uncder subrgonce
with 13.04.87 cut-off date and cash
TomPensation for the balance of land if any.
TOTANDLESS 485       NWDT Award: No land provision.
(aericultural laborers)
Gujarat  B1B FAFs        Ciarai. Landless agncultural laborer - 2
ha and with ex-a_atia.
Maha.   490UPAFs         Maharashta: I ha land if Oustee moves
with1 others.
MP       5,776 PAFs       MadhyPaes:No LAnd prOViSiOn.
TOTAL____7__084__PA __s (Economic Rackaze @ Rs.29.000 each).
TOTAL 7,084 PAFs                                             _____________
D. LANDLESS PAFs (non- NWDTl Award: No land provision.
a ricultural)
Gujarat  28 PAFs          Liujara No land provision. (Land for shop
at resettlement site and Rs 5,000 as financia



Annex-2
180                          Page 55 of 61
aha.   -                 maharaschtra: I ha
land if Oustee moves with others.
MP  2,235 PAs0 Mhya Pradi: No hnd provision. (s
19-Od eadi. except SC /ST)
TOTAL 2.263 PAFs
a  sons of A,                     IJ . C    NWL. Awards No  l and_r_o_v_sion
ujarat  2,217            Llarat:
Major sons of al categories of Oustees
except non-agricultural landless - @ 2 ha
land each.
(Mapor sons of nonagricultural landless
family - land for shop at relocation sites and
Rs 5.000 as financial assistance)
Maha.   sib              IMazariha: 1 ha land to each major son
and} inmrriod daughter. Need proof of
status beforeTa1.97
MP       15,080           MadhyvPrdu& No lant provision.
(Major sons of SC/ST, Small and marginal
tarmers and landless a *cultural laborers:
Economic Package a Ri 29,000 each. Majr
sons of other Oustees. &iomic package i
Rs 19.500 each)
_    TOTAL18.132
2. LAND ALLOTMENT
BY STATE. A total of
45,092 Ha will be
required for the three
States.
A  Gujarat PAFs -
requiring land (Landed,
co-sharers, encroachers &
maior sons):
Sujarat:                  Target 8,944 Ia                           a  4,243 PA PAFs 95%
i,472 PAFs                                                     allotted 8,447 ha
agricultural land.   Land 100%
Elx-Cratia paid to
! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.212 PAE                                     Fx:;jrati 94%
M1,aha. to Gujarat.       Target 2,000 Ha                       Mahht    W4  FAFs 61%
F99 PAFs                                                     PAFs have been
allotted 1225 ha of Land 61%
agricultural land.
4x-Gratia paid to   Ex-Cratia 29%
MPto  ujarat              Target: 28,248 Ha                     M                  PAFs 13
13,294 PAFs                                                     have been allotted
3,246 ha of       Land 12%
agricultural land.
E x-Cratia paid to   Ex-Gratia 1%
Total requiring land in   Tarete 39,192 Ha                      670 PFsv           PAF 42%
Gujarat: 15,702 PAFs      (Gujarat has 16,446 ha currmntly      been allotted
available. Another 8,137 ha is identified 12918 ha of   Land 33%
or being negotiated. Including blnd    agriculturl land.
already allotted, this leaves another 991  xZ-Gratia paid to  Ex-Gratia 30%
_n                                  4, A4idan    cu636 PAFs
B  Maharashtra PAFs        laet 3,9U kia                            Famies have   PAFs 38Ye
requiring land (Landed, (2,5W0 ha of land at Taloda, not including   been allotted 1,105
co-sharers, encroachers & 200 ha for abadi sites, already *cquired    ha of land for  Land 28%
rnapr sons):           An additional 1,400 ha has been applied for agriculture.
at Akkalkuwa, not inrluding 100 ha for
1.802 PAFs  _ _   abadi sites)
C  Madhya Pradesh PAFS  Target 2,0 kia                       1,228 ha identified  PAFs DYo
requiring land (Landed,
co-sharers, encroachers &                                                      Land (a qualified
major sons):                                                                   61%)
803 PAFs
TOTAL ALL THREE           Target:                               7,27 PAs           PAF 33%
STATES PAFs REQUIRING 45,092 Ha                                 been allotted land
LAND: 22,227 PAFP                                               or It has been     Land 34%
idontifi^l-d



181                           Annex 2
Page 56 of 61
3. kHUUbk rLUlb            N YV VN I Award: Uustee anc major son wi
ethou1ce nlot of size 60' x 90' freof cost.
A. GUJARAT:                G       NWDLD T    Award, plus:
Special Assistance of Rs 10,000 to construct
Ducca house vlinths.
Fromn Gujarat: 4,S PAFs                                            4,160 PAFs have    93%
been allotted house
tD]ots (103 sites).
mrrr Maharashtra:                                                577 PFs have been 58%M
999 PAFs                                                       allotted house plots
13 sites).
Madhy Pr1q 1,9,34 PAF-shave    I 10%
been allottd house
ns(22 jites)
ara Tota:                                                        6111 PAFs (138    33°%
1873 PAFs                                                       lites).
MAHAFASHTECIl hdAhUsh=: NWDT Award, plus:                      678 PAks h ave been 3'%8
,802 PAFs             Major unmarried daughter also entited  allotted house plots
separately.                            at Taloda.
House building (interest free loan):
(i) Land holder - Rs.8,000;
(ii) Lndles Larer - Rs.4.000.
MADHYA PRADESH:                 r      NWD   Award             424 PAFs have been 2 %
badi Sites only:                                                 allotted house plots
bo38  PAFs                                                  (6 abadi sites, from 8
Reurwboth resettlement                                        villages).
ndrehablitation:
30PAFs
MPTobl: 20 210 PFsh
I.:L 40.865 AFs                      _                        7-213 PAFs         1 8%
4. REHABILITATION         NWDT Award: Rehabilitation grant Rs.750
GRANT, GRANT-IN-   indusive of transportation charges to each
AIDE, SUBSISTENCE   family and rajor son.
ALLOWANCES, ETC.  Grant-inaid up to Rs500 for each family if
total compesation received is less than
A.GUJARAT:               Qmi   As per NVWDT Award.
Plus:
a) Cost escalation *8Y. per year from 1980
on rehabilitaton grant
b) Subsistence allowance of Rs 15 per day
for 300 days.
______ _____ ______ ___ c'  Insurance  coveraze             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
From Gujarat: 4,50 PAF                                             3,095 PAFs received Zn  69i
rehabilitation
grants.
4.110 PAFs received Subsistence
subsistence        Allowance 91%
allowance (March
1993).
4,500 PAFs received Insurance 1000%
insurance coverage.
4,500 PAFs received Ration cards 100%/e
ration cards.
From Maharashtra: 999 PAFs-                                        21 PAF received    Grants 2%
rehabilitation
grants.
316 PAFs received   Subsistence
subsistence        Allowance 32%
allowance (March
1993).
584 PAPs received  Insurance 590%
insurance coverage.
250 PAFs received   Ration Cards 25%
ration cards (March
1993).



Annex 2
182                           Page 57 of 61
irom Ml': Ii,;4 PAM                                               No FAs received   -rant Ulla
rehabilitation
grants.
660 PAFs received   Subsistence
subsistence       Allowance 5%
allowance (March
1993).
1,021 PAFs received Insuranoe Coverage
insurance coverage. 8%
750 PAFs received  Ration cards 6%
ration cards.
Total; 18,793 PAPs                                           3,116 Aksi         Grants 17Tr
received
rehabilitation
grants.
Subsistence
5,466 PAFs        Allowance 27%
received
subsistence
allowance (March
1993).            Insurance 28%
5,205 PAFP
received insurance
coverage (March   Ration Cards 29%
1993).
5,500 PAFs
received ration
cards (March
1999)
. MHTRA                    Maha  ahtra: As per NWDT Award.           PAFs rncaved crants 2%
Plus:                                 rehabilitation
1,802 PAFS                 a) Cost escalation of 8% per year from 1980 grants.
on rehabilitation grant
b) Subsistence allowance Rs.15 per day for 659 PAFs received   Subsistence
300 days.                             subsistence        Allowance 37%
allowance.
100 PAFs received   Ration cards 6%
ration cards (March
C MADHYA PIRADESH   MadhW  Pradesh:                           No impkmentation  0%
Rehabilitation grant of Rs 11,00 to SC/ST,
0,210 PAFS                small and rnargnal farmers, landless
agricultural laborers and their major sons.
For other Oustees and their major sons S Rs
TRANSPORTATIONW D                  arid Induded in Rehabilitation
GRANT                          - 750
G UJARAT                 u Addtiona           ts: ree
transportation will be provided for shifting.
rom  uGarat: 4 500 PA_s                                           Not clear
rm Maharashtra:                                                      PAFs (March   50%
99 P s                                                          19__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _   3_ __ _ __ _
31294 PAFS                                                       1,112 PAFs March  8%
MAHARASHTRA    X                        ditoa                    993)
.802 PAFStransportation will be provided for shifting.
A YA PIDESH   Mahva Pradh: Additional Benefits: Free
transportation will be provided for shifting
rO 10PA15                  (if not tikea, a   lump sum grant of Rs 500 t
be eiven).                             _____
CMPENSATION1
Lan                      NWDT Awjr d As per Land Acquisition
Act in                                 ____o___ at time of ac_gisiton
paid io9 Vita                     As per NesII Award
rastra:  mpensatio   hah :  As per NWD  Award
tobe ad in 33 Villazes



183                           Annex 2
Page 58 of 61
madnya rad :               Madnga F'radesl: More liberal than NWUI bection Iv - 146    -Section IV: W67o +
cmpensation to be paid in    Award. Rate of compensation for acquired  Villages. Award
84 Villages (of total 193  land on the basis of price of similar land in  passed for
Villages affected)         the adjacent command area.              compensation in 17 Compensation: 4%
Villages &
Rs.2,718,000 has
been distributed to
90 PAFs in 8
villazes.
Total compensation to be paid
land acquired) in 214
Villaes 7f 24 affected).
B.Houses-              NWD)T Award: As per Land Acquisition
Act in operation at time of acquisition.
Qaun± As per NWDT Award
X Mharsht: s ner NWDT Xw-aitrU         X= 
Madhva Pradesh: More liberal than NWDT
Award (reblacement value of acquired
7. CIVIC AMENITIES             DAWARD
Each Colony-
Electrification, water supply, sanitation,
etc.
Linked tD main road by roads of
aPrpite standards.
One treeplatform.
For everv 100 families:
l  Onepru choyol (3 rooms).
One Panchayat Char.
One dispensary.
One seed stoDe
One childrem's park.
Religious Mlace of worship.
B. OTH{ER FACILITIESX
A  GUJARAT                  Giara
As per NWDT Award, plus:
Provision of NWDT Award has been
relaxed for providing dvic amenities as per
requirement at relocation sites.
rnsit accommodation
PAFs from Guuarat          Taret                                     om Gujarat       Sites 103%
Target 100 relocation sites for 30rnary Schools                    4,243 PAFs 0 103
4,5U0 PAFs.                 100 Health Services                    relocation sites.    PAFs 94%
15 Primair Schools Primary Schools
March 1 93)       50%
70 Health Services  Health Services
(March 1993)       700%a
PAFs fromMaharashtra:      T     t                                 From MaharasHtra: Sites 00
16 relocation sites planned for 10  ry Schools                     604 PAFs at 32
999 PAFs.                   10 Health Services                     relocation sites.    PAFs 61%
1 Primar School   Primary Schools
(March 1993)       10%
1 Health Services   Health Services
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~March 1993)                                10%1/
PAFs I-rm Madhya Pradesh:  I aret:                                 Fh  MP:            Sites 21%
sites planned   60        Schools                     1,723 PAFs from 33
for 13,294 PAFs.            155 Health Service                     viUlages 0 42      PAFs 13%
relocation sites
11 primary school  Primary Schools
built (March 1993)  18%
1 e; -R14th qprvi-pc  F-,lth wrviw.



184                          Annex 2
page 59 of 61
iujarat:                                                        suart:ates: 4s-6s
Target 271 Relocation Sites                                    177 Relocation
for 18,74                                                       Sites for 6,570   PAFs 35%
AFs.(Pouibly up to 391                                         PAFs
ATHesT                   &hAg=:                                Mahara ih:         Site 33%
As per NWDT Award, plus:              1 Abadi site was
Target,                Playgrond for school (I acre for primary  established, May   PAFs 38%
Sites for 1,802 PAFs. and 1acrefor secondary).           1991 (Sornawal,
Public latrines.                     now called
Open place for collecion of animals.  Narmada Nagar),
Khalwadi 0reshing platform).         678 PAFs allotted
S.T. Stand.                          sites:
Grazing Land.                        120 transit sheds
Open place for Bazaar.               1 school
Cremation/burial grou                1 dispensary
Internal roads.                      1 seed stDrag
Transit accommodation                godown
I overhead water
tank
I water trough, etc.
Ashram school is
functioning.
Electrification and
internal/approach
roads coDmpleted.
Construcbon in
progress at
remainic two sites.
C. MADHYA PRADESH                                               cnMadhv Prdesh:   Sites:
As per NWDT Award, plus:             5 relocation sites
Ta et-. 114 Abadi Sites for   Thrhingground.                                      I%completed
20,AO0 PAFs               Cremation and Burial Ground.          Under construcion
Social amenities for each municipal town,  14 relocation sites  90°/. under
viz, water supply, sanitabon, et=.                      planning or
Any other facility such as middle school    Layout Plans  auqMd
which was existmng in the affected village,  finalized:
and ite improvenait                  41 relocation sites
Survewd:
62 relocation sites
Total: 102
relocation dtes
WorksCompleted:
1,352 Transit Sheds
II Primary Schools
12 Wells
48 Handump
7 =napo=
roads
33 km intenal roads
31 buee platforms
14 electification
1,296 ha
9._NON__ A N_______Award                                       identified/acauired
9.NON-LAND BSD           NWlTWAward
INCOM
G ENERATION
SCHEM ES                _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _   _  _ _  _  _  _     _ _  _  _  _
A. GP$qARA _M
Target                    Productive assets @ Rs5,000.          From Grait         Gujarat 87°1e
From Gujarat: 4,500 PAFs                                        3,892
From Maba.: 999 PAFs                                            Prom Maha:         Maharashtra 33%
From MP: 13,294                                                 325 PAFs
From MP:          Madhya Pradesh
850 PAFs (March   6%
1993)



AXnnex 2
185                           page 60 of 61
larget:                    Vocatbonal and HLI traing to Lustee    From L;uJarat      LuJarat 6U(/o
families.                              1,200 PAs
From Gujarat- 2,000 PAPs
From Maha.: 300 PAFs                                              From Maha.         Maha. 83%
From MP: 5 000 PAFs                                               250 PAFs
From MP           MP 4%
200 PAFs (March
1993)
Target:                    Preferenae in emplk<ment               356 PAFs           Gujarat 36%
3.56 PARs
From Gujarat 1,000 PAFs
From Maha.: 50 PAFs                                               From Maha:         Maha. 22%
Frm MP: 500 PAFs                                                  11 PAFs
From MP:          MP 3%
13 PAFs
(March 1993)
Implementation of all existing welfare                   % of targets for
schemes at relocation sites.                             welfare schemes
not Icnown.
28 PAFs                    N                                     Not known
Land for shop at resettlement site and Rs
5 000 as financial assistance.
2,217 PAFS                  Uantl11                        s     Not known
fariil: Land for shop at relocation sites and
: js 5.000 asfinrancial assistance.
arget:                    Irrigation Facilities                   rom Gurat        Gujarat 34%
rom Gujarat 4,472 PAFs                                           3,000 ha
,944 ha
From Maha:        Maharashtra 5%
rom Maha.: 999 PAFs                                              50 PAFs
,996 ha                                                          150 ha
rom MP: 13,294 PAFs                                              Frot MP:           Madhya Pradesh
28,248 ha                                                         250 PAFR           2%
500 ha
(Mlarch 1993)
[arget:                    Ration Cards (also listed under        Prom Gujarat 300Gujarat 67%o
Rehabilitation Grants)                PAFs
From Gujarat: 4,500 PAFs
From Maha.: 999 PAFs                                              From Maha:         Maharashtra 25%
From MNP: 13,294 PAFs                                             250 PAFR
From MP:          MP 6%
750 PAFs
B._________MAH___________R___________ (March 1993)
I arget: 1 802 PAFs        .productive assets up  Ro Rs.14500 under
different tribal weLare schemes. (Major
unmarried daughter will also get
=earatelv. f4atr1
rceference     ioyment Y ss-u &I
Posts and reservation in project
establishment & m.
Implementation of all xisig welfare   50 Poultiy Units  Y% of targets not
sdiemes at relocation sites.           18 Bullock Carts   known
8 Cow Units
140 Im roed
Agrictural
hniplanents
164 Aericultural
fertilizer) through
Tribal sub-plan
5 Assistance for self
128 uiensils
distributed
C. MADHYA PRADESH
Target:
Production Assets for 13,540
PAFc



186                           Annex 2
Page 61 of 61
linpiemenitation of all existing weitare  Not mipiemented as
schemes atrelocs ation site.         vet
5,776 PAFS                            cutua labrer              Notimplenmod a
Packagei Dackan Rs    Rs 29.0 each.   vet
2 ,235 PAFs             NnArutural lAncless PAFs:              N      oimphi   =a
..  _ Rsl9.5D   elkacvexcet SCr/qTve
15,080 PAFs                Nz  Azltt1 A               al         to mDedea as
iEi                   i    ~~~~~~~~~yet
FarrnersAlaSC sosof/ST Exonomuc
Package and Rs.29,000.
Maiar sons of oter PAs: Economic
package @ Rs.19500 each.
Note: Above table taken from NCA, SSP: Status Report on R&R (Ouarter Ending December
192). Indore. February 1994 and NCA, SSP: Annual Action Plan (1993-94) and Indicatiye Lon2
Term PLan for R&R. Indore. May 1993.



Annex 3
187                              Page I of 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT
WATER DELIVERY AND DRAINAGE PROJECT - DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1553-IN & Credit 1552-INALoan 2497-IN)
REVISED COST-BENEFITS ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.    Nearly 5 million people will benefit directly from the irrigation provided by the
development of the Sardar Sarovar Project. Most of these families are poor and spend their lives in
a harsh and hostile environment. Rainfall in most of the area is barely enough for a single wet-
season crop. Although in total the rainfall might be sufficient in some areas, much of it runs off
the land during short and intense storms. During the long dry-season, crops cannot be grown
without irrigation, and water for drinking is quickly depleted, especially where the groundwater is
unusable. Every year some 1.5 million head of cattle are herded into the northern part of the
project area in search of fodder and water. But the long dry-season and the risk of failures of the
monsoon rains makes this a tenuous existence for the pastoralists.
2.    Drought is an annual event, and people and livestock often have to depend on water
trucked in by the state. There are a wide array of diseases endemic in the rural population and
traceable to malnutrition and unsafe drinking water. A reliable and safe supply of domestic water
will benefit some 30 million people who frequently experience severe water shortages in the dry
season. Gujarat is one of the fastest growing industrial states in India and there is a rapidly
growing demand for industrial water. These rising demands for irrigation, livestock, rural,
municipal, and industrial water are outstripping the groundwater resource and the existing
reservoirs. The present situation not only precludes further growth but is simply not sustainable
because of the over-exploitation of the groundwater resource in the water-short areas. These
conditions exist in the presence of the Narmada Basin's vast unexploited resources and, therefore,
the Union and State Governments are committed to the Basin's development
3.    It appears from the project design that Gujarat's fist and most important objective was to
give priority to the social benefits of the project over any other consideration. The strategy
consisted in spreading water over the largest area possible in order to reach the maximum number
of people even at the cost of reducing the economic rate of return. This strategy was consistent
with the trend of thought that has existed in India since colonial times and which, to some extent,
continues even today. In those days irrigation schemes were mostly built for famine relief and
protective irrigation rather than for productive irrigation.
4.    The second objective for Gujarat, appears to be its desire to implement a large multi-
purpose project including a large command area of 1.8 million hectares net, a very ambitious water
supply scheme for domestic, municipal and industrial uses for 30 million people and a power
generation station of 1,450 Mega Watts. To satisfy the full water requirements of such a large
project, a second large reservoir, known as the Narmada Sagar Dam, is to be constructed
simultaneously upstream in MP. The large project concept prevailed during the NWDT
proceedings and finally was accepted after the distribution of water, costs and benefits satisfied all
ripanan states.



Annex 3
188                                     2of8
5.    The updated economic analysis shows that the economic benefits resulting from power
generation are somewhat higher than those derived for irrigation. The analysis also shows that the
economic benefits derived from municipal and industrial water supply are likely to be more
substantial than initially anticipated. As the main canal and command area are still in their initial
stages of construction, there is still time to readjust the irrigation and water supply components so
that this project could become economically more profitable. This would be possible by cutting out
some of the higher cost locations within the command area1. This would have little or no effect on
the ERR. On the other hand, the hydropower aspects of the projects have reached a point at which
adjustments are no longer possible. The dam height, the design of the riverbed powerhouse and
the specifications of the turbine generators are interlinked and have reached a stage of construction
and manufacturing which prevents any changes without major cost implications. Furthermore, as
the characteristics of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and its power component are part of the NWDT
award, any changes in their concept will require the agreement of all four party states.
Revised Econoniic Analysis
6.    The revised analysis, which was completed in April 1993 as part of the benchmarks set by
the Board, finds an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 12.2%. This is marginally lower than the
13% found in the original SAR analysis, but falls within the range of acceptable ERRs for a project
of this type exhibiting a very large scale of benefits relative to any feasible altematives and having
substantial multiplier effects. The rate is moderately sensitive to the timing of up-stream storage
development in the foreseeable future. The ERR would be about 1 percentage point lower in the
absence of Narmada Sagar but this would assume appropriate adjustment of the size of the irrigated
command area. It should be noted that had the SSP been conceived as a power project alone, the
ERR would have been 14.2%. The command area alone exhibits a somewhat marginal ERR.
However, it has always been apparent that the ERR of the irrigation component could have been
substantially higher if certain higher cost zones in the command area were reduced or omitted and if
the available water had been concentrated more heavily on a smaller area2. The ERR excluding
such costs is estimated at 17A%.
T he Model
7.    A spreadsheet simulation model was built to carly out the revised analysis. In terms of its
functions, the model is similar to the one used in the SAR economic analysis. However, the
module to derive random distribution of the project ERR was not included. The water balance
calculation and the calculation of irrigation intensity are also simplified. Using the SAR
input/output data, the ERR derived by this model is almost identical to that projected in the SAR,
verifying that these simplifications have not altered the basic structure of the modeL An economic
analysis can only be part of the overall decision-making process. At the end of the paper a
qualitative discussion is included to test whether the results of this analysis seem sensible given the
changes since the original analysis. It is probable that the efficiency of water transmission to the
field will be lower than that projected in the original analysis. However, some of the losses would
be picked up in groundwater and over time one could expect improvements in efficiency with
advanced technologies and appropriate incentives. However, it would be wise to be circumspect
I      Ibhe Borrower draws tde attention tdal a high ERR is not dIe only criteia for justifying a project. In the
case of SSP, socio-economic considerations were also taken into account.
2     The Borrower stresses that tbe question of reducing tde command au in the higher cost/lower benefit
zonew does not arise since the objective of tde project is to make adequate water available to drought
prone ares



Annex 3
189                               Page30f8
about the development of the final 30% of the command area3. Until performance data are
available on the earlier portions. Any reduction of efficiency is likely to have some impact on the
ERR but probably it would not be large since the lost water to seepage will enlarge the recharge on
which groundwater extraction can draw and, as suggested above, reductions in size of the
command area should come from the lower return areas.
Asstumtio=
8.    The analysis is based on adjustments to the SAR economic analysis to account for changed
quantities, prices and phasing since the 1984 analysis. The base year of the analysis has been
brought to 1992. Year 1 of the analysis is 1984 when the investments actually started on the
Sardar Sarovar Dam. The costs incurred before 1992 were inflated to 1992 cost levels. Costs are
in Rs. million and have been adjusted from financial to economic prices using a standard con-
version factor of 0.8. The analysis includes the construction of the Sardar Sarovar and a share of
the Narnada Sagar Dams which are both required to provide regulated water for irrigation and
power generation up to the quantities projected. The environmental component of the analysis has
paid particular attention to the environmental costs or benefits which might have been under-
estimated or omitted in the original analysis, such as estuary changes, fisheries costs and benefits,
fuelwood and wildlife. Information reviewed or used at the time of appraisal, or as part of this
review, is contained in a wide range of documents both formal and informal.
Project Costs
9.    Construction Costs. The total economic investment cost has been estimated in this analysis
at Rs. 136.5 billion at the 1992 price level (see Table 17). The costs incurred before 1992 were
inflated to 1992 prices with construction GNP deflators. No physical contingencies were applied
for the costs almeady accrued. For future costs, physical contingency rates were re-estimated and
applied for different cost components (see Table 17).
10.   Dam       The dam construction period is 17 years. In real terms the currently estimated
cost of the dam, saddle dam and tunnel is lower than the original projection by about 4%. The cost
of the dam itself, on the basis of the bid price, was lower than the original projection (by about
6%) but some contingencies have been retained. The 17% share of the costs for the Narmada
Sagar Dam allocated to the SSP project were taken from estimates by the Narmada Valley
Development Authority.
11.   Opportunity Costs of Land. The SAR assumptions inflated to 1992 are used in deriving
the opportunity cost of the reservoir-submerged area and the area used by the canal system in the
CCA. An assumption for R&R costs of Rs. 150,000 per family for 25,000 families has been
used. This excludes land purchase costs which are treated as a transfer cost and also excludes
those elements of infrastructure in the resettlement village that go beyond what is a replacement
cost. Since both items are relatively small compared to the total costs, further elaboration on these
cost estimates is not considered worthwhile.
12.   power Costs: This item includes the updated power costs for the Riverbed and Canal Head
Power Houses, the weir, dikes, etc. and transmission. Transmission costs, including annualized
capital cost and O&M, were estimated and added. The annualized capital cost was estimated to be
about Rs. 400 million per year. The other assumptions of the SAR analysis remain unchanged.
13.   I       ra bin         This item includes updated cost estimates on the main canal,
branch canals, distribution system and command area development on the basis of recent contracts.
3     The Borrower does not acept this statement.



Annex-
190                               Page 4 of 
These suggest higher costs than originally estimated. These real cost increases have been projected
into the future in the analysis. However, it is believed that as a result of changes in the way the
contracts are packaged and improvements in efficiency with increasing experience, future unit costs
may be able to be reduced.
14.   Environment Costs (Net): Table 27 sets out each of the main environmental impacts with
a cost column, a benefit column and a net column in 1989 prices. In transferring these to the
overall economic analysis these have been adjusted to 1992 values. This table only includes items
either not covered, or inadequately covered, in the original analysis such as wildlife losses, public
health costs and benefits, cost of moving monuments. The original analysis did include a valuation
of forest loss and agricultural land loss. It omitted any possible fisheries losses in the estuary but
also omitted fisheries gains in the reservoir and command area. Both of these have now been
added. Catchment treatment costs are not included; catchment tteatment is needed with or without
the dam and carries its own benefits in terms of increased agricultural production. These have been
estimated in other catchment treatment projects in India to have adequate rates of return. The
evidence from surveys indicates that there are no rare or endangered species likely to suffer, but, to
be conservative, an amenity value for lost plants and wildlife and a separate minor forest products
value has been included over and above the opportunity cost value estimated for the lost forest
land. Summing all these items gives a value to the lost forest areas of Rs. 4,818 per ha per annum
in 1989 prices which is probably an over-estimate given the degraded nature of the forest aea. For
example, in the Gujarat ecosystem study area, the biomass of the forest areas is 16% of what it
would have been if those areas had been grade 1 forest. Furthermore, since most of the higher
measured biomass areas lie outside the submergence zone, the percentage would almost certainly
be lower for the submergence zone itself.
Benefits
15.   Power Benefts: The economic price of power was estimated as Rs. 1.39JkWh (see Table
14). This is higher in real terms than the original analysis. The willingness-to-pay approach used
in the SAR was followed in this analysis. Estimates on the willingness-to-pay and average prices
for the various segments of the power market were updated by using the findings of the latest
available study (SAR of Second Maharashtra Power Project). This methodology takes the
economic value of the average tariff in each consumer category and adds half the additional
economic cost of the alternative of private supply to account for the "consumer surplus".
16.   Build-up of Power Benefits: Power benefits are based on the same quantities of power
assumed in the original analysis. The original SAR equations were used to calculate the power
generation. Power benefits were assumned to start in 1997. Esfimates of water released for riverbed
power generation were obtained by deducting diversions from the total source of water, i.e., the
mean river flow minus the upstream diversion and the diversion of SSP. Due to expected delays in
upstream water development, the SAR estimate on upstream diversion was adjusted downward
substantially, with the diversion in 2026 reduced from 24,300 to 16,000 million m3. To factor in
the impact of the delays in the construction of the Narmada Sagar Dam, water released for power
generation was reduced by 25% during the first five years of the operations.
17.   The incremental power benefits are shown in Table 15. This is higher in real terms than the
original analysis. The Sardar Sarovar Project, while less able to meet purely peak and firm power
during the later years as the discharge of water becomes increasingly dictated by the irrigation
demands, can in the early years meet substantial quantities of peak power demand. However, to
be conservative, a peak power adjustment coefficient has not been used. The quantities of water
available for power (and irrigation) are likely to be greater in the earlier years than originally
projected since the rate of use of water upstream now seems likely to be lower than was assumed



Annex 3
191                                Page 5 of 8
in the original water modeUing, although it is the pattern of flow as well as the quantity that is
important4.
18.   Irrigation Benefits: The revised calculations assume the same incremental yield estimates
used in the original analysis. The original yield assumptions were reviewed and considered
reasonable: for example, in 20 years time, wheat yielding 3.5 tons/ha and paddy yielding 4.0
tons/ha. Yields in the less suitable soil areas, represented by three of the thirteen zones identified,
where there would be risk of waterlogging and salinity should the drainage investments and
conjunctive use for some reason fail to achieve the designed result, were adjusted downwards by
25% in the original analysis to allow for the more difficult conditions. This assumption was
maintained in the revised analysis. The original analysis assumed few high value crops (fruit and
vegetables together account for only about 4% of the area at full development). This assumption
was maintained in the revised analysis because of the spreading of water over a large area.
However, it would not be justified with a smaller command area particularly with the
industrialization of Gujarat and its likely orientation toward export markets in the future.
Furthermore, the original analysis allowed for little increased cropping intensity to use the large
surplus quantities of water that would be available for irrigation in the early years before the
irrigated command area is fuUy developed. This assumption was also maintained because it may
be preferable not to create water rights in the upstream areas of the command area which would be
difficult to withdraw at a later stage of development. It was assumed that excess water wil be used
mostly for power generation which in any case gives a better return than irrigation. No assumption
of improved efficiency of water use over time was made, although in reality it is likely that drip and
sprinkle irnigation will gradually increase provided water is appropriately priced.
19.   Build-up of Irrigation Benefits. Due to the delays in project implementation, irrigation
benefits are assumed to start in 1995, three years later than the SAR estimate. An 1 1-year
command area (CCA) development period is assumed compared to 10 years estimated by the
Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd.(SSNNL) and 12 years estimated in the SAR. Groundwater
development was also postponed by three years. The build-up pattem for each annual irrigation
block remains unchanged. The way this is handled within the model, i.e., adding one phased
build-up into another effectively, results in an irrigation development over about 15 years. To
derive the overall benefit pattern, analyses were carried out separately for the with and without
project cases, and are further divided to reflect the irrigated and rainfed conditions. Full project
completion is assumed by 2008/2009 as against 2003/2004 foreseen by the Boffower.
20.   Delays in the whole irrigation component would not reduce the overall economic rate of
return; in fact, it would raise it by allowing more water for a longer period to be used for high
value power generation. The irrigation outcome that would affect the economic rate of return more
would be if investments in irrigation command area development at the lower end of the system
were to lag significantly behind the expenditure on the main canal, branch canals and distributaries
at the upper end and the middle of the system, since under those circumstances the benefits would
be delayed in relation to the main investments. The prices used for the irrigation benefits are
updated to 1992 prices with grains priced at a neutral import/export parity price and cotton at export
parity. Non-traded commodity prices such as vegetables and legumes are at estimated 1992 prices.
21.   MuniciDal and Industrial (M&I) Water Benefits: It had been appreciated at the time of the
earlier analysis that the value of M&I water was considerably underestimated. Following further
study and discussions with consultants there remains a methodological difficulty which has
significant implications (on the positive side) for the economics of the project The difficulty is that
on the scale proposed for M&I water there simply are no practical and reliable water supply
4     The Borrower does not accept the assumption that development upstram may be slower than originally
projected.



A3x-
192                               age 6 of 8
altematives to the project which would be valid for a least-cost alternative calculation. A smaller
open canal conveyance for M&I water alone from the Narmada River would appear, in theory, to
be the lowest cost alternative. However, in practice it is considered unworkable since the water
would get diverted en route by farmers. It is also extremely costly. Piping water is even more
costly. Desalinization would appear to be the only practical alternative, but this is also very costly.
The lack of viable altematives suggests a high value for M&I water.
22.   The valuation of domestic water in the original analysis appears low in relation to likely
willingness-to-pay criteria and the social adjustment alternatives in its absence which presumably
would require at least a portion of the people to move out of the area. (The original valuation in
1992 prices at the point of intake into the local system was only Rs. 0.96 per m3 at the start of the
project period (i.e., less than three-hundredths of a US cent per m3 rising over 30 years with
increasing water scarcity to Rs. 3.68 per m3 (about one-tenth of a US cent per m3. This appears to
be a substantial underestimate given the severe impacts of recent droughts on these areas which
required trucking of water to villages and senious losses of livestock).
23.   For the purposes of this analysis, the original SAR methodology was adopted but the cost
was escalated by assuming one-third of the water would come from desalinization. The present
value of the M&I water is thus raised by about 60% in real terms over the SAR estimate. The M&I
water benefits stream is given in Table 15. Further work on this valuation is needed. This is a
case where there are no alternatives on the same scale.
24.   Fuelwood Benefits: Benefits from fuelwood production from canal-side and on-farm trees
were omitted in the original analysis. It is estimated that there will be about 36,000 ha of canal-
side plantations and a substantial incremental number of on-farm trees per hectare growing at a
faster rate than in the "without project" drylands situation due to the irrigation. Fuelwood is valued
at Rs. 500 per ton and poles at Rs. 30 per piece. Average net revenue from the canal-side
plantations with 50% of production going for poles and 50% for fuelwood is estimated at Rs.
4,132 per ha. Average incremental net benefits from fuelwood/pole production from on-farm trees
is estimated at Rs. 150 per hectare per year for the 1.8 million ha command area. Benefits would
reach their maximum level in the year 2010. Costs have been deducted to derive net benefits.
25.   Fisheres Benefits: Fisheries benefits and costs were omitted in the original analysis. Costs
of possible fisheries losses in the estuary are included in the Environment Costs column (Table
21). Potentially, fisheries net benefits are significant due to the large volume of water and the
water control available from the project and due to the high and rising value of fish, with pond-
grown prawns as a high value export product. The projected benefits would come from the
following sources: (a) the reservoir itself, (b) canals, (c) the development of fish and prawn ponds
within the command area, (d) possibly the development of shrimp production using drainage water
to regulate the salinity in brackish water ponds near the sea, and (e) cage fisheries in both reservoir
and canals. Assumptions are from the analyses done for the fisheries component of the earlier
proposed Narmada Basin Development Project: reservoir yield to stabilize at 50 kg per hectare
after an initial trophic burst and subsequent trophic depression phase; 2000 ha of fish ponds and
1000 ha of prawn ponds by Year 21 with net benefits rising thereafter at 4% annually; associated
fish production at 30% of the net benefit level of prawns; a small canal cage and capture fishery;
and, development costs (plans are already quite far advanced) of Rs. 150 million over 8 years with
continued operating costs thereafter.
Econoniic Rate of Return
26.   The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is estimated at 12.4% (Table 22) which, as noted
earlier, falls within the acceptable range for a large multi-purpose regional project of this type. In a
recent study on India (Hazell and Haggblade 1990) the multiplier effect was estimated at Rs. 0.66



Annex 3
193                               Page 7 of 8
value added in non-farm activities in rural areas and rural towns for every Rs. 1.00 value added in
agriculture and Rs. 0.86 value added in the national non-farm economy. Furthermore, the
multiplier was found to be higher in irrigation than rainfed agriculture and to rise over time with
increasing development (e.g., the multiplier was Rs. 1.06 in Punjab). With respect to a decision
about whether to continue the projects (dam and irrigation) beyond this point in time, assuming
costs already expended are sunk costs, the ERR of the project is about 17.4%. As a power project
alone, the ERR of SSP is 14.2%. Tables 30, 31, and 32 give results of sensitivity analyses. As
indicated by the tables, because of the multi-purpose nature, the project is relatively stable to
changed assumptions.
27.   The ERR of SSP without the Narmada Sagar Dam would depend on what other related
changes occur above Sardar Sarovar Dam and in the command area development in response to an
indefinite delay in constructing Narmada Sagar. There are many different scenarios, most of
which would require further water modelling to define. No modelling of a 'Sardar Sarovar Dam
only" scenario was run since it was part of an integrated package of developments. However,
assuming delays in Narmada Sagar, approximations can be made. Assuming that, without
Narmada Sagar, the irrigation benefits at Sardar Sarovar would be reduced by a flat rate of 30%
and power by a flat rate of 25% for the full 50-year analysis period (these are somewhat greater
reductions than the modelling actually indicated), assuming that the projected water use upstream
would develop as originally modelled in accordance with the NWDT water allocations to the
participating states, and assuming that the command area investments would be adjusted in the
following way: by lowering main canal expenditure by 0% (i.e., assuming the whole canal would
be completed), branch canals by 15%, and all investments below that by 25%, the ERR for the
Sardar Sarovar Projects would fall by a little over 1%. Note that reductions in the size of the
command area have a positive impact on the ERR since they release water for the higher value
power benefit5.
Discussion
28.   Economic analysis needs to be tempered with sensible judgmenL Do these results appear
sensible given the changes since the original analysis? Yes, they appear to be. Costs have not
escalated dramatically in real terms, as many critics have suggested. The original analysis allowed
for quite substantial physical contingencies despite the advanced state of design of the dam. Those
items such as resettlement (R&R) and environmental costs, which are now valued at considerably
higher levels, are not large relative to the substantial scale of the overall project cost and benefit
streams; R&R, for example, represents even now less than 5% of the total project cost and
environmental costs are less. Increased land values for R&R, one of the main escalation items
usually quoted as being damaging to the economics, do not in fact affect the economics at all since
these are simply transfer costs within the economy. Catchment treatment costs, often said to be an
environmental cost to the dam, are not a valid economic cost because such catchment treatment
carries its own benefit stream in terms of increased agricultural production from moisture
conservation and reduced on-site erosion and adequate economic rates of return are anticipated
from such projects elsewhere in India.
29.   With respect to sensitivity to environmental parameters, if higher than projected
environmental costs in and around the submergence zone or in the estuary were to have a
significant effect on lowering the ERR, they would have to be orders of magnitude higher than
they appear to be. This would only appear to be conceivable if there was a very rare plant or
animal species threatened with extinction and accorded a very high value.
5     TMe Bonower notes that the NWDT had estiated a reduction of 17.8% in the SSP benefits without the
regulated releases from the Narmada Sagar Resevoir. Thl Bofrower further indicae that there is no
possibility for reducing the gize of the command area.



Annex 3
194                                 Page 8 of 8
30.   Table 22 gives results of sensitivity tests to implementation delays. Any future delays in
the development of the irrigation command area will not affect the ERR much unless they are
delays in the final stage of developing the distributary and on-farm elements relative to the
investments on the main and branch canals. This is a scheduling issue which project management
is aware of and which management information systems are designed to deal with. The multi-
purpose characteristics of the project give considerable economic stability because any delays in
development of the irrigation system, which in a pure irrigation project would have a serious
impact on the economics, would in this project leave more water for the higher value power
component.
31.   With respect to altemadves, a number of alternative dam sizes, dam numbers and locations
were considered by the Narmada Tribunal, which sat for ten years. The small dam alternative often
suggested is not an alternative in the sense that small dams could replace the Sardar Sarovar Dam.
The typical technical and economic characteristics of small dams are well known (economic rates of
return have often in fact been marginal; for example the Kamataka Tanks Project gave an ERR of at
most 4%). They cannot in this part of India provide the scale of benefits sought because the
number of efficient dam sites do not exist, nor could small dans provide water from the Narmada
Basin to Gujarat on any scale. Furthermore, their biggest drawback is that it is in precisely those
years which both people and governments are currently most concerned about - the dry years --
when the value of production and domestic water is at a premium, that the small dams fail because
they do not fill and cannot carry water across years. They are a useful complement but they cannot
deal with the scale of India's needs. Groundwater is also not an alternative; it is a complement
which has in fact been designed into the project to establish a conjunctive use strategy6.
6     Conjunctive use can be defined as the optimum use of surface water, groundwater and rainfall under
conditions wben the only significant pracicaj public intervention is the way that water is distributed in
time and space in the surface system.



IdUle   I
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysis
Derivation of Economic Prices of Tradable Crops and Fertilizers
Paddy   Wheat   Cotton  Cotton GroundnuNltrogen Phos-   Potash
(medium)(short)
Worldamrket price 1995 a/            S/ton        276      157    1484   1,484      297      162     127      114
Ouality adjustment   -               X             90     100       90       54     100      100     100      100
worldnarket equivalent               S/ton        248     157   1,336      801      297      162     127      114
international shipping              S/ton          0        0    (140)   (130)        0      50       65      65
ciF/Fro  price, Bombay               S/ton        248     157   1,196      671      297      212     192      179
CIF/FOB price, Bombay b/             Rs/ton    6,499   4,110  31,325  17,590   7,781   5,559   5,036   4,702
DomestIc handlinq/transpt.           Rs/ton       671     567    (464)   (438) (1,032)    774        774      774
Processing ratlo C/                  X             66    l1o        35       33      68       46      48       60
Value of by-product d/               As/ton         0       0   2,200   2,200         0        0       0        0
Processing ratio by-product          X              0       0       65       6?       0        0        0       0
Processing cost                      Rs/ton      (284)      0  (1.032) (1,032) (1,135)         0        0       0
Wholesale price rau product          Rs/ton    4,448   4,678  11,200   6,102   3,455  13,767  12,103   9,127
Transport from farmgate              Rs/ton      (129)   (129)   (335)   (335)   (181)         0       0        0
Farmgate price                       Rs/ton    4,319   4,549  10,864   5,767   3,274  13,767  12,103   9,127
say              Rs/ton    4,320   4,550  10,860   5,770   3,270  13,770  12,100   9,130
..........................................................................................................
a/ IBRD comnodity pprice forecasts, November 1992, In constant 1992 USS.
Wheat: Canadlan No. 1, Western Red Spring, FOB Thunder Bay
Rice: Thai, milled, 5% broken, fOtt Bangkok                                                                                                                                 %D
Cotton- (outlook "A" Index), Middling (1-3/32"), Cif Europe                                                                                                                 tn
Groundnuts: any origin, shelled, CIF Europe
Nitrogen: Urea, bagged, FOe N.U. Europe
Phosphate: Triple Super Phosphate, bulk, rOB US Gulf
Potash: Murlate of Potash, bulk, FOB Vancouver
b/ At RS per USS
c/ Nutrlent content for fertilizers
d/ Cotton seeds for cotton, domestic wholesale price estimate, In economic terms
I



,tl IA                        Table 2
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysis
SumEnry of Prices for Economic and flinancial Analysis
(in constant 1992 ruppees)
,,,,,,,,,,,,...   ..,_._....................    __... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .
Seeds
EconomicFinancial        EconomicFinancial
(Rs/ton)(Rs/ton)         (Rs/kg) (Rs/kg)
Crops
Paddy                       4,320   4,164             6.65    4.52
Wheat                       4,550   4,620             5.68    4.73
Sorghum (local)             3.550   3,545             4.52    4.52
Sorghum (hybrid)            3,335   3.333            14.62   18.28
Pearl millet                4,469   4,466            14.62   18.28
Pigeon Pea                  9,722   9,715             7.96    7.96
Gram                        9,917   9.910             6.59    6.88
Hung Beans                  9,006   9.000            12.25    9.03
Cluster Beans               7,850   9.715             6.36    7.96
Groundnut                   3,270  11,156            14.84   16.13
Mustard                     8.382   9,111            14.54   16.13
Castor leans                7.930   6.908            13.11   11.40
Cotton (short staple)        5770  12,141             2.46    4.73
Cotton (mediua Staple)    10,860  14.474            146.22  182.17
Tobacco ( 91di')            8,146  10,183            0.034    0.04
Sugarcane                     404     505             0.24    0.30
Bananas                     1,290   1,613             0.28    0.34
Chitlies                   28,800  36,000           189.22  236.53                                                                                              0.
Ohlons                      1,290   1.613            94.61  118.27
Potatoes                    1,634   2,043             3.61    4.52
Fodder sorghui                215     269             4.52    4.52
Fodder Lucerne                378     473            27.52   34.40
Inpputs
Nitrogen                   13,770   7.642
Phosphate                  12,100   7,642
Potash                      9,130   6.209
Compost                        34       43
Labor (person-day)           16.8    25.0
Buttocks (palrday)             52      65
-1`
pi0
ca
I 



Table 3
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
............ . .... ....... ............. .....
Update of Economic Analysis
Crop Input and Output Data: Present Situotlon
(per hectare)
Crop                     Season  Yield    By-    Seeds      N       P       K   Compost Chemicel Labor  Buttocks Misc.
product
(tons)   (Rs)    (kg)       (.     kg  .)   (tons)   (Rs)  (mandays(palrday  (Rs)
.... .... .......................... ......................................................... ... ... ...... .......... .......... .......... ........... .
Paddy rainfed a/           Kharif     0.9      320      50      2d       0       0       3       0      75      12      20
Paddy rainfed b/           Kharif    1.35      490      50      40       0       0       5       0      91      12      25
Paddy Irrigated r/         Kharif      1.8    320       60      60       0       0       5       0     110      13     200
Paddy Irrigated b/         Kherif     2.5      450      60      80      20       0       6      30     140      14    250
Wheat rainfed               Rabi     0.55       90      70      10       0       0       0       0      44       9      25
Wheat irrigated             Rabl       2.2     330     110      60      35      10       1      10      70      10    240
Sorghum raenfed a/         Kherif    0.75      150      25      10       0       0       2       0      60       a      so
Sorghum ralnfed b/         Kharif     0.4       80      25      10       0       0       1       0      50       8      30
Sorghus rfd.HYV             Rabi       1.5     220      10      30      20       0       2      50      70      10     120
Sorghum Irrigated          Kharif      1.1     220      25      20       0       0       2      30      75       9     120
Pearimiltet rfd.a/         Kharif    0.65      130       5      15       0       0       2       0      55      10      80
Pearlmiltet rfd.b/         Kherlf     0.7      140       5      20       0       0       2       0      58      10      90
Pearimillet Irr.           Kharif       2      390       5      60      30      15       3     100      so      12      110
Pearlmillet Irr.            Not       2.5      490       5      90      50      20       3      75      95      13      140
Pigeon pea rainfed        2-sessn     0.6      190      15      10       0       0       3      120     75      10       50
Pigeon pea Irrig.         2-sessn        1    240       15      20      20       0       3     160      85       12      60
Gram rainfed                Rabi     0.65       35      60       5      10       0       0       0      60       10      25
Mung rainfed                Iabi     0.35       20      18      18       0       0       2       0      55       10      30                                          F1
Cluster bean rfd.          Kharif    0.45      100      20       0       0       0       1       0      35       9       35                                           QD
Groundnut rfd.             Kharif    0.85        0     100      15      35      10       8      50      60       12     120
Mustard rainfed             Rsbi      0.5        0       3      10       5       0       0       0      50       10      35
Mustard Irrigated           Rabi      0.8        0       3      25      10       0       0      50      54       11      50
Castor bean rfd.          2-sessn      1.1       0      10      20      10       0       2      50      70       12      50
Cotton rainfed c/         2-sessn     0.4        0      14      10       0       0       2       0      43       10      45
Cotton Irrig. d/          2-sessn      1.1       0       3      80      40       0       4    1400      135      12     100
Tobacco rainfed           2-sessn     0.8       0   15000      100       0       0       4       0      125      10     150
Tobacco irrigated         2-sessn       2       0   15000      200       0       0       8       0     220       15     400
Fodder sorghmn rfd.        Kharif       15      0       30      30      15       0       2       0      70        8      60
Fodder sorghum Irr.        Kharif      30       0       30      60      30       0       3       0      100       9     100
........................... .......................................................
note: Byproduct value and chemical cost are In 1984 prices.
ID



lable 4
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysis
Crop Input and Output Data: Future with Project
(per hectare, Irrigated crops only)
Crop                       Season  Yield    By-    Seeds       h        P        x    Compost Chemical Labor  Bullocks Misc.
product              ....................
(tons)   (Rs)    (kg)         (.     kg..          (tons)  (Is)  (aandays(peIrday  (Rs)
Irrigated Crops
...............
Paddy HYv                    kharif    4.00       650      60      125      40        0        8      50     200       Is     300
Wheat HrV                     Rabi      3.50      500     120       90      50       15        1      20      100      12      300
Sorghui  NYV                 Kharif    2.60       260      15       65      35        0        2     150       90      10      150
Sorghu¶  HrV                  Rabi      3.10      310      15       70      40        0       2       70       95      10      150
Pearl Millet NYV             thorif    2.70       530       5       70      35       20        3     120       95      12      140
Pearl MiIIet HYV            Hot-seas   3.10       600       5       90      50       20        3      75      100      13      140
Plgeon pea                  2-seensn   1.60       300      20       40      40        0        3     200      100      13      120
Gram                        Rebi        1.60       85      60       25      50        0       0      200       70       12     175
Grourdout                   Kharif      2.00      440     100       20      40       20        8     350       90       14     150
Grourdnut                   Hot sees   2.30       510     100       25      50       25        a      so      100       14     180
Mustard                     Rabi        1.50        0       3       45       20       0        0     125       65       12     120
Castor bean                 2-sessn    2.00         0      10       55      20        0        4     125       95       14     130
Cotton med.staple           2-sessn    2.40         0       3      125      65       20        6   2,000      200       13     250
Tobacco                     2-sensn    2.40         0  15.000      200       0        0       10       0      250       15     300
Sugarcane                   Perennia  90.00       100  10.000      300      120      50       20      90      290      25   3,000
Bananas                     Perennia  30.00         0   3,600      360      145     720       50     200      250      22   1,200
Chillies                    2-seasn    1.30         0       2       50      50       40       15     800      225       10     600
Vegetable (onions)          Rabl       20.00        0      10      100      60       60       25     220      265      20      Boo                                             co
Vegetable (potato)          Rabi       30.00        0   2.200      170      120     120       15     215      230       24     650
Fodder sorghum              Kharif    40.00         0      30       so      40        0        4       0      120       16     120
Lucerne                     2-seasn   40.00         0      25       30      80        0        0     270      195       20     210
Rainfed Crops
Paddy rainfed a/             Kharif   1.125       400    62.5       25        0       0    3.75        0   93.75        15      25
Paddy rainfed b/             Kharif  1.6875   612.5    62.5         50        0       0    6.25        0  113.75        15   31.25
uheat rainfed                 Rabi   0.6875   112.5    87.5    12.5           0       0        0        0      55   11.25   31.25
Sorghum rainfed a/           Kharif  0.9375   187.5   31.25    12.5           0       0      2.5       0       75       10     100
Sorghu.n rainfed b/          Kharif      0.5      100   31.25    12.5         0       0    1.25        0    62.5        10    37.5
Sorghum rid.MIV               Rabi    1.875       275    12.5    37.5        25       0      2.5    62.5    87.5    12.5       150
Pearlmillet rfd.a/           Kharif  0.8125   162.5    6.25   18.75           0       0      2.5        0   68.75    12.5      100
Pearimillet rfd.b/           Kharif   0.875       175    6.25       25        0       0      2.5        0    72.5    12.5   112.5
Pigeon pea rainfed          2-seasn    0.75   237.5   18.15    12.5           0       0    3.75 - 50   93.75    12.5    62.5
Gram ruinfed                  Rabl   0.8125   43.75        75    6.25    12.5         0        0        0      75    12.5   31.25                                               H
mung rainfed                  Rabi   0.4375        25    22 5    22.5         0       0      2.5        0   68.75    12.5    37.5
Cluster bean rfd.            Kharif  0.5625       125      Z5        0        0       0    1.25         0   43.75   11.25   43.75
Groundnut rld.               Kharif  1.0625         0     125   18.75   43.75    12.5         10    62.5       75       15     150
Mustard rainfed               Rabi    0.625         0    3.75    12.5    6.25         0        0        0    62.5    12.5   43.75
Castor bean rid.            2-seasn   1.375         0    12.5       25    12.5        0      2.5    62.5    87.5        15    62.5
Cotton ralnfed c/           2-seasn      0.5        0    17.5    12.5         0        0     2.5        0   53.75    12.5   56.25
Tobacco rainfed             2-seasn        1        0   18750      125        0       0        5        0  156.25    12.5   187.5
Fodder sorghLn rfd.          Kharif   15.75         0    37.5    37.5   18.75         0      2.5        0    87.5       10      75
....        ....................,.......................                                            ... .....................
Rotet Pyproduct value and chemical cost are In 1984 prices.



NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENI-GUJARAT
.. ...... ........ ......................
Update of Economic Analysis
Economic Crop Budgets: Present Situatlon
(per hectare)
......................................................................................................................  ........................................................................................................
Inputts
Gross  ...................................................... . .    .      .      .     ...           Met       Net
Crop                         Season  Return  Seeds         N         P        K    Compost Chemical Bullock Misc.   Total   Labor   Income  Return
..................................................................................... ........................................................................................................................... ....................
IrrIgated
Paddy Irrigated a/             Kharif   8,032         401      826         0        0      172        0      671       160   2.230   1,643   5,802   3,960
Paddy Irrigated b/             Kharif   11,160        401    1,102       242        0      206       24       722      200   2,897   2.345   8,263   5,918
Wheat Irrigated                  Rabf   10,274        624      826       424       91       34         8     516       192   2,716    1, 173    7,558   6,386
Sorghum  Irrigated             Kharif   4,082         113      275   -    0         0       69       24      464        96   1.042   1,256   3,040   1,784
Pearlmitlet irr.               Kharif   9,250          73      826       363      137      103       80      619       e8    2.290    1,340   6,961    5,621
Pearlmillet irr.                 Hot    11.565         73   1,239        605      183      103       60      671       112   3,046    1,591    8,519   6,928
Pigeon pea irrig.             2-seasn   9,914         119      275       242        0      103       128      619       48   1.535    1,424   8,379   6.955
Mustard Irrigated                Rabi    6,706         45      344       121        0        0       40      568        40   1,157       905   5,548   4,644
Cotton Irrig. d/              2-sersn  11,946         439    1,102       454        0      138   1,120       619        80   3,981    2,261    7,965   5,704
Tobacco Irrigated             2-sessn  16,293         516   2,754          0        0      275        0       774      320   4,639   3,685  11,654   7,969
fodder sorghum  irr.           Kharif   6,450         136      826       363        0      103        0      464        80   1,972    1,675   4,478   2,803
Ralnted
Paddy rainfed a/               Kharif   4,144         334      275         0        0      103         0      619       16   1,348    1.256   2,796   1,540
Paddy rainfed b/               Kharif   6,224         334      551         0        0      172         0      619       20   1,696    1.524   4,528   3,004
Wheat rainfed                    Rabl    2,575        397      138         0        0        0         0      464       20   1,019        737    1,555      5l1
Sorghun rainfed a/             Kharif   2,783         113      138         0        0       69        0      413        64      796   1,005    1,987        952
Sorghum ralnfed b/             Kharif    1,484        113      138         0        0       34         0      413       24      722       838      762       (75)
Sorghum rfd.HYV                 Rabi    5,179         146      413       242        0       69       40       516       96   1,522    1,173   3,657   2,484
Pearimillet rfd.a/             Kharif   3,009          73      207         0        0       69         0      516       64      928       921    2,050    1,159
Pearlmillet rfd.b/             Kharlf   3,240          73      275         0        0       69         0      516       72   1,005        972   2,235    1, 264
Pigeon pea ralnfed            2-teasn   5,985         119      138         0        0      103       96       516       40   1,012    1,256   4,973   3,716
Gram rainfed                    Rabi    6,474         413       69       121        0        0         0      516       20   1,139   1,005    5,335   4,330
Hung ralnfed                     Rabi    3.168        221      248         0        0       69         0      516       24   1,078        921    2,090    1,169
Cluster bean rfd.              Kharif   3,612         127         0        0        0       34         0      464        28      654      586   2,958   2,372
Groundnut rfd.                 Kharif   2,780   1,484          207       424       91      275        40      619        96   3,235    1,005       (456) (1,461)
Mustard rainfed                  Rabi    4,191         45      138        61        0         0        0      516        28      757      838   3,404    2,567
Castor bean rfd.              2-sensn   8,723         131      275       121        0       69       40       619       40   1,295    1,173   7,428   6,255
Cotton rainfed c/             2-seasn    2,308         34      138         0        0       69         0      516        36      793      720    1,515       795
Tobacco rainfed               2-seasn    6,517        516    1,377         0        0      138         0      516      120   2,667   2,094    3,850    1,757
fodder sorghum  rfd.           Kharif   3,225         136      413       182        0       69         0      413       48   1,260    1,173    1,965         793
.      .......  .  ....       . ... .  .  .  ........  .    .   . ......      . ..   ..   . . .  .. ..  . . .... .. . .. ..    .   .    .  .        .  .    .   . . .. .....  . ......      ..          .  ..H 



NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPHENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysis
Economic Crop Budgets: Future uith Project
(per hectare)
Inputs
Gross  -----et                                                                                     et
Crop                     Season  Return  Seeds      N       P       K    Compost Chemical  Bullock misc.   Total   Labor   Income  Return
.  ...................................... ......................................................................................  ........  .................. ...................  . . .......................................
irrigated Crops
........  ........... 
Paddy HYV                  Kharif  17,800      401   1,721     484       0     275      40    774      240  3,935   3,350  13,865  10,515
Uhert HYV                   Rabi   16,325      681   1,239     605     137      34      16    619      240   3,572   1,675  12,753  11,078
Sorghum HYV                Kharif   8,880      219     895     424       0      69     120    516      120   2,363   1,508   6,517   5,010
Sorghum HYV                 Rabl   10,588      219     964     484       0      69      56     516     120   2,428   1,591   8,159   6,568
PearL Millet HrV           Kharif  12,491       73    964      424     183     103      96    619      112   2,574   1,591   9,917   8,326
Pearl Miltet HYV          Hot-seas 14,334       73   1,239     605     183     103      60    671      112   3,046   1,675  11,288   9,613
Pigeon pea                2-sesnsn 15,795      159    551      484       0     103     160    671       96   2,224   1,675  13,571  11,896
Gram                      Rabi      15,935     413     344     605       0       0     160    619       140  2,282   1,173  13,653  12,481
Grourdnut                 Kharif    6,892   1,484      275     484     183     275     280     722      120  3,823   1,508   3,069   1,561
Groundnut                 Hot seas  7,929   1,484      344     605     228     275      64     722      144  3,867   1,675   4,062   2,387
mustard                   Rabi      12,573      45     620     242       0       0      100    619      96   1,721   1,089  10,852   9,763
Castor bean               2-sessn  15,861  .  131      757     242       0     138    100      722      104  2,194   1,591  13,666  12,075
Cotton med.staple         2-seasn  26,064      439   1,721     787     183     206   1,600    671      200   5,806   3,350  20,258  16,908
tobacco                   2-seasn  19,551      516   2,754       0       0     344       0     774     240   4,628   4,188  14,923  10,736
Sugarcene                 Perennis 36,680   2,408   4,131   1,452      457     688      72   1,290   2,400  12,898   4,858  23,782  18,925
Bananas                   Perennis 38,700      991   4,957   1,755   6,574   1,720      160   1,135     960  18,251   4,188  20,449  16,261
Chillies                  2-sessn  37,440      378     689     605     365     516    640      516      480   4,189   3,769  33,251  29,482
Vegetable (onlons)        Rnbi      25,800     946   1,377     726     548     860      176   1,032     640   6,305   4,439  19,495  15,056
Vegetable (potato)        Rabl     49,020   7,947   2,341   1,452   1,096      516      172   1,238     520  15,282   3,853  33,738  29,885
fodder sorghut            Kharif    8,600      136   1,102     484       0     138       0     826      96   2,780   2,010   5,820   3,810
Lucerne                   2-sessn  15,136      688     413     968       0       0     216   1,032      168  3,485   3,266  11.651   8,385
Rainfed Crops
*        Paddy rainfed a/            Kharif  5,180      418     344       0       0      129       0     774      20   1,685   1,570   3,495   1,925
Paddy rainfed b/           Kharif   7,780      418     689       0       0     215       0      774      25   2,120   1,905   5,660   3,754
Wheat rainfed               Rnbi    3,218      497     172       0       0       0        0     581      25   1,274     921   1,944   1,023
Sorghum rainfed n/         Kharif   3,479      141     172       0       0      86       0      516      80    995   1,256   2,483   1,227
Sorghum rainfed b/         Kharif   1,855      141     172       0       0      43       0      516      30     902   1,047     953      (94)
Sorghum rfd.HYV             Rabl    6,474      183     516     303       0      86      50      645     120   1,903   1,466   4,571   3,105
Peartmillet rfd.a/         Kharlf   3,761       91     258       0       0      86        0     645      80   1,161   1,152   2,601   1,449
Pearimillet rfd.b/         Kharif   4,050       91     344       0       0      86        0     645      90   1,257   1,214   2,794   1,579
Pigeon pea rainfed        2-seasn   7,481      149     172       0       0      129     120    645       50   1,265   1,570   6,216   4,646
Gram rainfed                Rabi    8,092      516      86     151       0       0        0     645      25   1,424   1,256   6,669   5,412
Mung rainfed                Rabi    3,960      276     310       0       0       86       0     645      30   1,347   1,152   2,613   1,462
Cluster bean rfd.          Kharlf   4,515      159       0       0       0       43       0     581      35     818     733   3,698   2,965
Groundnut rid.              Kharif   3,474   1,855     258     529      114     344      50     774     120   4,044   1,256    (570) (1,826)
mustard rainfed              Rabi    5,239      56     172      76       *0       0       0     645      35     983   1,047   4,255   3,209
Castor been rfd.          2-seasn  10,904      164     344     151       0       86      50     774      50   1,619   1,466   9,285   7,819                          0"
Cotton rainfed c/          2-seasn   2,885      43     172       0       0       86       0     645      45     991     900   1,894      994
Tobacco rainfed           2-sessn   8,146      645   1,721       0       0      172       0     645     150   3,333   2,617   4,813   2,196
fodder sorghun rfd.        Kharlif  4,031      169     516     227       0       86       0     516      60   1,575   1,466   2,457      991
.............................. ................................   ._ ....................................................................



NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysis
ffnancla Crop Budgets: Present Situation
(per hectare)
... .. .... ...... ........ ...............   ........... ................    ....................................    . .... ......  ,....... .............  *................... ...................... 
Inputc
Gross  ---------------------------------------------------------------------             Net      Net
Crop                     Season  Return  Seeds      N       P       K    Compost Chemical Bullock Misc.   Total   Labor   Income  Return
..........................................................................................................................................
Irrigated
Paddy irrigated a/         Kharif   7,815      271     458       0       0     215       0    839      200   1.983   2.750   5,832   3,082
Paddy irrigated b/         Kharif  10,860      271     611     153       0     258      30    903      250   2, 476   3,500   8,384   4,884
wheat Irrigated             Rabi   10,494      520     458     267      62      43      10    645      240   2,246   1.750   8,248   6,498
Sorghum irrigated          Kharlf  4,123       113     153       0       0      86      30    S81      120   1,052   1,875   3.041   1,166
Pearimitlet Irr.           Kharif   9,322       91     458     229      93     129     100    774      110  1,985   2,000   7,337   5,337
Pearlmillet Irr.            Hot    11,655       91     688     382     124     129      75    839      140  2,468   2,375   9,187   6,812
Pigeon pea irrig.         2-seasn   9,955      119     153     153       0     129     160    774       60   1,548   2,125   8,407   6,282
Mustard Irrigated           Rabi    7,289       48     191      76       0       0      50     710      50   1,125   1,350   6,163   4,813
Cotton Irrig. d/          2-seasn  15,921      548     611     306       0     172   1,400     774      100  3,911   3,375  12,010   8,635
Tobacco irrigated         2-seasn  20,366      645   1,528       0       0     344       0     968     400  3,885   5,500  16,481  10,981
Fodder sorghum Irr.        Kharif   8,063      135     458     229       0     129       0    581      100   1,633   2,500   6,430   3,930
Rainfed
Paddy rainfed a/           Kharif   4,068      226     1S3       0       0     129       0      774      20   1,302   1,875   2,766     891
Paddy rainfed b/           KherIf   6,111      226     306       0       0     215       0      774      25   1,545   2,275   4,566   2,291
wheat ralnfed               Rabi    2,631      331      76       0       0       0       0    581        25   1,013   1,100   1,618     518
Sorghum rainfed a/         tharif   2,811      113      76       0       0      86       0    516       80    871   1,500   1,940       440
Sorghum rainfed b/         Kharif   1, 49      113      76       0       0      43       0     516      30      778   1,250     721    (529)                  O
Sorghum rfd.HVV             Rabi    5,220      183     229     153       0      86      50     645      120   1,466   1,750   3,754   2,004
Pearimiltet rfd.a/         Kharif   3,033       91     115       0       0      86       0     645       80   1,017   1,375   2,016     641
Pearlmillet rfd.b/         Kharif   3,266       91     153       0       0      86       0      645      90   1,065   1,450   2,201     751
Pigeon pea rainfed        2-seasn   6,019      119      76       0       0     129      120    645       50   1,140   1,875   4,879   3,004
Gram rainfed                Rabi    6,477      413      38      76       0       0       0      645      25   1,197   1,500   5,279   3,779
Hung rainfed                Rabi    3,170      163     138       0       0      86       0      645      30   1,061   1,375   2,109      734
Cluster bean rfd.          Kharif   4,472      159       0       0       0      43       0     581       35     518     875   3,654   2,779
Groundnut rfd.             Kharif   9,508   1,613      115     267      62     344      50      774     120  3,345   1,500   6,163   4,663
Mustard rainfed             Rabi    4,556       48      76      38       0       0        0     645      35    843   1,250   3,712   2,462
Castor bean rfd.          2-seasn   7,599      114     153      76       0      86       50     774      50   1,303   1,750   6,296   4,546
Cotton rainfed c/         2-sensn   4,856       66      76       0       0      86        0     645      45    919   1,075   3,938   2,863
tobacco rainfed           2-seasn   8,146      645     764       0       0      172      0      645     150   2,376   3,125   5,770   2,645
Fodder sorghum rfd.        Kharif   4,031      135     229     115       0      86       0      516   - 60   1,141   1,750   2,890   1,140




NARHADA RIVER DEVELOPHENT-GUJARAT
.............. ...................
Update of Economic Analysis
financial Crop Budgets: Future ulth Project
(per hectare)
..  ..........  ....................  ......................  ................................................  .............................................................................................. .........................
Inp&Jts
Gross  ----------      ----- ------------------------------ ----              --            Net      met
Crop                      Season  Return  Seeds      N        P       K    Compost Chemlcal Bullock Mlsc    Total   Labor   Income  Return
........................................    ......................................................................................................................................... ................................... 
Irrigated Crops
...............
Paddy HYV                   Kharif  17,306      271      955     306       0     344       50     968     300   3.193   5,000  14,113   9,113
Wheat NYV                    Rabi   16,670      568      688     382      93       43      20     774     300   2,868   2,500  13,802  11,302
Sorghum HYV                 Kharif   5,926      274     497      267       0      86      150     645     150   2,069   2,250   6,856   4,606
Sorghun HYV                  Rabi   10,642      274      535     306       0      86       70     645      150   2,066   2,375   8,577   6,202
Pearl Millet HYV            Kharif  12,588       91      535     267     124      129     120     774      140   2,181   2,375  10,407   8,032
Pearl Millet UYV           Hot-seas 14,445       91      688     382      124     129      75     839      140   2,468   2,500  11,977   9,477
Pigeon pea                 2-sesnsn 15,844      159      306     306       0      129     200     839      120   2,058   2,500  13,786  11,286
Gram                       Rabi      15,941     413      191     382       0        0     200     774      175   2,135   1,750  13,806  12,056
Groundnut                  KharIf   22,812   1,613       153     306     124      344     350     903      150   3,942   2,250  18,870  16,620
Groundnut                  Hot seas 26,238   1,613       191     382     155      344      80     903      180   3,848   2,500  22,390  19,890
Mustard                    Rabi      13,667      48      344     153       0        0     125     774      120   1,564   1,625  12,102  10,477
Castor bean                2-sessn  13,816      114      420     153       0      172     125     903      130   2,017   2,375  11,799   9,424
Cotton med.staple          2-sessn  34,738      548      955     497     124      258   2,000     839      250   5,471   5,000  29,267  24,267
Tobacco                    2-seasn  24,439      645   1,528        0       0     430        0     968      300   3,871   6,250  20,568  14,318
Sugarcane                  Perennia 45,850   3,010   2,292       917     310      860      90   1,613   3,000  12,093   7,250  33,757  26,507
Bananas                    Perennla 48,375   1,239   2,751   1,108   4,470   2,150        200   1,419   1,200  14,537   6,250  33,838  27,588
Chillies                   2-seasn  46,800      4T3      382     382     248      645     800     645      600   4,176   5,625  42,624  36,999
Vegetable (onions)         Rabi      32,250   1,183      764     458     373   1,075      220   1,290      800   6,163   6,625  26,087  19,462                          0
Vegetable (potato)         Rabl      61,275   9,934   1,299      917     745      645     215   1,548      650  15,953   5,750  45,322  39,572
Fodder sorghum             Kharif   10,750      135     611      306       0      172       0   1,032      120   2,376   3,000   8,374   5,374
Lucerne                    2-seasn  18,920      860      229     611       0        0     270   1,290      210   3,471   4,875  15,449  10,574
Ralnfed Crops
. . .........
Paddy rainfed a/            Kharif   5,085      282      191       0       0      161       0     968       25   1,627   2,344   3,457   1,114
Paddy rainfed b/            Kharlf   7,639      282      382       0       0      269       0     968       31   1,932   2,844   5,707   2,864
Wheat rafnfed                Rabi    3,289      414       96       0        0       0       0      726      31   1,266   1,375   2,022       647
SorghuL  rainfed a/         Kharlf   3,514      141       96       0       0      108       0     645      100   1,089   1,875   2,425       550
Sorghum rainfed b/          Kharlf   1,874      141       96       0        0      54       0      645      38     973   1,563      901    (661)
Sorghui rfd.HYV              RabI    6,524      228      287     191       0      108      63     806      150   1,832   2,188   4,692   2,505
Pearlmillet rfd.a/          Kharif   3,791      114      143       0        0     108       0      806     100   1,271   1,719   2,520       801                        -1
Pearlmillet rfd.b/          Kharif   4,083      114      191       0        0     108       0      806     113   1,332   1,813   2,751       939                        b
Pigeon pea rainfed         2-sessn   7,524      149       96       0        0     161     150      806      63   1,425   2,344   6,099   3,755
Gram rainfed                 Rabi    8,096      516       48      96        0       0       0      806      31   1,497   1,875   6,599   4,724                          m
Hung rainfed                 Rabi    3,963      203      172       0        0     108       0      806      38   1,326   1,719   2,636       917                        co
Cluster bean rfd.           Kharif   5,590       199       0       0        0      54       0      726      44   1,022   1,094   4,568   3,474
Groundnut rfd.              Kharilf  11,885   2,016      143     334       78     430      63      968     150   4,181   1,875   7,704   5,829
mustard ralnfed              Rabi    5,694       60       96      48        0       0       0      806      44   1,054   1,563   4,641   3,078
Castor bean rfd.           2-sessn   9,499       142     191      96        0     108      63      968      63   1,629   2,188   7,869   5,682
Cotton rainfed c/          2-sessn   6,071        83      96       0        0     108       0      806      56   1,148   1,344   4,922   3,578
Tobacco ralnfed            2-seasn  10,183      806      955       0        0     215       0      806     188   2,970   3,906   7,213   3,306
Fodder sorghum rfd.         Kharif   5,039       169     287     143        0     108       0      645      75   1,427   2,188   3,612   1,425
........................................................................................................................................................ ..... .



NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
. . .. . ... . .. . . .. .  .. . . . . .. . .. ............ ............... 
Update of Economic Analysis
Regional Cropping Patterns   Present Situation
(in percent of net CCA)
.................................................................................... ......................................................................................................................................................
Region 1                                        Region 2                                        Reglon 3                                       Region 4                                        Region 5
Crop                       ---   ----.-..................                                    ...................                             ...................                      .     . .  .......   .......................          ............ ............... ........ .
IR             RF            TOt                IR             RF             TOT               IR             RF             TOT              IR              RF            TOT               IN              RF            TOT
.... .... ..................................................................................... ....................................................................................................................................
Rice                                        1.0             9.0           10.0               1.0            9.0            10.0              0.0            2.0             2.0             0.0             2.0             2.0             3.0             6.0             9.0
Wheat                                       3.0             1.0             4.0             5.0             0.0              5.0             1.0            6.0             7.0             0.0           13.0            13.0            11.0              1.0            12.0
Sorghum                                     0.0    13.0    13.0                             0.0    11.0    11.0                             0.0    14.0    14.0                            0.0    12.0    12.0                               1.0            7.0              h.0
Pearlmillet                                 0.0             3.0             3.0             0.0             2.0              2.0            0.0             2.0             2.0             0.0             2.0             2.0             4.0    29.0    33.0
Pulses & Ollseeds                           0.0             5.0             5.0              1.0           10.0            11.0              1.0    20.0    21.0                            0.0    14.0    '14.0                            0.0           10.0            10.0
Groundnut                                   0.0             2.0             2.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0              0.0            0.0
Ioa cco                                     0.0             5.0             5.0             4.0             3.0             7.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0            0.0              4.0              4.0            6.0
Cotton                                      5.0    38.0    43.0    22.0    18.0    40.0                                                      7.0    36.0    43.0                            4.0    45.0    49.0                             7.0             8.0    15.0
Fodder Crops                                0.0              7.0            7.0             2.0    10.0    12.0                             0.0             7.0             7.0             0.0              7.0            7.0             2.0    14.0    16.0
Other Crops                                 0.0           11.0    11.0                      0.0            10.0    10.0                      0.0            5.0             5.0             0.0             1.0             1.0             0.0             6.0             6.0
All Crops                                   9.0    94.0   103.0    35.0    73.0   108.0                                                      9.0    92.0   101.0                            4.0    96.0   100.0    32.0    85.0   117.0
.............................................................................. ............................................................................................................................... .. ..... ......... ....  
IOQ a,
*00
m
0
- i
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.



Region 6                  Region 7                 Reglon O                  Region 9                  Region 10
Crop                    .................-   -...................           ...... .............  ...................
IR      Rf      Tot      IR       Rf      TOI       IR      RF     Toy       IR      RF      TOT       IR      IF      TOT
--..  -..  ..--... ....   --...  -................. .................................... ...  -...  -.... .................... ......................................... 
Rice                   3.0      4.0      7.0      0.0     2.0      2.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Uheat                   7.0     7.0    14.0       1.0    16.0    17.0       1.0     0.0      1.0     2.0      0.0     2.0      0.0      4.0     4.0
Sorghui                2.0      5.0    10.0      0.0    16.0    16.0       0.0    15.0    15.0       0.0    13.0    13.0       0.0    15.0    15.0
Pearimiltet             2.0    15.0    17.0       0.0     7.0      7.0     0.0    15.0    15.0       0.0    14.0    14.0       0.0      5.0     5.0
Put(es & ol(secds      0.0      8.0      8.0      0.0     6.0      6.0     0.0      4.0     4.0      0.0      4.0     4.0      0.0      4.0     4.0
Groundnut              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     2.0      2.0     0.0    18.0    15.0       0.0    14.0    14.0       0.0      1.0      1.0
tobacco                0.0      1.0      1.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Cotton                 6.0    27.0    33.0        7.0    36.0    43.0      7.0    39.0    46.0       8.0    43.0    51.0       5.0    58.0    63.0
Fodder Crops           2.0    12.0    14.0       0.0      6.0      6.0     0.0      2.0     2.0      0.0      1.0      1.0     0.0      8.0     8.0
Other Crops            0.0      6.0      6.0      0.0     3.0      3.0     0.0      2.0      2.0     0.0      4.0     4.0      0.0      4.0     4.0
At( Crops             22.0    58.0   110.0        8.0    94.0   102.0      8.0    95.0   103.0    10.0    93.0   103.0         5.0    99.0   104.0
I                                        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ul
00I a
norr
0
O .D



Continued
Region 11               Region 12               Region 13             Total CCA
Crop                  ...................      ................  .     ...................     ...................
IR     RF      TOT      IR      Rf     lot       IR     Rf      101     1I      RF      TOt
Rice                  0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     1.0    2.0      3.0
Wheat                 2.0    16.0    18.0      5.0     2.0     7.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    3.0      5.0     8.0
Sorghua               0.0    16.0    16.0      0.0     9.0     9.0     0.0    12.0   12.0    0.0    12.0    12.0
Pearlmillet           0.0    12.0    12.0      1.0   49.0   50.0       1.0    5.0      6.0     1.0   15.0    16.0
Pulses I ollseeds     0.0    12.0    12.0      4.0    18.0    22.0     0.0   21.0    21.0      1.0    9.0    10.0
Groundnut             0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     O.O     0.0    2.0      2.0     0.0     4.0     4.0
Tobacco               0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     1.0     1.0     2.0
Cotton                3.0    37.0    40.0      0.0     2.0     2.0     5.0   34.0   39.0       7.0    30.0    37.0
Fodder Crops          0.0     6.0     6.0      0.0    12.0   12.0    0.0   20.0   20.0    0.0          8.0     8.0
Other Crops           1.0     3.0     4.0      0.0     4.0     4.0     0.0     1.0     1.0    0.0      5.0     5.0
Atl Crops             6.0   102.0   108.0    10.0   96.0   106.0    6.0   95.0   101.0   13.0   92.0   105.0
toQ
H
IA 
ov a
oQ c
w
o
L.
Fh
w



Table 10
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPHENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysis
Regional Cropping Patterns - Future uithout Project
(In percent of net CCA)
...................................................... ....................................................................................................................... ................................. .......................
Region I                                           Reglon 2                                           Reglon 3                                          Reglon 4                                           Reglon 5
Crop                         -                    ------   --   ^--.---- .-.................      ...................                                ...................                               ...................                          .       ........ .......... ....... -^---9 -
IR              RI             101                 IR              RF              TOT                IR              RF             TOT                IR              RF             TOT                 IR               RF             TOT
.......................................     .................................................................................................................................................................. ..........-
Rice                                           2.0              9.0            11.0               1.0              7.0              5.0              0.0              2.0             2.0              0.0              2.0              2.0              4.0              6.0             10.0
Wheat                                          4.5              1.0              5.5              7.0              0.0              7.0              2.0              6.0             8.0              0.0            13.0             13.0             13.0                1.0            14.0
Sorghum                                        0.0            ¶1.5             11.5               0.0              8.0              8.0              0.0            13.0             13.0              0.0            12.0             12.0               1.0              6.0               7.0
Pearlmillet                                    0.0              3.0              3.0              0.0              2.0              2.0              0.0              2.0             2.0              0.0              2.0              2.0              5.0            27.0              32.0
Pulses I oflseeds                              0.0              5.0              5.0              1.0              8.0              9.0              2.0            19.0            21.0               0.0            14.0             14.0               0.0              9.0               9.0
Groundnut                                      0.0              2.0              2.0              0.0              0.0              0.0              0.0              0.0             0.0              0.0              0.0              0.0              0.0              0.0               0.0
Tobacco                                       0.0              5.0               5.0              6.0              2.0              8.0              0.0              0.0             0.0              0.0              0.0              0.0              5.0              4.0              9.0
Cotton                                         7.5            35.5             43.0             33.0             14.0             41.0             11.0             34.0            45.0               4.0    45.0                     49.0               8.0               7.0            15.0
Fodder Crops                                  0.0               7.0              7.0              3.0              8.0            11.0               0.0              7.0             7.0              0.0              7.0              7.0              2.0            16.0              18.0
Other Crops                                    0.0            10.0             10.0               0.0              8.0              8.0              0.0              5.0              5.0             0.0              1.0              1.0              0.0               6.0              6.0
All Crops                                    14.0            89.0    103.0                      51.0             57.0    108.0                     15.0             88.0    103.0                      4.0    96.0    100.0                             38.0             82.0    120.0
................... ........................................ ....... ............. ...... .......... .... ...... ... .... .................... ........................ .......... ....................... .........
OQ a,
m
m
oa
| n



Reglon  6                        Reglon 7                         Region 8                        Region 9                         Reglon  10
Crop                           ................                   ...................                                                                             ..... .........  .
IR        RF        TOT          IR        RN        lOt          IN        Rt        TOT          IN         IF       TOT         IR         Rr        1o
.......................................................................................................................  ..............................................................................................--
Ilce                          4.0        4.0        8.0        0.0         8.0       8.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Uheat                        10.0        6.0       16.0         1.0       16.0      17.0         1.0       0.0        1.0        2.0        0.0        2.0        0.0        4.0        4.0
Sorghur                       3.0        7.0       10.0        0.0       16.0       16.0        0.0       15.0       15.0        0.0       13.0      13.0         0.0       15.0       15.0
Pearlmillet                   3.0       13.0       16.0        0.0         7.0        7.0       0.0       15.0       15.0        0.0       14.0      14.0         0.0        5.0        5.0
Pulses  I oliseeds            0.0        7.0        7.0        0.0        6.0        6.0        0.0        4.0        4.0        0.0        4.0        4.0        0.0        4.0        4.0
Grouncdnut                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         2;0       2.0        0.0       18.0       18.0        0.0       14.0      14.0         0.0        1.0        1.0
tobacco                       0.0        1.0        1.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Cotton                        9.0       24.0       33.0        7.0       36.0       43.0        7.0       39.0       46.0        8.0      43.0       51.0         5.0       58.0       63.0
Fodder Crops                  3.0       11.0       14.0        0.0        6.0        6.0        0.0        2.0        2.0        0.0        1.0        1.0        0.0        8.0        8.0
Other Crops                   0.0        5.0        5.0        0.0         3.0       3.0        0.0        2.0        2.0        0.0        4.0        4.0        0.0        4.0        4.0
All Crops                    32.0       78.0      110.0        8.0      100.0    108.0          8.0       95.0    103.0         10.0      93.0      103.0         5.0       99.0      104.0
..........................................................................................................................................
oQD
ID 1
0o c



Continued
.... ..... ....... .......... ....... ;............ .........................................:  fi. ..........................
Region 11                     Region 12                      Region 13                   Total CCA
Crop             B             -^- <----~*-e*.    ........................  ...................  ...................    ...................
IN        RI        0to       IR        RP        10t        IR        oR       tOY        IR        Rf       TOT
Rice                        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        1.0      2.0        3.0
Wheat                       3.0      16.0      19.0        5.0       2.0       7.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       4.0       5.0        9.0
Sorghuw                     0.0      16.0      16.0        0.0       9.0       9.0       0.0      12.0      12.0       0.0      12.0      12.0
Pesrimillet                 0.0      12.0      12.0        1.0      49.0      50.0       1.0       5.0       6.0        1.0     15.0       16.0
Pulses & Ollseeds           0.0      12.0      12.0        4.0      18.0      22.0       0.0      21.0      21.0        1.0      9.0       10.0
Groundtut                   0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       2.0       2.0       0.0       4.0        4.0
lobacco                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       1.0   .  1.0        2.0
Cotton                      5.0      36.0      41.0        0.0       2.0       2.0       5.0      34.0      39.0       8.0      30.0      38.0
Fodder Crops                0.0       6.0       6.0       0.0       12.0      12.0       0.0      20.0      20.0        1.0      8.0        9.0
other Crops                 2.0       3.0       5.0        0.0       4.0       4.0       0.0        1.0      1.0        0.0       4.0       4.0
All Crops                  10.0    101.0    111.0         10.0      96.0    106.0        6.0      95.0    101.0       16.0      89.0    107.0
..................................................................................................................
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ft3
00
I-",



NARMADA RIVER OEVELOPMENI-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysis
Regional Cropping Patterns - Future with Project
(in percent of net CCA)
................................................I..........................................................................................
Region i                      Region 2                      Reglon 3                      Regfon 4                      Reglon 5
Crop----                                    -- --
IR       RF       TOT         IR        RF       TOt        IR        RF       TOt        IR        IF       TOT        IR        RF       TOT
........................................ I..........................................................................................
Psddy HYV                  22.0       0.0      22.0      23.0       0.0      23.0       11.0       0.0      11.0     15.0       0.0      15.0      27.0       0.0      27.0
Wheat NYV                  18.0       0.0      18.0      22.0       0.0      22.0       15.0       0.0      15.0      10.0       2.0     12.0      29.0        0.0      29.0
Sorghum (Kharif)            1.0       3.0       4.0       2.0       3.0       5.0       3.0        6.0     11.0       0.0      12.0      12.0       4.0       4.0        8.0
Sorghum (Rabi)              3.0       1.0       4.0       2.0       0.0       2.0       6.0        0.0      6.0       2.0       0.0       2.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Pearl Millet (Kh8r          2.0       2.0       4.0       1.0        1.0       2.0       4.0       3.0       7.0       2.0      6.0       8.0       7.0        7.0      14.0
Pearl  lillet (Rabi         5.0       0.0       5.0       5.0       0.0        5.0       5.0       0.0       5.0       0.0  .   0.0       0.0       7.0       0.0        7.0
Pigeon pea                  5.0       1.0       6.0       6.0       0.0       6.0       10.0       5.0      15.0       2.0      8.0      10.0       2.0       0.0        2.0
Cram                        3.0       2.0       5.0       1.0       0.0        1.0       3.0       0.0       3.0       3.0       i.0      4.0       4.0       4.0        8.0
Grourdrit (kharif)          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       2.0        2.0       4.0
Groundnut (Rabi)            5.0       0.0       5.0       5.0       0.0       5.0       5.0        0.0       5.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       3.0       0.0        3.0
Mustard                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        1.0       0.0       1.0
Castor bean                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       2.0        1.0       3.0
Cotton med.staple          41.0       0.0      41.0      37.0       0.0      37.0      42.0        0.0     42.0       11.0       0.0      11.0      14.0       0.0      14.0
Cotton short stapl          0.0       2.0       2.0       0.0        1.0       1.0      0.0        3.0       3.0       0.0     28.0      28.0       0.0        2.0       2.0
tobacco                    10.0       0.0      10.0      12.0       0.0      12.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      6.0        0.0       6.0
Sugarcane                   3.0       0.0       3.0       4.0       0.0       4.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Bananas                     4.0       0.0       4.0       4.0       0.0       4.0        4.0       0.0       4.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       6.0       0.0       6.0
Chiltles                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       1.0       0.0       1.0
Vegetable lonlons)          2.0       0.0       2.0       4.0       0.0        4.0       2.5       0.0       2.5       0.5       0.0       0.5       4.0       0.0       4.0
Vegetable (potato)          2.0       0.0       2.0       4.0       0.0       4.0        2.5       0.0       2.5       0.5       0.0       0.5       4.0       0.0       4.0                     0
Fodder sorghut              1.5       1.5       3.0       1.5       2.0       3.5        2.0       2.5       4.5       0.0       2.0       2.0       4.0       3.0       7.0 o
Lucerne                     1.5       1.5       3.0       1.5       2.0       3.5        2.0       2.5       4.5       0.0       2.0       2.0       4.0       3.0       7.0
Alt Crops                 129.0      14.0    143.0    135.0         9.0    144.0    117.0         24.0    141.0       46.0      61.0    107.0    131.0        26.0    157.0
................................................................................. ........................................................................................................................... ..... ........................
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.
LiD
'I-
op-
rr9
1.)



Region 6                   Region 7                    leglon 8                   Region 9                    legiom 10
Crop             ~~~IR     RF      ltO        ii       RF      Tot       Il       OF      TOT       IN       IF      TOT        it       OF      lot
paddy MTV               23.0      0.0    23.0       12.0      0.0     12.0      6.0      0.0      6.0       7.0     0.0       7.0      4.0      0.0       4.0
Wheat HVV               34.0      0.0    34.0    25.0         4.0     29.0    25.0       0.0    25.0    18.0         0.0    18.0      16.0       2.0    18.0
Sorghsjn (Kharff)        5.0      6.0      11.0      L.0      8.0      9.0      9.0      8.0    17.0    11.0        2.0    13.0        8J;0     9.0    17.0
Sorghum~ (Rebt)          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Pearl Millet (thar    3.0        10.0    13.0        4.0      5.0      9.0      5.0      8.0    13.0       5.0       4.0      9.0      6.0      6.0    12.0
Pear( Millet (Rsbl    7.0         0.0       7.0      3.0      0.0      3.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       3.0      0.0      3.0      4.0       0.0      4.0
Pigeon pea               0.0       1.0      1.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Gram                     4.0      4.0      8.0       4.0      3.0      7.0      3.0      2.0      5.0      2.0      0.0       2.0      3.0      4.0       7.0
Groundnut (kharif)    3.0         3.0       6.0      4.0      2.0      6.0    12.0       2.0    14.0    16.0         0.0    16.0       1.0       0.0      1.0
Groundnut (Rabi)         5.0      0.0       5.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      8.0      0.0      8.0       5.0      0.0      5.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Mustard                  4.0      0.0       4.0      2.0      2.0      4.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      3.0      0.0      3.0      3.0       0.0      3.0
Castor bean              4.0      0.0       4.0      2.0      1.0       3.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      2.0      0.0      2.0      3.0       2.0      5.0
Cotton nied.9tapie    20.0        0.0    20.0       17.0      0.0     17.0    28.0       0.0    28.0    30.0         0.0     30.0     35.0       0.0    35.0
Cotton short stap1       0.0      3.0       3.0      0.0     20.0    20.0       0.0      4.0       4.0      0.0      5.0      5.0       0.0      4.0      4.0
tobacco                  4.0      0.0      4.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.0      0.0      1.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Sugarcane                0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Bananas                  5.0      0.0       5.0      1.0      0.0       1.0      2.0     0.0       2.0      2.0      0.0      2.0       2.0      0.0      2.0
Chiltfes                 1.0      0.0       1.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.0     0.0       1.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.0      0.0      1.0
vegetable (onions)    4.0         0.0       4.0      0.5      0.0      0.5       1.0      0.0      1.0      1.0      0.0       1.0      1.5      0.0      1.5
Vegetable (potato)    4.0         0.0      4.0       0.5      0.0      0.5       1.0     0.0       1.0      1.0      0.0       1.0     '1.5      0.0      1.5
rodder sorghuu           2.0      2.5      4.5       1.5      2.5      4.0      2.0       1.0      3.0      2.5      1.5      4.0       1.5      3.0      4.5                     Q
Lucerne                  2.0      2.5      4.5       1.5      2.5      4.0      2.0       1.0      3.0      2.5      1.5      4.0       1.5      3.0      4.5
All Crops              13.0      32.0   166.        79.0    50.0   129.0   105.0    26.0   131.0   112.0    14.0   126.0               92.0    33.0   125.0
..........................................................................................................................................~1.



tsble If
Continued
Region 11                  Region 12                   Reglon 13                Total CCA
Crop                        -       .  -. -.  -..----.
IR       Rf      0ot       IR       RF      TOY        IR       RF      TOT       IN       RF      tO?
..................................................................................................................
Paddy HrV                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    10.9       0.0    10.9
Wheat NYV               15.0      12.0    27.0    29.0        0.0    29.0    16.0         0.0    16.0    22.3        1.0    23.3
Sorghum (Kharll)         5.0    10.0    15.0         9.0      6.0     15.0      6.0       8.0    14.0       5.4     6.0    11.4
Sorghum (RNbi)           0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.7      0.0      0.7
Pearl Millet (Khar   10.0          2.0    12.0    25.0    10.0    35.0    10.0            3.0    13.0       7.6      6.0    13.6
Pearl Mlilet (RNbi    2.0         0.0       2.0      3.0      0.0      3.0       1.0      0.0      1.0      3.5      0.0      3.5
Pigeon pea               0.0       2.0      2.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      1.6      1.0      2.6
Gratm                     2.0     0.0       2.0      7.0     11.0     18.0       7.0      5.0    12.0       3.6      3.0      6.6
Grourn*ut (kharif)    0.0         0.0       0.0      4.0      0.0      4.0      9.0       1.0    10.0       4.2      1.0      5.2
Grourdn-vt (Rabi)        0.0      0.0       0.0      3.0      0.0      3.0      3.0      0.0       3.0      3.2      0.0      3.2
mustard                  7.0       2.0      9.0      8.0      0.0      8.0      4.0       0.0      4.0      2.7      0.0      2.7
Castor been              3.0      2.0       5.0      5.0      0.0      5.0      4.0       0.0      4.0      2.1      1.0      3.1
Cotton ned.stple        13.0      0.0    13.0    11.0         0.0     11.0    25.0        0.0    25.0    24.4        0.0    24.4
Cotton short stspl    0.0    26.0    26.0            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.0      1.0      0.0      7.0      7.0
Tobacco                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      2.4      0.0      2.4
Sugarcane                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.5      0.0      0.5
eananas                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.0      0.0      1.0      2.3      0.0      2.3
Chillies                 1.0      0.0       1.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.0      0.0      1.0      0.4      0.0      0.4
Vegeteble (onions)       1.0      0.0       1.0      2.5      0.0      2.5       1.5      0.0      1.5      2.0      0.0      2.0
Vegetable (potato)    1.0         0.0       1.0      2.5      0.0      2.5       1.5      0.0      1.5      2.0      0.0      2.0                                                 1
Fodder sorghun           0.5      2.5       3.0      3.0      3.5      6.5      3.0       7.5    10.5       2.0      2.5      4.5                                                 H
tucerne                  0.5      2.5       3.0      3.0      3.5      6.5       3.0      7.5    10.5       2.0      2.5      4.5
Att Crops               61.0    61.0   122.0   115.0    34.0   149.0    96.0    33.0   129.0   106.0    31.0   137.0
0a,
.
P3



INDIA                                                                        IuhL    .
NARM4ADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GJUJARAT
.................    ......................... ...... .
Update of Economic Analysis
Estimated Average tUater Balance
(Ru(MillIon m3)
Region 1                   Region 2                    Region 3                   Reglon 4                    Reglon 5
. . . .............        . .... .. ............     ...................        ... ... ... .........       . .............. ...
IN       or      101       1        HF      TOY       IR       tr      TOr       IR        RF     TOT        IR       RF      TOT
Present
Cross return          10,954    3,491   4,267  11,720   35,20   6,891   11,534   3,266   4,043  11,946   2,913   3,275  11,204   3,546   6,599
Input cost             5,217   2.129   2,471   5,840   2.174   3.631   5,616   1sn73   2,228   6,242   11806   1,954   I,941   2,l25   3,464
Net return             5,737   1,362    1,796   5,880   1,646   3,260   5,918   1,393   1,814   5,704   1,107   1,291   6,263   1,331   3,136
Labor                  1,852   1,706    1,770   2,199    1,590   1,930   2,04?   1,605   1,661   2,261    1,774   1,794    1,858   1,072    1,506
Crop Intensity              9       94      103       35        73      108        9       92      101        4       96       100       32       85      117
future UOP
..........
Crots  return         13,145   4,189   5,568  14,064   4,584   9,786  13,841    3,919   5,525  14,335   3,496   3,930  13,445   4,255   8,598
Input cost             6,521    2,662   3,282    7,300   2,718   5,272   7,020   2,341   3,113   7,803   2,258   2,419   6,176   2,768   4,617
Net return             6,624    1,521   2,287   6,764    1,866   4,514   6,821    1,578   2,412   6,532    1,238   1,450   7,269   1,487   3,951
Labor                  2,222    1,202    1,381    2,658   1,251   2,069   2,364    1,073   1,299   2,714   1,016   1,084   2,308    1,200    1,861
Crop IntensIty             14       89      103       51        57      108       15       88      103        4       96       100       38       82      120
future UP
Cross return          20,957   4,712  27,694  21,314   3,690  29,106  20,358   4,389  24,872  14,346   3,862   8,955  19,088   4,460  26,165
riput cost             8,092   2,560  10,797   6,321   2,569  11,464   7,555   2,500   9,440   5,086   2,226   3,697   7,444   2,708  10,456
Met return            12,865   2,151  16,897  12,993    1,121  17,642  12,802   1,889  15,432   9,260    1,636   5,258  11,644    1,752  15,709
Labor                  2,798   1,083   3,760   2,803    1,256   3,898   2,463    1,309   3,196   2,536                813   1,662   2,360   1,115   3,381
Crop intensity           129        14      143      135         9      144      117       24      141       46        61      107      131       26       157
............................................................................... ..................    ...................................................................................................... .. ......  ................ ..
00 0.
qo i'
L-ti



Region 6                  Region 7                   Reglon 8                  Region 9                   Region 10
IN      RF      TOT       IR       RF      TOy       IR       RF      101      It      ItF      TOt I?             IF     TOT
,,,,,,,..................... I............................. ........................................................ .................................................................................. .. 
Present
Gross return         10,058   3,054   4,900  11,737   2,623   3,405  11.737   2,558   3,369  11,612   2,561   3,543  11,946   2,458   3.031
Input cost            4,617   1,955   2,T36   5,948   1,805   2,172   5,948   2,166   2,534   5,772   2,067   2,499   6,242   1,709   2,004
Met return            5.441   1,099   2.165   5,789         819   1,233   5,789        392      036   5,840      494   1,044   5,704        750   1,027
Labor                 1,721      942   1,207   2,125        844      963   2,125       862      989   2,044      852      997   2,261       819      924
Crop Intensity            22      88       Ito       8       94      102        a       95      103       10      93      103        5       99      104
Future UOP
Gross return         12,069   3,665   6,721  14,084   3,148   4,275  14,084   3,070   4,043  13,934   3,073   4,252  14,335   2,950   3,637
Input cost            5,771   2,443   3,752   7,435   2,256   2,851   7,435   2,707   3,167   7,214   2,583   3,124   7,803   2,136   2,504
Net return            6,298   1,222   2,968   6,649         892   1,424   6,649        363      876   6,720      490   1,128   6,532        614   1,132
Labor                 4,684      996   2,276   1,457   1,193   1,309   1,457   1,104   1,165   1,752   1,068   1,169               969   1,093   1,131
Crop Intensity            32       78     110        8      100      1O0        a       95      103       10      93      103         5      99      104
Future WP
Gross return         19,117   4,085  26,924  13,543   3,569  12,483  1?7316   3,461  19,081  16,838   3,317  19,323  20,116   4,162  19,680
Input cost            7,283   2,661  10,610   4,860   2,295   4,957   6,175   2,450   ?,751   6,661   2266   7,778   7,161   2,379   7,37
Met return           11,834   1,424  16,313   8,683   1,274   7,496  10,541   1,011  11,331  10,177   1,050  11,545  12,954    1,783  12,506
Lebor                 2,319   1,167   3,481   2,198         794   2,133   2,190   1,192   2,610   2,189           969   2,588   2,363   1,117   2,543
Crop Intensity           134      32       166      79       50      129      105       26      131      112       14      126       92       33      125
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.  ...........    .,,,,, .................  . ....................... ....................................................................................
t.e
r0 tu



Table 12
Continued
..................................................................................................................
Region 11                  Region 12                 Reglon 13               Total CCA
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~.............  ....... . . . . .. ...................  ...................
IR      RF       TOt       IN      RF      TOT       In       4F      TOT       IA      RF      TOt
.......................................................... ........................................................
Present
Gross return         11,325   2,706   3,439   9,617   3,334   4.163  11.882   3,019   3,581  11,193   2.984   4,200
Input cost            4,417   1,741   2,041   3,412   1,987   2.249   5,975   1,892   2,156   5,231   1.968   2,494
Net return            6,908      964    1,398   6,205   1,347   1.913   5,908   1,126   1,424   5,962   1,016   1,706
Labor                 1,521      839      947   1,211       981   1,063   2,150        908      992   1,918   1,064   1,231
Crop Intensity            6       102      108       10      96      106        6       95      101       13      93      105
Future UOP
..........
Gross return         13.590   3,247   4,638  11,541   4,001   4,995  14,259   3.622   4,297  13,441   3,559   5,379
Input colt            5,522   2,177   2,751   4,265   2,484   2,811   7,468   2,365   2,695   6,554   2,454   3,274
Pet return            8,069   1,070   1,888   7,276   1,517   2,184   6,790   1,257   1,602   6,886   1,105   2,105
Labor                 1,271   1,145   1,283   1,027   1,269   1,321   1,095   1,163   1,171   2,305   1,153   1,414
Crop Intensity            10     101       111       10      96      106        6       95      101       16       91      107
FutureP                                                                                                                      I
Gross return         13,196   3,405  10,126  15,621   4,967  19,652  17,458   4,069  18,103  17,933   4,029  20,265
input cost            4,300   2,143   3,930   5,381   2,517   7,044   6.328   2,689   6,962   6,713   2,430   7,872
Net return            8,896   1,261   6.196  10,239   2,450  12,608  11,131   1,381  11,141  11,220   1,599  12,394
Labor                 1,929      873   1,709   1,638        976   2,215   1,952   1,048   2,220   2,267   1,005   2,715
Crop IntensIty           61       61       122      115      34      149       96       33      129      106       31      137
.
IDX PI
oq ol
m
o )~



Table 13
NARHADA RIVER DEVELOPHENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysls
Estimated Averag FlUster alaonce
(Ru(Mlition m3)
........................................................................................................ ..............................................................................................................................
Region  I                       Region 2                        Region 3                        Reglon 4                        Region 5
IR        RF        TOT         IR         RF       TOT         IR         RF       TOT         IR         RF       TOT         IR         RF        TOT
........................ ...........................  .................. ......................... ....................................................... . ..... ...... .................... . .   .... ........  ........
present
Gross  return             13,212    4,823    5,722   14,803    4,656    8.580   14,655    4.386    5,354   15.921    4,214    4.682   12,744    4,081                            7,547
Input  cost                5,906    2,655    3,027    6,700    2,704    4,319    6,519    2,374    2,771    7,286    2,289    2,489    5,487    2.716    4,081
Met  return                7,306    2,168    2,695    8,103    1,953    4.262    8,136    2,013    2,584    8,635    1.925    2,193    7,257    1,345    3,466
Lsbor                      2,764    2,547    2,643    3,282    2,373    2,881    3,056    2,395    2,479    3,375    2,648    2,678    2,773    1,600    2,248
Crop  Intensity                 9         94        103        35         73        108          9        92        101          4        96        100         32         85       117
Future WoP
.......... 
Grost  return             15,854    5,787    7,370   17,763    5,588   12,244   17,587    5,264    7,270   19,106    5,056    5,618   15.292    4,898    9,827
input  cost                7.382    3,318    3,987    8,375    3,379    6,197    8,149    2,967    3,833    9,108    2,861    3,111    6,859    3,420    5,411
Met  return                8,471      2,469    3,383    9,389    2,208    6,047    9,437    2,296    3,437    9 998    2,195    2,507    8,434    1,478    4,417
Labor                      3,316    1,794    2,061    3,967    1,867    3,087    3,528    1,602    1,939    4,050    1.516    1,618    3,444                           1,791    2,778
Crop  Intensity                14         89        103        51         57        108         Is        88        103          4         96       100         38         82        120
Future UP
Cross  return             25,647    5,402   33,841   25,963    4,507   35,455   25,100    5,021   30,572   15s,97    5,408   10,658   22,134    5,542   30,436
Input cost                 8,961    3,231   12,011    9,218    3,203   12,732    8,366    3,211   10,560    5,670    2,894    4,374    8,1l9    3,352   11,507                                                   L
Met  return               16,687    2,171   21,830   16,745    1.303   22,724   16,734    1,810   20,013   10,327    2,514    6,284   14,015    2,190   18,929
Labor                      4,175    1,616    5,613    4,184    1,875    5,818    3,676    1,953    4,770    3,785    1,213    2,481    3,522    1,664    5,046
Crop  Intensity               129         14        143       135           9       144        11?         24       141         46         61        107       131          26       157
................................................................................. .........................................................................................................................,,.r................
0 w



Region 6                    Reglon 7                     Region S                   Region 9                     *eglon 10
................... ------------.......              .  ...... ...... . ...... ................... . .......... ...................  ............................. ........................................
IN        r      lOT        IN       ItF      101 Ty     I        llt P   TOT        IN       IF      TOT        IN       If       TOT
..  ;................................................................................ ............................................................................ .........................
Present
Gross return           11,329   4,045    6,052   15.243   3,846   4,134   15,243   4,929   5,902  14.836   4.811   5.958  15,921    4,132    4,886
Input cost              5,158    2,444   3,286   6,875    2,274    2,680   6,875   2,6r9   3,095   6,628   2,5'5   3,0os    7,286   2,18?    2,529
Net return              6.171    1,601    2,766   8,368    1,572    2,147   8,368   2,250   2,807   8,208  .2,237   2,901    8,635   1,945   2,357
Labor                   2,568    1,406    1,802   3,172    1,259    1,438   3,172    1,286   1,476   3,050    1,272    1,488   3,375    1,222    1,379
Crop IntensIty             22        8s      Ila         8       94       102         a       9f      103        10       93      103         5        9       lb4
Future uoP
... .......
Gross return           13,595    4,854    8,137  18,292   4.615    6,078  18,292   5,915   7,083  17,803   5,774   7,150  19,106   4,958    5,864
Input cost             6,448    3,055   4,446   8,594    2,842    3,530   8,594   3,349   3,869   8,285   3,218   3,821   9,108    2,733   3,161
Net return              7.147    1,799    3,690   9,698    1,712    2,548   9,698   2,566   3,214    9,518    2,555    3,328   9,998    2,225    2,702
Labor                   6,991    1,487   3,397   2,175    1,780    1,954   2,175    1,647   1,739   2,614    1,595    1,745    1,446    1,631    1,687
Crop Intensity             32        78      lie         8      100       108         8       95      103        10       93       103        5        99      104
Future IP
Gross return          22,659    5,345  32,073  15,828   5,282   15,145  23,470   4,691  25,864  22,798    4,682  26,189  24,325   4.662  23,91T ?
Input cost              7,957   3,315   11,723   5,336   2,900   5,665    7,50s    3,087   8,685    7,417   2,881    8,711    7,948    2,94    8,300
Net return             14,702    2,030  20,350   10,492    2.382   9,480  15,963    1,605  17.179  15,381    1,801   17.479  16.31?    1,667   15,617
Labor                   3,461    1,742   5,195   3,280    1,185   3,184   3,269    1,779   3. 895   3,268    1,446   3,863   3,527    1,667   3,795
Crop fntensIty            134        32      166        79       50       129       105       26       131      112        14      126        92       33       125
................................ ....................................................................... .. .. .. ... ..... ... ... ... ............ ........... ............
.
o0 
rr



lIble 13
Continued
Region 11                 Region 12                 Region 13               Total CCA
In      RF      lot       IR      RF      TOT       IR       Rf     101       It       RF     101
Present
Gross return         13,401   3,742   4,621   9.561   3,579   4,422  15,210   4,303   5.001  13.523   4.226   5,649
Input cost            4,975   2,213   2,556   3,712   2,503   2,774   6,879   2,387   2,680   5,937   2,468   3,048
Net return            8,426   1,528   2,065   6,149   1,077   1,649   8,331   1,916   2,320   7,586   1,758   2,601
Labor                 2,271    1,253   1,414   1,808   1,464   1,586   3,208   1,355   1,480   2,863   1,588   1,838
Crop IntensIty            6      102      108       10      96      106        6       95     101       13      93      105
Future uOP
..........
Gross return         16,081   4,490   6,143  11,834   4,295   5,307  18,252   5,164   6,001  16,247   5,060   7,189
Input cost           6,219   2,767   3,416   4,640   3,128   3,467   8,599   2,984   3,351   7,440   3,078   3,982
Net return            9,862   1,723   2,727   7,193   1, 167   1,840   9,654   2,180   2,651   8,807   1,981   3,206
Labor                 1,896   1,708   1,915   1,533   1,895   1,972   1,634   1,736   1,747   3,.441   1,720   2,111
Crop Intensity           10      101      III       10      96      106        6       95     101       16       91     107
Future UP                                                                                                                  1
Gross return         15,064   4,833  12,137  18,145   5,188  22,631  22,490   4,88?  23,203  21,920   5,108  24,828
Input cost            4,772   2,726   4,574   5,951   3,162   7,919   7,082   3,299   7,888   7,417   3,063   8,814
Met return           10,292   2,107   7,563  12,194   2,026  14,712  15,408   1,587  15,316  14,504   2,044  16,013
tabor                 2,879   1,303   2,551   2,445   1,456   3,306   2,9114   1,565   3,314   3,383   1,500   4,053
Crop Intensity           61       61      122      115      34      1149      96       33     129      106       31      137
.....................................................................................................
oq t7'
0Q &-
o W
Li



INUlA                                        labte  14
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMIENT-GUJARAT
Update r" '   ?cic AnalysiS
Estilnate of Economic Va1ue of energy from Hydropower Coep onent
........................................................... ...................................................................................... .
1.  Economic tariff based on wiliniess  to pay   (RMA/kWU     a  2.134
2.  AdJustment for System Losses and Auxiliary Consum,tlon
System losses 18.0 of energy sent out
Auxillary consuLtion    0.50X   of energy genrated
Adjustment factort           0.816
Average financial value et busbar (Is/kWh):                           1.701
S. teonomic Value
Is 1.741  x stendard conversion factor (.8)                      A ls     1.39      0.00
5   Nidnight power cost (Ps/kwh)                                           0.384
.......I......................................................
a/ Average value of benefits for the western region program analysis,
Second Mehareshtra Power ProJect, adjusted for Inflation.
co
tr
OD



ItDIA
,,_ ^ ..........                                  Ftble tS
h3NDA SIVER  fVEL0WPI-IJI3
Ul2dte o fc_imlc IfAmlyala
Econouic Pver lenfdIto (Is. N)
Etanoiae Pawr lOneffte-
.- - - - -- - - -  _-.   .. .._. .....
veor                 -19                     1995    196    1?    1996    1M         260    2001    2OZ   2363    204         05    ZM       2a07    2306
River ld Powerha.e
Atvua water relsm  (m6                0       *       0   19404   1567T  1MO   16358  15032   18173   1U44   14964   13748   12302   12126. I1667
&wumat aemwry generated (PMh)                         0    5976    47U    452    41IS   3646   4637   4236   3836    353           329S   3125    3612
Groas value (as mitl lens)            S       0            5539    6637    U07   .29   5357   6460,   S9           344    4917   4S91        33    4195
Cathead Poorhouse
Annual water re(ees (1O)              0      51    43    T62    1135    3071   5024    646    69    WlOt   12231   13423   14257  14AM            15106
eravem m ter heed                            3S      35      34     .34      3       33     32      31      31       0      29       29      28      28
Annuat nergy genmrted CUiW.)                  S      36       7     144    236    379    S14    645          u     351     915      951     96      957
Cn ss valte (la mIttians)             a       5      50     1       200    329    528    716        .9    1061   i1t      1211    1323    1343    1333
RIPI Piyback
Fltnt factor                       0.001   o.63    6.00o   2.6J    3.871   5.65    7.442   9.M   SI.AS   12.001  14.51   16X 37   10.151  19.941  Z5.00X
Annual energy gnerated Oklkhi   *             0       6      65     121     177    233    2U        34    400    456        St2   567       62     1p1
groas value (go mililenr)             a       0       0      91     161    246    32        432     471    15       63S     713     7       "a0  lOb
Energy cst                            0       0       0      is      52      78.   109      124    1t . 17m         19  *220    24          268     336
Met vatue                             0               0      63 .116         I      n4      278    331        S    4"9      493    546      600    752
total Value                             a       S      535766691             66676561    6356         6 .3           690681 . M O  59 .462    6296    6231 j
Ecaumle N LI biwlIts  ( roast
lter mpply ( )                                0.0  133.6  141.0  lS.6  146.2  483.1  563.6  525.1  547.9  572.4  S51.5  616.6  632.2  6s571
cross vatue (la mill ons)       *       0     55      do0   1SM    161    192    2379   2167   Z240   232    2401    2496   2606    2744    2910
'-.-
plo
"I,.
1- *



Econamnc P.,,r smwfIts
Veer                                   266     2610    2611    2012    2013    2014   2n15    2016    2617    2616    2019    2n0            2021    2022    2023
liver led P,wrhmno.
Anmti water releme  MtO)            11324   1069   10a   16s6          974     9463    913    8s3    a6    a2z            0m6    m7       7T4     n7e    63e
Annul energe neated (NMI3           2926    2766    260    2a03    2532    2461    237l    2356    22m7    2176    z104            02    19815   5I97    to29
Gross value (lb miIlfm()            4076    384       373     362i'  352?       42     331S   -i23      3 3N    3131      M1.   ?1    2737    283    2549
Cnt..i                                                    .    .             .l,..  
Atwtul uster relefee 4IW)            5691   15533  15646    156s9    15M     ISM     1s79    IS62   1573    153en   IS019   15i1s   156W            1 9    539
Ave.rol  wter-head                     27      26       26      25       25      25      2S       25      25       25      25       25       25      25      25
Arnnu  enrwry genrsted (NA3          941      949     910      910      911      12     916     914      p1s     916      917      919     919      919      "1
Gross value (Ka aliEarm)             1311    1322    1296    12        1209    1271    1276    1274    1275    527       1278    12"       526     1210    120
ESPN Pu*i,ck
Plant fator               *         2.56     S 23.0S2 25.603  25.05  25003  25.166   25.6O  25.001K 25.06   25.6   25S.66   2S.003  n.oos  25.611   25.OOX
Arvwu energy  hewreted (511h)         lot     761      731     735      131 o    1t   1      71  7   761          731e     71      761      761     735      7el
Gross vaiue (lU  .1111m w)           10"s    5016    lOs      i        i       1ion    1too     lo6  lOU      10io6    1068    i1          l036    16    108
Energ  cost                           336     31       3.       3       356     336     336      336     334      316     336      336      36      336      336
Netwia                                752     152      152     1To      752      ?S2     n52             752 n5 752        r2       5       752      752     152
Tot-at Vlhm                             M1p    5919   5g13      5        "5O    5451    5343    5256    S156    50    4962    46             4769-   W6S    4531
.. ....................... _,....... . .-*.o
FctAmle N & I etwf t It *fs fws
.. .._._.... ...... ...............
Voter sqply (MI)                      866.5   m.2   ?67.2   711.5   6106,  023.6   61.6   64.2  061.5  . 7.5   8.1   "2.5   92.5    02.5  902.S
Gross value (ls mitl11)           .   3029    3015    M1         317     3226    321    '332?    37    3432    3433    3435    3436    3436    3436    3436
...... ... _... _. ......
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h- '  ' :,                     



Eenic r I~~to
_~~~~~~~~~~~~al                                                            .                                -. 
fear                                 2024    2825 2028-33
River led Powerhouse
Mnwsi ater releees (NMI            6668   6397    6127
Armum  ener2y  wmr.ted   ~)        1762    1694    1621
Groee yeak  (Rn mIliwo)            2454    236n    22u
Cawuiheld PuwehoAn.
Atmlt water .r.laea ( )           1S39   1sm9   15i"9                                                      -
Averae wieter he d                   2S      25       25
Imuni energy swrsted al     hl      919     919      919
Gross watue (Us .IImw)            1260    1266    1230
IWPH epbeck
Plunt futor                       25.01  25.0Co  ?S.OM
Aivut ewrgy gewrated (NkhI          8al      M1      781
GrM  watue (am 1t111.)              me0    Ion      1068
Erwrw3 cost                         336     336      336
Not value                           72      Tsz       52 -
total Vale                           44S8    4312    42U                                                                                         -                    )
emnomle 11 A I Seneffte Ore")
.. ............     ........ ....
w ter suppty (PM)                   902.5      Q.3  IM0.S
o"e value (Us sIttluw                3436    3436    3436
.................. ------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I.
OQ
*        ,    .11 ,
14
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



I NIu i A                                                                  leble 16
NARMADA RIVER 0EVELOPMENI-GUWJARA
...................... I....................
Update of Economic Analysis
.............
financlal Investment Cost by Coumonents by Year
(Rs Million)
.................................................................................................................................
1984    1985    1956    1987    1988    1989    1990    19W1    1"92    1993    1994             1995     1996
...................... ........................................................................ .....................................................
A. Maln dam                                783      160      144     150      249      196      428      789    1294    1528    1790    1361    1029
B. tockfil  dykes 4 link chennels
C. Riverbed powerhouse                      16      26       64       34      29"      100       82      164     293      735    4470    3341        978
D. Main canal                             828      247      144      135      338      S85      913    1514    2331    2213    4722    5376    5305
E. GarLudeshwsr welr         ^                                                                                            202      172      127
F. tCnethead powerhouse                      8      27       35       20       85      251       24      175     160      326      353      3174     300
C. Transmission system    ^                                                                               2?      46       57       55       43
H. Branches                                110      3s       47       63      156      148      304     622      808    1122    2104    3549    7236
1. Distributlion I dralnege system         90       17       17       26       25       50      114     273      269      824      968    3694    499W
Drainage 1 ground water deve.                                                                                          405      405      405      608
J. En route storage
K. Covmrnd area developnent                                                                                                16      323      588      850
L. Hydrwimeteorologicesl network                                                                                           48       50       40       38
H. Tralning and TA   dam 4 canat *           4        9       10       9        6        5        5        4        4        4        2        1        1
M. land acquistlon It rehablltatlo    137          101     532      563      147      126       75
Total baseline costs                     1974      622      992    1000    1304    1461    1945    3569    5204    7485   15413   IS9a,  21337
..........................................................................................................................................
Note: at current prices before 19W2w constant 1992 prices afterwards.
lb rg
lb
o o
Mf
C)a7



Table 16
total
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    3.              UISS
A. Main dam                                632      592      176       20                                                 11320    .132
D. Rockf il dykes I link channels                                                                                             0        0
C. Rlverbed powerhouse                     536      511       59                                                          11706      44T
0. main canal                             3685    2518    1599        649                                                 33109    1264
E. Garudleshwar welr         *                                                                                              501       19
F. Eanalhead powerhouse                    162        5        4-                                                         2309        as
C. Transmission system    *                                                                                                 227        9
H. Prenches                               8886    8213    6214    3133         479      461                               43687    1667
I. Distribution I drainage system    5273    5078    3032    1608              718       58                              27125      1035
Drainage I ground water deve.           608      608      608      405                                                 4054       155
J. En route storage                         48       80       96       64       32                                          320       12
K. Ctmand area development                 946    1302    1364    1173         816      786      496      361        0    9020       344
L. Hydroneteorologicel network *                                                                                            175        7
H. tralning and TA - dam l canal              1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1        1      71        3
1. tand acquistion & rehabilitatlo                                                                                         1681       64
total baseline costs                     20777   18908   13152    7053    2046    1306           497      362        1  145307    5546
..........................................................................................................................
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
OQ Ur
Mb I.-
M
0 s-
tJ



INDIA                                                                              table 17
NARMADA PIVER DEVELOPfMENTCUJARAT
,......... .................. ........ ......... 
Update of Economic Analysis
...........................
Economic Investment Cost by Components by Tear
(Rs Million)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    199           192    1993       1994    1"S    1996        199?     1998
. .. ....................................................................................................................
A. Main dam                             1,650      305      244      226      345      250     504      709   1,057   1,248   1,462   1.111          841      516      484
O  Rockfit dykes A link chamnels            0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
C. Rlverbed powerhouse                     33       50      108       52      415      128       97     148      239      630   3,833   2.U63        838      459       938
0. MHIn canal                           1,744      469      244      205      469      748  1t075   1,360   1,904   1,993   4,242   4,830   4,766   3.311    2,262
E. Carudeshwer weir                          0       a         0       0        0        0        0       0        0      468      399      294        0        0        0
F. Conaihead powerhouse                    16       52       59       30      11?     321       29      157      130      25o      302      320      258      139        5
C. Transmission system    *0                         0         0       0        0        0        0      60      101      126      121       96        0        0         0
H. *rsnches                               232       66       80       96      216      189     358      559      660   1,008   1,890   3,188   6.501  7r983   7,378
1. Dlstributlon £ dralnage system         189       33       28       39       35      64      134      245      219      740      87o   3,318   4,484   4, 38    4.562
Dralnoge & ground water deve.            0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0      364      364      364      546      546      546
J. En route storage                         0        0        0       .0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0       43        72
K. Commanrd area development                0         0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0      15      290      528      764      850   1,170
L. Hydrometeorologlcal network              0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0     111      115       92       89        0         0
H.  ralnlng end TA   dam & Lcnal             8.     20       24       20       14       11       II       10       10       10        6        3        3        3        3
W. Land acquistlon 2 rehabilitation
0. Rajasthan branch A distribution
Total Project Costs                     3,871      94       787      668   1,610   1,111   2,201   3,248   4,320   6,992  13,894  17,009  19,090  18,588  16,920
......~~~~~~~~~~~.... .... .... ...... .... ...... .... ...... .... ......   ...... ....... .... ...... .... ...... .... ...... .... ...... .... ...... .... ...... .... ...... .... ...... ....
0  C
0
9-
o -J
'-$



lotat      Coveralo Phys.  Update/
... ----..    Fector  Cant.  SAN
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    Ns          US%
A. Maln dam                               144       17       0        0        0       0        0  ;;,111      424      0.8        1    0.97
B. Rockftl dykes & tink channels            0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0      0.8        1    0.00
C. Riverbed powerhouse                     50        0       0        0        0       0        0  tO,382      396      0.8    1.05    0.93
0. Main canel                           1,437     583        0        0        0       0        0  31.642   1,208       0.8      1.1    1.15
E. Garudeshwar welr         *               0        0       0        0        0       0        0   1.161       44      0.8      1.1    1.02
F. Canathead powerhouse                     4        0       0        0        0       0        0   2,220       85      0.8    1.05    0.97
G. Iransmisslon system    ^                 0        0       0        0        0       0        0      503       19     0.8    1.05    1.02
M. Branches                            5,582   2,614       430      414        0       0        0  39,644   1,513       0.8      1.1    1.86
1. Distribution £ dralnage system   2,724   1,444          645       52        0       0        0  24,565      938      0.8      1.1    1.03
Drainage E ground water deve.         546      364        0        0        0       0        0                       0.8      1.1
J. En route storage                        86      57       29        0        0       0        0     287        IT     0.8      1.1
K. Cofmand area development             1,225   1,054      733      706      446     324        0   8,104      309      0.8      1.1    0.66
L. "ydrometeorological network *            0        0       0        0        0       0        0      406       15     0.8      1.1    1.02
M. training and tA - dsp & cansl *          3        3       3        3        3       3        3      172        7     0.8      1.1    1.02
R. Land acqulstlon * rehabilitatlo
0. Rajasthan branch A distributlon    270         541      676      676      541       0             2,704      103
Total Project Costs                   12,071   6,877   2.516   1,851         989     327        3  136543   5,212                        1.00
tun
Cb -J
oo C'
I-.F'



tsble 18
NARMAOA RIVER OEVEtOPMENI-CUJARAI
.................................
Update of Economic Analysis
Sardar Sarover Dam erd Power Corponent
timated Recurrent operation and maintenance Costs
(Rs Mittion)
............................. ................................................................ .................................................. . . . . . . . . .
84       85        86       87        88       89        90       91        92       93       94        9        96        97       98        9'       100
Investment Schedule
(wlth price Contign.)           2.578    1,010   2,097    1,929    1,843    1,534    1,339   1,624   2,088   3,592   7.560   5,933   3,170    2.182   2,012    1 092                       604
Accumutative Investment          2,578    3,588   5,684    7,613   9,457  10,990  12,329  13,953  16,041  19.633  2T,193  33.126  36,296  38.478  40,490  41,582  42,186
operation & Maintenence
Rate/factor a/                                                                                      0.000   0.000   0.001   0.002   0.003   0.004   0.005   0.003 OOC05    0.005
Dlstributlon costs b/                                                                                                                                        462.8   476.5   474.9   472.4
total Eatimated
Armual O&M Cost                     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     19.6    54.4    99.4    145.2   655.2   678.9    682.8    653.3
. . .. ...... .. . ..... .. .. . ... ..... . ..... . ... ...... ...... ... ........ ...... ...... ........ ... .................... .................... .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
O/        Based on a rate of the cLmalative Investment at initlsl operation In 1993 and
Increasing to 0.51 development In 197.
b/         inct.uding amsnultat costs and 0494 costs.
Ur
I0'
5m



INDIA
Table 19
NARMADA RIVER DEVElOPMENI-GUJARA1
Update of Economic Analysis
Water Delevery and Drainege
Estimated Recurrent OperatIon and maintenance Costs
(Rs Millon)
~~~~~~~~~~~ .......... ...................  ... .... ...... .......... .................... ......... ................. ................................................
1991         1992         1993         1994         1995         1996    199?    1995    1999    2000    2001                                 2002    2003               2004         2005
.... ... .... ... .... ... ... .... ... .... ... ... ....   ...    ....    ...   ....    ......       ..     .. ......    ..   ......................
FInencial
Estabilshment Costs                                           0.0          0.3          3.3    27.5    49.5    89.3   133.5   175.1   223.3   268.?   319.7   370.1    414.7   453.9   509.3
Comnrm nicatlons/Controt  costs                               1.9          2.2          2.5          2.3          5.4          4.9          7.5         9.7         11.2         11.2         14.9         17.5         20.1          20.1         22.4
Uell Maintenance Costs                                        0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.1          0.3           1.0          1.7          2.9          4.5           6.5
total OLM Costs                                               1.9          2.5          5.8-   29.8    54.9    94.2   141.0   187.0   234.6   250.2   335.6   389.3    437.7   478.5    535.2
...          ...          ---          ...     .    ...          ...     .   ...          ...     .    ---          ---. .     . --- . .. . ............. . .. . ... . .. . . .
Energy Costs                                                  0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.2          0.2          0.4         0.6           1.7         5.6         1s.2    27.5    175.5   274.4    347.5
lotal Anmwnu  Costs                                           1.9          2.5          5.8    29.5    55.1    94.4   141.4   18J.4   236.3   285.8   350.5   417.1   616.5   752.9   US..7
... ..~~~~~~~~-                                     ...         ...          ...          - --.                     ...          ...           ...          .. .         . .. .......... . ...... . . . ...... . . .
Economic
Establishment Costs                                           0.0          0.6          5.5    40.8    67.3   111.8   153.9   156.7   175.6   215.0   255.8   296.1   331.8   363.1   407.4
Corsnm   ciestlons/Controi   costs                            3.8          4.1          4.2          3.4          7.3          6.1          8.6          8.5          9.0          9.0        11.9         14.0          16.1         16.1         17.9
Wett  Maintenance  Costs                                      0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1          0.2          0.8          1.4          2.3           3.6          5.2
Total OlM Costs                                               3.8          4.7          9.6    44.2    74.6   117.9   162.5   165.3   157.7   224.2   268.5   311.4   350.2   352.8   430.6
...          .. ..         ...         ...          ---.         ...          ...                       ...          ....         ---                       ---          ---           ..... ..... ............ ... ......
Energy Costs                                                  0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.2          0.2          0.3          0.5          1.4          4.5         12.1    22.3   143.0   219.5    278.0
Total  Annual  Costs                                          3.8          4.7          9.6        44.2         74.8        118.1        162.9        165.7        189.1        225.6        280.6        333.7        493.2        602.3         708.6
.. ..... . ...... . ...... . . . .....    . ...  ...  ---. ... ...  ...       ...    ....               ---          ...          ...    ....               ...
................................................................................................... ....................................................................................... ....,,,,,,,,,,, 
Ou to
0In



2006    2007    2008    2009    2010
................................................
Financial
Establishment Costs                     544.6   553.2   554.5   554.5   554.6
Commjnlcatlons/Control costs             22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4
Well Malntenance Costs                    8.6    10.9    12.9    14.2    15.2
total OZM Costs                         575.6   586.5   589.t   591.1   592.2
...          - --     ---      ... .... . .. .
Energy Costs                            408.2   441.6   470.6   490.4   506.5
total Annual Costs                      9853.8  1028.1  1060.4  1081.5  1098.7
---.          ...     ...  .   --- 
Economrc
Establishment Costs                     435.7   442.6   443.6   443.6   443.7
Comminicatlons/Control costs             17.9    17.9    17.9    17.9    17.9
Well Maintenance Costs                    6.9      o.7    10.3    11.4    12.2
Total OZM Costs                         460.5   469.2   471.8   472.9   473.8
Energy Costs                            326.6   353.3   376.5   392.3   405.2
Total Annual Costs                      787.0   822.5   848.3   865.2   879.0
.... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...  ..   ...... .. . .. ..... .... ....
00
I 'o



INDIA                                          lable 20
NARMADA RtVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Analysis
Other *enelfts and Costs
(Rot. Million)
other Renefit6 and Costs (M Ps)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1980    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Lnnd Acqui6ition
Dnm nnd reservior
Agrlculture                          3.4      5.9    19.4    34.0    30.2    41.9    44./,   44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4
Forestry-cost                        2.4     4.2    13.7    23.7    26.4    20.6    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9    29.9
Tortstr harvesting                 (11.1)   (8.2)  (43.1)  (45.6)  (11.9)  (10.2)   (6.1)    0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Resettlement Cost                     50.5    50.5    50.5    50.5    50.5   200.0   250.0   330.0   330.0   350.0   400.0   340.0   340.0   237.5                0.0
Total reservolr                   45.2    52.5    40.5    62.6   103.1   260.3   318.2   404.3   404.3   424.3   474.3   414.3   414.3   311.8    74.3
Commnnd control eren                                                                                                          0.0      0.0      0.0    12.0    32.8
Total Innd                                                                   260.3   318.2   404.3   404.3   424.3   474.3   414.3   414.3   323.8   107.1
79.0    55.0   313.0   335.0    82.0    68.0    40.0   972.0
Mnrmndn Snqnr dnm cost nilocntion                                                                                      16.6    26.7    40.0    50.0    50.0    50.0
0.1     0.1      0.3      0.3     0.1      0.1      0.0      1.0
Envirornentst
Bonef!it
Costs
Met                                                              1.5      3.5      7.9    67.8    67.8    92.6    92.5    92.4    58.9    64.1    59.6    56.6
Fuetwood (net7                                                                                                                                   27.5    55.0    82.5
Flrhery benefit (net)                                                                                         (7.9)   (8.2)   (1.8)   (3.1)   (1.2)   14.4    27.7   ro
(0 N
o C
I-)



Other lenefita and Costs (I Ru)
. ...... ......... .. .. ..........
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005   2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013
Land AcqulaItlon
Dam and reservior
Agriculture                      44.4   44.4   44.4    44.4   44.4   44.4
forestry-cost                    29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9
Forestr harvesting                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Resettlement Cost                   0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total reservofr                 74.3   74.3   74.3   74.3   74.3   74.3   74.3   74.3   74.3
Comeand controt area               62.9   96.3  143.6  194.2  238.7  270.6  300.T  318.3  331.1
Total land                     137.2   170.6   217.9   268.5  313.0  344.9  375.0  392.6  405.3
Uarmada Sager dam cost atlocation    40.0   25.0    12.0   10.0    6.2
Envirornentat
Benefit
Cost$
Met                                56.5   89.1    86.3   86.2   86.1   86.0   50.6   49.6   49.5   49.4    49.3   71.0    70.9    70.8    70.9
Fueluood (net)                      110.0  137.5  165.0  192.5  220.0  247.5  275.0   302.5  330.0   357.5   385.0  410.3  410.3   410.3   410.3
Fishery benefit (net)                44.6   55.2   60.8   61.1   61.8   66.0   66.0   64.3   64.9   65.9   66.0   65.0   67.1    65.7    65.7
........................ ........................ 
0 3
* fD
o 



T8bl. 20
Other Benefits and Costs (M Res)
,  ........ ............................ .......
2014    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019    2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025 2026-33
tend Acquisition
Dam and reservior
Agriculture
Forestry-cost
Forestr harvesting
Resettlement Cost
Total reservoir
Command control area
Total land
Narmada Sagar dam cost allocatlon
Envirownmental
Benefit
Costs
Net                                  71.0    71.0    71.1    71.3    71.3    71.3    71.4    72.6    72.6    72.6    72.6    72.6    72.6
Fuetwood (net)                        410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3   410.3
Fishery benefit (net)                  65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7    65.7
..................................w
0   e
, tr
o o
IA



IEIA                                                  12
mWMDA RIVE. KVWUOEi1-IUwNAa
IJ4.dste of Fzuam1ef Analysis
Iconaulc Cost, and Benef it
Incrusental janet It. ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     (s  ltiar
N&1bef~~~~~efIt             195      0M  0o  I"               0s  S9   39  099                 m         0m   SW    559s  19S?    I"?    19981
wtoiftgatlnbenefits                                                                     I             0  II     (6      (2    905   1,J11  153464uuMa
San L I be   relf It69                        a6    01    ab    45             11      I2  1,1    1,4    1.7    19   .1527   1,25                5730   61.5
others  falte9                                91       16       32     53      44      I2    36         476     top2  462)   (3.1    1.16        I48      I
Isl    wetuits  Iot           31    1,4         82       70    a,1    I,T      I,2    3.5         la)2    (a)3 94.39     -us4  19.554  11,942  17,077
*    eImonatfs  £i1tests  S  s
Power fctitvl.esta                  '         64   16        62   Su    54   02               6   4     5      2.9     9960    3 74  12163     35       845
irwroigaiofmntalca.t               210         S"      6 U       2    726 4       65 .481  2.69    9M            93M   91         59.z    04j5    40."    157
total  Inesantcsts                3,916   t,847      12       732   1.713   I,97'   2.523  3.724  4,.52   7.457 14.595  17,496  19.662  169624  17.077
Inecratehls                         (396  (,4)   37    (3)£177   I99£253d,2e4.3)1758p1.IHI.3flS04   99)t492
loost "Watim com          e0 Ote   eeis16I    ulamd.   ihr   es It-   ine2vtcst  o                              smiIrlgtlo.yte  Big hd
t  ..e     ...runt  c ..   ---
Erwlrwmntat cmt  a  I  9                         W       de                       92      so       64      60       5r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m's
Tolat csts  -5.,16   I..47  52T    iji    i.  z.s"    3yz4   4.92          T.SSTI4,SW   1.696  19862  19.40  17.9
Vol -cash Ftes  3~~O  (IgGGTJ-   821)   (M) 11,717 11,979) 42.M)(3.7241 (4.8301(7-965)(14,SVP16,732)(16.014)(9.796)  *4I9I2
wtv (~~~~~~~~~~~t 121)  068) ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ i
t.Id
'Is
Li



.1999  :2000    2001    2602   2003   200'. ZI 206SZo6    2007   Zoos   2009    zol    2311   2012   2613
Incremnental3e~ II
Net Irrigation berf fit             6.397   9,030  11.114  12.5$6  13,949. 15,326. 16,615- -1.426  3i,643  18.567  16,811i Is73     .8   13.1   13,61
Power benefi                       6.307   6,581   6.358   7,691   ?,305   6,969  4.EI4   6.462   6.296  6,231   6,139   S.919   5,78i  5,646   5.5,49
"8   I  betueM it1.962   2,079   2,167  2.240   2,342   2.401  I.J.96   2.606  .2.744 -2,910   3,329   3,171   3,1Z7  -3, 117   3.226
Others                                155     I9"    226    254      232    313    341       367    395   "423    451    47S    471 -  476           476
l01.1 benefits                 15,321  17,113  19.1157  22,770  23.678 25,909  26,137  26,361 27,478 28.121  28,429  71,226  261071  27,936  27,863
Ir'crefmntml Costs
Itwuitment costs2
Domawd reservoir                    366     1S0    105      is       76     76      76      76      76      76      76      76      76      76      76
lPouer iacfilties                    94      25      12-    10       6       .0      0       6       0       6 .     0       0       a       0       0
*Irrigation faclifties           11,8149  :6,in91   2,629   2.044   1.227    396    302     302    302    302      302    302    302    302         302
totat Investment odats     -12,248   7,67    2,746  2,130   1,309        67      378     378.   378    373    378    57          313     378     378
Operatfon.5 mintatutw cost
Dan samd pouwer                     68.3    633    683    683    683    683    633         63      683      M 68 3    683 633-683              68363
Irrigation system                   189    229    261    334- 493    602           739    .?B7    822    848       US65     1 879      879  89     379
rotal opeation costs              672     912     94   1,617   1,176   1,236   1.392   1,473   1,506   I.SM~  1,548   1,562   1.56?- 1.562   I.562
EnvIrOruuWf   ttatCOt                  57T 69           6     .86     66.86           St       56-    s0      49      49      71      71      71       71
rotat                              13st  .  II?    8.074   3,736   3.233   2,571   2,013   1.3120   1,898   1.933   1.9591  1,976 -2,611   2.611   2.0,11   2,011
Met Cash Flom                      2,144   9.809  16.061  19,537  21,307 22,966  24.316  24,963  25,545  26,162  M6.454  26.215 -26,060  25,926  25,3857
EIRIE:
WiV (at I2X)
.. .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -7 - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



table 21
.~~~~~~~~- - - - - - - - -  .... ........... . ........ ........... .. . .. ... .... ... .. ............... ....... ........... . ...,:.......... 
2a;4    2015    2016    2017    2018    2019    2011   22I   2022   . 2          2024    2025 2026b33
lncrIentml lenefits
- -   . -- - _  ... ...........
Net Irr(gailon benefit              18,599i 18.523  1.560  16,5   16,s1O  18,497  18.47s  18 475  11.475  18.415  18,475  10.475  is8 475
Power benefit                       5.451   5,343   5256   5,158   5,a60   4.?2   4,86    4,769   4,675   4,181  4,46?   4,32   4.2v
1 A I benef it                      3,274   3.32?   3!.?  3.432   3,433   3,l3s   3,436   3,436   3,436   3,436  3,436   3.436   3.436
others                                476r   ;476      476     476     476     476      476     476     476     476     476     476      476
*   total benefits                  27,80   27,669  27,668  27?,0   27,417  27,373  z7,251  27,156  27,862  26,968  26,674  26,780  26,685
Incremental toots
.. ....... ..
ltesgIent costs
too mnd reservoir                    76       76      76      76      76       76      76      74      76      76      76      76       76
Power facillties                      9        a       0       0       0                                        ° 0  0  9  0  p  U       0
Irrigstlon faellltl@;               312     302     302      302     302     332     302     302     332      302     302     302     302
Total fnvestmt costs              3m3     37       373     378     373     373     378      378    373       73     373    .37o      376
Ince"ntm - Iorlkiry capital
operatlon A mainteuones est
DO ard power                          63     663     "11    603       663     683     683     66      663     d8       68S    .63      683
irrigaileon systm                     9     81 9    8        89  079          7  2 79          79     8        79       9     679      879
total operation costs           1,562   1,562  '1,62   1,S62   1,562   1.562   1.562   1,562   1,562   1,562   1.562   1,562   1,562
Enrtrovmwntat cost                      7        1      71      71 7n            71      71      73       13      73      73 73           73
lotal costs                         2,011   2,011   2,011   2,011   2,111   2..011   2,012   2,013   2.013   2,013   2.013   :,013   2,013
.   .  .   ..    ~~~...   --      ...     ---                              ---     --
Net Csb Flow                       2,9 2S 6  25,65   25.593  25,6,16  25,356- 25U39  25,14   25,050  24,955  24,"61  24,67- 24,673
... ...     ---     --                                                        ....  .   .. .  ...  .  ....
Elfl:
Wv (at 122x
I.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



I Ible 22
IWIA
u,g zRIVER oEVELCPET-WJAUAr            .
...-- ----........
Update of cl Eerc Aetyst.-
.. ..__ ..____._.......................... 
-  Ietltvty Inatelis
EImE           WV            value
(3)           "in as          (X)
Pass caie: Irrilation. rewr anM MVI        11.9           (36
DLtereat Ivue
pone onty                 .              it.2          4208
Irrigation sntp                         16.1          (3.62n
Irrlgatimn aM ml unty                   12.4           1,ZS7
same cag
Fmtcidiru u* costs                       17.4         14,194
SensitIvity
N & I price uw                                                        3
Pewr price dm                                                          70.3
Fm prod. price dow                                                     22.1
TotaI costs up                                                         23.5
Tatat benfit dam                         t;                       ,
ceCA dhveIepwnt detmysd bv .1 I.
-year         -                       M15        (1.25.).
2 year                                11.2.         (3,271)
3year                                  10.3         (4,561)
4 yer                                 10.5          (5,86)
S  er                                  10.2         (6,S773
6 war                                  9.9          (7,MS)
er                  *.a                              (.35s6
8                                      9.4         (9.066)
9 yer                                  9.1          (?it)
10 year                                 *.9         MA262O
oCA redixed by lb                        1.4           1.94
3                                      12.  -           2
402                                    MI.12.        1.342
RUPN cusiisaionlr delmoed by e
I yeaw                                I'. 1.         12
2 yewr                .                             (32.151)
3 yer  *                                 .4         42.dl7*
4 yetr                                 11.2         (3,4931
.. .._.. ... .... ............................... ...... .........--....-..  --------------------.  .... 
S Dpveta1qnt of C.AA brtpm  emil cIn dlsitrlbut on eyatS de1Vd stmd tare y but eot MIAn enat.                                                     -
bI Iwestaents fag bruI* cnml, dlstrbutln system lid CMA de top    -e r d by                                                                          a,
$we praoort Irn. . 1loar   ter tat' 1ml  _ r  atIon.          .                     .
cl Investnt   Var Dffll    tl,ud"1 ln  yton doeie slytl,                                                                                          cj       I
..b
, .  ,                          - '             .                          ^   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



IWDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
,................. .......
Update of Economle Anslysis
FiRR                   MA                                               Proportlon                       Table 23
FEIRR               11.88X                                              Area ('000 ha)
Exchange rate      26.20                                              RaJasthan
SCF                 0.80                                                Proportlon
Labor                0.67                                               Area ('000 he)
Submerged property (Its Milion)   3,750
Narmada Sagar Dam allocatlon        328.44
Submerged forest land (000 ha)   11.60
Submerged crop land ('000 he)        11.30
RF Productlon Increase                 1.20
RE cost Incrsesse (WOP)                1.25
RF cost Incrscse (UP)                 1.25
Dlversable uater (Wm3,GuJarate) 11,200
Dlversable water (Mm3, Rajasthan    650
Uater requir. at plant ('000 m3/   4.49
Naximum  Irr. Intensity                1.06
CAA ('000 ha, CuJarate)              1.870
CAA ('000 ha, Relasthan)                 70
Price Ad Investf                      2.58
Price Adjust. Factor (Agricultur   1.00    2.15
Price Adjust. Factor (Pouer)           1.92
Price Adjust. Factor (Mll water)   2.06 (reach Na 12Ica3 In 2007   0.00    0.00
Delay of VS dam                       0.75 (for initial 5 years)
GDP deflator                                                                                                                                                                  w
Cons. (80.100) 162.52  180.25  201.86  226.4?  246.73  267.81  290. 88  381.05  419.16
Agri. (80-100) 131.14  140.33  151.86  169.50  182.76  195.25  226.66  256.35  281.9
MUV Index (90.10  68.05   68.60   80.80   88.84   95.31   94.65  100.00  102.00  106.53
Price Adjust. Factor
Construction      2.58    2.33    2.08    1.85    1.70    1.5?    1.44    1.10    1.00    1.00                I
Agriculture       2.15    2.01    1.86    1.66    1.54    1.44    1.24    1.10    1.00    1.00                I
HUV Index          1.57    1.55    1.32    1.20    1.12    1.13    1.07    1.04    1.00    1.00               I
IDi
0s
m
i~'



INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPHENT-GUJARAT
Update of Economic Anstysis
Phasing of CCA Development
(Rs. Hl 1lon)
Phacslng of CCA
Devel. ('000 ha)
Year                                  1984    1985    1986    198?*   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    19I    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Gulasrat
AGujuao                                                                                                  0       0       0       ?U     122     176      196
Accum.                                                                                           0       0       0       0      70      192     368      565
Rajasthan
Annusl                                                                                                                                            0        0
Accum.                                                                                                                                            0        O
total
Annual                                 0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       70     122     176      196
Accum.                                 0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0       70     192     368      565
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,
m -
IL
I9



Table 24
Phasing of CCA
Oevel. ('000 he)
..................................
Year                                      1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012                   2013
Gui erat
Annual                                   270      283      243      169      163      103       75
Accun.                                   834   1,117   1,360   1,529   1,692   1,795    1.870   1,870   1,870   1.870   1,870   1,870   1,870    1,aio    1,870'
R. s eth en
Annual                                     7       14       18       18       14        0
Accum.                                     7       21       39       56       70       To       70       70       To       70       70       70       70        70       70
tot at
Annuat                                   277      297      261      1a?      17?      103       75        0        0                 0        0         0        0        0
Accum.                                   841   1,138   1,399   1,585   1.762   1,865   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940    1,940    1.940
........... ..............._...
00
m |
0 1J
at>



PhasIng of CCA
Devet. ('000 ha)
.. ....... ........ ......................
Year                                    2014    2015 .  2016    2017    2018    2019    2020    2021    2022
GuJarat
Arniual
Acc.n.                               1,870   1,870   1,870   1,870   1,870   1,870   1,870   1,800   1,870
Rajasthan
Anmua I
Accum;.                                 70       70      70       70       70      7o       To      To       To
total
Annuat                                   0        0       0        0        0       0       0        0        0
Accsn.                               1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940   1,940
rD V
o
LiC



Table 25
NARMADA RIVER DEvELOPIENT-CtUJAPAT
.... .............................
Update of Economic Analysls
.... ...... ... ..........
Vater Blaance
(Million m3)
Water lalance (Mm3)
..........................                                                                                                                                  97      i9
Year                                     1984    1985    19Y6    1987    19U8    1989    1990    199l    1992    1993    19              1995    1996    1997    198
Mean Utilitable Flow(l/)              42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42.900  42.900  42,900  42.900  42.900  42,900  42,900  42.900 D42,909
En route rivers                           400      400     400      400      400     400      400      1,00    400      400      400      400      400      400      400
Public grourld water (new)                                                                                                         0        0      '148     296      444
Private C. water (exlst)                                                                                     1.250   1,250   1,250   1.250   1,250   1,250   1.250
Prlvate G. water (new)
Total source                      43.300  43,300  43,300  43,300  43,300  43.300  43,300  43,300  44,550  44,550  44,550  44,550  44,698  44,846  44,99t,
Upstream dlveralon(2/)                  1,800   2,138   2.476   2.814   3,152   3,490   3,829   4,167   4,505   4.843   5,101   5,519   5,857   6,195   6,533
Irrigation (dlv.)                                                                                                 0       0        0       51      252      T59   1,620
IrrIgatlon (well)                                                                                            1,250   1.250   1,250   1,250   1,398   1,546   1,694
MI I                                                                                                                                        0      191      203      215
RPPH water realses                                                                                                                                   0  19,404  18,677
others (3/)                           41,500  41,162  40,824  40,486  40,148  39,810  39,471  39,133  38,795  38,457  38,119  37,730  37,000  16,739  16,254
Total use                         43,300  43,300  43.300  43,300  43,300  43,300  43,300  43,300  44,550  44,550  44,550  44,550  44,698  44,846  44,994
1/ CVC 1891-1990 Series - Vlrgln Flows (502 dependable)    40,755 Ih3
Return flow*carry over - evaporation (45.32)                   2,145
Utiliastion flow (502 dependable)                             42,900 Hn31
2/ Limited to 16,000 Ib3 as per H.H. Walllniford's estimtes
3/ Spills and operational losses
I)CU
o n
UL



table 25
Water Balance (Mm3)                                                                    Continued
...........................................                                            .... ...... ............
Year                                   1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2006    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013
Mean Utilitable Flow0l/)             42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42.900  62,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42.900  42,900  42,900  42,900
En route rivers                    s    400      400     400      400     400      400     400     400      400     400      400      400     400      400     400
Pubilc ground water (new)               592      740     888   1,036   1.184   1,332   1,480   1.480   1,480   1,480   1,480   1,480   1,460   1,480   1,480
Private C. water (exist)              1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1.250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1.250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250
Private G. water (new)                           220     440      660     880   1,100   1,320   1,540   1,760   1,980   2,200   2.200   2,200   2,200   2,200
Total source                     45,142  45,510  45,878  46,246  46,614  46,982  47,350  47,570  47r790  48,010  48,230  48 230  48,230  48.230  48,230
Upstream diversion(2/)                6,871   7,2tO   7,548   7,886   8,224   8,562   8, 900   9238   9,576   9,914  10,252  10,590  10,929  11,267  11,605
Irrigation (div.)                     2,84?   4,334   6,227   8,149   9,936  11,413  12,578  13,385  13,868  14,061  14,110  14,550  14,550  14,550  14,550
Irrigatlon (well)                     1,842   2,210   2,578   2,946   3,314   3,682   4,050   4,270   4,490   4,710   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930
MLI                                     229      690      719     750      783     818     845      872     903     939      981   1,033   1,096   1,141   1,158
RBPH water realses                   17,730  16,358  15,002  18,170  16,444  14,964  13,740  12,802  12,120  11,667  11,324  10,659  10,338  10,032   9,748
Others (3/)                          15,623  14,708  13,804   8,345   7,913   7,543   7,237   7,003   6,833   6,719   6,633   6,467   6,387   6,311   6,239
Total use                        45,142  45,510  45,878  46,246  46,614  46,982  47,350  47,570  47,790  48,010  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230
IN
I  I
w



table 25
Urter latence (Mm3)
..................................... ...
Year                                   2014    2015    2016    20t7    2018    2019    2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025 2026-33
Mean UtlillsbIe flow(u/)             42,900  42,900  42.900 *42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900  42,900
En route rivers                         400      400     400      400     400      400     400     400      400    .400     400      400      400
Public ground water (new)             1,480   1,480   1.480   1,480   1,450   1,480   1,480   1,450   1,480   1.480   1,480   1,480   1,480
Prlvate G. water (exist)              1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1.250   1.250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250   1,250
Private C. urter (neuJ                2,200   2,200   2.200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2,200   2.200
Total source                    48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230
Upstreom diversion(2/)               11,943  12,281  12,619  12,95?  13,295  13,633  13.9?1  14,310  14,648  14,986  15,324  15,662  16,000
Irrigation (div.)                    14,550  14,550  14,550  14,550  14,350  14,550  14,550  14,550  14,550  14,550  14,550  14,550  14,550
Irrigation (well)                     4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930   4,930
ill                                   1,176   1,245   1,212   1,231   1,250   1,269   1,289   1,289   1,289   1,289   1,289   1,289   1,289
R0P0 water resists                    9,463   9,137   8,893   8,608   8,322   8,036   t,749   7,479  7,208   6,936   6,668   6,397   6,127
Others 03/)                           6,168   6,05?   6,026   5,954   5,883   5,812   5,740   5,672   5,605   5,537   5,469   5,402   5,334
Total use                       48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230  48,230
,4-
co V
(0



INDIA                                         Table 26
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-CUJARAT
Update of Economic Anatyel.
Bultdup of Land Productivity
(Rs. MiIlion)
Buildup of land
productivlty(net return)
.................... ..............
Ulthout project -- Irrigated         1.0621  1.06W   1.0776  1.0854  1.0932  1.1009  1.1057  1.1164  1.1242  1.1320  1.1397  1.1475  1.1553
Ulthout project -  rulnfed            1.0349  1.0393  1.0437  1.0481  1.0524  1.0565  1.0612  1.0655  1.0699  1.0743  1.0786  1.0830  1.0874
Uithout project average              1.0933  1.1050  1.1166  1.1283  1.1400  1.1516  1.1633  1.1750  1.1866  1.1983  1.2099  1.2216  1.2333
0.8276                                                                              1    0lO1174    .96190
Ulth project    Irrigated            1.0621  1.0699  1.0776  1.1581  1.2228  1.3056  1.3951  1.4518  1.5046  1.569   1.6460  1.1011  1.7543  1.7946  1.806
Uith project    rainfed              1.0349  1.0393  1.0437  1.0967  1.1496  1.2026  1.2556  1.3086  1.3615  1.4145  1.4675  1.5205  1.5734  1.S534  1.5734
Annual block bultdup
1       2       3        4       5
Adoption curve                      0.1    0.22    0.36    0.23    0.09
Accwi.                              0.1    0.32    0.68    0.91         1        1       1        1               1 1      1        1       1        1
Year                               1992    1993    1994      995    l996    197    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Weighted buildup                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.18    0.28    0.39    0.47    0.53    0.61    0.71    0.78    0.84    0.89    0.95
Year          Ann.inten
1992             0.00              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993             0.00                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994             0.00                               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
195             70.26                                       7.03   22.48   47.78   63.94   70.26   70.26   70.26   70.26   70.26   70.26   70.26   70.26
1W6             121.86                                              12.19   39.00   82.87  110.89  121.86  121.86  121.86  121.66  121.86  121.86  121.86
199             176.28                                                      17.63   56.41  119.87  160.42  176.28  176.28  176.28  176.28  176.28  176.28
1998           196.12                                                                19.61   62.76  133.36  178.47  196.12  196.12  196.1Z  196.12  196.12    .
1999           276.91                                                                        27.69   88.61  188.30  251.99  276.91  276.91  276.91  276.91    L
2000            296.72                                                                                29.67   94.95  201.77  270.02  296.72  296.72  296.72
2001            260.67                                                                                        26.07   83.41  177.25  237.21  260.67  260.67
2002            186.65                                                                                                 18.67   59.73  126.92  169.85  186.65
2003            176.87                                                                                                          17.69   56.60  120.27  160.95
2004            102.85                                                                                                                  10.29   32.91   69.94
2005             74.80                                                                                                                            7.48   23.94
Total       1940.00              0.00    0.00    0.00    7.03   34.67  104.40  222.83  391.48  604.19  856.20 1120.37 1366.13 1569.18 1729.35 1840.31
CJQ CY'
00 1
tDi
o cr,



Iulldup of land
productivity(net return)
. ..... ............... . . .  . . .
Ulthout project  - irrigated
Uithout project  - rainfed
Ulthout project average
UIth project      Irrigated            1.8682  1.8819  1.8819
Wlth project    ralnfed                1.5734  1.5734  1.5734
Annuse block bulidup
Adoptlon curve
Accuf.                                  I       I
Year                                2007    2008    2009
Uelghted bultdup                      0.98    1.00    1.00
Year           Ann.inten
1992              0.00              0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              0.00              0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              0.00              0.00    0.00    0.00
1995             70.26             70.26   70.26   70.26
19 96           121.86            121.86  121.86  121.86
1997            176.28            176.28  176.28  176.28
19.98           196.12            196.12  196.12  196.12
1999            276.91            276.91  276.91  276.91
2000            296.r2            296.72  296.72  296.72
2001            260.67            260.67  260.67  260.67
2002            186.65            186.65  186.65  186.65
2003            176.87            176.87  176.87  176.87
2004            102.85             93.59  102.85  102.85
2005             74.80             50.86   68.07   74.80
Total        1940.00           1906.81 1933.27 1940.00
o ca-
oh .o
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
M 'J



uoI                                                                                                                   i_sc 001 LL00   ____   1  Q,*_ ~   0  iTL Il  OI  C' 1.1  0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!                       -    -- -  .---      -.--     ---                                                                q ____  ____    - ------- -       .     _-- -- I ~ -
00      000   00 81              0081's      I's0 I                                      co *                  coLI  I___co * CO   *itl*      aL Il'                   ldIi *
co          ~ ~~00  0    0001i        008         LI -0           0 _ _ _ _ _   i   _ _ _ _ _ # 0 _ _ _ _ 1 £       80         0      ii    I i   611          iS   Li     1    CL 
01  00          ooi16        DeOIC       L8t           DS  ___           Z-
-I  --  -    -    . _!       0. 1 1__ __ __                   __ _ __._       __  _   0 0OD                          a s Ii                 a          c 1        D   I     '    1
0  aOL  000  0061 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           .                          -~~L a0 a  .          -   .-.                   !!             ii               -.
001      0          001 or        06 1 i       Z*          000do_______  oIZ             000-I £               LI        00 i      OC I-      LII         0Li___I              '     I
Q.JI 00       a           0 0e5        00 It __~______06                         I              0            ( LV .           000a(C II-            98a         .  I__DII           I      I
LIZ  am; _______  Lii            ama~~~~~~~~ii-                 i g is ioii  ji i7i    lij        it__'I     ofC       1 i
0010 0 ____aSIC          005         ii ''   a.                   LZ             cm  ____  s a         Isa000 ICIL                                m Ia       a. IL- *C    A
000     00          0061         i- 008      r, Z            .              I            0091                  90         0         L0         D           oi         Dl        C
DD  000         DOll         00819       it8 IOS                       3 ____ a00                 ala i     9         0       Oa 0g.      I1 I         I I I      Go C1    It   I
--0     -o    -      i-i--  _     .-o-t----  __OD____    I_____                ____ a_                Is          --  . - --  -pi;____i__    i   l--.---_I
000  000    0081        ~006IC1      LOS CO                        I _____06                  81        1         66       10          ll61                   01 
UDO  000       0061~~~iii   001         LI             0             L               0 ai                 _i-----   oi        ii;         6a i-7      'iii         II     .    m
100    000     ~~~~~oOSIt   06          IZ 114.                      LIZ            00 a        to_ 01   OC# I     005 I     c 61        A IIII Lol             DIIIJ   C C
00    0 00         00    001 C  9 is                      go00              S____                     1C I     1£a      00 I  o61i LoldI                            Dl        II    II
000    000  0061      0001        00I8Vs        000            OI00co __a                _IC a      ICI      0;             i-ii-0-01 
Uo 00        00           006         001         LI 00LZ00   _II£8                                                 C         06       10                      061 -       IS     I     L
(0      000           06                     1108  0___    Ga             iS             000          CC__     Ij    IC   0   OOS  '!.7L-  *II              II____ 19          of '   t
H  At-                                                                                                                              ji______  L.Z____
ODD  000~~~Do   0- 06;1      r 003       LI            0O ag                          000         ilL       il       00        10            Il't                  L.       i I
'O0 00  1      006          00WIZ____  000                          Is L             o           I         I        0            I        L           11        0     It       S
000  00 81  000       0061        LIZ           000            asa            000          log      mcI      00'slOIS              CIIGI                  of it L9  1    I    -
6       0iIii oi                    C 01     il0                            l               i gog00                                mlli                     I I___ II Il       I I   IC
(7    0 i0_  000 _    @0              001         LZ00____                                       --                    --          --   __ --    l-
000     0001-        !_ 00       006         LIZs'g        00'0            LIZ9          000a         00t      00Is      000      itLIt-      solI         gIto1      i  I00   I    SI
00        01         06          06          1800LZ00000 ?  i                                                  000 Oa00 CIZ'-                  00          10-1'      000i-    I 
Oa0     00          0001         go1 It       IZ'-         co06            LsIZ          0 cO         I oos    00 00 as           Id #i-o       aGIl ___t
000     0061t        000I        co6 it       t'l          00 0              I8           GO  ____    000      00       00 0       SIl          0         of_ CsiL     0        I
000  DO 51'  000   0061  LIZ-        000            LI£ _______ 000                  -   I.        000~~~~~~~~~ LLi     000         Al II      00ZI0I5ISI
000  005*-   - 003   0051  £01-   000 _______  106              000 _____ 000        000       000       BLLI        056         SL £1      000l oiI  00 0 to 81  II   I
000    00 I*         0o0         00£ it         Z          06 0                          go___   IZ00  t0o     000-   00 0         01 II      0t I__ Is aa            000 0.II I
000  0004   000         *0061~~~~~~~W  g- 0            _____                     coa__    tD  _   000  to0 I               0    0    000 fIt  l  __    00 00   Ig.
00  0  IL     00           08           0             0  000                       000         000'000             000000I_S'_a 00000                          000 9co        9I
00 ~~ -  ~ L.......o o*     00 I   -       Vs.        00041          aD              Do         o         00 0      0         0           0000I                            
Oa.    oaQt          asI a0  -i000                         00;C __ _FF 7                                                                                  ii-  l ;-    - 00  0I0  1   0
Oa0    001I          GiS         00a    000I0L'-            o0 _____    00 9      __   00 0 __    00           g000 00             00s0 1     00 0        a_ OI It     0c0      1   tI
ODD  gaL-   005   001         006           ~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~~~~00,0  000  0009  00 0  000a  00 0  006ll  ODD     000 I       000       
") *.II *II 4~9I ~I v*g ba  ~  ii~  u~  ~  .~,. pl4I6jfl  ~  P'd  1"?1  -~P~dIinjuln  ~ z  :  . *   -: ;        .- --.-  .. --_. --_-- .--       - -_-. - ---.A
02          a           I      0    $       ot.0Icoa0 1    _  ___     _                                 I        a     0   i a1 ti              0 a          t       o  
Ji-                oo's          go 0           00SIIV V   3co  OD2I  do             00        c I       cV(JIIfla                           o0      0
a0-o
0 ~~~_m  00 6     00 of       co               ViVii:          .t'I Nd0:.A:co( U0      A  N- -O     VN0.  0I -VN- -               0        co0        0
00-        go'l        oo 0           go I           co 9           00.0~~~~~~~~V (Jilla            00        0             0O--



I    J
1    00 I
co                                                                                                              00's   Go 9    DO'l        to ti-            0 0            to 91            00 0       co I
es
0                                                                                               MO                                                         0                   cr           00 0       of 0          0     00I
Do's          Oe'l                                                                                                                                                ;;_T__
*V*             oo            091             ce's                                                       00 I            Is 11                                    0
C14              t!                                                                              De a            Ot'i   Oe't    Do'l        t 11' 9 I       co I             to 91           00 a       co 0       000       co I.- co I
110 0                                            041                                           ig -I R-1 WI- il-li-    i; I                                K17-1                       cei   0-  LiT ii I
4  Q)                                                                               ow#             of a           OQ'I   Go's    Oo'l        ti'ti            00 6             ti ti           al 0       00 0.    00 9       go I.  De I
co                                                                ol-I
I's
ji7i                                                            co a           io's 9071-                 iUF-    Li-                                       of 0
-.m             M-9 I                      co         go        to
OO'l           09 0            iD 7 1-  io- i- ro 1-  irci                 au 0                 1                     Li
01's            01's             DO'l                           ad a           oo-I   go-I    00 I        sk-el.           OD 0             It 91           00 0       00 0       00 0     uc 11. co I
i7i-           j1.9                                                           i-OT- ra i- oe-I                            Li ce 0  -  .--- ---                                            -_ -
of I            ce'l           Oe'l            co a            co's   01       co I                                        ;jz-                                            00I
0 re           GO'l   00 t    00-6        ol'til           00 I             It &I           go 0       00 0       go 0     00I   00 I
00 9           OO'l  i-o-i- 1 I                                            UiT_           -0 o- -0   'a __  o-o -0  'O 'a 1- 'O 'o I
if-e-                                                                                                                       II ts           of 0        0 0      00 9      0 0 1   00 I
Go's           oe-C            ce'l   00 a    co I        91,911           co
DV$             00             De I            be a            iF -i   ro i-   io-F-  ipil.               00 0             of to            Li i-     Li i       ii i      ;i i-   iii
GV#             co'l    Oo'l                   ce 9                    R-1 -Do'l  re -g j7-    ig -s                    ; i7s T-    ii i-  ii i-  iii- ijT_- ii i-  i i
i F-O                                                                                                                                                                               Li
oill
Do I           Do'l            00 a           it 1- is-1- NOT- WI I                       ii i-- ii-ir-    iii-  Os a   ii;- -0 i -1 ii i-  i
I't            ol' I                                                                                     00 co's  i-    M!  !0 11         00 a       OD        of        go I-  co i         I
Oa's  GO'l   OVI I                 CFV           o II                            i    Li i
s 4
ei I                I          00 a             a I                                        ri T-.                                                                i-o i-  Oa I_ oo l-  I
Oo'l            a's                                                                                                              ii i-   , i i
U.-F oo-c 00 I  iiiT-   ii ;-   iiii--
co'l                           i's 7 -i ii,i- ic- -l  ii-I I              UT-              i                iii   ii    Ri   _; V_ ;ii--
O!!_           !LS              et I                                           go 0                                                                                                                        a
C14                     0           ol't             i i                            Go's            Wi-             ic' -i 6, F- WI-  i; lo.    i-C T-                          Wi I                                     a  ii-T- ii
ot I            iir                                                                                       t                                                           00a        OD0       00 I    00 I
go a                                                            F97 I                                  i-S  rei__  iT,                                                      iii-
Ol'o            at 0                            Go's           co I            WI                                           O                 I I
0.          of I            of 0             CO'l           CO'l            Du's           Oe'l   co I    De'l        90'st,           Do 9             of of           op 0       00 I                O' a- t-  O' -9 -I
Ot'i            01's            go a            go'l           oe I            io -I   io-l-  go I        ivii--           ii-S            se II            a
co's            00 I           00 I            !O 0           poll   go I    De'l        19'i I            S 0            11411I           00 a       00 a      00 a      co I    go 1-    I t
EN              aii            co' I           go 0           ;WT- co I  oo-I  ;ViF--    ;;'F-                             47F                -0,-- ii ;--  Li v   Li i-- ii i   i i
O!                                              Do I            oe I           00 0           ro I -  U-c-   ao I        ii'il'           ;O 6             i-Iii-             i-_  ii i-    ii-F-                  ii i__    ii
?O 0           OV11             of's            De I           DO's            00 9           Op'l    0 a    DO I        Wll,              0 0             el to           00 a       00 a      00 0      co I    00          I I
go i-          W 9              of t            De I           OVA             00 I           i-s- i-   i- ro -l   UT.                       ;___          ii-I I          ra ;-- Li;   ii ; -- ;i_    i                       i
00 0           at's             01,11           GO'l           Owl             co 6           of I                T      Wel.             is I             iies            ;-O i      ;;-i-   Q_; i       ;;-§                  i
W-6-            ills             Oa's           me             00's            iq=j- jjj- i-9 I   IC.?,                  iii-             ; N I                                          Oa I  Li T-   i i
00 0           *41'11         00 0            as'$, 00'a   (PO' I        it &I.          co 0             i-t Ti-          oo a      oi 0                  i-s-                i
go 0            a I                             GO I           co 0                                                       49            6-if                                     o-  0- 1- -0 o- I
op a            Ws              go 0            GO 0
0           Oo'll 00,11   oo'l        Cl'tl            00 0             Is if           Do 0       00 I       Du a       a I    co I       t
01 I           as 0             01's            00 0             go            of I           WI,    .0    ooll           I til           00 0            of Li            go 0       co a      au 0      co I    00 0        1
?-.               .0                                                                              -            co
of a            00 9           911 0           a;
00 0           co a             OWS,            Do I           GO 0            as 4           OO'll            ii-T  NW--   i-o 0                          WU---   iiT-  6 D- -0 - -0 o-C  U_ -0 -D -0 -0 -0  -1
00 0           00'a            11111 I          00 I           we              of 0           WI               io- - I   11-ti-           iii_             W-96--_  Li i-  Li -i-  ;;- ;   ;; i  Q_; i                         I
co a            D114             go I           go 4           Owl             RF-1             oo-i  i H I -.    iio                      ss It           ;O -O   iro-  UF- ii-o- Oa 0   -1
De 0            to I             90 9           09 a           04 0            io-c-  io-c-  a i-  ii                     00 0             op I            ig i.  ii-i-                   Li;- ;ii-  -1
I            00 0            00 a           co 0            De 0            I'S'  CO'D    00 a        co 0             00 0            00 0             00 1.    00 0        00 I      co 0    00 a         I
O* 0                4            go 0           00 0           00 I            co 0   00 a    00 0       00 0             00 9             00 I            00 1.    co a         00 I     a a    a a a        i
00
(10 0                                           co 0                                                           io- v- a-I                    3            00 0                        0-0 -O  0-o -0  O' -0 O- 'D D- -O   -t
; ;                                            00 8                                                  Fo -S
DO I              0                            ;-a-*         0                                                                                         a      -t -
ro:    ro -s  w                                                                                                                                                                 0- -_ .-  o
9                          io i-            ivo- io- 0-  oo O                                         i-C 0               D   00 0   LO O  00 0  OD__0_
8193-91191,1-pul is"  WOD-DN                  616.7 -112.3in ml W) 1'"  MO  fill -a() let# -emiA #flu uto  6p4J 0,111 613            6.111 '-- i-     r ? _- ! I !-,) -f _- I 12
91             0 1                                              -- -I- -1                                             -  ---  I   I_J_I_
Dv                                                                                                                                   _m__ __                                                       LI



ap~~~~~~~~~~~~~: lo
OJ  °                       .      _   bt d tX            os t*        _ . ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~o'  oo o  00'  00' oe' 9 ee0 z _   Dooo    I oo I    co          °!_ oo             
0~~~~~~~ tlOo,                                                   IU#                  I _0  Dos o   l  oo I      go i _   De I            De so        Du I      ,oo Il    aoe        o         OI 9_-  
-1~~~~~~~~~~ Q)                                 $1111                   0z oo                 00o ol     o's t      0 oi          oC        o              o       c o I _   ooo _ ooI           00 _   os  o    
ru~~~~~~ ou                                       I I                                   I      go oof      OlDoos   o o I  oo              Cooo    oo       I     goe I      coo    o 0    ooI  _a-ts o  
p~~~~~~~                                                                   o     1  o|o l~  _go  o t.  o o c I  oo   of    icI oo     I   o 0  o o   _   oo *-  _i  oo    ;;               oo  I 
i t§- ei~~~~~~~~~~~~~ co- oo                 i-a-       io-  o      ioo o1         oo i                 ;i  oo io            io       oe  -;-oi i  ~    eir __00 1i  
_   i * @         oo ot             oo §     ee ~~~~~~~~~0  o- i_   oo I  eo t-  RD`       oi           o I  ii- r;-0                   r   -0 00         00 i       tt
co _    Itr ,         _j0                 00 j     00 Di    r0          ee 00 I     eo t         0 eo         co I      oo I      oo o        oI i    0 oi i    ooI        t
__.   i i    t 01             ~~~~~~~~~~~00'                             co 00 01  _  00It _     i      00I1 °r        000_  QO __oe                 0   ..-  
~~~~~~~~~~~ Io>            Ho i-        I el    oo s   ot   e             oo          o          oI        UOo_ o               os_U   
tS                                             t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lt 91  !il. e   . °°   00 Dl    00 t    ee t        co t         oo o         °° I _ 0 °°         00° -°B    !0    °°0      .-°!  
to 09.            gol Oee           eoo       oe el    Doe I      ooi          oe-t        DO *OI_ oe I                     o-o o-   ioo t      - oe s       ooI 
00 g t-      i- ii             0 |      DO 0  -i-  0 ODs     oe          ioo i_ ooe                oei       ooi       o  i       a _ o    CoI r__ Oi'i i,
OfO.  i                0 I e00  oe ooD 00 j-ot r-i a                         0- e °° i-o ioOi _ o                                 i _ooi   oo j_;i
e sP-   ~~~~~t'o.-             oo I    loD Di    eoF        ii oo         oo t-    o-o e           i-- __     _        OO t-      000  i    g- c-    0 0- -i   iti
.   ii''ril'        00 1     OO DI _~~~~~~~R  i)   00t        ot           ooi _oo I  oo                     o i        -ooi     r__0t               ii
*e -w *is ~   tw~o of.  -oo_o I      o-or = o _S ioo l oiooo__- o - o ii  = i                                               - -   . =-.                   -u
t "{^   to ti             oe 2     oti iii    _.i_  oo o            oo o         ooc  i       oo-t  o;    oo e      o         o        o    -- i- i;;i
motot*            io i-ooe                    o  a of I           ioii  oo Ii              oe I         ooi i-oi    e-o o_ _,                   o o  i - o  i--    i
llte             Ie@-o                      oo-b ol    ool       00' Doo     o      e I   co 0                   oo I  c o I0  i-D co           o 00     coI i      i
.        -se e                   __        F oo     oo io- -1  Woo s     io- o        ; oo o; - -oo                         I j _ooo  o -a    ooi _1  ooi =        - .- .          r
ls ll               'ltto-           o e     o-o e     oo eai     oo o         oo _        o            o o       oo io     Q_; o       ;    0UI *) oos   oofi  
MWtb              91,9-            oWe        oo-W e     - oo       o e         oe , DOe                 D  00 I             00 e;T    ooi -a  o  o ;-     o  I       t 
t w!.   .. ti             ; _ ~~~~~~~D i o e_ o-    =  ee e         inio  U-00 e =    00.o °       t   0-                         -0 0--00 cp 0I 00I  I-    i 
~~~~~~~~~~I,    i       I            I o,e*       go-e                      go e                         00o e        cT oo   oooo o_  gooo          c o o=       S ooI o        o 
tt te    .   tt eele    oo e    ~~~~~~~~~~ot-  to e    oo                      o            oo i      De a      o-o    =oao          )         )z
entte-   Ioolt-~~~~~~~~00 eo         ooe      coeI        ooo        oo D         --     -     -   a        000oO _  00I egooo          ooo  _    0 ooo
i° t  -   ~~~~of Is.           Du  o ot °-f o                  .    o-o° °i-0 -°    °o-o   ;o    ; o  =,  _o  °o  o--
39ffiF@P13~~ Pl i 0Q;*,      co 00  0     °0°e  00 *o         0 _0 ao               co __   *0 l>ul  uza- _ 0 t   -  00 0-    0p    go             DuI.
f                                    ioa  nii    1 o e    et U      io         W-9          i-tlvd_o r - _   i     ;-O   _ ____   .       
00.          &-7-                   ii -         ;jj -        ;j      -'                     6    ' r'          61 



Table 27
248                               Page 4 of 8
Footnotes to Table 27- Environmental Adiustment
Column B: Possible estuary losses of hilsa assumed to be 33% of the mean annual 1986-1989
catch of 3400 tons from Year 15 increasing to 50% by Year 25. Net value after fishing expenses is
assumed to be Rs 10 per kg. Water volume passing down to the estuary in the early stages will
still be substantial but silt load will be reduced. Hilsa do not migrate up past the dam site, but there
is likely to be some effect on the downstream hilsa fishery. Strictly speaking, the loss of water
volume is attributable to all dams to be developed, not simply to SSP, the loss of silt in the estuary
is attributable predominantly to SSP in the early years but later again to all dams as they develop
upstream Possible estuary losses of prawn assumed to be 33% of the mean annual 1986-1989
catch of 3400 tons with the loss starting in Year 15 increasing to 50% by Year 25. Net value after
fishing expenses is assumed to be Rs 30 per kg. Losses throughout the river and estuary of other
types of fish are assumed to be 30% of the hilsa loss figures.
Column C: Wildlife losses assumed to be equal to 50% of the forest losses on the 11,600 ha of
forest area, but with the quantity of wildlife falling by 1.5% over a 20-year period in line with the
present trend of loss of habitaL However, against this tend, the per unit value of forest is
assumed to rise by 1 % per year in real terms for the first 20 years, ie. somewhat lower than the
physical raue of loss, and then by 2% per year thereafter ie. somewhat higher than the physical rate
of loss to allow for increased real amenity value/appreciation of wildlife over time.
Colurmn D: Wildlife benefits, excluding benefits tO parks receiving water which are treated
separately, are assumed to be the benefits of the improved lakeshore environment at the reservoir
boundary and the benefits to waterfowl. The assumption is a Rs 2 m per year benefit rising by 1%
per year for the increasing amenity value.
Column E: The net of the above wildlife costs and benefits.
Column F: The estimated costs to parks and nature reserves. This is set at zero since no parks or
reserves are inundated in the submergence area and elsewhere the increased productivity from the
command area development should decrease rather than increase the pressure on parks.
Column G: The estimated park benefits. Four parks/reserves are expected to benefit from the
irrigation water or from the proximity of the reservoir. Rs Im benefit each per year is estimated.
Column H: The net of the parks costs and benefits.
Column I: Compensatory afforestation costs. This is set at zero to flag its presence as an activity
but to indicate that this is not treated as an economic cost because the value of the lost forest has
already been accounted for in the Dam costs land loss calculation. To value this as an economic
cost would be double counting.
Column J: Minor forest product cost (gums, dyes, fermented liquors, medicines, "smokes" leaves,
etc), which are small due to the advanced state of degradation in the submergence zone, are
assumed to be 20% of the value of the forest loss. In the "without project" situation one would
expect these to fall over time but they have been left at a constant value here.
Column K: Minor forest product benefits. This is set at zero since, although the command area will
have very much greater annual incremental biomass production than the submergence area, it is
assumed that mostly this will not be the "minor forest product" type of species.
Column L: The net of the minor forest product costs and benefits.



Table 27
249                                Page 5 of 8
Column M: Public Health costs are based on estimates of Rs 380 m for surveillance and control of
water related diseases in 1989 prices over a period of 5 years. Thereafter, the operating costs are
assumed to be 50% of that.
Column N: Public Health benefits are expected to be very substantial due to the supply of reliable
drinking and washing water to 30 million people and to the large increase in food production and
income increases. It is difficult to estimate the value of those benefits but they are assumed here to
be equal to the costs per annum but not starting until Year 20. This may be a substantial
underestimate.
Column O: The net of the public health costs and benefits.
Column P: Navigation costs in the estuary, if there are any, would not start until about Year 35
when non-monsoon flows reach lower levels. Given return flows from water use and
environrmentally sound reservoir opertion the lowest river flow is not expected to be lower than
the present lowest flow, it therefore seems probable that there will be no navigation costs but Rs 2
m per year starting after 35 years has been assumed.
Column Q: There are possibilities of navigation benefits. Benefits from using the canal have been
studied, but found too costly for large boat navigation. However, there may be benefits to estuary
navigation from the evening out of the water flow and there may be benefits from reservoir
navigation because of its long narrow shape. The reservoir will also, by collecting silt reduce sand
bar build up in the estuary. A notional Rs I m navigation benefit is assumed. (Note that local
transport benefits on roads associated with canals have not been included, although the roads are
part of the canal development COSL)
Column R: The net of the navigation costs and the navigation benefits.
Column S: The cost of moving minor village shrines has been included in the R&R costs. The
costs given here are for the three larger temples which will be moved. The total estimated cost is
less than Rs 2 m- Rs 3 m over three years is allowed for to include some contingency.
Column T: No benefits to monuments are expected, so this is set at zero.
Column U: The net af monument costs and benefits.
Column V: Rare plant losses costs. Investigations have found no rare plant species likely to be lost
to mankind in the submergence area due to the degraded nature of the area, but to be conservative
we put a cost on the reduction in the number of individuals equal to 50% of the value of the loss of
forest to inundation and treat the changes over time in quantity and value in the same way as
wildlife were treated under the wildlife column.
Column W: Rare plant benefits are not expected, except possibly for some lakeshore species and
some benefits to certain plants from an improved micro-climate in the vicinity of the reservoir and
the command area. The positive value to rare plants is set at zero.
Column X: The net of the costs and benefits to rare plants.
Column Y: The carbon/oxygen balance costs due to inundation are related to the loss of oxygen
output from the inundated vegetation currently growing in the inundation area and the storage of
carbon by the stock of vegetation in that area This is expected to be vastly outweighed by the
enormous incremental production of oxygen from the irrigation command area and the enormously
greater incremental volume of carbon storage from the trees in the command area. (The canal side
trees alone will have far greater carbon storage capacity than the trees lost to inundation.) No
l



Table 27
250                                  Page 6 of 6
attempt has been made to claim this benefit for the project by placing a value on iL However, to
indicate its presence we put a notional Rs lm on the cost side in this column and a notional Rs 2m
on the benefit side in the next column.
Column Z: See explanation above.
Column AA: The net of the carbon/oxygen balance columns.
Column AB: The micro-climat is defined here as the contnbution to greater moisture in the
atmosphere. There is no cost to the project since the evaporaion from the open water surface of
the reservoir is expected to be about equal to, or greater than, the evapo-transpiration from the
degraded dry deciduous woodland and the rainfed cropland to be inundated.
Column AC: There is expcted to be a substantial micro-climate benefit from the very high levels of
total evapo-transpiration from the crops and canals in the irrigation area The value of this has not
been calculated but a notiQnal Rs 1 m per year is assumed.
Column AD: The net of the micro-climate costs and benefits.
Column AE: The cost of induced pressure on neighbomring areas due to the loss of land to
inundation is a difficult calculation. There is considerable danger of double counting since costs of
compensating Project Affected Persons have already been included and because the lake and
lakeshore environment can probably localy increase human and animal caTying capacity
substantially, although care has to be taken in the management of that environrment to avoid
erosion. A substantial portion of the so-called inundated area is not actually lost to production; it
will change from a poor soil rainfed site to a good soil irrigated site on which annually, as the
reservoir water retreats, there will be very productive "draw-down" farming on the excellent soils
(due to the siltation) using residual moisture plus pumped irrigation on both the draw-down area
and in cerain locations away from the reservoir edge. These two activities together seem likely to
give at least 10,000 ha of irrigated land, which, at a ratio of 3:1 in terms of irrigated to rainfed
production per hectare would more than match the lost productivity of the predominantly rainfed
submergence area production and provide substantial quantities of by-products. Furthermore,
catchment treatment will have productive benefits as well as sedimentation reducing effects.
Notwithstanding the above points, in order to be conservative, the assumption has been made that
there would still be an induced pressure cost on one third of the equivalent of the inundated amea to
the extent of reducing its annual productivity by Rs 500 per ha.
Column AF: The benefits from changes in induced pressure arise from the capacity of the irrigated
'>nmand area to provide an improved livelihood to large numbers of families who would
erwise be forced to exploit rapidly degrading grazing and forest land. The irrigated area will
i very large numbers of livestock on by-products. The value of this decreased pressure is
ncult to calculate. It is cenainly substantially greater than the increased costs around the
_omergence area estimated above. However, it is assumed for the purposes of this analysis to be
equal to the costs of the increased submergence area pressure as estimated above, but starting after
15 years. To put the pressure issue in perspective, it is worth noting that with rural populations
rising at a rate of at least 1.5% per year the annual pressure equivalent in the command area is
2bout 27,000 ha (1,800,000 has time 1.5%) thus in less than two years this pressure equivalent
mes to more than the area lost to inundation.
)iuTnn AG: The net of the costs and benefits from changes in induced pressure.
-,±umn AR- Costs of flood control provided by the dam are the losses of nutrients that may give
some benefit following a flood. An annual mean benefit of Rs. 200 per ha on 5,000 ha
downstream is assumed.



Table 27
251                                Page 7 of 8
Column Al: Flood control benefits from the dam are expected to be substantial. In previous years
a number of villages have been virtually destroyed, a considerable amount of farm equipment
damaged and a number of lives lost. A mean annual cost of flood damage to land, property and
human life downstream of the dam is estimated at Rs. 5m per year.
Column AJ: The net of flood contrl costs and flood control benefits.
Column AK Salinisaion costs are set at zero because a very substantial expenditure has been
provided in the project costs for both horizontal and vertical drainage to ensure that salinisadion
does not have a significant impact and because in the benefit analysis those soil types most at risk
have already been assumed to have a 25% lower yield than the anticipated average for that soil type
to allow for the risk of waterlogging and salinisation.
Column AL: There will be some benefits in certain areas due to increased surface fresh water
percolation pushing back the sub-surface salinity boundary somewhat. The extent of this benefit is
uncertain so a notional Rs. lm annually is put on this.
Column AM: The net of salinity costs and salinity benefits.
Column AN: There ase not expected to be any costs in terms of rcduced or salinised groundwater
due to the project therefore this is set at zero.
Colmnn AO: There are expected to be substantial groundwater recharge benefits from the project.
Farmers pumping water will have reduced pumping depths due to the recharge from the surface
irrigation. The annual benefit of this is uncertain but it is assumed that this would give a pumping
cost reduction excluding subsidy of Rs.80 per annum (about 65 kwh) on 25,000 wells.
Column AP: The net of groundwater costs and benefits.
Colunn AQ: Tourism costs and benefits have not yet been calculated. They are expected to be
substantial. The assumption has been made of Rs. Sm annual costs (in this column) and Rs. 10m
annual benefits (in the next column).
Column AR: See above.
ColGmn AS: The net of tourism costs and benefits.
Column AT: Totals the environmental net benefit columns in financial terms.
Column AU: Shows the previous column converted to economic prices at a factor of 0.8.
NH=  The imputed forest value of Rs. 126 lakh per hectare for submerged land, i.e. about
US$700,000 per hectare, which has recently been quoted in newspapers in India warrants some
comment here. It is based on a per tree valuation estimate which includes an estimate of the value
of oxygen at a bottled oxygen price, an estimate of the cost of cleaning air artificially as an
alternative to the role of trees in filtering out pollution, the value of the reduced erosion in terms of
the cost of applying manure by hand to achieve the sane effect, the cost pumping out of the ground
the equivalent amount of water transpired by a tree, the cost of rearing, and looking after by hand,
the animals and birds displaced by the loss of the tree and, finally, the protein conversion from
green matter in terms of the value of goat meat. The problem with using this estimate, apart from
the sheer magnitude of the figures, is that the methodology is faulty because it does not incorporate
"with" and "without project" scenarios.



Table 27
252                                 Page 8 of 8
A correct analysis using the same figures and follouing the same logic, in fact, would find
the Sardar Sarovar Projects to have a massive economic rate of retum (equally misleading, of
course) for the following reasons: (a) the irrigation in the 1.8 million hectare command area uill
result in very many more trees with much faster growth rate than in the dry degraded submergence
zone with only a few thousand hectares of forest land, therefore, pollution reduction, if it occurs at
all, will be much greater with the project than without it; (b) the photosynthetic output of oxygen
from the actively growing crops in the commnnd area will far outweigh that in the submergence
zone, which is much smaller and large parts of which dry off for half the year (although the issue
is, of course, net carbon storage not oxygen output); (c) the recycling of water from the ground to
the air will be fg greater from the open water surface of the reservoir plus the irrigated command
area than from the dryland submergence zone (the area ratio being about 50 to 1); (d) no erosion
will result underneath the reservoir surface due to the removal of the tees; and (e) there will be
masively greater plant protein production for animnls with the project than without it due to the
irrigation by-products and field bund grazing in the command area. Coefficients of the sort quoted
must be used for both the submergence and the command area and the methodology must
incorporate both the "with" and "without" project situation.



30
28
26 -
22
20-
16
44 
12
ot   10  X
4~~~~~~~2 
-2                        0e19 1
0~~~~~~~~2(
29                \    l 12901     20 09          2 1           
-2  1989    1989                 iect Ye                      a
power,



lXarmlnnacla Paiv\CI- Development -  Gujarat
Total Benefits and Costs over lime
40
30 _
20-
c
0
o Fe1 
- 10-
-10
1984    1   1994           2 2004    I   2014    I   2024    I   2034
1989         1999          2009         2019          2029
Projec t Year
El  Benefits      4   Costs           N Net Benefits



NARMt-\[-)A R7IVER DLVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
Sensitivity Anolysis (i)
20                                             _
17
1 6
1 5
1 4
1 3
1 2
1 1
10
7                                                                                                          Ln_i
6
5
3
2
-5o    -0o -~o   -   o F-10                 - 0o 30I5'0  I  70oI 910
-80      60      40    -)(I    0        20      40      60      80
Change of Viriables in Percent                                                 c
+   Form  product price              Total cost       V   Total benefit



NAW MADA 1V[1 DLVELOPMENT- GUJARAT
Sensitivity Analysis (ii)
20                     -      -
19                   -__  __      ___.                                             I
18 
17
16
1 5
14
13     UC-f/-=
* c              1 11     .
10
a_              9
Li8
7
6
5
4
3
2
o-]90    -701-501  -301 -9101  10130   150170|90
-80    -60    -40    -20        0      20      40      60      80
Ciaonge of Variables in Percent
0   Upstream  div.        0   M&I water price          A   Power price                             ,



NA/RI\MAID)/\ RIVF- [)EVLL-OPMENT-GUJARAT
Sensitivity Anolysis (iMi)
20
1 9       ____---- _______________                        _    _-_______
18
17
16
1 3  __ .- __                   _-
1 2
I 8
7
6
5-
3
2
1
--90 _   - 70    _ -50    --30   -10   I    0  30  I 50  j 70     90
-80    -60    -40    -20       0      20     40      60     80
Cllhalne of Vorinbles in Percent
O)  SSP diversion        +   Upstreom  diversion






259
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-IN/LOAN 2497-IN)
PARTIII - STATISTICAL TABLES



Narmada (Gularat) Sardar Sarovar Dam and Powe Prjiecl
(Credit 1552-INALoan 2497-IN)
Related Bank ILoans and Credits
Loanft2redit Tide   LoanCredit              Purpose               Date of            Status                     Comments
Amount                                     Approval
I Credit 13-IN          US$4.5 M     ll was the Bank's first Credit     1961    Credit Closed             The projeci failed to achieve
Shetrunji Irrigation                for irrigation development in                                       its agricultural objectives
Project                             India which financed the                                            due to inadequate agriciltural
construclton of Sbetrunji's                                         supporting services and
canal system.                                                       lagging construction of field
channels. Presently the
distribution system is being       g
modified in acordance with
RWS principles and is
expected to be completed by
June 1993.
2 Credit 176-IN         US$35 M       To expand and stabilize         Feb.1970  Project completed         The lessons learned from
Kadana Irrigadon                    agricultural production in                 in 1979.                  Shetrunji project were taken
Project                             rain-eficient aseai; to                                             into acoount in preparation of
complete Irrigation facilities                                      the Kadana project tbrough
where past Investnents had                                          due emphasis on on-farm
brought only partial                                                davelopmnent and the
ealizaton of agricultur                                             agricultural support
potential and to complete an                                        program. Tbere was a delay of
H
rD
0



Loan/Credit Title  Loan/Credit            Purpose              Date of            Status                    Comments
Amount                                   Approval
& Drainage Project consisted of                                  structures; and 60% on branch
financing a ree-year time                                        canals. Construction of
slice of the construction                                        distribution and drainage
program in Phase I upto km                                       development blocks was not
144 through partial                                              undertaken though the planning
hnplementation of main canal                                     and designs had been
and major structures; 13 branch                                  completed. SSNNL finalized the
canals; and 12 distribution &                                    tumnkey consultancy document
dainage system development                                        and also finalized the technical
blocks.                                                           evaluatin of bids invited for the
design, Installation and
commissioning of the remote
control comnunication,
monitoring and operaiton of the
conveyance system. NPG also
prepared 3-volume draft plans
of operation and maintenance
(POM) of the canal system and
headworks, duly revised and
updated frm time to time.
m
0
HI 
-4o



Loan/Credit Title   Loan/Credit            Purpose               Date of            Status                    Comments
Amount                                    Approval
would abnost achieve physical
and rinancial completion level of
about 95%. Progress on R&R is
good and GOO has initiated
implementation of time bound
Action Plans for economic
rehabilitation of below-poverty
line oustees in 9 priority
sub-projects and Action Plans
for the remaining 13
sub-proJects are also being
prepared. NGOs have also been
actively involved in economic        e
rebabilitation.
Credit 1553-IN        SDR 1493M   This project which is              March   The Credit closed on July   Tbe project achieved SAR
Narmada (Gujarat)                  interdependent with the            1985    1, 1992, 3 years and 3   objective on the construction of
Water Delivery &                   Nannada (Gujarat) Dam and                  months behind ghe        main canal and structures and
Drainage Project                   Power Project envisaged to                 original Closing Date of    also set high quality standards of
achieve an effident, reliable              March 31, 1989,          machine placed concrete lining,
and equitable supply of                   following 4 extensions    which is now being used as a
iigation wate (coupled with               including one of 3       model on other irrigation
effective drainage services) on           months. With the          projects in India In respect of
RWS principles, and municipal,            cancellation of SDR 4.8    other components, the
Industrial and domesdc water              M in 12/91, the revised  achievements in terms of targets
through storage and regulation            Credit amount of SDR      were: 80% on the construction
of Narmada river flows at                  144.7 M was fully        of main canal head regulator
Sardar Sarovar Dam. The                   disbursed in 09/92.      and the gated cross regulators;
objective of the Water Delivery                                    40% on seven  ajor hydraulic            
a
I.-i



Loan/Cmedit Title   Loan/Credit            Purpose               Date of           Status                     Comments
Amount                                    Approvai
from Credit 101 I-IN, which               March 31,1994 through    (Cr.1011-IN), namely, WALMI,
closed on April 30, 1989. The             four extensions of one   Saurashtra Coastal, Karjan,
main objectives are to                    year each and one of 3   Machhu I and Machhu 11.
improve the standards of                  months. With the         Overall, the restructured project
design and construciton and to            cancellation of SDR 15.0   has achieved a completion level
introduce an efficient,                   M in 12/1991, and SDR    of about 88%. Construction of
reliable and equitable water              4.9 M in 05/93, the      dams and spillways is almost
management system through                 revised Credit amount is   complete. Implementation of
RWS and fanmer's                          SDR 144.40 M against     distribution network, hitherto
participation through the                 which SDR 129.5 M        lagging, has picked up
ceation of Watger Users                   (USS 161.9 M) has been    momentum. A noteworthy
Association to enhance crp                disbursed by June 30,    feature of project
production.                               1993                     implementation is the sustained
effort of GOG in maximizing
the introduction of RWS and its
rapid acceptance by the farmers
wherever irrigation has
commenced. This has resulted in
an increase in agricultural
prduction. It is expected that at
the extended Closing Date of
March 31, 1994, RWS would be
introduced In nearly 70% of
CCA and the project.
.*Q ar
0
Hi 
-'



Loanftredit Title   LoanRredit             Pwrpose               Date of            Status                     Commnents
Amount                                    Approval
of Machhu I dam and                                                the Closing Date, thereby
Introduction of operational                                        delaying or denying the
and management                                                     benefits of Irrigation
improvements through                                               deliveries to the farmers.
rotational water supply                                            Notwithstanding the lack of
(RWS) on existing and new                                          full accomplishment of
schemes.                                                           project objectives, many
positive results emanated
from the project,
particularly the planning and
construction of distribution
network in the subprojects in
sccordance with principles or
Agreements on RWS concept
(except for Damanganga
sub-project) which started
making an impact in a big way
though late in the
implementation period.
6 Credit 1496-IN        SDR 164.3   To complete the construction       Jun-84   Project is under         The project was restructured
Gujarat Medium        M            of 22 on-going MIPs and 6                  Implementation with      In February 1991 to Include
Irrigation Project    (US$172 M    modernization schemes of the               the Original Closing     the financing of civil works of
equivalent)   Closed Credit 806-IN as well              Date of December         additional components from
as 3 major sub-pnjects and                 31,1989 having been      the previous Gujarat Major
the WALMI a5 transferred                  extended to              Irrigation Project
IPP
OQ0
rb 
0



Loan/Credit Title  Loan/Credit             Purpose              Date of           Status                     Comments
Amount                                    Approval
on-going irrigation scheme                                        3 years In completion due to
that had been under                                               two extreme floods and some
construction since 1948.                                          construction problems. Full
Credit was disbursed. The
project achieved its
objectives and the Kadana area
is now one of the most
prosperous and productive
areas in Gujarat.
3 Credit 191-IN        US$35 M      To support the development of     1970    Credit Closed            Objectives were largely
Gujarat Agricultural               grund water In the State                                          achieved.
Credit Project                    thrmugb the constmction of                                                                            ON
41,000 wells and about 450
tubewells and installation of
about 45,000 pump sets.
4 Credit 808-IN         US$85 M      It was a first timee-slice      May-78   Closed on June 30,        Of the 22 new MlPs, only one
Gujarat Medium                     operadon to support medium                1984. The project        sub-project (Panan) was
Irrigation Project                 itrigation projects (MlIPs) to            was fully disbursed.     operaitonal in 1984. The six
promote investments in such                                        modernization sub-projects
projects (individually too                                         were still in the various
small to justify Bank                                             stages of construction at the
participation) through                                             Credit Closing Date. Hence the
construction of 22 new MliPs;                                      full benefits could only accrue
modernization of 6 projects                                        under the follow-up project
rD-
(D
0



LoaCmedit Title    Loan/Credit             Purpose              Date of            Status                    Comments
Amount                                    Approval
already in operation,                                             when cmpleted.
establishment of a network of
discharge measuring stations;
providing technical services
needed for monitoring and
evaluation studies.
S Credit 101 1-IN       US$175 M    To achieve an economic use of     Apr-80   Closed on April         Overall project
Gujarat Irigation It               surface water resources and               30, 1989.                implementation fell short of
PrOect                            to endure a rellable and                   USS15.7 M                achieving the objectives due
equitable supply to ihdividual            was cancelled           to persistent land acquisition
fanners through construction              at the                  problems; canal lining
of two new Irgation scbemes               Closing Date            problems; severe drought           0
(Damanganga and Karijan);                                         conditions from  1985 to
modernization of                                                   1987 (leading to consecutive
Ukai-kakrapa irrigation                                           redesign of spillways at all
system; development of                                             dams); mid-term reductions
Sautmshtra coastal salinity                                        in budgeted outlays and
ingression control scbeme;                                         slippages in the construction
establishment of a training                                        of distribution networks in
institute for water and land                                       accordance with agreed RWS
management (WALMI);                                                procedures. Whereas the
reconstruction of Machhu 11                                        sub-project dams and
dam; rehabilitation of Machhu                                      reservoirs were virtually
U irrigation and water supply                                      completed, the conveyance
scheme, safety modifications                                       system lagged substantially at
rb
0
I-t'



267
Table 2
NARMADA (C3UJARAT} SARQAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Cr. 1552-INJLn.2497-IN)
PROJECI rTME TABLE
Activities                    Date Planned          Actal Date
1. IDENTEFICATION/                                   August-December 1980/1980-83
PREPARATION
2. APPRAISAL                                         March, June, September, 1983
and August 1984.
3. LOAN/CREDIT                                       November 8-21, 1984
NEGOTIATIONS              November 1984
4. BOARDDATE                  March 1985             March7, 1985
5. SIGNING DATE               May 1985               May 10, 1985
6. EFFECTVESS                June 1985               January6, 1986
7. COMPLETION                 June 30, 1994          *Expected to be completed
by January 23, 1998
8. CLOSING DATE               June 30, 1995
* As per SSNNL's Revised Implementation Schedule of December 1989
(RIS 12/89).



268
Table 3
(Page I of 2)
MiIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Cr.1552-INALn.2497-IN) 1/
Bank   Semester    SAR Estimates       Revised Projection    Actual Disbursements    % Actual
FY     Quarter   Semester Cumulative SDR M/Credi, USSM/Loan SDR M/Credit US$MlLoan to SAR or
(USSM)   (IJSSM)                                                 Revised
_________   __________    _________    ___________       ~~~Projection
1985     lst
2nd       06.3      06.3
1986     Ist       10.0       16.3
2nd       18.2      34.5
1987     1st
2nd       25.0      59.5
3rd
4th       25.1      84.6                             14.7                  17.3
1988     1st                                                   17.2
2nd       27.0      111.6                             172                  15.3
3rd                                                  20.0
4th       30.0      141.6                            20.0                  14.1
1989     1st                                                   20.0
2nd       25.0      166.6                             24.3                 14.5
3rd
4th       25.2      191.8      29.5                  28.7                  97.0
1990     1st                            30.5                   28.7                 94.0
2nd       25.0      216.8      32.9                   31.8                 96.6
3rd                            35.9                  34.9                  97.4
4th       25.9      242.7      37.8                   37.9                 100.0
1991     1st                            37.8                   37.9                 100.0
2nd       10.6      253.3      50.3                   39.0                 77.5
3rd                            62.8                   57.5                 91.5
4th       10.0      263.3      70.0                   62.7                 89.6
1992     1st                            74.0                   74.1                 100.0
2nd       09.5      272.8      84.0                   77.8                 92.6
3rd                            88.0                   91.9                 104.4
4th       09.0      281.8      91.0                   91.9                 100.9
1993     1st                             93.5                 99.7 2/      00.0     106.6
(USS 133 .3M)
2nd       06.1      287.9      99.7       00.0                   0.26
3rd                 290.9                 12.0                  34.46 3/
4th       06.0      293.9                 24.0



269
TablI
(Page 2 of 2)
Bank   Semester     SAR Estimates       Revised Projection     Actual Disbursements    % Actual
FY     Quarter    Semester Cumulative SDR M/Credit US$M/Loan SDR M/Credit US$SM/Loa  to SAR or
(USSM)   (USSM)                                                     Revised
________   _______ __   _____ ___   ____ ______   _ _______ Projection
1994      1st                                        30.0                 18.49 4/
2nd        03.1      297.0                  42.0
3rd                                         60.0
4th       03.0      300.0                   80.0
(Completion                                    86.0
Date) 5/                                     110.0
1995      1st                                        135.0
2nd                                        145.0
3rd
4th     (Cosing
Date)
1/    Lending includes SDR 99.7 M under Cr.1552-IN and USS 200.0 M under Loan 2497-IN.
2/    SDR 99.7 M Credit fully disbursed on September 17, 1992.
3/    Remaining unwithdrawn amount of USS 165.54 M under Loan No. 2497-IN (USS 200 M)
was cancelled with effect from Mardh 29, 1993 consequent to GOrs request to the Board for
cancellation.
4/    Total net amount disbursed after GOI refunded to the Bank an August 10, 1993 the unused
balance of USS 15.96 M in the Special AccouDL Thus cumulative disbursements of USS 151.79
M were made under the total Credit/Loan amount of USS 300 M.
5/    Expected Completion Date is January 23, 1998, as per SSNNL's RIS (12/89).



270
Table 4
TNDIA
NARMDA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Cr. 1552-IN/Ln.2497-IN)
PROlECT IMPLEMENTATIO
(Main Milestones)
Component/Work    SAR Target  Implementation  Expected Schedule           Remarks
Status       of Achievement
of Target
1. SARAR SAROVAR DAMh1
(a) Award of contract of      Jun-85     * April 1987                     * Delay in GOI clearance
Main Dam Civil Works.                                                from environmental angle.
(b) Completion of dam        May-92   Work in progress    July 1995 1/   1/ As per SSNNL -
concrete placement above                                                 RIS (12/89)
EI.91.46 m for
commencement of
irrigation diversion.
(c) Completion of Dam &       Jul-94    Work in progress  January 1998 21 2/ As per SSNNL -
Spillway to top, EL                                                      RIS (12189)
146.5m, with gates.
2. RIVFRB}F> POWER HOU f        BPin
(d) Award of RBPH civil       Jun-85      * July 1987                       D Delay in GOI clearance
works.                                                               from environmental angle.
(e) Completion of RBPH        Apr-89    Concrete in Unit December 1995 3/ 3/ Delays due to
1st stage concrete.                    Bays not                       occurrence of fissures
commenced                       in cavern walls and time
taken for their teatment,
(I) Commissioning of first    Oct.1992        - do -       Sept 1997 3/  together with non-receipt
Unit at RBPH.                                                         of TIG sets due to non-
resolution of Japanese
(g) Commissioning of sixth    Jul-94                       May 1999 3/   funding of equipmenL
Unit at RBPH.                                                         This schedule shall get
further delayed if funding
of T/G sets is not resolved
promptly.



271
Table 5
(Page 1 of 3)
INDIA
NARMAnA ({GUjARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWFR PROWFCT
(CR.1552-IN/LN.2497-IN)
PHYSICAL AND FINANCTAL TMPLRFMFNTATION OF PROJFCT
(As of March 29, 1993)
SI. No.       Component/Work       Tendered Cost Unit   Estimated/     Actual     Completion
(Rs.Million)       Revised Qty. Achievement    Level
A.      MAIN DAM
1.     Main Dam Civil Works         3,200.00
(a)  (i) Excavation                             Mm3   4.48/6.08       4.964      110.7/81.6%
(ii) Concrete Placement                    Mm3       6.820        3A55         50.6%
(iii) Drilling and Grouting                 Mm3      0.282        0.211        74.8%
(b)     Fnancial (expenditure                   RsM                  3,757.10
incurred)
2.   Ma Dm                            17.10
(a) (i) Procurement                             No.       432          432         100.0%
(ii) Insllation                             No.       432          300         69.4%
(b)     Fmancial (expenditure                   Rs.M                   19.8
incurred)
3.     Seismic Instruments            16.02
(a) (i) Procurement                             No.        97           97         100.0%
(ii) Installation                           No.        97           69         71.1%
(b)     Financial (expenditure                  Rs.M                   27.1
incurfed)
4.     River Cluice Gates & Staloys    59.90
(8 Gates and 4 Stoplogs)
(a)  (i) Fabrication                            M.T.   1,510.00       1,284.55     85.1%
(ii) InstaDation                            M.T.   1,510.00        0.00         0.0%
(b)     Fnancial (expenditure                   Rs.M                   101.2
incurred)
5.     Crest Radial Gates & Stoplogc    405.50
(30 gates & 3 sets of stoplogs)
(a)     Fabrication                             M.T.   13,452.00      5,750.81      42.7%
(b)     Fmancial (expenditure                   Rs.M                  253.00
incurred)
6.     Penstock Gates & Stoglogs      78.20
(6 gates & I set of stoplogs)
(a)     Fabrication                             M.T.   2,247.00       2,003.00      89.1%
(b)     Fmancial (expenditure                   Rs.M                   84.10
incurred)
NOTE:  Procurement action on pumps and elevators has not been completed so far.



272
Table S
(Page 2 of 3)
Si. No.      ComponentfWork    ITendered Cost Unil  Estimated/       Actual    Completion
I (Rs.Million)      Revised Qq. Achievement    Level
B.     RIVER BED POWER HOUSF
1.     River Bed Power House Civil    404.20
(a)    Underromunti Fxrcayption
(i) Machine Hall; Control Room;           Th m3    229.90       200.74       87.30%
Shafts & Bus Shaft; and
Gallerie
(ii) Pressure Shafts (6 Nos.)             Th m3    53.00         53.00        100%
(iii) Draft Tube Tunnels (6 Nos.)         lb m3    98.50         58.48       59.40%
(iv) Exit Tunnels (3 Nos.)                Th m3    145.00        121.37      83.70%
(v) Access Tunnel to Service Bay          lb m3    43.37         43.37        100%
Underground Works                     Th m3    569.77       476.96       83.70%
(b)       e Fxcavatim
(i) Collection Pool                       lT m3    595.00       525.00       88.20%
(ii) Pressure Shafts                      lb m3    32.00         32.00        100%
OH) Exit Tunnels & Tail Race             Tl m3    846.00         77756        92%
Tota Open Excavation                      Tl m3   1473.00        1334.56      90.60%
(c)    Financial (expenditure                  Rs.M                  668.00
incurred)
2.     Steel Plat"s for Penstocks    38.24                                       71.20%
(a)     Supply of el plates                    M.T.   5171.00       5171.00       100%
(b)     Fmancial (expenditure                  RscM                  38.24
incurred)
3.     Hollow Core Rock Bolts        2.33
(a)     Supply of rock bolts                    No.    1800.00       1800.00      100%
(b)     Fmancial (expenditure                  RsM                    2.33
incurred)
4.  0'wnnd Vibration Memu             0.56
Equipment
(a)     Supply of equipment                     Job                Completed      100%
(b)     Fiancial (expenditure                  RsM                    0.56
incurred)
5.     Penstock Liners               35.00
(a) (i) Fabrication of liners                  M.T.  4711/4520      4422.00       97.80%
(ii) Installation of liners                M.T.                  695.00       15.40%
(b)     Fnancial (expenditure                  RsaM                   2830
incurred)
6.         3Tube C;a 0.90
(a)     Fabrication                            M.T.    1500.00       588.00       39.20%
(b)     Financial                              RsaM                   12.40



273
Table 5
(Page 3 of 3)
Si. No.      Component/Work        Tendered Cost Unit   Estimated/     Actual    Completion
(Rs.Million)       Revised Qty. Achievement    Level
7. (a)  400 KV GIS Fallmn=          1,163.60   Rs.M                   115.6
Advance payment made to
MWs. GEC Alsthan, France
(b) Other Electric Equipment *                                         253.5
Sinmmary of' Financial Progre
(on eligible items/works)
DlAM
Expenditure incurred upto March 29, 1993                   Rs. 4,158.20 M
POWER
Expenditure incurred upto March 29, 1993                   Rs. 1,206.80 M
(i) Civil Works         Rs. 837.7 M
(ii) ElecJMech. Equipment Rs. 369.1 M
Rs. 1,206.8 M
TOTAL:                       Rs. 5,365.0 M
Hvdmmet Tri & T A                                          Rs. 33.8 M
DISBIURSEMFNTS.           Total disbursanent (as of March 29, 1993) - USS 151.79 M.
*  Financing of Electro-Mechanical Equipment for SDR 12A M (USS 17.6 MlRs517.7 M) agreed through
June 6,1991 Amendment to DCA.



274
Table fi
MIIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
TOTAL PROJFCT COSTS
Si.     Component/Work          Appraisal Estimate   Revised Cost (at 1992 Price Level)**
No.                           Rs.Million   USM         Rs.Million 1/      US$ M 2/
A  Main Dam                      5,469.2      455.8          11,320.0            432.0
B  Rock Fill Dykes & Link          109.4        9.1             109.4              9.1
Channels
C  Riverbed Power House          5,152.4      429.4          11,706.0            447.0
D  Main Canal                   12,175.6     1,014.6         33,109.0           1,264.0
E  Garudeshwar Weir               501.8        41.8            502.0              19.0
F  Canal Head Power House        1,0602        88.3           2,309.0             88.0
G  Transmission System             227.4       18.9             227.4              9.0
H  Branches                      9,401.0      783.4          43,687.0           1,667.0
I Distribution & Drainage       20,975.9    1,748.0          27,125.0          1,035.0
Systems
1-1 Ground Water Development                                  4,054.0             155.0
J Vadgam Dam & Bye-pass           257.1        21.4            566.0              21.4
Tunnel
J-1 En-route Storage         .                                  320.0              12.0
K  Command Area Devdopmen        5,379.4      448.3           9,020.0            344.0
L  Hydrometeorological Networl     175.5       14.6             175.5              7.0
M  Training & Technical             74.0         6.2             74.0              3.0
Assistance
N  Land Acquisition &            1,680.8       140.1          1,680.8             64.0
Rehabilitation
Total Baseline Costs         62,639.7     5,220.0        145,985.1          5,576.5 3/
Physical Contingencies        8,029.1      669.1
Price Contingencies          65,738.2     5,478.2
_  TOTAL PROJECT COST           136,407.0    11,3672 
* lUS$ = RS.12.0
*   At curent prices before 1992, costant price afterwords.
1/  Total revised cost of SSP has inceased to Rs. 145,985.1 M, compared to the Appraisal Cost of
Rs.136,407.0 M (7% increase) and the project cost of Rs. 64060.4 M approved by Planning
Commission at 1986-87 Price Level (128% increase).
2/  In terms of USS, the Revised Cost has reduced by about 51% due to substantial devaluation of
Rupee.
3/  Revised Project Cost of Dam & Power Project components (as per page 30 of SAR), viz. components
at Serial Nos. A,B,CEF.GJL,M and N of the above table, is estimated to be Rs. 28,670.1 M at
1992 price level.



275
TablI7
TNDTA
NARMADA (GUTARATf .ARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJFCT
(CR. 1552-IN/LN.2497-IN)
PROQlBC COST
(Components/Items Eligible for Disbursement)
Si.     Component        Appraisal Estiarm   Tendered Cost  Estimated                  Atual      Balance Ex-
No                       USSM  I Rs.M          Rs.M      Revised Cost                Expenditure  penditure to
Base cost                   (Rs.M) at                    as of      Complete
Cost with contigency              1992 Price                 March 29,    Spillover
Level                       1993        Works
_  ______                                             __________    (Rs.M)                      (Rs.M)
I DAM (including        32D7    46B90       3,698.5      5,688.2                     4,158.2       1530
instruments,gates,etc.)   635.3    7623.9
2 Irrigation By-pass     2.i      1=          193.5       283.2                        0.0         283.2
Tunnel                 14.3     171.9
3 POWER (Civil Works)    i        B           626.1       1,281.0                     837.7        443.3
(Including steel plates,   103.4    1241.0
penstock liners and                                   * USS172.M  =Rs517.7M]
gates, etc.)                                          SDR 12.4M                ]    369.1        1312.2
] (SDR8.87M)
4 POWER (Electric                                       **USS39.6  =Rs.1163.6M]
Equipment)
5 HYDROMET NETWC    fl            14                    Rs. 276.0 M                    21.8        254.2
16.7     201.2                                           (USSO.83M)
6 TRAINMG & TEC          2         22                    Rs.86.7M                       12          74.7
ASSISTANCE              3.4      41.2                                            (USS0.43M)
TOTAL                  422      Sl7B3      4,514.4      9,296.4                    5398.8       3897.6
773.1    9279.2
NOTFS:
Financing of Electro-Mechanical equipment for SDR 12.4 M agreed through the June 6,1991 amendment of DCA.
F nancing of 400 KV GIS equipment agreed through Bank letter of August 31, 1988.
At the current exchange rate of IUSS = Rs.30.7, the completion of balance works would require USS 126.9 M.



(Cr.1552-INALn.2497-IN)
PROJECT FINANCINIi
Category                     Planned in Original                     Provided in Revised               Actual Disbursements
Credit/Loan Agreement                   Credit/Loan Agreement            (as of March 29. 1993)
AmLof Credit Amt.of Loan    Disburse-   AmtLof Credit Amtof Loan    Disburse-       Credit         Loan
Allocated   Allocated       ment        Allocated    Allocated       ment      (SDRs '000)  (USS '000)
(SDRs '000)  (USS l00)         %        (SDRs '000)  (USS '000)       % 1J
A. (1) Civil Works              92,010      184,405   FY8S-90: 45%      79,610       184,405         90         87719.18       18479.76
FY91-95: 15%
(2) Training under Part K
of the project               230          470          100%           230         470            100          19.95          3.42
(3) Technical Assistance:                                                                                                                    r'
(a) Under Part M (vii) of                                                                                                                _
the project               200            -           100%          200                        100           50.28
(b) Under Pars M (I)
tbrough M (vi) of the
project                   700         1,800         100%           700         1,800          100          234.56
(4) Hydrometeorological Net-
work under Part N of the
project
(a) Civil works              735          1,499         70%           735         1,499           90           0.00
(b) Goods                   4,165        8,491    100% of foreign    4,165        8,491    100% of foreign    585.29
expnd.; 100% of                         expnd.; 100% of
local expnds                            local expnds
(ex-factory                             (ex-factory
cost) & 70% of                          cost) & 80% of
local expense                           local expense
for other Items                         for other items
procured locally _procured locally                                                        o '
0



Category                     Planned in Original                      Provided in Revised              Actual Disbursements
CremdiLoan Agm ent                      Credit/Loan Agreement            (as of March 29, 1993)
Amtof Credit Amt.of Loan    Disburse-   Amt.of Credit AmLof Loan    Disburse-       Credit         Loan
Allocated   Allocated       ment        Allocated    Allocated       ment      (SDRs '000)  (USS W0)
(SDRs '000)  (USS 00)        b%        (SDRs '000)  (USS '000)       % 1/
(5) Goods
under Parts             100% of foreign
B (ii) and 0            expd., 100% of
of the project           local expd., (ex-
12,400 2/              factory cost)     8,872.13          -
(5) Unallocated                  1,660        3,335                     (6) 1,660     3,335                     2218.60 3/     11.48 3/
TOTAL:                          99,700      200,000                      99,7        200,000                    99,700.00      18,494.65
or          or 4/
US$ 133.3 M   US$ 18.49 M
Total disbursements (Cr.+ Ln.):
USS 133.3 M + US$ 18.49 M
=US$ 151.79 M
B. Financing Plan
Plannod    .                i Fal t  
(USS M)                     (USS)
Credit & Loan (total)           300.00        18.00        151.79         13.80
Domestic (GOI & States)        1,374.00       82.00        947.71        86.20
Total Project Cost            1674.00 5/     100.00       1,099.50       100.00
Notes: 1/ Disbursement percentage increased with effect from September 1, 1990.
2/ DCA amended on June 6, 1991 to permit use of a portion of savings equivalent to SDR 12.4 M for financing additional Electro-Mechanical equipments.
3/ Differences due to cress excbange rntes on special acowunt transactions.
4/ Total disbursement under Loan is USS 18.49 M after cancellation of USS 165.54 M on Marcb 29. 1993 and refund of USS 15.96 M by GO0
on August 10, 1993.
5/ SAR Project Cost is USS 1933.5 M. Proposed project costing net of taxes and duties is USS 1674 MK as per page 32 of SAR.
6/ At 1992 price level.                                                                                                                   M-
0



278
Table 9
(Page 1 of 2)
INDIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Cr.1552-INILn.2497-IN)
ECONOMIC IMPACT 1/
Indicator           Apprasal Estimate    PCR Estimate          Remarks
ERR Overall Project                     13.20%                                 11.9%
Underlying Assumptios
- Tine period covered for
evaluating economic viability        50 years          50 years
- Estimation of economic and
financial prices                 1984 price level    1992 price level
- Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)       0.8                0.8
- Benefits included in economic    Irrigation; Power,  Irrigation; Power,
evaluation                       and M&I benefits  M&I; Fuelwood; and
Fisheries Benefits
- Commencement of benefits:
o Commencement of first
irrigation                        May 1992           July 1995
o Commencement of Hydro-Power
through comrnissioning of
first Unit of:
(i) Canal Head Power House
(CHPH)                        August 1992       August 1995    All 5 units of CHPH
are expected to be
commissioned by
04/96.
(ii) Riverbed Power House
(RBPH)                         Oct. 1992         Sept. 1997       Due to expected
delays in resolution
of funding of TG sets,
power benefits from
I st Unit of RBPH
shall commence
_____________    frorn 09/97.



279
Table 9
(Page 2 of 2)
Indicator           Appraisal Estimate    PCR Estimate        Remarks
- Estimation of upstream diver-
sions, at full development, for
detemining energy generation
at RBPH                           24,300 Mm3        * 16,000 Mm3    * By year 2024 due to
expected delays in
upstream water
development
- Estimation of Nanmada Sagar         1993/94          * 2001/02      ** To account for the
Dam being operational                                               impact of delays in
the construction of
Narmada Sagar Dam,
water released for
power generation
reduced by 25*
during the first
5 years of operation.
- Economic value of energy from
Hydro-Power Component            Rs.0.66/KWH       * Rs.1.39/KWH     Based on Second
Maharashtra Power
Project, adjusted
for inflation.
I/ Detailed Economic Analysis in Annex 1.



280
Table I
(Page I of 4)
INDLA
NARMADA(GJARA'I SARA SAROVAR DAM AN POWR PRO
(Cr. 1 552-IN/Ln.2497-IN)
P==RrY STLMIES/WORK PLAN TOPICS OF NARMLADA PLANrG  GROUP
Priority    Study Item or                           Present Status
Number    Topic 1/
1.      Resettlement and         This topic is comprehensively included in Schedule 3
rehabilitation plans,    of DCA as well as the Project Agreements with
including suitable financial   Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh under
and institutional        Schedule 2 and the relevant Sections of PA.
arrangements.            Whereas, the progress had been generally
satisfactory in Gujarat, there were severe problems
with Maharashtra and M.P. in respect of institutional
and implementation arrangements. Concerned at the
unsatisfactory level of progress in implementing the
R&R component, the Bank, in October 1992, agreed
with GOI on a consolidated Action Plan including a
detailed set of bench marks for implementation by
the states within the prescribed period. The Action
Plan comprised provisions for improvement in
policies, organization and management, and
implementation of R&R; tighter linkage between
progress on R&R and dam construction; and
strengthened environmental planning and monitoring
of potential environmental planning and monitoring
of potential environmental impacts. Satisfactory
implementation of the bench marks within the target
period was made a condition for continuing
disbursements beyond March 31, 1993. GOI, while
assuring the Bank Executive Board on March 30,
1993 that Gujarat, Maharashtra and M.P. were
achieving satisfactory progress in meeting the agreed
benchmarks on R&R, decided to cancel further
disbursements out of the outstanding portion of the
Bank loan. The status of implementaiton (as of
March 30, 1993) indicated an evidence of substantial
progress towards several of the bench marks.
However, on several important tasks relating to
R&R, domestic difficulties unrelated to the project
made adherence to the previously envisaged
timetable difficulL The work on environmental



281
Table 1
(Page 2 of 4)
amelioration and management was generally on
course. In respect of R&R, substantial progress was
made in improving planning and survey data.
Perusal of the reports furnished recently by NCA
indicates that (i) policies in M.P. and Maharashtra
have been improved to close gaps between States;
implementation has also improved through larger
settlement of PAPs in Maharashtra and purchase of
land in MP, grievances and appeals processes are
now operating; staffing and administrative powers
are now satisfactory; R&R staff is being trained; co-
ordination of movements between MP and Gujarat
PAPs has substantially improved; consultation with
PAPs is being canied out; MIS to monitor R&R
implementation is being set up; (iu) criteria to link
dam construction to R&R implementation have been
developed and the Bank-suggested "green light
system" is being broadly implemented; (iii) dam
construction program for 1992/93 was limited to
ensure that R&R of affected villages was completed
at least six months prior to submergence; and (iv)
environmental overview and environmental work
plans as well as the health management plans are
reported to have been prepared by the party states.
2.      Watershed management     GOI's environmental cleance for the project
(with assistance of GOI,    imposed conditions for compensatory afforestation
GOMP, GOG and GOM)    (CAF) and catchment area treatment (CAT). The
including development of    environment issue is also appropriately covered in
an "Afforestation Plan" for  the Project Agreements with Gujarat, Maharashtra
reservoir and adjacent area   and M.P. Ministzy of Environment and Forest, GOI
to achieve higher        has specified that the project will compensate for
production base and      forest lands taken by SSP, as below:
improved environments
(e.g., reduce                            Dz  MaL  ME    m1
sedimentation).                         (ha)  (ha)  (ha)   (ha)
Forest area
taken by the
project       4,523 9,188 2,732 16,443
Degraded
forest to be
replanted      9,300 12,980 6,547 28,827
Non-forest
land to be
afforested     4 650 29 12  2.190 16.030
Total area for
CAF            13.950 22,170 2.   44.857



282
Table 10
(Page 3 of 4)
Each state has prepared an action plan for CAF
within its boundaries and has initiated
implementation as well. The total area afforested to-
date is over 29,000 ha out of the planned total of
44,857 ha, viz. a progress of 65%. Progress is good
in all three states: Gujarat (62%); Maharashtra
(69%); and Madhya Pradesh (55%). The Regional
Chief Conservator of Forests at Bhopal is
monitoring CAF for the project on behalf of MOEF.
In respect of catchment area treatment (CAT), each
state has finalized an action plan for implementation.
Gujarat has already treated 16,500 ha (55%) of the
total area of 30,000 ha to be treated and the action
plan envisages completion of treatment by 03/95.
Maharashtra is to treat some 25,000 ha and a
substantial part of CAT area has been encroached
and used for agriculture by locals who are reluctant
to allow forestry officers on to the land.
Nevertheless, work has now commenced in the areas
free from dispute and is scheduled to be completed
by 03196. MP has to treat 114,600 ha as per their
detailed action plan. To date, 17,000 ha of land has
been treated and the entire program is scheduled to
be completed by 03197.
The present schedules envisage completion of CAT
programs in all three states by the end of 1996-97
financial year. Full impoundment of reservoir is not
due until 1998; so these schedules are in accordance
with the condition of the MOEF that the entire
program of CAT should be completed before the
reservoir filling.
3.      Study of project-related  Study has been completed by SSNNL and
computer needs for       computers have also been installed and
planning, design, project    commioned at 10 project sites where they have
management,              started functioning successfully. Five additional
procurement, scheduling  project locations have also been identified for
and other related needs.    installing computers and are expected to be
commissioned within a year.



283
Table 10
(Page 4 of 4)
4.      Management information    Establishment of a fully computerized management
system requirements (with  information system (MIS), duly manned by trained
3 above), administrative,    engineers and staff, has been completed by SSNNL.
planning, design,        It has developed into a dynamic management tool for
procurement, scheduling,   all management levels, and besides preparing
and general engineering  implementation schedules of the key project
data retrieval systems.  components, including master network schedule of
SSP, it is also assisting in the programming,
scheduling, and monitoring of contractor's
performance. The Finance Wing has started
receiving assistance from MIS. Process of
computerization of designs of structures is also
progressing well. Overall, project management,
scheduling, implementation, reporting, accounting,
budgetary controls, contractor's performance, etc.
are all computeized and are starting to have a
positive impact on timely implementation of works.
A Computer Advisory Committee has also been
formed under SSNNL Chairman to ensure
sustainability of MIS and promoting innovations and
forward thinking.
5.      Communication and        This is in progress. The final feasibility report on
operational control      the operation of Nannada Canal System, submitted
systems plan (with 3     by G.C.E.L, Vadodara, in 4/90 has been accepted
above).                  by SSNNL. Ihe Bank also assisted the Nigam in
finalizing the TORs and bidding documents for the
design, supply and commissioning of computerized
remote control and monitoring system for the
Narmada Main Canal and branch canals down to the
8.5 cumec level.
6.      Project-wide manpower    This is a continuing study/exercise and is
requirement and taining  periodically updated/revised by SSNNL for the
programs plan.           construction phases of the wide network of project
activities. A study has also been recently completed
to determine the manpower and training requirement
of the O&M needs of headwork, power plants and
canal system. O&M training program is still to be
implemented. Core O&M groups have also to be
appropriately established and strengthened.
1/    Refer Table 22, page 102 of SAR No. 5107-IN.



Table 1 1
284                                                Page  1 of  11
PAGE NO. I                                                                   MIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(CR1552-TN/Ni2497'
Status of Covenants
Type of   ~~~     Revised      Original
Scetion                Summary Desnpton                       Type of    LAVd Of       Compliance Compliance           Remarks
Covat  Complace  Date                Date
GUJ2.01a.PA          Cwy out various pats of pmjas decibed in    ORG           2        /I          /         Good progress achieved on execuion
Sch.2 to DCA in conformity wit apppriate                                                 of Put A & B; Part H   Dot undCnaken
adm., finao.eAng.agr.. cav..sodological                                                  due to non-resolution of inven level;
&pub.utilities pratices h wth required                                                  imlplemelaion of Pfn K is still to be
fi*s, fsclliti ,AW!jervi                                                                adequtey initiated. Establishment of
ar-Suencl3-,Sw   Hydrnoct (Pat N).                                                      Hydnmet (Pat N) is subuntially
ddayed.
GUJ 2.01b, PA        Provide faclitie to NCA to enable it to cary  ORG         4 A       /                    N refen to hydmeL GOI bhs moved
an overall operaion & mainateace of                                                     NCA to Indore, MP as a means of
hydrometeortogical network under Part N of                                              faclitating its reiposibiliLies.
the project
GUJ2.01c,PA          ProvidetoNCA  rf i        ourcesto           ORG           I       /I /                  VreferstooveraUlM&EofRAR
enable it to assit the Bonower in carying out
M&E of RhR under Pat P of the project with
diligence & edency.
GUJ 2.02a, PA        Canry a pianning. design & Construction of    ORG         2        1           1         The  acvites span initiation through
works under Patu AB3.DD,GJW  & N of tbe                                                 cmpletion. Conatniction of works
pnnct and installation of e9mnpment undr                                                under Pus DBH & N not yet
Pns C.F &N of the projec                                                                undertaen. Funiding of T/G ss under
Pat C is sti to be resdved. Pan N is
yet to take off.
GUJ 2.02b, PA        Finmish an OM  plan for dam, powuhoues,   ORG O                    II         12/31/87   The 3-volume O&M plans have been
caal, rnur  & equipment (within State                                                   prepard by Nigam and reviewed by
boudares) unr  Paut A.B,C,D.E,,GJI &                                                    Bank.
J of the project and theafter implement iL
GUI 2.02c. PA        In coodnation with MP,Mahuarst  &            ORG           2       / /        12131186   N refers to Hydrmet implementation
NCA. furnish a final sytem desigD for                                                   which has been imitted; however.
hydrometeowological netwok under Pat N of                                               implemention schedule by NCA to
the project. including equapmeat                                                        make it fully opertional by June 1993
secfications & Construction achetle.                                                    is now sbstantially dayed due to
dely in fin   emetry
p_oemt by
GUJ 2.02d, PA        In coordination with MP, Maluhraatba A       ORG          4        1          12J31/87   Same as above in repect of Hydrmet
NCA, funnih an O&M plan for                                                             implementalion chedule. 0OM plan
hydrometeorological nework under Pat N of                                               shal be piepard after insallaion of
the poject, incluig prvion of fAnd. saff                                                Hydraoet attL
& other reources.
GU12.02e,PA          Maintainadequate upplyofmaaeils for          ORG           I       /l           I
cosnattion work under Puts
A.B.D4E.GJLJ a N of the project, incui
cement and steeL
GUW 2.021. PA        Complete within Sate boudi                   ORG           2       / 1        12/3191   Detailed survey for 400 kv
constucaion of transmission lines                                                       trmin line, from SSP to Gujuu
subtations required for full integrstion of                                              State border for M.P. and Maharustra
power-relaed facilities witb the Browere                                                 hu been completed. implementsaion
wam  egion power gri                                                                     alo iiated.
GUW 2.02g, PA        Have sucb conponems of                       ORG           3       /          06/30/88   Refer GUI 2.02c, PA above.
hydrometeorological network under Par N of
the project located witbin Ste boundaie.
insaled ad made opertionl
Codes for level of compliance
I   -  ully comqplied                                                                                 Codes for Type of Covenant
P - Parti lly conpiled - not affecting inpl~ntation                                                    AY- -Audit
I     NIot yet duance                                                                                  CRY - Coat Recovery
4   - Cot ye   o due                                                                                   PINb  - Pinancial
S    Covant no longer_applicable - should be deleted/nodified                                          MmA  - Nanage,mnt & staffing
6   - Comosiance date r-  Ire  revision
A,  - Audit 1 year ovr due                                                                             OtRG - Organeo tional
A2  - Audit 2 or more years over due                                                                   RPT - RSporting
ST  - Studl-s
TCH - Technical



Table 1 1
285                                              Page  2 of  11
PAGE NO. 2                                                               INDIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(CRI5S2-TNf -N-2497)
Status of Covenants
Revied      Original
Section               S          D  ipdon                   Type of   Levd of       Cinpliance Compliance          Remarks
Coyemat  Complimace Date            Date
GUW 2.03a, PA       Cany ot Tech.Auistance component of the     MAN          I       I/         I /
projet under Part M.Schdule 2, by
employing conmiautu in ccordance with
Worid Bank Guddein  publibhed in Aug.
1981.
GUJ 2.03b, PA       Funish a Est of coaultants in fofowing      ORG          I                 0 4/011485
areas: quality otroldsign of gte.valves A
nmrol equip.,steel fabrication & erection.
tonel ock mechanics,deigntinstallsion of
lg rotating equipmentemergencies etc.
GUJ 2.03c, PA       In coordjnajon with MP & Maharashtra,      MAN           2       I          1 I       N refers to Hydromel itertional
employ consultans (in cordance with                                                  Consultnu recommendaions on
World Bank Guidelin  of Aug.1981) to cary                                            communikction system, initially agreed
out Hydomnet under Put N of the projec                                               by NCA, wre lter not implemented
and procurement action re-initialed,
cmwig heavy delays in establishment
of HydroneL
GUJ 2.04, PA        Pmciement of oods & cavilworbsquird         ORG          2                    1         ivil worksfor Pu H&N not
forPats A.B;EN of the prnjand to be                                                  un     en o far
finced out of credit proceeds sball be
goveawd by provisions of Schdle I to this
GUJ 2.06, PA        Gujuat to main at ll timer the Namid        ORG          I       II          I
Cosnol Authority, Swdar Sarovar
Construction Advisory Committee and the
Nannada Review Commiuee, with m£fFing &
hiuls as iuqumdrec
GUI 2L07, PA        Maintain Narmdas Dev. DepLheaded by a       RPIT         1       1            
qul&he  officer, to enble it to undertake its
reponsibilities for overall implementstion &
emanaenmit of Sdr Srovar ProjecL
5UJ 2.07a, PA       Underake OJkM of irigution, municipal,      ORG          4       / /        /         Part B refen to the eanal conveyance
indutril & domestic water facilities under                                            system and its operation by
Schedule 4. Part B of Sair Srovar Project                                            computeinzed remote conrl.
GUJ 2.07b, PA       O&M ofPants AD.H &  I of pmojw              ORG          4       / //
described in Scbeduil 2 to DCA.
GUJ 2.07c, PA       Undertake supply and distribution of        ORG          4       / /         / /      Nim aNd GOG Water Supply
irrition, municipal, intrial & domesic                                                D       t have prred preliminay
water redting from Sardar Saova Projct                                                p    for D M& Lwaer disribution.
(Schedule 4).                                                                            ed deigns and estimae ue
under prepaalion.
TyJ 207d, PA       Tlugh an ppropriate agecy establish by      ORG          3       / /         /hougbGOGbasdocidedontheGEB
Dec.31,1988, (i) OkM of Patt B,CF,G &J I                                                the OkM Agency the lease
of pojct, and (u) supply of hydroelectric                                             agrement between GOG/Nigam and
power to Gujarat, MP & Maharuhtra                                                     GEB, ha not been finalid so far
rsulting frm project described in Schedule 2
of DCA.
GUJ 2.08a. PA       Mintain Narmada Hi8b Power Committee to    ORG           I          /        I /
adequately undertake ius  sponsibilities for
coordination and timely interaction among
vaious depatmenus and agencies of Gujarat.
Codes for level of coelliance                                                                      Cod. for       of Covnnt
I- Pully copliled                                                                                  Aoe    _ T
2  - Pgrtiallv complild - not affecting implantatlon                                               ACr -      AuRt
3    N Nn Comp1 lnce                                                                               CRY - Cost Recovery
4  - Not yet du                                                                                    FI      nanFial
5  - Coveyant no loneer aplicable - should be deleted/modifiod                                     kIAN - Hnagmint & staffing
6  - Cop lance date re%ures revislon                                                               ORG - Organizational
Ai  -Aucut I y ar ovr duRP   Reporting
A2  - Audit 2 or more years over due                                                                    - Studies
TCH - Technical
PA244



Table 11
286                                               Page  3  of  11
PAGE NO. 3                                                               INDIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(C1fr 52s-N/- N.24972
Status of Covenants
Revised     Originai
Section               Sumnay Desetipio                      Type of   Leve of       Complzance Compliance           Remarks
Coeauat  Compliance DS&             Date
GUl 2.08b, PA       MaintaNamada Paning Group for               ORG          I       1 1         1        O&M plning needs to be
crying ot planing studie of the Narmada                                               riagtbened thmugh expamion of cote
River Dev. Program, inluding OhM of                                                   O&M Umu for dam & power and
hydroelectic powr & water deivery &                                                   cens.
d-ing facries.
GU] 2.09a PA        Maintain witn Naminada Developmet Dept.,   ORG           I       I 1         11
a Central Proaxment Unit, headed by a
lified officer, for prazcument of all goods
h renices inid Lfr impementtion of
Sardar Saovar Projec
GUI 2.09b, PA       Maintun within NDD a CelL beaded by a       ORG          1       1 /        12/3185   Compliance dlayed til 1989; now
qualified officer. for momtoring & evaluation                                        under Diector Geneal (MIS). and his
of activities, e.. Mgemcnt lnfomion                                                  saff, MIS continues to make excelent
System (MIS) Ce.                                                                     progss towards the ahievement of
targeted objecives.
GUJ 2.10, PA        Implement a reti-ion     ettlememt          ORG          2                              u jI G t continus to give good
plan for the oum satisfactory to the                                                 performance in the  ettlkment of
As jocisLi              C                                                            PAPs aid has aIso invoived NGO's
..                                           s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mppoil
GUJ 2.1 laiPA             haw   planforcnvinmeAl effecsu   ORG               2       1/         12/31/85   Impotawuveynh &slies made,
derived from implbmnation of Sardwr                                                   wrk plans on compen: afforeaion.
Sarovar Pij.jncl. wintable trng.progims for                                           catchment tretment formulaed &
staff of Guj. ,lAP h Mahand studies h                                                nuplesnetimp ion inititd u wefll
imal.rhehles for fiuh&flsheuies,fornst  &                                             envirnmental n health manaeme
efc ph vlic health spects.                                                      pns ave been prepuaed
GUIJ 2.1 laii. PA   Fumish tnining pngrm for O&M of             ORG          2       I I        06/30/89   Vaious pnprepaed. Need to be
fdhities under Sadar Sauovur Project,                                                   odid  ad implemented
including pl. schedules, syllabi &
provwion of fundL
GUJ 2.1 laii, PA    Trning p m  on r              h             ORG          2       11         12/31/85   Somcetr g programondutedbut
rhiliion of o e for aff of Gujt,                                                      momr need to be planned.
MP & Mahrbust, including plan.
swedl, syllabi A proviion of fumds.
GUJ 2.12a-d. PA     Fkunish           schns du,s les, maintain  ORG          1       1 1         1 
mmids          B~~~ank acces & visha
make available all dAtadocaA records
iding Bank  -cd    ,pog.   amt
daa for publication by Bank &
pjcompletioan repot 6 mnh after
aOinjt aL
GUW2-13,PA          Furnish emi uanual  annual reponrton        RPT           I       11         I I
progrs of Pans A through 0(i) of the project
within 3 months alfer the end of ead
reportin period
GUJ 214xa, PA      Exchange views wh the Asocition             ORG           1       1 1        1
rmgrding progess of Paru A through 0(i) of
the prject and other matters relaing to
purpos  of the Credit.
GUJ   4b,PA         lnformtheAssociationof anycondition         ORG           I       II         II
interfering with the progres of Pars A
thdugh 0(i) of the projct.
Codes for level of compliance                                                                       codes for Type of covenant
1   - Pully complied                                                                                ADfr -fudit
g - PartitU  Compliod - not affecting implementation
- Non Camp lance                                                                                CRY - Cost -ecovery
4   - Not yet due                                                                                   FIN - Financial
- Covepant no longer applicable - should be deleted/m,difi.d                                        KAN - Nanage_nt a Staffing
6    c        lanc  d  requires revion                                                              ORG - Organlsational
A2  -Audit 2 or  ore y-ars cwer du                                                                  RPT - Reporting
Sl D - Studies
TCH - Technical
PA244



Table 11
287                                                Page  4  of  11
PAGE NO. 4
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(CR I S2-iN/LN.2497)
Status of Covenants
Revised     Original
Section               Sulmmsty DencripdoT Type of   Lwsel o                         Compliance Compliance          Remarks
Covacmt Compliance DaAe            Date
GUJ 2.15, PA        Takm tion to  qure, whiin State             ORG          I       II         II
botndaties, all arch land & rights in respect
of land  shall be required for carrying out
pnject & funish evece that sch land &
righs re available for purposes related to the
GUJ 2.16, PA        Maintain efficiently the fajljies provided  ORG         4        / I        I I
under the projel and necsay repain cad
menewals made witb smud eng)nehng &
linandl pmcticeL
GUJ2.17,PA          Takemeaaestotnini   theuiskof               ORG         2       /  /l                 Ateftmberofstudiescardedout,
malazia. filaris schiao.omiasis ad otber                                             the lbtet one in 12J92; work plan for
tLer-rdated diseaes that may sult from                                               control of malaria and other dueses
implemeation of the projec.                                                          finalzed; intensified mala control
pgem ir also initi ted in are
impected by the project
GUJ2.1a,PA          MiinutheDam SafetyPawdwithTORand    ORG                  I       I1        04I1/8S
memberhip satfactory to the Association.
GUJ 2.1 8b, PA      Cethe Dam Sfety Pwael to review the         ORG          I       1 11
adequacy of the plans & designs of dams,
il,by-panu tel, weir, powetbousu,
inuded in the pojec
GUJ2. c. PA         CauDm SafetyPand toconduct                  ORG          I                  I'I
smi-annual reviews during design &
contnction of dam and furnish to the
ASsociation & Gujat its findings,
conclusonr  recozendations.
GUJ2.1 d,PA         Cae dams.spMiways,bypua bne,weair,          ORG          4       /     I    I
elted hnrce & fclti  constoucted to be
periodically inspected in a_ordance with
sound engineering praice.
GUW 3.01a, PA       Maintio sepa e teords &   cm                FIN          I         I        I 
adequte to  flect its resoues, expendiums
& opentions related to Pars A thrugh O(i)
of the project
GUW3.01b,PA         Fumirhcopies oftheiracoxmuhAfin ancial      ADT          I       J /1
sutements for each FY not la than 9
months afer end of each auch year, cutified
by an indep t uditor acceptble to the
Assoiation.
UJ 3.02a-c. PA     Have their accouns and final staemm         ADT          I         
for each FY audited in accorane with
apprnpriate audit principles conamseriy
ppliedfinslize & furnish immediltiy such
other informaiion the Bank sha1 reasonably
request
Codes for level of cpliance
I- Fully complld                                                                                 Cod-s for Typ of Covnt
2  -P P        rticmplL0d - not affecting implmntation                                            ADr  Audit
Not yet due                                                                                   FIN - Financial
covenant no longer aoplicable - should be deleted/m,difled                                       AN - Nanagent & Staffing
couy liance date r-res lrreviion                                                               OC - Organisational
-~ Aut 1 year over  *P     eotn
A_  - Audit 2 or more years over due                                                               RP - Rporting
STD - Studies
TCH - Technical
PA244



Table 11
PACGE NO. 5                                                      288                                                 Page  5  of  11
PAGE NO. 5                                            ~~~~~~~INDIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(CR1552-N N 2.A2497)
Status of Covenants
Revised     Original
Secdon                SummaryDeription                       Type of   Levde of     CompU nce  Compliance           Remarks
Covenat  Compiance Date             Date
GWU 3.03, PA        Enter into a bulk supply contrect witb      ORG          4       / I        / /       C&F refer to RBPH ad CHPH
yproprite eleric utility orgaion DOt                                                 respectively. Refa Section 2.07d GUJ.
Iatetan 6 moths before commissomnc "
the first bubine-gaenrtor uzt under either
Pan C or F of the pqjectL
MAH 2.01a, PA       Maheasht to provide to Gujart. noded.    ORG             I       I IIt
funds. facilities,services & other  ources
eqrird to enable Gujar to ccnry out Paus A
through 0f l) of the projet described in
Schied 2o
MAH 2.01b, PA       Mahaashir to cary out overal project M&E    ORG          I       I I         I        L refen to a*1 pans of SSP other than
under Put L of the project described in                                              R&R.
Schedule 2 vAtb diligence & efficiency aDd
prvide funds, ffr. afig svices and
other resources requ
MAH 2.01c, PA         mahu rin coord.with Guj,MP & NCA          ORG          2       i/         I I       N refen to Hydromd implementation
ad MP in coord.with Gub Ah.& NCA,                                                    which has been initiated, bowever.
car-y out pro nr- ctionJ   i..O&M of                                                 implementaiton schelule by NCA to
such portions of hydromaeorological navwork                                          make it fully operaitonal by 6J93 is
Under Part N of the prmj.with efficiency &                                           now bstanily delayed due to dday
proride funda.saffin & eomues eqd.                                                   in fialAg telemety procuremet by
NCAK
MAH2.Old,PA         Maharashmto providetoNCAflities &           ORG          4       1/         /         NrefentoHydromeL(See2.01bGU])
services to eble it to curry oa its
reponubilitiea, inter " h ovenrl OhM of the
hYdrometeorological metwok under Pat N of
the prmjec.
MAH 2.01e, PA       Mahuaratr to pvide to NCA faclities and     ORG          2       it          it       Prefen to overll M&E of RhR.
servces to eatheit to assiat the Bonower in
carying out MAE of RhR urPet P of the
MAH 2.02*, PA       Mahwaahtru to carry mo plnning, deipn ad    ORG          2       i t/                 See Section 2.01c above.
constueion of work, ad instalation of
HydroetA equipme  under Pwt N of the
project.
MAH 2.02b, PA       Mahin coordwith Guj.,MP   NCA to            ORG          2       i t        12131/86   SeeSection2.Oc sbove.
prepae & fumish a finl stem design for
hydrometeorlogical netwo  rud  Put N of
the pojpicLequp    pfcions &
conaruajon c      a.
MAH Z02c, PA        Mahashtra in coordination with Guja,MP      ORG          4       i t        12131/87   OhM plan shal be pepared when
& NCA to prepare A frxnish an OM pln                                                  Hydronmet instaUllion is taken up.
for the hydrometeorlogicsl ntwork uder
Part N of the projecL
MAH 2-02d PA        Mahuahtr to complewith State                ORG          2       i t        1213191
boundaies constuction of trnmissiopn ine
& arbatsions requied for ful inegrati  of
power relted fcilities under the projet
Codes for level of compia nco
1   - Fully eon liod                                                                               Codes for Type of Covenan
2    Partlal1 conwlied - not affecting ivimmntation                                                A     C Audit
3      on Cop anc*                                                                              city- Cost R-ccrv ry
4  - Not yet due                                                                                    *IN   Financial
S  - Covenant no longer atplicable - should be deleted/mdified                                      YAN - Management & Staffing
6  - Coetliance date r -1 rest revision                                                                 - Organlaatlenal
Al  -AudIt 1 year over  aj                                                                         ORO - rgapostional
A2 - Audit 2 or more years over due                                                                 RFr - Reportdi
STD -Studies
P 4TOH - Techni cal
PA244



Table 11
289                                               Page  6 of  11
PArE NO 6                                                                INDIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(CRM  552-TN/1N 24.97
Status of Covenants
Revised     Original
Section               Summmty DaKriptioa                    Type of   Lvd of        Compliance Compliance          Remarks
COvemnt  Compliance Date           Date
MAH 2.03, PA        Mah ms, in coordinaion with Gujara &       MAN           I      I I         II        See Section 2-03aGUJ and Sc'tion
MP to employ consultants in accordance with                                          2.18a-b,Gujaa PA
the Wodd Bank Guidelina published in
Auguta 1981.
MAH2.06,PA          Maharstratommintain talltimS sthe           ORG          I
Narmada Control Auhority, SardarSarovar
Consutnuion Advsory Comminec and the
Naumada Review Commitec, withsaffng &
nds u required.
MAH 2.07, PA        Malzarau ra toimplemeAtwihin their Sle     ORG          2                   1Sevet implementation prblems had
boundaies, a reseilemaen & rhab'litation                                             cadier persted due to ntiam
plan for the ougtees.                                                                ation aD inadequate R&R saffing.
Consultation h gnievance procedure.
Implementa tion has nOW signihcaltdy
improved.
MAH 2.0Bai PA       Mahwashtu to funish a work pan for the      ORG          2       /I        12131/85   Important mveys & studies made;
envimnmonl effect dedved I derived from                                              writ plans on compen. affomstation,
!m .of the Sr Swovar Prij., which will                                               catchment treauaent formulated &
ncle. (A)suitable tIng.programs.(B)studies                                           implementation initated a well;
& impl-cbedulca for fhfarea,wildlife &                                               environmeatl and health mangement
Pub-.haaecls.                                                                        plans have also been prpaL
MAH 2.O08aii, PA    Mahash  with Gujarat and NP to furnish a   ORG           3      1 1        0650/89
ilable trining program of OhM of f-alities
under Sadar Saovar Project. including plans,
shedules, syllabi & provision of fundr.
MAH 2.0aiii, PA     Mahuasht with Ouju and MP to funsh a   ORG               2       /1        12/31/85   Some training pogrms conducted bit
nlabie training program on Rcttlemezm &                                              morm requi  to be planned
Rchbilition of Oustees for project saff of
Gu.MP & Maharsu, inldudin plan,
cedule, syllabi & provision of funk.
MAR 2.08b, PA       MahsaMtm in coordination with Gujarat &     ORG          2       / /          /       See above.
MW to implement the work plan & traini
progams rfaend to in pua (a) above, a so
approved.
MAH 2.09a-f, PA     Mahuushtr to prepam, finuish                ORG          1       / I        /I
reports.schedules and maintain r   allow
Ban am" to records & visitaon ad
cenain publication  gsbu, expcaditurt & disb.
da, prgss & compleion reptLon
excution atrcfor vaUous puts of the proj.
X12.10, PA       Mahaahta to furnish semi-an l and           RPT          2       /1         1 I       NCA is reporting sas on hydromet
ann  repors on progr  of Parts L,N & 0                                                and Maharahtm On R&R rgulay.
mepecively of the projeCt witnin 3 months                                             However. M&E needs futher
after the end of each reporting period,                                              improvemenL
MA  2.lla,PA        Mahawstra haAt the Asociation's reqet,    ORG            1          /        11
exchangc views wiLt the Asoc regading
pr°grss of the projeCt, performance of its
obligtions & other manes relating to the
purpoe of the Creoit.
Codes for level of comliance
1  - Fully complied                                                                               Codes for Type of Covennt
2- ;MiWIv  fto liq d - not sffctlng spl_nt&tlon                                                    AM -Audit
3  -on Compi ance                                                                                  CRY - cost Recovery
- Not yet due                                                                                      FIN - Financial
S  - coveMant no longer alplicable - should be deleetd/ odlfied                                    A  - Nanagent a Staffing
6   -CaVIlance date reOu res revsion                                                               ORC - Organestional
A2  - Audit 2 or ore yrs ove  r due                                                                RPT - Reporting
STD - Studies
TCH - Technical
PA244



Table 1 1
290                                                Page  7 of  11
PAGE NO. 7                                                                 MIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(CRIS52-N/IN.2497)
Status of Covenants
Revised     Original
Secon.                Summmy Description                    Type a(el    eli d      Compliance Compliance           Remarks
Covenont  Compliance  Date          Datt
MAH2.11b,PA         Mahauhtuto promptlyinformthe                ORG          I       / It
Associaion of any condtions interfcring with
the pbugrea of the project, accomplhment of
the purposes of the Credit, or perfonmacec by
M shualW of iu obliprions.
MAH 2.12, PA        Mharahua to fimnish, afler quiition of      ORG          I       / //
land &i nghts in rpect of lnd, evidence thau
aich land & rights ame avaable for purposes
of the pfoje.
MAHi 213, PA       MJAsashtto caue the faities prvided          ORG          I       / / 
under the prject to be efficienly maintained,
velhidck s  equipmeat provided ad al
neesary rtpin & enewals to be made in
accordance with mmd  enieing practices.
MAH 2-14,PA         Memutobetakenby Mharauhtmto                 ORG          2       / l/                 Mahamshtbs 6iidpasto
minimize rik of malari, filaria,                                                     strengthen ute h d    tea
chistosomiasis & other vateremlat  disa                                              facilities in vilages and reseement
dth  may rsut fom implemenaion of the                                                 smu though additions public bealtb
piojecL             'iunis. mobile units and a Boating
dispnsrwy a wal for villages wihin
10 km of ibmergence zone.
MM 2.14, PA (contd.)                                                                 I            '       Implementtion initied but needs to
be acceleated.
MAH 215. PA         Mahrashtm to enterino a bulk .pply          ORG          4       /I          II       C&Freferto RBPH and CHPH
contrat with pptopiate electric utility                                              tespectively
organisatioss for sle of elecicity not later
than 6 months prior to commissioning of firt
hutbne-genesmtor unit under either Pat C or P
of the projec
MAH 3.01a, PA       h4saahtm to main wspae reco                  PIN         I                             N m I I  Nef  to H  0 refern to
acou nsadequate to reSect s is    ,                                                   MAE of R&R,. L refers to MAE of
expenditurs   operations relaed to Pus LN                                             activty other than R&R.
A O( aiYPan LN & OCxi) rspectively of thk
MAH3.01b,PA         Mshamashtr tofunishcopies oftheir            FIN          I      11          11
accounts & finncil  temeu rad to
Pat LW &h O(uiYPsUs LN A O(iu)
rspectively of the piect for each FY no
later than 9 months afr end of cht arch
) .
MAH 3.02a-c. PA     Mah to get their acomits a finacial          FIN                  I I                  As for 3.01 a GUJ.
satmens for Parts LN & OCaijYPrts LN &
Ofiu) epectivdy audited by indep ent
auditors acceptable to the Associationflnalize
& furnish immediSely sucb other info.the
Bank shall reasonably equt
MP 2.0la,P          MP to pwvide to Gujazt as needed, hnds,     ORG           2                            MP i Uill to resolve the iu  of invest
faclities, services & other  sowuns ftquied                                           level of irogaion bypus tund;
to enable Gujara to carry out Pars A through                                          nont-resution bau delayed initision of
0(i) of the projec described in Schedl 2.                                             cnstruction of Patt H.
Codes for level of coWliance
I- ully complied                                                                                   Codes  tor Sype of Covenant
2  - Partially .conVied - not affecting ilntstion                                                   AD - Audit
3  -Mn Con~ lance                                                                                   CRY - Cost Recovery
<  - Hov yet due                                                                                    PIN - rinancial
S- Coveant no longer applicable - should be deletedjmodified                                        MAN -  anagemnt & staffing
-  orplac:sdato e       rae rwvsilon                                                          OG-Ognato
A   -Aut 1 yar overue rORC  Organiational
A    A - Audit 2 or more years over due                                                             RPT  Repotn
STD   Studies
PA244TC TchCI



291                                                Table  I 1
PAGE NO. I                                                               INDIA                                      Page  8  of  11
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(rRt I5 2-fNN -24971
Status of Covenants
Revised     Original
Sectlon               Summary Ducniptioo                    Type of   Levd of       Compliance Compliance          Remarks
Coveant  Compliance Date            Date
MP 201b. PA         MP to cay o  overall pject M&E under        ORG          I       I           I        L refers to all parts of SSP otber than
Pan L of the project described in Schedule 2                                         R&R.
with diligence & efficieacy and povide
xin, faciities, suffng srvices and other
resources reuired
MP 201c, PA         MPin cord.with Guj.,Mah. & NCA csM  otg   ORG            2       11         / I       Hydromet implemeation. tbough
prc.,_onsuctionainssall,O&M of rich                                                  inited, has been subuantialy
portions of hydrometeorological ntwork                                               de"yed due to delay in finalizing
under Part N of the proj.ith efdciency &                                             telemetry yuem by NCA. Earlier
provide hnds ,saffg  & re ources Leds chedule of a fully opermitonsl
Hydromet by 6o93 has suffeed beavy
slippge.
MP 2.01d, PA        MP to provide to NCA fdities & service to    ORG        4        1 11                 N eferu to Hydromet. (See 2.01b GU1)
enable it to cary out its repondbilities inter
a   overs O&M of the bydro eteorologica
netwock under Paut N of the projecL
MP 2.01e, PA        MP to provide to NCA facilities and servica  ORG         2      1           / I       P refers to overll MAE of RL State
so enable it to auust the Borrower in carrying                                       MAE work is weak
out MhE of R&R under Pan P of the project.
MP 2.02a, PA        UP to carry out pnning. design a            ORG          2                            See / I  SeSecion 2.01c bove.
oDnstruction of works, and installation of
Hydrmet eqripmcnt under Pat N of the
rojec
MP 2.02b, PA        MP in coord.with Guj.MA  hhNCA to           ORG          2        1        12/31/86   See Section 2.oc above.
prepare and furmsh a fina sysmem depign for
hYdroMneteorlogical network under Part N of
the pprent specificstions &
constuto
MP 2.02c. PA        MP in cooriiaDon with Gujarat, Mahsram   ORG             4       1 /       1231/87   OhM plan shf be preparcd when
& NCA prepare and furnih an OhM pln for                                              installation of bydromet commeces.
the bydrome4eorological nwAwork under Part
N of the poject
MP    02d,PA        MP to complet with State bounmie            ORG          2       11        12J31/91
construction of tmrnsmision line and
rbatagions required for full integrtion of
power rled fcilities under the project
MP 2.03. PA         MP in coordination with Gujanat A           MAN          I       I I         I /      See Section GU1 2.03a an Section
Mahrauht  to employ consuhatsff in                                                    GUJ 2.18a-b, PA
accordance with the World Bank Guideli
publisd in August 1981.
MP 2.06. PA         MP to mimnt in I all tima the Narmada       ORG          I       I1          II
Contul AutLority, Sardar Sarovar
Construction Advisory Committee and the
Narmada Review Committee, vwith affing &
funds as required.
MP to implement within their State         ORG          2        1 /        1 /       RkR poicy improvod; implementation
boundaries, a resetlement & rehabilittion                                              as also improed  uh: purcase of
plan for the oustees.                                                                oand i MP,  mlin   gnevance ad
appeals process. ndqare stffn and
COnslttiWn with P Ls
Codes for level of comla nce
I  - Pully cozVIled                                                                                co-s for      of Covenant
2  - Partially coffied - not affecting implewntation                                               ADr - Audit
3  - :on Compi ance                                                                                QY - Financial
4  - Not yet due                                                                                   CIN - hotanRaectve
5  - Covenant no longer alplicable - should be deleted/srwdifi d                                   FN -Fenancial
6  -CoAliance date requre  revision                                                               OKw - Organont sonal
A2  -Audit 2 or movr Years over due                                                                 RPT - Reporting
Al - AudIt 2 or were years over due                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~S~rD - Studies
PrCH - Technical
PA244



Table 11
292                                          Page  9  of  11
PAGE NO. 9                                                               INDIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(CR.1 12-TN N-2497)
Status of Covenants
Revied      Original
SeCiOD                Summ-y Dscription                     Type of   Lzwd of       Compliance Compliance           Remarks
Covenat  Cmnpliace Dste             Date
MP 2.O8ai, PA       MP to furnib a work plan for the            ORG          2       / /        12/31/85   Surveys & studies made; work plans
Cno inma   effects derved and denved                                                  On COMpen.afforeuaion & catchncnt
fhm implementation of tDh Sadar Savar                                                treatment formulated and
Proj., wich will include (A) sxtable                                                  m     a    on ited; udies 
trag.progrms(B) tudis A impl.hedrleA                                                  acton plans on wild life and flon &
for fisfacestwildlife & public healtbh                                                 mma made; envionmenal and health
mpecu.                                                                                mnagement pln have been prepared
MP 2.Oaii. PA       MP  it Gujat & Mhalahtr to fumnis a         ORG          3       / /        06130/89
suitblc tnining program of O&M of fdlities
under Sardar Sauovr Project. including plAns,
sehrlS, Syllabi & proviaion of fd
MP  08aii. PA        MP with oujart & 1M   aubtm to fumish a    ORG          2       t      12/31/85   Some trunag "raw conducted b4r
mitable training progrm on Rejettlement &                                            more needs to bepnnecL
Rehabilitation of Oustocs for projet gaff of
G04J,O & Mahaahtra, in        pla,s.
achedule, syllabi & provion of fun.
MP 2.08b. PA        M  in coordination with Gujaz &             ORG          2       / //                 See above.
harahzra, to implement the uork phn &
trainng pogms rtefened to in p.m (a)
Mbove, ao a ppraved.
MP 2.09a-f. PA      UP to prepue funib reposu. saedlea          ORG          I       / //
maintain recofds.llow Bank acces to records
& visiaton &  ein ublication
zrigia.expenditure   dub    pgr  &
completion reponrs, on emca io ec. for
winous paut of the project.
MY 2.10, PA         bP to fansh mem-anina  nd 1amn reptu    RPT              2       1           1/       NCA is reposting on saut  of R&R
On pognres of Pans LIN &E 0 repectively of                                            and hydromet. M&E repotig need
the project wiin 3 months ater the ead of                                             impruvemeaL
ach rpordt  penod.
MP2.Ila.PA            MP slall.attheAsociationsrequst,          ORG          I                   / I/
exmange view witb the Asoc regdng
progeu of the project, perfoncem of its
obligaions & other manenl rlating to the
purpose Of the Credit.
MP2.llb,PA          MPtoprompsiyinfom  the Awxiionof ny   ORG                 1       ) /1
conditions inteeng  with the p noge  of the
project, Accomplishment of the purpos of
the Credit, or performance by M[P of iu
obligaions
MP 2.12. PA         MP to fih, after        ition of led        ORG                      
tights in rapect of   evidence that sucb
kad A nghs se available for purpose of the
propcL
MPP2.13.PA          MPto c     the fadlitie providedunderthe    ORG           I       / //
proect to be efficiently maintained, vehicla
h eguipment provided and All neceasry
repurr  renewal to be made in accordance
with sound eanineering practices
Codes tor level of compliance
1  - Pully co41lied                                                                                Cod-for Type of Covenant
2  - Partlaliv co  Iled - not affecting ima1ntation                                                ADT- Audit
3  - Non Coylt dne                                                                                  CRYeCos -  Rin covarY
S   - Covenant no longer aDOlicable - should be deloted/modified                                    FIN  ?inane al
6 Ntlance date r*lu     e                                                                    ORG   organinatlonal
A: - Aud!t 1 year over dus   re-Ision
A  - Audit 2 or more Years over due                                                                 RPT - Reporting
STD  Studios
TCH - Technical
PA244 



Table 1 1
293                                                 Page  10  of  11
PAGE NO. 10                                                               MIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(R1552-NILN 2497'
Status of Covenants
Revised     Original
Section               Summy Decription                      Type of   Level Of      Compliance Compliance          Remarks
Covenat  Compliace Date            Date
MP2.14,PA           Me  utobetAkenbyMPtomimmire risk    ORG                 4        1/         /I        Workplanprepdtotackletbe
of malsaXaaiaschisiosomiis & other                                                   impa=   ofSSP t=hugh srengthening
water-related diseases that may mst from                                             of bealtb facilities, establishment of
implemeneaion of tb projec                                                           monitoring cell; and cration of
dditionl falities by 1994/95 when
submergence in MP commences.
Mf 2.15, PA         MP to eater into a bulk upply contrct with  ORG          4                  I I       C&F refer to RBPH and CHPH
appropriae ele  ic flfility organuarons for                                           11peCtiVely.
sate of electricity not later than 6 monhsh prior
to commiuioning of fist turbine-generator
unit under eitherPart C or F of tbe pnroct
MP 3.01a, PA        MW to mainuin sepate records & awutr        FIN          I       1          1         N refers to Hyromet, 0 refen to
adequate to relct it racsorces, expenditr                                            M&E of RR. L refers to M&E of
operations red  to Puts L.N &                                                       activity otber than R&R.
OC )Ps L.N & O(ii) rpectiVely of the
projeo
MP 3.01b, PA        UP to funib copies oftbeir accunt&          FIN          I        1         11        As for 3.O a GUJ.
finacial saements reated to Parts LN &
0(iii)Parts L,N & Otu) rpecively of the
project for each FY not lKer than 9 months
aer end of echb sch year.
MP3.02a-c,PA        MPtogettbeir aceoun  & flnanil              FIN          I                           -Asfor3.01aGUL.
atemens for Pauts LN & O(niYParts 1  &
0(t) rspectively audited by independet
auditors acceptble to the A o     fie
& furnish immediatly such other info.the
Bank shal resonably mLesL
DCA 3.01s           Cwe Guj. MP & Mahto perform in              ORG          2       1 1/                 Put P refer to overall monito   and
acordance with Proj.Ag -nen  and Rajs                                                evaluation of the reme nt em
provided for in the Deion; & with                                                    rhbilitation of ouse  under Pat 0
aismnce of NCA,ry out Pot P of the                                                   of the project. which is being
prcj.with bde dRilence and efficiency, &                                                  ged
provide fundsfacilites & otber requiied
wca.
DCA 3.02            Take all such actions, as  cessary, including,   ORG     2       1 1         1        Conotuction of irgation bypas
the povision of forest land for enabling                                              fune (Pat H of project) hu not been
Gujart, MP and Maharahtra to implemt                                                  aken up so far due to non-resolution of
the project within their Stae boudaries.                                             invert levd by MP.
DCA 3.03            Mainin talltameU  , te Narmada Conrl        ORG          I       /           //
Autbodty, the Sudar Saovar Constuction
Advisory Commitee ad the Namada
Review Committe nd provide staff and
funds to enable each of them to accomplish its
pupoea as et forth in the Deuision.
DCA 3.04            Employ or cue to be employed and            ORG          2       / /        09/30185   Pant P refes to overal monitorn  and
therafter asugn to NCA, a Social Scienaist,                                           evaluation of the wselememt a
vAth r4rlifcations, experence and terms                                               reblitation of oustees, which is
satisfactory to the Asociation, to asist in                                           being strengthened.
carying out Part P of the project.
codes for level of coqiliance
1  - Fully complied                                                                                Codes for Type of Covenant
2  - Partially complied - not affecting implentation                                               ADr - Audit
3  - lion Corpl anc&                                                                               CRY -Cost Recovery
4- ot yet due                                                                                     FCN -  iaRnci el
S    Covenant no longer _aplicable - should be delated/=edifild                                    #AN - mnagemnt & Staffing
6  -Coipiiance date r   re  revision                                                                   -Organioational
Al - Audit 1 year over aouRo
A2  - Audit 2 or awre years over due                                                               RPT - Reporting
r- Studies
TCH - Technical
PA244



Table i 1
294                                                Page  1i  of  11
PACE NO. I1
MIA
NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM & POWER PROJ.
(CM1 5S2-IN1-N2497)
Status of Covenants
S.daoin  Summary  ~~~~                  Type a(    Level d ~~~   Revised      Original
sewou  Summm7  escriptkm                Typ of    Level of       Comp)izance C.ompliatice         Remrks
Coveanlt  Compliance Date            Date
DCA 3.05             Furnisb to tbe Assockion ami-azi- and        ORG           I       / 1         /         Paut 0 efers to implementation,
1ma mepoan of tbe renlement and                                                          monitoring and evaluation of
mehsbilitaion of the oueea under Pan 0 of                                                cUleement and rehabiliuaion plan for
the projct hbt  ugh June 1, 1995.                                                        the owutecs within Gujarat,
Mahauhtn and MP.
Codes tor level of compliance
1    r ully a glied                                                                                   Codes for Type o   onn
2   - Partiall  coiled - not afcting Ipl ntaton                                                              Audit
3    Pon ConrV Jance  -ntafcigipee&            CtRY   CotRcvr
4  -Nlot Yet due                                                                                       FIN   Fl acialscOe
6    Covpant no longer afPlicable - should be deleted/modified                                          AI - Manant l
6    CWlnedato r__ran revision                                                                         MAN   Oangment &atio al tr
Al  - Au t 1 year overdu                                                                               ORG   Org nizational
A2  - Audlt 2 or more years over due                                                                   RPT - Reporting
STf - Studies
PA244                                                                                                  TCH - Technical



NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(CR.1552-IN/LN.2497-IN)
USE OF BANK RESOURCES/BANK MISSIONS
S.No. Stage of Project    Month/Yes    No.of Persons  Days in  Specialization    Performance Rating   Type of Problems       Comments
Cycle                                             Field   Repr Iented 1/   (Overall)
I .  Before Apmis
2. AbWii
3.  Boad A npm         09/85 - 10/85       5           16    EN(2)YLEG/RtR(2)                       T/l4 /R&R               Principal focus of the mission
Ihbmuh                                 1           3    PROC                                    PR                      was to review progress of
Effectivencs                                                                                                            reponsible governmental
implementors in satisfying dated
covenants prior to scbeduled
effectiveness, including
understandings and actions with
respect to R&R issues and the         un
review of procurement issues
prior to effectiveness.
4.  Supervision        04/86 - 05/86       10          13    EN(4)/EC/EGPROI             3          TfR&PRJeo/ENVN/         Supervision Mission
R&R(2)/MISP                            MIS/PR41YDROMET         Delay in GOI environmental
clearance for the project.
01/37 -02/7        4           4    EN(3)/MISP                  3/2         T/MIS/ENVN/Q            Supervision Mission. Delay in
01/87           1           2    PROC                                                            GO environmental cleamnce;
02/87                                                                                            Mission stressed the need to
accelerate establishmnent of
_comprehensive MIS.
I F-
X HD
o ti
w



S No. Stage of Project    MonthWYew     No.of Persons  Days in  Specialization    Performance Rating   Type of Pmblem.         Conurents
Cycle                                             Field   Represented 1/    (Ove_                                                    _     _    _     _
0487            5           13    EC6R&R(4)                   3/2                  R&R            Special R&R Mission
06/S7           4           5    EN(3)/MISP/                  3n2              QKMft4lMS          Supevsion Mission
1           3    PROC                                              PR
1l/7 -12137 S2i
11487           3           1    EN(2)/WMS                                         POM            Review of SSPs Plans of
Operation and Maintenance
11/87           2                 EN(2)                                          Hydromet         Review of porgress of Narnmada
Basin Hydromet
11/87           2           11    R&R                        3/1                   R&R            R&R Review Mission
1           4    EN
12/87           5           6    EN(3)MSPiPR                  3/2              Q/MISIIMPL         Engineering Review Mission.
Mission focussed on problems
associated with - Quality
Control of Cement; project
implementation and MIS
01/SI           2           2    Cement and                                    Q(Cement and        Special short mission to identify
Concmet                                     Concrete Quality)    and rectify cement/concrete
Specblist/En                                                    quality control problems
01188 - 02W8A       2           15    R&R(2)                                           R&R            Ban pro-appraisal mission
concerned with the proposed
Narmada Sagar Project reviewed
the progess of R&R of SSP
oustecs with GOt and partici-
pating states and outlined key
F
w) I
Lo 



S.No. Stage of Project    MontWYear     No.of Persons  Days in  Specialization    Performance Rating   Type of Problem         Comments
_ Cycle                                            Field   Represented 1/    (Overall)                   _
gteps for meeting obligations
under the SSP Agreements.
05/83           2           10           RhR                  3/2                  R&R            R&R Review Misjion-
Mission observed severe
organizationaL institutional and
implementation problems
connected with R&R.
05/81           4           4         EN(4)/MISP              3/2             Q"tM/IMPIMIS        Engineerine Review Mission
IORGIEQPIDSP       Mission focussed on critical
strengthening     problems, namely, project
implementation; construction
equipment; construction
mangepment; quality contml:
organization & staffing; and the
need to strengthen Dam Safety
panel.M
10/8S           4           3        EN(3),MISP               3/2             IMPLJMISP/CM/       _nginorng Review Mission,
Trg/T/EQP/ORGIFIN    Mission reviewed SSNNL'g
response to the implementation
of 'critical steps' tisted in Bank's
letter of August 31, 1988.
oZ >
rD
m
o <



S No. Stage of Project    Month/Year   No.of Persons  Day,S in  Specialization  Petformance Rating   Type of Prblens        Comments
_    Cycle                                            Field   Represented 1/   (Ovemll)
10/88           1          7           ECOL                 3            Environmental Aspects  mnviLnmenW Reiw    M
04189 - 05/80                                                                                      SurisinNisso
3          9          R&R(3)            Gujat 3/1          R&R (R&R related    RKR MisionQ
MP hMah 3/2       submergence scbedule;  Inprovement in the pace and
GOMP and GOM       quality of R&R in Gujarat
plans; orgnaization &   together with involvement of
NGOs; Severe organizational
tIrning of R&R staff).  policy and implementation
problems in MP and Mah.
9          ECOL                 311           Environmental Aspects  EnvimumnaW Revicw Mission,
Substantive evidence of progress
on environmental studies and
work prograns on fisheries,
forestry, public health, and
archaeological aspects. Studies
on wild life management still to     D
be initiated
6          5       EC/EN(4)/PROC            3/2          MlS/IMPUMOU/PROC  Rniseing Mission,
fTIORG/1ydromet    The mission focussed on: overall
prject Implementation; review
of SSNNL actions in response to
the MOU (I2/88) between Bank,
001 and participating states;
and SSNNL's actions on the 9
critical implementation steps
outlined in Bank's letter of
__________ ______________                                     ___________________    August 31, 198S
OiQ cr
o m
0



S.No. Stage of Project   MontWhew      No.of Persons  Days in  Specialization   Perfonmance Rating   Type of Problems      Comments
_   Cycle                                             Field   Represented 11   (Ovemli_
11/89           1          14          ECOL                 3/1        ENVNJAF                 Environmental Review Mission,
/CAT/Ecological         The mission focussed on: the need
for the preparation of a
comprebensive environmental
management work plan; actions
by SSNNL. NCA, DOEF and
MOWR for timely completion of
environment studies: and
preparation of wild life
magnaement component
12/89          5           7         EC/R&R(3)         Gujarat 3/1    R&R issues               R&R Miasion-
/PORSP           Mah    3/2   (outstanding policy        The mission focussed on R&R
MP       312   issues; coordination     planning and implementation
between R&R wings;      progress including monitoring of
inter-date              NVDA  Guj. MP and Mah. R&R
coordination; planning  activilies gained greater
and prepamtion work;    momentum in Gujarat in respect of
constructive           identiEcation and allotment of
collaboration with     replacement of agricultural land.
NGOs; implementation    R&R organizations also
timetables including    strengthened. R&R for majority
provision of            of Mah outstees faced with
infrastructure and      significant problems. In MP.
amenities; submergence   though some encouraging efforts
data and practical      were initiabtd much more was
R&R plns).
aQ a,
o H
tD
o n



S No. Stage of Project    Month/Yew     No-of Persons  Days in  Specialization    Perfonmance Rating   Type of Prble-ms        Comments
Cycle                                             Field   Represented 1/    (Ovall)
12/89           5           4        EN(4)MSP                3/1         T/ORG/DESIGN IRMP        Fngine_ring Migso
SCHD/POM                Overall substantial progress
IHydromet               achieved in pbysical and
rinancial implementation of
project which appeared at
qualitative and quantitative
terms. A large umber of technical
issues resolved.
05)90           2           8    BCIR&R              Gujart         2    R&R issues              RBR M ision,
MP and Mab  3nl   (dovetailing the entire    The mission noted a sustained
R&R program with        overall pogress. Both 001 and
submergence scbedule    the state governments took a
and preparing early     stmnger interest in R&R issues. 
action plans; R&R cost    Most tangible progress continued
sbaring; grievance      to be made in Gujarat, including
rdessal system; use of   implementing R&R policy.
2700 ha of Taloda       COMPs field activities were
forest land for R&R in    severely constrained and PAPs
Mab; non conducive      remained non-cooperative. Main
atmosphere to           constraint to R&R progress in
successful R&R in MP    Mabarasbtrs was non-rsolution
villages and the need   of 'fomest land' issue.
to establish
constructive relations
with PAPs; role of
NCA and a central
I M&E organization).    I
0) '
* I-'
o to
Li



S No Stage of Pmoject    Montb/Yesr    Noof Persons  Days in  Specialization    Perfonnance Rating   Type of P  nben.       Conuents
_   Cycle                                             Field   Represented 1/    (Overall)
0S190               4           4    EN(3)/AgEC                  2/2        MlS/Coi O&M Units       Fginering HMiui=
/Hydromet              Good pbysical and financial
progress observed. The nission
focussed on delay in
commissioning of cable cranes and
the left bank plant complex: and
the need to improve construction
methodology on exit tunnels
construction.
Non-resolution of T/R   Survidsion Mision.
11190 - 12190       3           5    EN(2)/PROC                  2/2        sets for RBPH/POM       EnginCing Mhaion
frunnelling/Hlydromect    Overall high quality and much
increaed quantity of contmete        w
placement at dam; excavation of     Co
key elements of water conductor
system in RBPH (draft tube and
exit tunnels) stiU to achieve the
required progess. Very good
advance made in computer based
MIS scheduling and reporting.
10   ~
I 0N
0 m
i-



S.No. Stage of Project    MonthYesr     No.of Persons  Days in  Specialization    Performance Rating   Type of Problenu        Comments
cycle                                             Field   Repreweoted 1/    (OvenD)
MPf        2          10          R&R/EN                3/2         R&Rbssues(lackof         R&R Missiog
1          5          JEC-RhR                           public and inrra-        Overad good progress in Guijart;
structure facilities in  indications of improvement in
1          9            R&R                             relocation sites; tenous  Maharashtra; and
Mahli       1          5          BC-R&R                 3/1         oustee bogt relation-   implementation constraints in
1          4            RhR                              ship; unresolved policy  Madhya Pradesh (causing great
issues related to       concem) due to anti-darn and
interstate transfer of  anti-project resistance.
Ouj       1           9           R&R                   2          PAPs; poicy difference
on land compensation
adjustment revision of
PAP, list In aD
respects; socia problem
of women PAPs;
Training of staff in
R&R etc.)                                                      C
MI -0791                                   EC-R&R/EN           Gujarat  2      Strengthening of R&R     Sunrvison Mission
04f91-05/91           5          13        /AgIR&R(2)         Mah       3/1    organization;            R&R Miuion
MP        311   improving R&R             Strong R&R performance by
provisions and land     Gurarat; stronger support of R&R
entitlements in MP and   by GOMP inculding advising
Mah for landless/major    PAP of their entitlements in MP
sons/encroacbes;        and preparing a revised 1991-97
rerinement of R&R       outline R&R plan; some progress
plans; R&R               also made in Mal. However,
implementation and       R&R mpiemnentation in MP and
monitoring; NGOs         Maih cntinued to face
resistance/agitation groin PAPs
VOQV
(D -
0
o m
hot



S No. Stage of Project   Month/Year    Noof Persons  Days in  Specialization    Perfonmance Rating   Type of Pblekms       Comments
Cycle                                            Field   Represented 1/    (OvMerall)
involvement with       with R&R taff having limited
PAPs; and formation of   /no aceus to many villages.
Land Purchase
Committee in MP.
06d91           5          4         En(4)YPROC            2V1         RIS of                  F£nginrin, Mi n
RBPHhTrigation         Concrete placement on dam
BY-Pass                exceeded the FY 1990-91 target;
Tunnel/Funding of T/K    record monthly progress
sets for RBPHlO&M      achieved in 05/91; speed of
Training                tunneling in RBPH increased;
excellent progregs on MIS and
ovelU good quality construction.
06/91 - 07/91      1           5          ECOL                 3/1         Problems relating to    Envionment Review Mission.
envirnnment in          Overall progress continued in        w
fulilling the           fulfilling the conditions of legal   o
conditions of legal     agreements and clearance
agreements and          stipulations of MOEF. Gujamt,
clearance stipulations of   Mabarasbtm and Madhya
the MOEP, namnly:       Pradesh had formulated work
compensatory            plans for compensatory
afforestation (CAF);    afforestation and catchinent
catchmnent treatment    treatment with Gujarat and MP
(CAT'); wild life       having initiated
management; and         implementation as well. In
risberies. etc.         respect of wild life (ecological)
studies, Oujarat and MP were
undertaking the required studies;
Progess also continued on the
OQO0
w~~-



S.No. Stage of Project    Month/Year   No-of Persons  Days in  Specialization   Performance Rating   Type of Problem        Comrments
Cycle                                            Field  Represented 1/    (Overall)
studies and work plan on the
developmrent of risheries.
Training of staff in the
environmental aspects of project
execution and implementation
was lacking. NCA's role in
coordinating and comlementing
environmental studies (being
conducted by the 3 states)needed
to be strengthened.
11191 - 12/91       5           12         HC/R&R       Gujarat     2/2     R&R policies in MP and   Rese lment and Rehahilitation
(2)/EN(2)    MP & Mab  3/1       Maisb R&R cost          Mission
sbaring; participation  The mission while noting
of PAPs and             continuing signs of progress in
constructive NGOs in    R&R implementation. felt very         L
0
R&R management,         concemned whether the numerous
planning and            constraints, particularly in MP
implementation; R&R     and Mah. could be overcome in
organization/multi-state   time tD enable satisfactory R&R
agency; R&R planning    in line with submergence
and pmgress             schedule. The mission
monitoring:             emphasised that much more was
development plans for   needed to be done on priority
the reservoir rim area;  basis by all paticipating states.
and developesat of
resettlement sites.
I 32
oq a
MF H
0



S.No. Stage of Prject    Month/Year    No.of Persons  Days in  Specialization    Perfonnance Rating   Type of Problems       Comments
___ CvckF Pield   Represented 1/                                           (Overall)
0192            5           5        EN(4YHealth             2/2        T/1 sets for             =nginmring & Public Health
RBPHWlrrigation         Misso.
By-pass tunnelcore      Engineering aspects of the Dam &
O&M unit/structural     Power continued to make very
problems in machine     good progress in physical,
ball cavern              inancial and quality terms. Dan
waOlsmalaria and        consttuction exceeded the targets
water-borne diseases    set by RIS (12/89). The
issues.                 compmbensive MIS belped in
keeping track of contractors
performance as well as overall
project implementation.
Non-resolution of funding of T/G
sets and non-initiation of
construction of irrigation by-pass     w
tunnel continued to cause serious      o
concemn. Delay in rinalizing the       u
treatment of machine ball cavern
walls had beld up further
excavation and concreting work.
The mission stressed the need for
an anti-malaria scbeme overall
for the project
C H
LD
M- -
0



S No. Stage of Project   Month/Year    No.of Persons  Days in  Specialization    Perfofmance Rating   Type of Problem.       Comments
Cycle                                            Field   ReresIentd 1/     (OveraU)      _
07/92                                                                                            Supcrvision Mission.
5          5          EC/R&R                 3          R&R issues: policy      Resettlement and Rehabilitaion
improvements; R&R       Mission
organization.and        The mission expressed concern
management; redresad    about the slow implementation of
of grievances;          R&R and opined that under
mechanisn for           current conditions and policies
inter-state             successful and timely R&R was
co-ordinations and      not likely unless improvements
verification of R&R;    were made in policies and
and implerentation      implementation capacity. The
issues.                 mission outlined a set of criteria
to link R&R with dam
construction and detailed steps
constituting an action pmgram for    o
ensuring effective and timely
R&R of PAPs by the 3 states.
07J92           3           5           EN(3)                212         T/O sets for RDPtiI     '-niineerint and Enivironental
1          5           Health                           Irrigation By-Pass       Mition-
1          5           L7COL                            Tunne/Persistent         entinoelin,
difference of opinion   Construction of dam was
between DSP and         proceeding on schedule and of
CWC/rTeatmnt of         high construction standards.
RBPH Imachine haU       Underground works of RBPH also
cavem waliuI            progressed well, except for the
Environmenta work       machine ball cavem where the
planstrengthening of    fissures in the rock walls
NCA&NPG/WiId Life       hampered further excavation
issues/Health           and concreting.
L_______________ ._____I_I__I__I_I     Mana lementplan/ p_ _
0



S .No. Stage of Project    Month/Year   No-of Persons  Days in  Specialization    Perfonnance Rating   Type of Pmblems         Comments
_   Cycle                                               Field   Represented 1/    (Overall)
Helath Planning and     EaxWmnla
Monitoring - well an    Inter-date coordination on
Training,               environmental matters continued
to remain weak; no comprehensive
environnment managemient plan
prepared to date; integration of
envsomnm en t concers in poct
designs and impleientation was
_einimal.
The mission noted an intensified
malaria control campaign, by
C0OG, at SSP damn site and 19
villages in its vicinity-, and
hOG's comniittment to
implement Bank missions
recommendations on health
aspects.
Abbreviations as used:
Specializaiof ns  Mpresented    I      EN - Engineers; EC - Economist; A  - AgriculturRst PROC - Procurement Speclst FIN - Financil Analyst; AGEC -
Agricultur Economist SOC - Sociologist; R&R - Resettlement & Rehabilitation Specalit; FSP - Fofestry SpeciaIist;
EU - Engineering Geologist; LEO - Legal Specialis MISP - Management Information Specialist; ECOL - Ecologist.
Performance Ratings:                    tat ndcator, 1- mIno problem.;, 2- modemste problems; 3- tmajor problems;
2nd IndIcator; I - Improving; 2- static; 3-deteklosting.
Types of Pmoblems:                      M- Management Pmoblems; F-Flnancial; OR-Organlsatloxa; T-Tecbnical (Engineering); LEG-Legal Covenant';
PR-Procurement; Q-Qualty Control; POM-Plan of Opeation & Maintenance; U-Geological; CM-Construction Management;
MIS-Management lnformation System; ENVN-Environmental; HYDROMET-Hydrometerological Network;
MOU-Memorandum of Understunding betw eeo Bank GOL GOMP, GUW and COM, EQP - Constmction Equipment; CAT -                          t H
Catchment Area Treatment CAP - Compensatory Afforestation; MOU - Memormndum of Understanding between Bank and GOI !.                D
I (D
W
0
U.)



NARMADA (GUJARAT) SARD2AR SAROVAR DAM AND POWE-R PROJECT
(Cr. 1552-INALn.2497-IN)
Staff Inputs (SWS)
Stage of Project Cycle    FY82   FY83  TiY8    FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   Total
Identflfcationl
Preparation             142.6   176.2    5.9                                                                             324.7
0
Appraisal                               116.5    37.4                                                                    153.9        o
Negotiations                                     24.9                                                                     24.9
Supervision                                       7.4    68.3    44.9      45    41.2    43.9    45.6      30   121.5   447.8
PCR                                                                                                                2.8     2.8
Total                   142.   176.2  122.4   69.7    68.3    44.9         45    412    43.5    45.6       30   124.3   954.11
'I



309
lahle 14
(PaL,e I of 6)
INDIA
SARDAR SARO VAR DAM AND POWER COMPLEX
Salient Technical Features
Facilita&ature          Description and Magnitude          As Der PCR
asL=SAR
1.  Sardar Sarovar Dam
(a) Location                    Narmada River near Navagamn    Namnada River near Navaganr
village(21° 50' N             village (21° 50' N
Lat x 730 45' E Long)         Lat x 73° 45' E Long)
(b) Type                        Concrete gravity              Concrete gravity
(c) Volume (Total)              6.000 Mm3                     6.820 Mm3
Mass concrete               5.500 Mm3                     5.370 Mm3 a/
Structural concrete         0.500 Mm3                     1.450 Mm3
(d) Top of dam                  146.50 m                       146.50 m
Elevation                   1210.00 m                     1210.02 m
Length                      9.14 m                        9.14 m
Width (top)
(e) Freeboard                   6.29 m                         6.29 m
(f) Height of dam               128.50 m (from top of fault plug)  130.0 m
157.50 m (from bottom of fault   163.0 m
excavation)
2.  S2jlway
(a) Type                        Ogee crest(s)                  Ogee crest(s)
(I) Service spillway with   23 -18.3 x 16.7 m             23 -18.3 x 16.7 m
sloping apron stilling basin Radial gates              Radial gates
(2) Auxiliary (& emergency)   7 - 18.3 x 18.3 m            7 - 18.3 x 18.3 m
with chute/flip-bucket  Radial gates                   Radial gates
(b) Crest length
(1) Service spillway        524.3 m                        525.69 m
(2) Auxiliary               161.0m                         158.53 m
(3) Total crest             685.3 m                        684.22 m b/
al  Concrete quantity for darn is 5.370 MMm3 and that for spillway and training walls is 1.45 Mm3.
1/  Clear waterway at crest = 549.0 m.



310
,Table 14
{Page 2 of 61
Facilit /ature          Description and Magnitude         As Der PCR
,as per S AR
(c) Crest elevation            121.92 m                       121.92 m
(d) Capacity
(1) Service design (1000-yr.   87,000 cumecs             84,950 cumecs
flood)
(2) Service and auxiliary  171,000 cumecs                 169,923 curnecs
(P.M.F. 1/ without
overtopping dam)
3. Outlet Works
(a) Irrigation bypass tunnel   (Intake located 350 m upstream    Intake location is about
on right reservoir rim)       100 m upstream of Main
Dam Axis.
(1) Invert elevation
(reservoir side)       86.9 m                        88.39 2/
(2) Diameter (twin tunnels)    6.4 m                     5.5 m
(b) Construction sluices (Temporary)
(1) Set no.1 (invert elevation
18.OM)
- Description          10 - 2.75 x 2.15 m            10 - 2.74 x 2.10 m
Rectangular boxes             Rectangular boxes
(2) Set no.2 (invert elevation
35.0 m)
- Description           8 - 2.75 x 2.15 m             Set no.2 has been deleted
Rictngular boxes
(c) Emergency outlets
- Invert elevation         60.0 m                        53.0 m
- Description              4 - 3.05 x 2.74 m             4 - 4.00 x 2.50 m
Rectangular boxes
300 cumecs                    231.5 cumecs per sluice 3/
- Discharge (FRL)
.I  Probable maximum flood.
2L  The sub-committee constituted by NCA recommended the invert level of IBPI as 88.39 m, but
GOMP has not agred to that.
,L  Though designed to operate under FRL condition, the sluices are to be operated only when the
reservoir level is at El 128.0 m or below.



311
Table 14
(Page 3 of 6)
Facil!it/Feature        Description and Magnitude         As per PCR
as per:AR
4. Riverbed Powerhouse        Underground (23x58x211 m      23x58x212 m
machine hall)
(a) Location/Description       Cavern/right abutment         Cavern/right abutment
(b) Type units                 Reversible turbine-generators  Reversible
turbine-generators
(c) Unit capacities            6 x 200 MW Units              6 x 200 MW Units
(d) Total plant capacity       1200 MW                       1200 MW
(e) Penstocks
- Invert elevation        97.5 m                        93.69 m
- Diameter (6 each)       7.62 m                        7.61 m
- Combined discharge (max.)  1000 cumecs                227.50 curnecs from one
unit at the design head.
5. Canalhead Powerhouse
(a) Location/Description       Right rim of reservoir 800 m  Right rim of reservoir 800 m
upstream of main dam axis/surface upstream of main dam
powerhouse (32 x 141 m) -     axis/surface powerhouse (32
intakes formed by Vadgam Saddle x 145 m) - intakes formed by
Dam.                          Vadgam Saddle Darn
(b) Type units                 Conventional turbine-generators   Conventional turbine-
(Kaplan)                     generators (Kaplan)
(c) Unit capacities (5)        50 MW                         50 MW
(d) Total plant capacity       250 MW                        250 MW
(e) Penstocks (5)
- Invert elevaton          90.0 m                        98.128 m
- Diameter (each)          6.7 m                         6.7 m
6. Reservoi
(a) Hydrology
- Total catchment          89,000 sq.kn.                 88,000 sq.kim
- Average annual rainfall  1,214 mm                      1120 mm
- Maximum annual rainfall   1,270 mm                     1270 mm



312
Table 14
(Page 4 of 61
FacfliULUature         Description and Ma_nitude         As per PCR
as per SAR
- Minimum annual rainfall   760 mm                      760 mm
- Runoff at 50% dependability 45,000 Mm3                40,952 Mm3
- Runoff at 75% dependability 35,200 Mm3                33,576 Mm3
- Runoff at 90% dependability 26,500 Mm3               24,386 Mm3
- Spillway design flood
(1000-year)
Peak discharge (inflow)   101,700 curnecs           101,700 cuinecs
Peak discharge (outflow)  87,300 cumecs             87,300 cunecs
Flood volume (inflow)    16,410 Mm3                 16,410 Mm3
Max.water surface (routed) 139.7 m                  139.7 m
- Probable maximum flood
Peak discharge (inflow)   171,000 cumecs            169,923 cumecs
Peak discharge (outflow)  132,000 cumecs            141,190 cumecs
Flood volume (inflow)    33,600 Mm3                 27,702 Mm3
Max.water surface (routed) 144.3 m                  145.90 m
(b) Storage
- Maxixnum water level (MWL) 140.2 m                    140.21 m
- Full reservoir level (FRL)    138.7 m                 138.68 m
- Minimum drawdown level
(MDDL)
Power operation        110.6 m                      110.64 m
Irigation operation    93.6 m                       97.54 m*
- Gross storage (FRL)     9,500 Mm3                     9,500 Mm3
- Dead storage (MDDL)
Power (MDDL 110.6 m)  3,700 Mm3                     3,700 Mm3
lrrigation (MDDL 93.6 m) 2,100 Mm3                   *
- live storage (FRL)
Power (MDDL 110.6 m)  5,800 Mm3                      5,800 Mm3
Irrigation (MDDL 93.6 m) 7,400 Mm3
(c) Submergence data (FRL)
- Forest land             6,273 ha                      13,542 ha
- Cultivable land         12,141 ha                     9,994 ha
- Other land              1-16 ha                       14,054 ha
Total                  37,030 ha                     37,590 ha
*   GOMP has not yet agreed to the NCA's suggestion of bringing down the reservoir below MDDL
(110.64 m) to 97.54 m for irrigation diversions through IBPT. Nornal irrig. diversions
would be through CHPH and the reservoir is not likely to be lowered below MDDL (110.64 m).
** Population affected is 127,446 (as per latest information in March 1993).



313
ble 14
(Page 5 of 6)
FacilitylFeature       hDescripion and Maser PCR
as per SAR
- Affected villages & populatior   Villages  Families        Villages     Families
.Madhya Pradesh             180         7,500              193        33,014
.Maharashtra                 36         1,358               33          2,731
.Gujarat                     19         1,900               19          4,500
Totals:                     235        10,758              245        40,245**
7. Garudeshwar Weir
(pumpback storage)
(a) Location                    18 km below main dam axis      12 Iam below main dam axis
(b) Maximum water level (MWL)  30.0 m                          30.0 m
(c) Maximum live capacity at MWL 26 Mm3                        26 Mrn3
(d) Minimum tailwater for pump/
storage operation          25.9 m                        25.9 m
8. Vadgam Saddle Dam 1/
(a) Location                    Right rim of main reservoir 800m  Right rim of main reservoir
upstreamn from main dam axis near 800m upstream from main
Vadgam village.               darn axis near Vadgam
village.
(b) Type of structure           Stone masonry dam              Concrete dam
(c) Dam height                  60 m                           60 m
9.    alhead Reservoirs and Dars
(a) Dams
(1) Type                    Eaith and rockfill with core and   Earth and rockfill with core
filter zones and cutoffs to bedrock & filter zones and cut-offs
to bed rock
(2) Total embanknent volume
(4 dams)                5.4 Mm3                        6.89 Mm3
(3) Maximum height (dam
no.3)                   54.6 m                         56.0 m (dam no.1)
1J Facilitates strucatral support for CHPH intakes and penstock arrangements.



314
Table 14
(Pazge 6 of 6)
Facilio&cal              Descnption and Magnitude            As per PCR
as per SAR
(b) Interlink channels
Overall side slopes         0.5 H to 1.0 V                  0.5 H to 1.0 V
Maximum depth of cut         100 m                          100 m
Design discharge            1,133 cumecs                    1,133 cumecs
(c) Storage
Maxirnum reservoir (pond) level 95.1 m                      95.1 m/99.1 m (FSJJMWL)
Minimum reservoir (pond) level 92.1 m                       92.10 m
Active storage (EL 95.1 to 92.1) 13.0 Mm3                   13.0 Mni3
Gross storage (EL 95.1)     63.3 Mm3                        63.39 Mm3
(d) Submergence (EL 95.1)        773 ha                         773 ha









