Docntnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14159
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAlI AND POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1552-IN/LWAN 2497-IN)
MARCH 29, 1995
FILE COPY|
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by; recipients only in the performance of
their official doties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Name of Currency:  - Rupee (Rp./Rs.)
Rate of Exchange:  - At Appraisal (August 1984)          USS 1.00 = Rs. 12.00
- During Implementation,
(FY 1988 - FY 1993)                US$ 1.00 = Rs. 18.72
- At Completion (Closing
Date March 29, 1993)               US$ 1.00 = Rs. 30.00
Fiscal Year of Borrower: April I to March 31
Abbreviations
CEA        Central Electricity Authority                    NCA        Narmada Control Authority
CHPH       Canal Head Powerhouse                            NDD        Nanmada Development Department
CICFRI    Central Inland Capture Fisheries Research         NGO        Non-Govemmental Organization
Institute                                      NPG        Narmada Planning Group
CWC        Central Water Commission                         NRD        Narmada River Development
CWPRS    Central Water and Power Research Stations          NRC        Narmada Review Committee
DCA        Development Credit Agreement                     NSP        Narmada Sagar Project
ERR        Economic Rate of Retum                           NWDT       Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal
FY         Fiscal Year                                      ODA        Overseas Development Agency
GERI       Gujarat Engineering Research Institute           OECF       Overseas Economic Corporation Fund of
GOG        Govemment of Gujarat                                          Japan
GOI        Govemment of India                               O&M        Operations and Maintenance
GOMP       Govemment of Madhya Pradesh                      PAF        Project Affected Families
GOM        Govemment of Maharashtra                         PCR        Project Completion Report
GOR        Govemment of Rajasthan                           QC/QA      Quality Control/Quality Assurance
IBRD       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and         RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
Development                                    R&R        Resettlement & Rehabilitation
ICB        Intemal Competitive Bidding                      RBPH       Riverbed Powerhouse
IDA        Intemational Development Agency                  RIS        Revised Implementation Schedule
KV         Kilo Volt                                        SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
'MDDL      Minimum Draw Down Level                           SDV        Supplementary Data Volumes of the SAR
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation                        SSCAC      Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory
MIS        Management Information System                                  Committee
MP         Madhya Pradesh                                   SSP        Sardar Sarovar Project
MOEF       Ministry of Environment and Forests              SSNNL    Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited
MOWR    Ministry of Water Resources                         UNDP       United Nations Development Program
MW         Megawatt                                         WALMI   Water and Land Management Institute
NABARD  National Bank for Agriculture & Rural
Development
Glossary
Chak               - Irrigation service area of about 40 ha in size below the outlet from the minor
Cusec              - Cubic Food per Second (0.0283 m3/s)
Cumec              - Cubic. Meter per Second (m3/s)
Distributary       - Irrigation channel, offtaking from the main or branch canal, with capacity greater than 700 liters/second
Field Channel      - Irrigation channel, offtaking from the main or branch canal, with capacity greater than 700 liters/second
Hot Season         - April to June
Kharif             - Wet season; June to October
MAF                - Million Acre Foot (1235 Mm3)
Minor              - Irrigation channels with capacity less than 700 I/s and serving chaks
Nigam              - Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited
Rabi               - Winter season/dry season; November to March
Taluka             - Sub-division of a district



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THIE PRESIDENT
Subject: Project Completion Report on India - Narmada River Development (Gujarat)
Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project (Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN)
1.     Attached are Parts I and II of the Project Completion Report on the Sardar Sarovar Darn and
Power Project (SSDPP Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN). Part I was prepared by the South Asia
Regional Office. Part II was contributed by the Borrower who, while supporting most of the analysis
in Part I, disagreed with some of its interpretations and conclusions. Supporting annexes and Part III
(228 additional pages) are not included but are available on request. The PCR should be read in
conjunction with the PCR on the parallel Water Delivery and Drainage Project (Credit 1553-IN).
2.      The SSDPP and the Water Delivery and Drainage Project were part (the first phase) of the
Narmada River Development Plan, which aimed to harness the Narmada River through a series of
dams and associated investments for irrigation, energy and domestic/municipality/industry (DMI)
benefits in three states - Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. SSDPP was approved in March
1985 and was due to close in June 1995. From 1989, many national and international non-
govermmental organizations expressed serious concem regarding unsatisfactory arrangements for the
resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) of the project affected families (PAFs) displaced by the project
as well as for the project's broad environmental implications. The President of the Bank
commissioned an independent review (IR) of the project in September 1991. The ensuing report in
June 1992 was critical of the Bank's and the Borrower's performance, especially with respect to R&R
and environmental planning. The IR pointed out that the Bank had not followed its own guidelines,
and recommended that the Bank "step back" from the project rather than continue with financing of its
planned implementation. Following a review mission by the Bank in July 1992, Management
endorsed most of the IR findings, but considered that the most promising course of action would be to
take advantage of Govemment of India (GOI) agreement to link progress of dam construction to
associated R&R requirements. In October 1993, Management presented for the Board's approval a
GOI action plan which would address the issues raised in the IR. The Board endorsed the plan which
included a commitment by Management to suspend disbursements if the GOI failed to meet specific
performance benchmarks by March 31, 1993. However, progress was uneven and on March 29, 1993,
GOI requested the Bank to cancel the remaining Loan amount (US$181.5 million of US$200 million).
The IDA Credit (US$133.3 million) had been fully utilized by September 1992. At the same time, the
Executive Director representing India reaffirmed GOI's continued commitment to complete the project
and to meet agreed R&R and environmental standards. Performance under the action plan, as reported
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
by GOI in August 1993 and in subsequent communications, indicates that significant progress has
been made in meeting benchmarks but that important R&R requirements have not yet been met
(mostly due to difficulties in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh). The project implementation
schedule, revised in 1989, is unlikely to be met.
3.     The basic rationale for the project is sound. The arrangements for basic development of the
largest unexploited water resource in India, involving three riparian states, had evolved over a 10-year
period through submissions to the Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal (NWDT) of GOI. The
comprehensive basin development and management plan that resulted, with its binding inter-state
agreements for water allocation and institutional and financial arrangements for program execution,
was a substantial achievement. The scheme promises to make an important hydroelectric energy
contribution to India's western grid and to provide water for irrigation and DMI consumption to about
30 million people in the severely drought-prone state of Gujarat, where a wide array of endemic
diseases is traceable to malnutrition and unsafe domestic water supply.
4.      Although delayed and incomplete, the project has made substantial progress in terms of civil
works, not only in quantity of construction but also in the quality of work; achievements are
described in detail in the PCR. A slow start-up associated with delayed GOI environmental and
forestry clearances and the need to import and mobilize major construction equipment led to a revised
construction schedule in 1989 with a completion date of 1998.
5.     Positive aspects of physical implementation have been overshadowed by major deficiencies
in planning and management of R&R and environmental impact analysis. In brief, the Bank did not
follow its own R&R guidelines (OMS 2.33 of 1980 and OMS 2.34 of 1982) designed to ensure
appropriate treatment of landed and landless PAFs. The NWDT agreement had obliged Gujarat to
pay to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra all costs of R&R for oustees (persons cultivating, residing or
working in the submerged area), with replacement agricultural land being provided for 'landed"
oustee families. An R&R plan was prepared and approved at negotiations but it did not meet the
requirements of existing Bank guidelines. Insufficient attention was afforded to R&R during project
preparation, appraisal and early implementation. The absence of appropriate R&R plans by the
participating states led to a drawn-out process of trying to rectify basically unsatisfactory
arrangements. A Bank mission provided increased attention to R&R in 1989, and progress picked up
after 1990, with further advances after the IR was issued in 1992. Approximately 41,000 oustee
families were identified against 10,700 in the SAR which did not have the benefit of adjusted surveys
and had excluded certain categories of oustees (adult sons, landless and encroachers). However,
substantial obstacles still remain. While Maharashtra has recently adopted satisfactory policies,
implementation problems persist in that about half of the oustee villages refuse to cooperate to allow
final definition of numbers and R&R arrangements. In Madhya Pradesh, the rehabilitation grant to
landless families and adult sons is less attractive than in the other states and implementation capacity
is weak. An earlier assumption that most PAFs from this state would move to Gujarat is now in
question, possibly obliging considerable additional land procurement, a process which has been
cumbersome in the past. NGOs have been usefully involved in the Gujarat R&R program, but in the
other two states confrontation continues between project authorities and some local NGOs. The
persistence of difficulties is likely to affect the pace at which the infrastructure program (and
subsequent reservoir filling) can proceed.



3
6.     The Bank did not follow its own environmental guidelines which came into existence before
the final appraisal mission in August 1984 (OMS 2.36 of May 1984). This OMS required
environmental impact studies to have been done and an evaluation made at appraisal of measures to be
taken to avoid or mitigate serious environmental risks. The SAR included a brief description of the
anticipated environmental consequences, and indicated that a work program for assessing and
managing fisheries, forestry, wildlife, and public health effects would be undertaken and submitted to
the Bank for its approval. Project costs did not appear to specifically include any environmental
program except as a training component and as a watershed management study, and environmental
measures were not financed under the loan/credit. The Board approved the project in March 1985
with legal documents requiring the Environmental Work Plan to be submitted for Bank approval by
December 1985. The formal GOI forestry clearance had not been obtained at that time. The forestry
clearance was obtained only in September 1987 and an environmental clearance (which became
necessary by a GOI 1986 Conservation Act) was obtained in June 1987; both clearances were given
subject to a number of important conditions in view of the unavailability of appropriate plans.
Deadlines in 1985 and 1989 for completion of the Environmental Work Plan were allowed to lapse
and ultimately the Plan was submitted in August 1993 following severe criticism in the IR of 1992
and subsequent studies by ODA-funded consultants.
7.     Following the IR, the Borrower made significant efforts on a number of environmental
fronts. The compensatory forestry program has progressed, catchment area treatment is underway,
and plans for preserving cultural sites and protecting wildlife are in various stages of implementation.
After a long delay, each of the states has carried out in-depth baseline health surveys in the project
area and set up health care facilities for resettled and permanent populations; state programs for
malaria control have been strengthened, although staffing and funding of these operations is not yet
satisfactory. Prompted by the IR, consultants reexamined the projected sedimentation rate in the
Sardar Sarovar Reservoir. This study confirmed that sedimentation would be greater than originally
calculated, but that it would not be a major problem for the combined Sardar Sarovar and Narmada
Sagar complex. Concerns about the impact on the estuary downstream of the dam were investigated
by the ODA-funded consultants in 1993. This indicated that changed flow patterns are likely to affect
the spawning of hilsa, but further work is needed to determine the significance of hilsa in marine
catches by fishermen; a local institute continues to work on this matter. Continued implementation of
the Environmental Work Plan, vigilance in monitoring and responding to fisheries and socioeconomic
developments in estuarine areas, and increased support for the health program could yet help avoid
significant detrimental effects.
8.     The PCR reestimates the economic rate of return (ERR) on the projects' irrigation, power
and DMI water investments to be 12 percent, compared with 13 percent in the SAR. The analysis
includes the costs and benefits of the Gujarat Water Delivery and Drainage Project as an integral part
of the first phase in the basin development as in the SAR. It also includes environmental costs and
benefits and R&R costs which were not adequately covered in the SAR, adjustments for actual
construction costs and updated future costs, a share of the costs of upstream Narmada Sagar Dam
which is required to enable regulation of water for irrigation and power generation up to the
quantities projected (but with an assumed 5-year delay in construction and consequent reduced power
generation), a higher (more realistic) value for DMI water delivery, and an assumption that some
irrigation and (very minor) energy benefits would commence in 1995. However, despite the
approximate adherence to the 1989 construction schedule so far, further delays of at least two years in
both the irrigation and energy generation schedules are likely. The pace of construction must be



4
adjusted to progress in the R&R program which has encountered persistent difficulties (para. 5).
Floods in 1994 damaged the stilling basin which will need major reconstruction. There are
uncertainties in financing arrangements for the overall development and for the foreign exchange
purchase of turbine generators for the riverbed powerhouse (after the cancellation of an OECF loan
by the Government of Japan). Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have not yet agreed on the invert level
for the irrigation bypass tunnel (lowering it would benefit Gujarat's diversions, particularly in drought
years, but at the expense of Madhya Pradesh's rights), which has delayed initiation of tunnel
construction. This has meant that the base case ERR scenario prepared for the PCR is already out of
date. Sensitivity analysis shows that a delay of four years in the commissioning of the riverbed
powerhouse would reduce the ERR by a further one percent, and some other delay scenarios continue
to provide a return in excess of 10 percent (see attached sheet). The stability of the ERR projections
in the PCR scenarios is due to the multi-purpose nature of the investment and to benefit delays being
associated with investment cost delays. Nevertheless, the robustness of the ERR calculations is
clouded by many uncertainties.
9.      The PCR is based on a hydrological model which a team of experts recently appointed by
the GOI has not endorsed in full (see Memorandum on the Water Delivery and Drainage Project).
PCR scenarios do not examine the economic implications of a failure to construct the complementary
Narmada Sagar Dam. This dam is an integral part of the basic development package agreed by the
three states, and the construction contract has already been let (May 1992), but the fiscal implications
of its development are substantial and its resettlement dimensions even larger than those of Sardar
Sarovar. Delays in the completion of Narmada Sagar due to financing and/or R&R difficulties cannot
be ruled out. To examine the implications of the omission of Narmada Sagar Dam, a new water
modelling exercise would have to be undertaken in which the alternative of a series of upstream
smaller dams to complement the Sardar Sarovar investment would have to be considered; major
changes could be expected in the amount of water available for energy and for the command area in
Gujarat which would, of course, influence the scale of the water distribution investment which could
be made in that area. In the absence of such a model, the PCR uses a proxy to reflect the
implications of extended delays in the completion of Narmada Sagar-25 percent reduction in power
and 30 percent reduction in irrigation benefits throughout the project life. Consequently, while the
alternative scenarios appear to confirm the economic viability of the overall investment, uncertainty
remains concerning the hydrological assumptions and the scale and sequencing of project benefits.
10.    Institutional improvements were substantial in some areas of the project but weak in others.
Overall, the institutional development impact is rated as modest. Certainly, advances in
engineering design and construction quality control were significant, and an effective management
information system to monitor the civil works component was established and is being expanded to
financial and administrative aspects. Good progress has been made in operation and maintenance
(O&M) plans, although these will need to be updated when the remote control and monitoring system
for the operation of the main canal is available (the consultancy contract had not been signed at Loan
cancellation, and bilateral technical assistance is being sought) and there is no evidence of institutional
development in terms of formation of local irrigation groups or of providing such groups with
financial autonomy. While the planning and implementation capacity of R&R has been improved,
implementation still needs fundamental improvement in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, and health
services continue to be affected by inadequate funding and staffing.



5
11.    Bank appraisal and supervision performance has been unsatisfactory. Adherence to the
Bank's guidelines could have avoided many of the negative consequences of the project-social
unrest, diversion of resources (by GOI and the Bank) to address the consequences of inadequate early
attention to environmental and R&R requirements (especially in PAF consultation), delayed benefits,
and funding difficulties including the cancellation of the Bank and OECF loans. As a development
investment, however, the project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory based on PCR
assumptions. This rating is affected by more than the usual uncertainties. It assumes that the
hydrological parameters of the project are firm and that despite delays in completion of the scheme
(and the associated cost escalations), the project will be fully funded and the complementary Narmada
Sagar dam constructed. On this basis, the ERR is likely to be in excess of 10 percent. The
substantial benefits to be obtained from this major investment of over US$1.5 billion through energy
generation and DMI distribution, as well as likely irrigation benefits in the command area (see
Memorandum on the Water Delivery and Drainage project), should be sufficient to outweigh the
significant negative aspects of the projects and to compensate for all resettlement costs based on Bank
guidelines. It is emphasized, however, that the likely outcome is less favorable than anticipated at
appraisal, and has been affected by many avoidable social costs and deficiencies, especially in the
areas of resettlement and of environmental planning, on both of which decisive action is still pending.
12.    The sustainability of the project achievements is rated as uncertain. The project has
adhered to high construction standards and the institutional capability in this regard is now well
established. But much will depend on effective O&M for which India does not have a good track
record. Action is needed to staff, equip and train an appropriate O&M unit in advance of the dam
and power complex operation. The hydrometerological monitoring network which is needed for dam
safety, flood control and efficient reservoir operation had not been tendered at the time of the PCR.
Realization of the Environmental Management Plan will be crucial for sustainability, especially with
respect to monitoring, and responding to, the effects of the scheme on downstream fisheries and
communities. These effects, inter alia, will need to be addressed in the revision of the NWDT award
in 2024. The Borrower is adamant that it will continue with the Narmada River Basin Development
Plan, but, as previously noted, the rate of progress will depend on the Borrower's ability to deal with
the social dimensions of the Plan and to allocate to it the necessary managerial, financial and technical
resources.
13.    The PCR provides a detailed assessment of project implementation and shortcomings. With
few exceptions (noted below), it is comprehensive, and it acknowledges major performance shortfalls.
Concerns of the EDs at the 1985 Board presentation are noted, as is the commitment by Management
to keep the Board informed on the social and environmental aspects of the project through written
reports and briefings. The PCR deals with the major issues raised by the IR. The extent of
compliance by GOI with the action plan agreed in late 1992 (as a basis for continued Bank support) is
elaborated. As indicated earlier, significant uncertainty about the rate at which investments will be
completed, and possible variations in hydrological parameters and water use scenarios, limit the
robustness of PCR estimates of the ERR. The PCR fails to assess the scope or usefulness of M&E
data and socioeconomic surveys as baseline information for impact analysis. In the discussion on
"Bank Performance," the PCR does not address the missed opportunities in potential use of selected,
reputable NGOs to assist it in meeting the Bank's guidelines in this aspect of the project. While the
PCR indicates that the Bank should have taken "stronger action" to correct the R&R and
environmental deficiencies during implementation, it does not make a forthright judgment that the
Bank's enforcement of covenants was delinquent.



6
14.    In its part of the PCR, the Borrower is more confident than the Bank in predicting some
aspects of future performance and scheduling, and highlights the high socioeconomic benefits which
will be obtained by the intended provision of both irrigation and DM1 water in the drought prone
areas of Gujarat.
15.    Considering the extraordinary amount of investigation and lesson learning which has taken
place with respect to environmental and resettlement dimensions of the project, there would be little
value in carrying out further evaluation of these aspects at this stage. A performance audit is
planned, however, in order to assess the realism and the sensitivity to risks of the reestimation of
project costs and benefits. In due course, OED will undertake impact evaluations of socioeconomic
effects (including health aspects) on PAFs and the impact of basin development on command area
populations.



7
Note on the Calculation of Economic Rate of Returns for Investments Under the First
Phase of the Narmada Development Plan
1. PCR base case scenario. A: Yielding 12 percent ERR
Actual costs for completed investments are used, and projected costs and benefits are revised.
Seventeen percent of the costs of the upstream Narmada Sagar Dam are included, as at appraisal. A
1989 revision of the construction schedule was further adjusted to allow for the consequences of
delays which were apparent in 1993 at the time of the recalculation of the ERR. The projection
assumes some irrigation and DMI will commence in 1995 in a small area, with full development of
the 1.79 million hectares of irrigation in the command area program by 2006. Significant power
benefits would commence in 1997. In view of existing and likely delays in the construction of the
Narmada Sagar dam, a 25 percent reduction in power supply for the first five years is introduced to
compensate for reduced flows available to the riverbed power house (RBPH).
Comment:    At least one more year (after 1995) will be needed before irrigation commences, so
that part of the sensitivity calculation for irrigation delay (see below) must be
consumed in the actual base case. The 25 percent reduction in power for five years is
likely to be on the low side considering the progress in construction of the Sardar
Sarovar and anticipated future constraints. On the positive side, however, energy and
DMI values could be conservative (see below), and the Bank commodity price
projections for the 1995-2000 period are higher than that assumed in the PCR
analysis.
2. Scenario B
This examines the impact on Scenario A of delaying the RBPH for up to four years. Assuming that
investment costs in the RBPH and transmission systems are delayed accordingly, this reduces the ERR
by less than one percentage point.
Comment:    Delays may occur in the RBPH as financing of the necessary turbines is still in
question.
3. Scenario C
This assumes that the Narmada Sagar Dam is substantially delayed (or not completed) so that it does
not contribute to the scheme. In this event, some suboptimal alternative investments in upstream
storage would probably occur, requiring a new hydrological modelling exercise to determine water
availabilities. In the absence of this, a proxy was used: the 25 percent reduction in power generation
which is assumed for the first five years in the base case scenario is extended through the project life;
similarly, the command area irrigation/DMI benefits are reduced by 30 percent, with the main canal
being fully costed but with branch canals and other development investments being reduced by 15
percent and 25 percent respectively. The 17 percent of the Narmada Sagar costs previously allocated
to the project is removed. This reduces the ERR by a little over 1 percent.



8
Comment:    Although construction of the Narmada Sagar Dam has commenced, there are many
uncertainties (in funding and resettlement requirements) concerning its progress,
despite the government's stated commitment to its completion. Construction costs are
likely to be progressively incurred but any benefits may be seriously delayed. The
rationale for the proxy assumption is not explained in the PCR: the same proxy at the
time of appraisal was apparently based on simulation studies. While planning for
resettlement related to Narmada Sagar has been elaborate, implementation problems
may well arise given the sheer scale of the effort needed.
4. Scenario D
This examines delays in the command area development compared to scenario A, with simultaneous
reduction in benefits and costs, but with the main canal being completed as planned. A two year
delay reduces the ERR by 0.7 percentage points, a four-year delay by 1.4 percentage points, and a
six-year delay by 2 percentage points.
Comment:    Significant delays in the command area development appear likely, and at least a one-
year delay in the commencement of irrigation development is certain. The total plan,
however, envisages development of some areas with a poor benefit/cost ratio (for
social/equity reasons) and a relatively traditional cropping pattern. In practice,
restricted water availability (see below) and farmer practices may force more
profitable investment and water use than envisaged in the model.
5. Scenario E
This assumes that the command area would be reduced by up to 40 percent. On the assumption that
this makes the equivalent amount of water available for power, this increases the rate of return
slightly, again allowing for reduced command area development costs excepting the main canal.
Comment:    A reduced availability of water for irrigation/DMI need not make the equivalent water
available for energy. First, there is still some doubt about the total water availability
in the system, and second the actual water consumed by irrigators is likely to be more
than anticipated in the plan.
Concerning total water availability, the most recent hydrological model (in 1993 by the
Central Water Commission-CWC) estimates a 75 percent dependable flow of 27 MAF.
This is based on "observed" flows in the basin from 1948 to 1990 (43 years) and
"generated" flows from 1891 to 1947 (56 years). Although CWC insists on the validity of
these calculations, there is some question concerning the reliability of 'hindcasting' to
generate flow data from available rainfall records in the period to 1947. Use of only the
period with "observed" flows lowers the 75 percent dependable volume by about 18
percent.
Within Madhya Pradesh, there is political pressure not to fill the reservoir to its "full
reservoir level'-FRL of 138.7m by some groups who will lose good cropping land when
this level is reached; this, despite the NWDT agreement to the 138.7m FRL. This issue
was heavily debated and eventually resolved during the NWDT proceedings. Recently,



9
however, renewed pressure for review of the FRL has been very strong in Madhya
Pradesh, in part encouraged by a Supreme Court Bench of Justices, which accused the
GOI of not responding adequately to a review at the project by the expert Patil Committee.
For the volume of water actually diverted at Sardar Sarovar for irrigation and DMI, the
planned water use per hectare may not eventuate, and more water is likely to be used on
less hectares than intended in the plan. The PCR calculation assumes reasonable crop
yields (e.g. 4 tons paddy HYV and 3.5 tons wheat HYV on irrigated higher potential
soils), an average cropping intensity of 1.37, an irrigation intensity of 1.06, an irrigation
efficiency of 48 percent at headworks, and a five-year adoption curve for enhanced inputs
and outputs on each block to receive irrigation; all of these coefficients are acceptable
considering experience in India. However, the PCR (and the SAR) assumes that the crop
water requirement will be reduced by 10 percent "because of water scarcity;" in practice,
this is unlikely, as farmers in the earlier serviced areas are likely to assume higher
irrigation intensity and use much more water than envisaged in the plan. This implies that
less of the command area will be irrigated, but it also suggests that investment in the least
productive areas may be avoided. The latter is made even more likely in the Rann of
Kutch where a recent study by the Wildlife Institute of India has indicated that the
proposed irrigation canals would endanger the habitat of the wild ass (an endangered
mammal), particularly in waterlogged and saline areas. A more rational irrigation plan
and the adoption of a higher-value cropping pattern would be conducive to increasing the
rate of return.
Consequently, while reduced total water availability would have a negative effect on the
scheme benefits through reduced energy generation (scenario C), the likely pattern of
development and water use in the command area under circumstances of reduced supply
may not reduce the returns to irrigation investment.
6. Unit Value of Benefits
DMI water values can decrease by 19 percent or power energy values by 6.6 percent without taking
scenario A to below 10 percent ERR.
Comment:    The economic price of power (at about 4.6 US cents/kWh) is conservative and is
based on a "willingness to pay" concept using a methodology which adds the
economic value of the average tariff for each consumer category to half the additional
cost of the alternative of private supply to account for a consumer surplus. This
methodology appears somewhat arbitrary, but is said to be conservative and has been
used in the appraisal of other recent projects in India. Account is not taken of the
higher peaking power value which would increase the ERR if it were included.
The DMI value at about 15 US cents/m3 is 60 percent higher than that assumed at
appraisal. With one exception, the SAR methodology was adopted, in which demand from
different categories of consumers was calculated and the DMI water was valued as the
savings in cost realized by supplying estimated demand from the project rather than other
sources; the latter were individual water facility investments, except for some more
difficult areas in the later stages of development where the cost of trucked water was used.



10
The PCR assumed one third of the alternative source water would have to come from
desalinization (which causes the increased DM1 value) on the grounds that the value
previously ascribed was extremely conservative considering the impact of recent droughts
in the command area. Although appearing reasonable, this valuation warrants further
investigation, as the contribution of DMI to the benefit stream in the first 15 years after
DMI commences increases from 4 percent at appraisal to 11 percent in the PCR ERR
analysis.
7. Component Analysis
The PCR states that the ERR (using scenario A assumptions) for investment in power alone is 14.2
percent, in irrigation alone is 10.8 percent and in irrigation and DMI is 12.4 percent.
Comment:    The methodology used to separate out benefits and costs to attain these estimates is
not presented, but it is assumed that the PCR uses the same dissections as those made
at the time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .       .........................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY               .....................     .......................
Attachment I  Relevant Bank Guidelines and Project-Specific Covenants
on Environment and R&R
Attachment 2   Key GOI/State Environment - and R&R - Related Decisions
Attachment 3   Selected Bank and Govemment Documented Actions on Environment
and R&R (July 1983-June 1991)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity .I
2. Background .I
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                                  3
4.    Project Design and Organization .5.......... S
5. Project Implementation .13
6. Environment .24
7.  Resettlement and Rehabilitation .32
8. Project Achievements .48
9.    Project Benefits and Revised Economic Analysis .50
10.    Project Sustainability  ............................................    52
11.   The Bank Performance  ...........................................                 54
12.    The Borrower Performance  ........................................               57
13.   Project Relationships  ............................................    59
14.    Consulting Services  .............................................               60
15.    Project Documentation and Data  ....................................    61
16.    Lessons Leaned  ...............................................    61
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                    .........    67
The above parts of the PCR have been dutributed to the Board and to the President. The following
parts are available to authorized persons on request. Thus measure has been adopted because of the
length of the report. The three annexes pertain to Part I.
ANNEX 1: Environmental Impacts and Management ..........          .................    85
ANNEX 2: Resetlement and Rehabilitation  . ................................    125
ANNEX 3: Revised Cost-Benefits Analysis (April 1993)  ........     ................    187
1Ws document ha a resicted distinbution and may be used by recipient only in the pfoarmn     their
offiei duois. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank author ta



Table of Contents (continued)
PART m. STATISTICAL TABLES
1.     Related Bank Loans  .............................................                                   260
2.      Project Time Table   .............................................                                 267
3.      Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements ..........                  ......................            268
4.     Project Implementation Status (Main Milestones)  .........................    270
5.      Physical and Financial Implementation Status  ...........................                          271
6.      Total Project Costs .............................................                                  274
7.     Project Cost (components eligible for disbursement)  .......................    275
8.     Project Financing  .............................................                                    276
9.      Economic Impact Indicators (AppraisallPCR)   ...........................    278
10.     Status of Priority Studies of NPG    ............              .......................              280
I1.     Status of Covenants .............................................    284
12.     Bank Missions  ............................................ .                                       295
13.     Staff Inputs (SWS)   .............................................                                  308
14.     Salient Technical Features of Dam  and Power Complex   ....................    309
MAPS: IBRD 17691 and 17694



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Narmada (Gujarat) Dam and Power
Project for which an IDA Credit of SDR 99.7 million (Credit 1552-IN) and an IBRD Loan of US $
200 million (Loan 2497-IN) were signed on May 10, 1985. The Credit was fully disbursed on
September 17, 1992 while only US$ 18.5 million were disbursed from the Loan. The Loan was
closed on March 29, 1993, two years and three months ahead of the agreed Closing Date, at the
Borrower's request. The undisbursed Loan amount of US$165.54 million was canceled on March
29, 1993 and the balance amount under the Special Account of US$ 15.96 million was refunded
on August 10, 1993. This report is not a project completion report (PCR) in the traditional sense.
It reviews a special case where Bank funding has been terminated, but the project remains under
implementation.
Tlhe PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Unit in New Delhi of the Agriculture Operations
Division of the India Department, South Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and IE). The Borrower prepared Part II.
In April 1991, the Bank commissioned an Independent Review of the resettlement and
rehabilitation (R&R) and environmental aspects of the project, and in June 1992 the report was
submitted. In July 1992, the Bank mounted a major review mission to determine the status of
project implementation and actions to be taken in the light of the Independent Review report
findings and, on October 23, 1992, the Board indicated that the Bank's continued support of the
project will be subject to the Borrower's meeting a number of benchmarks by March 31, 1993.
The Borrower, in their letter of March 29, 1993 to the Bank and statement to the Board the
following day, requested the cancellation of the balance funds under the Loan and reaffirmed the
continued commitment of the Govemment of India (GOI) and State Govemments to fully meet the
R&R and environmental standards of this important project. The Borrower also indicated that
good progress had been made on the benchmarks and that they were confident these will be met.
The present PCR was initiated in September 1993 after the Borrower had provided the
basic technical and financial data and formally submitted the status of compliance with the
benchmarks on August 5, 1993. The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), legal documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, discussions with the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) engineers, the
Independent Review Report, GOI's compliance with the benchmark documents, intemal Bank
memoranda and reports, and various non-Bank documents.



I



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives
1.    The Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project and the Gujarat Water Delivery and Drainage
Project form part of the Narmada River Development Plan, whose overall objective is to harness
the Narmada River through a series of dams, for irrigation, water supply and energy. The
arrangements for sharing and utilizing water by the four benefitting states (Madhya Pradesh,
Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan) were defined by the Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal
(NWDT) in December 1979. Under this award, Gujarat was allocated 1 1,100 Mm3 representing
about one-third of the 75% dependable usable annual water flow, and was authorized to implement
a project comprising: (i) the Sardar Sarovar Dam, (ii) a 1,200 megawatt (MW) riverbed
powerhouse (RBPH), (iii) a 250 MW canal head powerhouse (CHPH), (iv) a canal system to
irrigate 1.87 M ha in Gujarat and 70,000 ha in Rajasthan, and (v) a water supply system for about
30 millon people in the drought-prone areas of Saurashtra and Kutch. On that basis, Gujarat
prepared the Sardar Sarovar Project in 1980, which was to be implemented in various phases over
a period of about 20 years. Phase I comprised: (i) the Sardar Sarovar Dam, (ii) the RBPH, (iii) the
CHPH, (iv) the first 144 km of the main canal up to the Mahi River, and (v) a network of branch
and distribution canals and drainage system to irrigate about 450,000 ha.
2.    The original components of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project (Cr.1552-IN/Ln.
2497-IN), to be financed within 1 10 months, included: (i) the Sardar Sarovar concrete gravity dam
and its spillway gates, (ii) the underground riverbed powerhouse and selected electro-mechanical
equipment, (iii) the irrigation bypass tunnel, (iv) the Narmada Basin hydro-meteorological
network, (v) a management information system, (vi) training, and (vii) technical assistance. In the
same period, the Borrower's own resources were to finance: (a) the canal head powerhouse and its
five 50 MW turbine generating sets, (b) the Garudeshwar Weir, (c) the Vadgam saddle dam, (d)
the headworks reservoir regulation system, (e) the resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) of about
10,758 project affected families (PAFs), and (f) a monitoring and evaluation system for the R&R
activities. The six 200 MW reversible turbine generating sets were to be financed through a
separate credit arrangement with the Government of Japan. The project did not finance any
environmental components, nor did the Credit/Loan finance any of the R&R activities that became
so critical during project implementation.
3.    The Water Delivery and Drainage Project (Credit 1553-IN) was processed in paallel with
this one and is the subject of a separate Project Completion Report. The two projects were
presented to the Board concurrently on March 7, 1985. The Staff presentation highlighted the
R&R program for the projects. The Directors queried the institutional arrangements for that
program and the relatively undefined state of the environmental studies. Their other concerns
related to the project size, future Narmada Basin development, and being kept informed (during
implementation) about the projects' social and environmental effects. Taken together, these Board
concerns revealed the early exposure of all parties in the Bank to the R&R and environmental
issues, and the attention afforded to them by the EDs. Management agreed and complied to a
specific Board request to keep it informed of the projects' progress on social and environmental
issues through many written responses to questions and a number of briefings of EDs.



iv
Project Design and Organization
4.    Project preparation took four years from identification in 1979 to pre-appraisal in 1983.
The project was prepared by the Narmada Planning Group (NPG) with assistance from the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Bank. Project concept and design closely follows
the NWDT award. NPG conducted supporting studies and analyzed the project's financial and
economic benefits. The Narmada Development Department, in charge of project implementation,
prepared detailed designs and cost estimates for the major project structures.
5.    Appraisal took a lengthy 17 months (March 1983 to August 1984) and several Bank
missions. Negotiations took place in November 1984 and Board Presentation in March 1985.
R&R policies and related institutional, monitoring and evaluation arrangements were described in
the SAR. The Legal Documents included three covenants on health, 16 dealing with R&R, and
three with environment -- including the party states' obligation to implement an R&R plan
satisfactory to the Bank, plus a work plan on the project's environmental effects (see Evaluation
Summary, Attachment 1).
6.   In May 1988, responsibility for project implementation was transferred from the Narmada
Development Department, a government agency, to the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd.
(SSNNL), a parastatal corporation organized along functional lines.
Hydrology
7.    Bank and Borrower reviews deemed the basic hydrological data used for project design to
be satisfactory. The NWDT has set the annual 75% dependable water availability for the project at
28 million acre feet (MAF) (34,580 Mm3) with 65.2% allocated to MP, 32.1% to Gujarat, 1.8% to
Rajasthan, and 0.9% to Maharashtra. With first priority given to water supply, second to irrigation
and third to power generation. Water availability for firm power generation at the riverbed
powerhouse will decline sharply - and could drop to practically nil when MP will use its full water
allocation. However, the riverbed powerhouse will still be able to produce peaking power
generation due to its reversible turbine generators. Revised estimates show that MP is likely to use
only 70% of its allocation by 2024, when the NWDT award will be reviewed. The canalhead
powerhouse will continue to produce 50 MW of power generation throughout the life of the
project.
Project Implementation
8.    GeneraL The Credit became effective in January 1986, nine months after Board approval,
but construction was delayed till July 1987, pending environmental clearance from India's Ministry
of Environment and Forests (MOEF). The project implementation schedule was revised in
December 1989 -- with irrigation and power generation expected to start in July 1995, after dam
construction had reached 112.5 m. The dam, with its spiUlway gates, was then expected to be fully
completed by January 1998. However, the Credit/Loan closed on March 29, 1993, two years and
three months ahead of time, at the Borrower's request.
Civil Engineering
9.    The Sardar Sarovar Dam was to be completed in 110 months (by June 1996), but was
initially slowed by difficulties in importing and commissioning key construction equipment,
especially a 330 m3/hour concrete batching plant and two 1,600 m, 28 ton capacity cable ways.
Procurement, installation and commissioning of this equipment took about 42 mont  rther tn
26 as stipulated in the contract. Thereafter, concrete placement increased considerably, reaching a
peak of 1.0 Mm3 in FY 1990/91. High standards of construction and quality were maintained



v
throughout due to the establishment by SSNNL of an Expert Committee on Cement and Concrete,
the creation of a Quality Control-Quality Assurance organization, and an effective Management
Information System.
10.   The Riverbed Powerhouse (RBPH), the second largest civil works component financed
under the project, was to be completed in 93 months, i.e., by April 1995. Though the construction
of this exceptionally large underground powerhouse had a good start, it suffered delays due to
unexpected physical problems. The first was unstable slopes in the collection pool, followed by the
development of cracks in the machine haLl walls. The latter problem required the assistance of
international consultants provided by the Bank. The completion of the RBPH now depends on
procurement of six 200 MW reversible turbine generating sets that were to be provided by a
Japanese consortium under a credit agreement with Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
(OECF). Though three turbine generating sets were being manufactured in Japan, they could not
be delivered because the Government of Japan withdrew its support for the project in 1991 - citing
deficiencies in R&R. The Borrower has, since then, been actively negotiating an alternative
financing arrangement with the supplier. However, the financing issue is stiWl unresolved and the
date of completion of the RBPH with its turbine generating sets remains uncertain.
11.   Construction has not begun on the Irrigation Bypass Tunnel, which is to supplement the
discharge of the CHPH to provide water to the main canal. Its invert level was originally fixed at
reservoir level 93.6 m, but Bank appraisal and supervision missions recommended lowering it to
reservoir level 86.00 m to optimize Gujarat's diversions, particularly in drought years. The
Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) opposed lowering the invert level to preserve its own
rights over power generation and to prevent Gujarat from using more than its share of water.
Because the invert level has still not been decided, the designs for this key project component
cannot be finalized. This structure will require a minimum of three years to complete, and any
further delay will cause serious construction problems.
12.   The Narmada Basin hydro-meteorological (hydromet) network for flood forecasting and
reservoir operation is another important project component to be financed under the Credit/Loan,
but which has not yet been implemented. In 1988, international experts recommended meteor-
burst -- a system not previously used in India -- as a viable dedicated telecommunication system.
This new technology was endorsed by the Telecom Commission, GOI, and a two-stage bidding
procedure was initiated in 1991 to procure the required equipment. However, just as price bids
were being sought, the National Informatics Center, GOI, operator of a nationwide satellite
telecommunication system, declared that its system would be cheaper and more reliable under
Indian conditions. As a result, the bidding process was halted and the Bank agreed to change the
specifications so that satellite telecommunications could compete with meteor-burst
13.   The SSNNL established an efficient Management Information System to monitor the
progress of civil works, and prepared an Oetion and Maintenance manual satisfactory to the
Bank.
14. The Canal Head Powerhouse though not financed under the CreditJLoan, made good
progress and its first 50 MW conventional T/G set will be ready for commissioning by August
1995. However, the construction of the Garudeshwar We had not been initiated at the time of the
PCR.
Environment and R&R - Background
15.   Board approval was granted in 1985, in the absence of formal forest clearance from the
MOEF. Forest clearance and an environmental conditional clearance were issued in 1987. As
discussed in Annexes 1 and 2, the Bank's dialogue with GOI/States on environmental and R&R
issues which started as early as 1985 and continuing through credit closure, including a major



vi
R&R mission in 1989, resulted in substantial strides being achieved on these two fronts. The
project's R&R and environmental aspects had come under heavy criticism from national and
international entities, including non-governmental agencies (NGOs). In response, in September
1991 the Bank commissioned an Independent Review. The resulting report (June 1992) questioned
both the project's economic viability and the Bank's ability to follow its guidelines. It highlighted
potential environmental problems relating to sedimentation, back water effects and downstream
impacts, and drew attention to specific R&R inadequacies.
16.   Id deReview. In June 1992, the Independent Review report criticized the Bank, the
three party-states, and the Central Government for poor implementation of the R&R program. The
report offered three main criticisms of the Bank:
a.    despite the existence of explicit operational guidelines with respect to involuntary
resettlement and tribal people, the Bank failed to insist on proper preparation of
R&R plans by the Borrower and, accordingly, failed to appraise adequately the
resettlement components of the Sardar Sarovar Project (SSP);
b.   the appraisal team and the legal documents did not address adequately the special
needs of tribal people affected by the project, because they were mostly encroachers
on government land and therefore legally treated as landless; and
c.    during the last few years of project implementation, Bank efforts to compensate for
the lack of an adequate appraisal have helped to bring about some improvements,
particularly in Gujarat; however this "incremental approach" failed to achieve all the
changes needed, particularly in Madhya Pradesh (MP).
17.   On the Borrower's side, the principal criticisms related to:
a.   the lack of sufficient baseline data gathered on the affected population, which made
it impossible to prepare effective resettlement plans;
b.   the lack of consultation with the affected population, and failure to inform them of
their resettlement options and rehabilitation packages;
c.   the lack of compliance with the provisions of the NWDT and the Bank's legal
agreements; and
d.   institutional weaknesses, poor implementation particularly in MP, and inadequate
linkage between dam construction and R&R implementation.
18.   The Independent Review report also gave a detailed description of R&R implementation in
the three states and drew attention to specific issues. In its concluding remarks, the report
indicated that R&R could not be implemented as planned and recommended that the Bank "step
back" from the project to re-evaluate the situation and institute improvements.
19.   Management Response to the Independent Review. The Bank's Management, in its
response of June 23, 1992, generally agreed with the description of R&R experience in the states,
and also agreed that: (i) adequate R&R plans had not been prepared by the Borrower for appraisal
by the Bank, (ii) while the development of the resettlement policy in Gujarat was indeed an
achievement, R&R policy in the other two states - Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh - needed
urgent improvement, and (iii) implementation needed to be further strengthened in all three states.
The Management Response explained that the Bank's supervision strategy had focused on
obtaining incremental progress through: (a) improvements in resettlement policy, planning and
implementation in Gujarat, (b) efforts to replicate Gujarat's R&R policy and standards in the other



vii
two states, and (c) concentrating its supervision efforts on MP during the remaining years up to
1994, when R&R will commence in that state (see Evaluation Summary, Attachment 3 for a
selected list of some of the key steps in the incremental approach followed). Nevertheless,
Management concluded that the incremental approach did not yield the results expected and was too
slow in the light of the time before submergence. It supported a new approach embodied in a
monitorable action plan which became the benchmarks subsequently approved by the Board.
Finally, the Bank believed that the establishment of these measurable benchmarks for addressing
the situation was preferable to stepping back, as recommended by the Independent Review. In
retrospect, the incremental approach proved to be a necessary process toward the Borrower's
adoption of the changes in R&R policies and implementation that were so strongly advocated by
the Independent Review and the Board but was not a sufficient step to achieve the desired result
soon enough. Stronger actions to enforce the Bank guidelines would have been warranted in the
earlier stages of project implementation.
20.   At the time of setting of the benchmarks the Bank secured the Borrower's assurance that a
comprehensive environmental action plan would be prepared, and that GOI would promptly correct
the weaknesses in its R&R program. In October 1992 the Board agreed to continue support for the
project, subject to Borrower's compliance by March 31, 1993 with performance benchmarks
related to environmental and R&R issues. On March 29, 1993, however, the Borrower requested
cancellation of the outstanding Loan amount of US$ 181.5 million - while reiterating at the same
time its commitment to meeting the benchmarks and agreed standards for R&R and environmental
implementation.
Environment
21.   After the Independent Review, the Borrower made concerted efforts on a number of
environmental fronts. Compensatory afforestation has progressed well and is expected to be
completed prior to submergence. Catchment area treatment is underway and, for selected priority
areas, should be completed on time. Plans for preserving cultural sites and protecting wildlife are
in various stages of implementation.
22.   The Consultants recruited to assist the Borrower in meeting the benchmarks believe the
remaining environmental matters cited by the Independent Review do not pose serious threats to
either the environment or local residents, except in the estuary downstream of the dam where some
fishing communities may need R&R and water may need to be released for environmental control
at a later stage.
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
23.   The Borrower now estimates that the Sardar Sarovar Dam will affect about 41,014
families/131,245 persons in 245 villages (compared with SAR estimates of 10,758 families/67,340
persons). However, about 20,000 families (of which 45% major sons) will lose only houses
and/or no land and would therefore be able to remain within or close to the village area beside the
reservoir. The balance would be resettled mostly in Gujarat in the command area of SSP. The new
figures count adult sons as separate families, and also reflect population growth and better surveys.
About 82% of all project-affected families (PAFs) are in MP, 11 % in Gujarat, and about 7% in
Maharashtra. Of these PAF, 97% are tribal people in Gujarat, 100% in Maharashtra, and 29% in
MP mostly living at subsistence levels. The project's impact on tribals in all thiree states as well as
the Nimad Plains of Madhya Pradesh are discussed in detail in Annex 2 Section V. About 23%
PAFs in Gujarat and up to 47% in MP are estimated to be landless.
24.   Because this was the first time that such high standards of R&R had been applied to a
project in India, all concerned underestimated the complexity and time required to resettle and
rehabilitate over 100,000 people. Ultimately, however, due to the efforts by the Bank and also the



viii
role played by State Governments, Government of India, project authorities, independent M&E
agencies, NGOs and the Independent Review, this project has been the source of many
improvements in R&R. With respect to R&R policies, the principle of land-for-land was applied
on a large scale, adult sons (and daughters in Maharashtra) were recognized as separate families,
tribal people on government forest lands were treated as landed families, and additional assistance
was provided for subsistence and housing construction. On the implementation side, Gujarat
developed a unique mechanism for acquiring replacement agricultural land at market price through
Land Purchase Committees. State R&R units were established, as well as a central project
coordinating unit and monitoring mechanism. In MP, progress was made with the help of
technical assistance and a computerized management system for R&R.
25.   The R&R component had to face a number of difficulties in part due to the Bank's failure to
follow its own guidelines at appraisal such as the lack of early consultation with oustees and the
preparation of detailed R&R plans by the states or to other reasons which became known only
during project implementation. However, the lack of consultation is probably one of the major
reasons for problems encountered in carrying out socio-economic surveys, preparing satisfactory
R&R policies and plans and implementing them in a timely manner. Some other difficulties
encountered were: (i) estimating the precise number of PAFs through house-to-house socio-
economic surveys; (ii) applying the principle of land-for-land where land markets are limited, and
without creating secondary displacement; (iii) linking dam construction with R&R without
incurring huge costs through construction delays, and defining when R&R has been completed;
(iv) predicting permanent and temporary submergence levels years in advance, in areas with highly
variable rainfall; (v) deciding the size and location of resettlement centers; and (vi) integrating
resettlement centers into host communities. Most of these issues were resolved satisfactorily
except for the survey of oustees of some villages of the Akrani Taluka in Maharashtra whose
resolution continues to be hampered by dam opponents. In particular, Land Purchase Committees
were established in Gujarat, a Submergence Schedule for the 1 in a 100-year flood was prepared
by the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) on the basis of the revised construction schedule of
December 1989, approved by the Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee a certification
process was established to link dam construction with R&R implementation, resettlement site
selection and development was improved, and steps were taken to integrate resettlement centers
into host communities with assistance of NGOs.
26.   A long learning process led to what can now be considered a reasonably well-structured
program. Although implementation still exhibits weakness and further improvements will be
required in the selection and construction of resettlement sites, the acquisition of replacement land,
and overall program management, the SSP R&R program has set new policy and implementation
standards which can be applied in future resettlement programs. There remain concerns about the
extent of land options being offered for Madhya Pradesh oustees who wish to remain in Madhya
Pradesh rather than take the Gujarat package.
27.   The Board's performance benchmarks on R&R required the Borrower to: (i) assess the
number of PAFs and analysis of tribal people affected, (ii) prepare comprehensive R&R plans in
each state, (iii) strengthen institutional arrangements and the role of NGOs, and (iv) acquire land in
Maharashtra and MP. The Board agreed to continue its support for the project subject to Borrower
compliance with the benchmarks by March 31, 1993. Based on documentation submitted by GOI
in August 1993, the Borrower appears to have met a substantial part of the benchmarks. The
benchmarks still to fully met are: (i) the completion of socio-economic surveys in Maharashtra, (ii)
the acquisition of 2,000 ha of land in MP (about 1,892 ha have been identified but not acquired),
and (iii) an inter-state agreement on the sharing of R&R cost. In addition, the R&R plan for
Maharashtra is still based on a provisional number of oustees, and that of MP requires
improvements with regard to the total number of oustees and those willing to resettle in Gujarat



ix
Project Achievements
28.   Physical Achievements. The Credit/Loan closed 27 months ahead of schedule, on March
29, 1993. By then, the Sardar Sarovar Dam was about 50% complete and the riverbed
powerhouse about 55% complete, but construction had still not begun on the irrigation bypass
tunnel. The Narmada Basin hydro-meteorological network was to be retendered so the national
satellite communication system could compete with the meteor-burst system. Satisfactory
operation and maintenance (O&M) manuals had been prepared and an efficient computerized
management information system was in place. As for project components not eligible for Bank
financing, good progress had been made on the canal head powerhouse and the main canal head-
works. However, financing had not been secured for the turbine generating sets for the RBPH,
and construction of the Garudeshwar Weir had not yet begun. According to the Revised
Implementation Schedule of December 1989, irrigation and power generation could start in
monsoon of 1995. However, this date is likely to slip for the RBPH due to slow R&R
implementation in Maharashtra and MP, and delays in financing the turbine generating sets.
29.   Notwithstanding some shortfalls in SAR targets, the project set excellent engineering,
construction, and management standards by introducing many innovative features. Highlights
include the use of a modern concrete plant and two high capacity cable ways, the development and
implementation of a comprehensive computerized management information system (MIS), and
SSNNL's establishment of a Dam Safety Panel and an Expert Committee on Cement and Concrete.
30.   FinancialResults. At appraisal, the cost of the entire Sardar Sarovar Project, including
physical and price contingencies, was estimated at Rs. 136,407.0 M (US$ 11,367.2 M) at 1985
price levels, while the estimated cost approved by the Planning Commission, GOI in October
1988, was Rs. 64,060.4 M, at FY 1986-87 price levels. During project implementation, the total
cost of SSP was re-estimated at Rs. 145,985.1 million in 1992 prices, i.e., a 128% increase over
the cost approved by the Planning Commission, but only 7% above the appraisal estimate. In US
Dollar terms, the revised cost of SSP is estimated at US$ 5,576.5 million in 1992 prices,
compared to the appraisal cost of US$ 11,367.2 million. The reduction in cost is due to the large
devaluation of the Rupee against the US Dollar, which fell from Rs. 12 at appraisal to about Rs. 26
in 1992.
31.   The IDA Credit of SDR 99.7 M (US$ 100.0 M) and the IBRD Loan (2497-IN) of US$
200 M (equivalent to a total Credit/Loan amount of US$ 300 M) were signed on May 10, 1985.
Bank Group financing amounted to about 18% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. No
co-financing arrangements were made but it was expected that the six turbine generating sets of the
RBPH would be financed through a separate credit arrangement with the Government of Japan.
32.   Disbursements started two years late in 1987 after the project had obtained enviromnental
clearance from GOL Thereafter, disbursements continued to be slow for another two years but
picked up momentum in 1990 when the concreting plant and cable ways became operational. The
Credit was fully disbursed in September 1992. Only US$ 18.49 M (9%) of the Loan had been
disbursed when the Borrower decided to terminate the Loan. Thus, only US$ 151.79 M (51%)
had been disbursed against the total Credit/Loan amount of US$ 300 M, by the date the Loan was
canceled.
Revised Economic Analysis
33.   The economic analysis was revised in 1990 and updated again in 1993 for this PCR. Like
the SAR, it covers the project's irrigation, power and D,M&I components. It reflects changes in
quantities, prices and phasing since 1984 and pays particular attention to environmental costs and
benefits (such as estuary changes, fisheries costs and benefits, fuelwood, and wildlife) which
might have been underestimated or omitted in the original analysis. The revised analysis has an



x
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 12% -- slightly lower than the 13% in the original SAR, but
within the acceptable range for a project of this type. The scale of benefits is large, relative to any
feasible alternatives, with substantial multiplier effects as well. Had the SSP project been
conceived as a power project alone, the ERR would have been 14%. The command area, taken
alone, exhibits a somewhat lower ERR. If expenditure to date is treated as a sunk cost, the ERR is
17%. The ERR estimate of 12% incorporates a five-year delay in the Narmada Sagar Dam's
coming on stream.
Sustainability
34.   The Dam and Power Project has adhered to high construction standards. If the Nigam can
maintain present levels of quality control/quality assurance, the project should attain the 100-year-
plus life expectancy for such projects. However, ultimate sustainability depends upon adequacy of
O&M. Though India's track record in this area is not good, the exceptional nature of this project
and the standard of excellence developed by SSNNL may be able to chart new directions for
O&M.
35.   The preparation and implementation of the Narmada Basin Environmental Management
Plan are crucial for the long-term sustainability of the project. As part of this plan, the impact of
the dam on the downstream communities, fisheries and Bay of Khambat are to be further
investigated. Though the Borrower has so far rejected the option of releasing a minimum flow of
water in the lower Narmada, the PCR feels strongly that this option should be thoroughly studied
and possibly considered prior to the revision of the NWDT award in 2024. Unless this is done,
the environmental sustainability in the Gulf of Khambat, immediately downstream of the dam, can
not be guaranteed.
The Bank's and the Borrower's Performance
36.   Overall, both Bank and Borrower performance were excellent in the field of engineering,
but mixed or poor in the R&R, enviromnental and health fields at the preparation and in the early
stages of implementation. The Bank responded to emerging problems by appointing an
Independent Review. Though its findings and recommendations were not fullv accepted by either
the Bank or the Borrower, the Independent Review Report had beneficial effects on their respective
efforts, and they each acknowledged and addressed a number of shortcomings cited in the Report.
The Bank improved its policy on disclosure of information while the Borrower improved to a large
extent its policies and performance on R&R and environment. However, there remains some
inadequacies in R&R planning and implementation particularly in MP. The Bank could have taken
a stronger stand in the earlier stages of project implementation to enforce conditionalities in these
two fields.
Lessons Learned
A. General Lssons
37.   The fij lesson is the need to ensure that all Government clearances have been obtained
before negotiations are finalized, particularly in a sensitive area such as environment. The project
had not been cleared by the Planning Commission nor by the Ministry of Environment and Forsts
at the time of Board approval (see Evaluation Summary, Attachment 2). As a result, the lack of
clearance led to at lase a two-year delay in project implementation. .
38.   The scnd lesson is the need for the Bank to apply more rigorously its guidelines on
environment and R&R during the preparation, appraisal and supervision stages. One of the major
criticisms that emerged from the Independent Review was that the project had been approved
without a proper Environmental Impact Assessment of the dam and power complex, and also



xi
without adequate policies and plans for the R&R of project-affected persons. Bank policies on the
environment and R&R were still relatively new at the time of project formulation and appraisal and
much less stringent than current requirements with respect to operational requirements. Clearly,
the Bank's performance was wanting in terms of quality at appraisal of the R&R and
environmental plans. The Bank should have taken a stronger stand in the application of its
guidelines during the early stages of project implementation. Legal covenants on R&R and
environment should be strong and specific and the Bank must also be willing to enforce rigorously
its conditionalities, which it failed to do early enoughunder the projecL
39.   The third lesson concerns the need to be cautious when financing a large multi-purpose
project with a development period exceeding 10 to 15 years. In view of the difficulties in predicting
performance of such projects, it would be wise for the appraisal mission to select smaller, self-
contained portions of the overall program, such as the dam and power complex, or at least to
recommend, as is the Bank's current practice, a thorough mid-term review at an appropriate point
to enable updating of data on the basis of actual performance and to enable required adjustments to
be made. It is difficult to predict the final outcome of a project so far in advance. In the case of
SSP, the Bank was over-confident throughout project design and implementation that this project
would be implemented as planned. However, this outcome was--and remains-uncertain: (i) there
are always unforseen delays due to technical and financial constraints, (ii) R&R and environmental
issues have and will continue to hamper project implementation, (iii) there is still uncertainty about
adequate funding for the Narmada Sagar Dam in MP and its pace of implementation, the final size
of the command and the important role that the domestic, municipal and industrial component is
likely to play in the future.
B. Lessons on Restlement an Rehablitadon
40.   The fjfj lesson concerns the need to ensure the quality of the R&R process at project
outset. The R&R component could have been improved early on through prior consultations with
PAFs to gain a better understanding of land acquisition issues, transaction costs and the special
needs of tribal people. The R&R training program should have been developed with more input
from NGOs which had local knowledge of the PAFs. Additionally, a detailed review of the R&R
process itself in the project's early stages would have improved performance.
41.   The secon lesson relates the need to empower the Borrower and executing agencies to take
greater ownership for implementation of the R&R process. The Bank should have confirmed that
the Borrower and executing states would assume greater ownership of the R&R implementation
process. In the case of the SSP, this would have required GOI to supervise the execution of R&R
policies while the Bank played an "arms-length" role, simply holding the Borrower to the terms of
legal agreements. The SSP operated in a particularly difficult context, however, because GOI
entered into financial agreements with the Bank, while the states actually executed the R&R
policies. The alternative of establishing a common authority which in turn would have taken
charge of all operational issues as regards R&R was not considered under the NWDT award and
was not possible under the Indian Constitution.
42.   The thiX lesson is with regard to the need for the Bank to develop better communication
and decision-making policies for R&R. There were major political difficulties to be faced in
achieving R&R objectives across three states. Facilitating communications among the states
should have been set as an early priority; decision-making should have been made more explicit
and timely. In addition, alternative views should have been both recognized and encouraged. A
qualified sociologistlanthropologist should have been hired to handle R&R issues for the Bank.
The SSP lacked this needed expertise and authority at the early stages of appraisal and supervision.
43.   The fourth lesson concerns the importance of maintaining strong ties with NGOs.
Through the development of the R&R policy for the SSP, the Bank recognized the important
contribution that NGOs could make towards devising a more acceptable policy. During the early
years of project implementation in Gujarat, NGOs played an increasingly useful role. NGO
complaints should have been responded to by the Borrower rather than the Bank.



xii
44.   The fifh lesson concerns the need to go through a lengthy and sometime complex learning
period. In the case of SSP, neither the Bank nor the Borrower had anticipated the complexity and
magnitude of issues that emerged during implementation. Even if the R&R component had been
prepared to the standards prevailing at the time of appraisal, it is likely that further adjustments
would have been required during implementation. NGOs played an important role in drawing the
attention of the Borrower and the Bank to the inadequacies of implementation, and particularly to
the importance of assuring equitable treatment for all categories of oustees, whether they be landed,
landless or tribal. The legal covenants must therefore be flexible enough to accommodate any
improvements to the policies and plans.
45.   Finally, the hi1h and last lesson relates to the means and procedures required for
satisfactory R&R implementation. This project has been the source of many improvements in R&R
policies and implementation, which are now being put into practice in other projects. With respect
to R&R policies, the principle of land-for-land was implemented on a large scale, adult sons were
recognized as separate families, tribal people living in government forest lands were considered as
landed families, and the need for additional assistance for subsistence and house construction was
recognized. On the implementation side, Gujarat developed a unique mechanism for acquiring
replacement agricultural land, at market prices through Land Purchase Committees. Well-
developed R&R units with central monitoring cells were established. Specific lessons on means
and procedures required for satisfactory R&R implementation are given in Part I, paras. 16.11 to
16.16
46. In summary, all future projects with major R&R aspects should conform to the upgraded
standards that ensure: (i) baseline studies are adequately completed, (ii) specific project policies are
agmred upon, (iii) institutional arrangements have been made for project implementation, and (iv)
proper monitoring and evaluation arrangements through independent agencies have been made.
Such projects should have a separate R&R component financed under the Credit/Loan. Precise
legal covenants should be agreed and enforced. The Bank should use highly qualified R&R
specialists to supervise implementation and provide recommendation to implementing agencies.
Current Bank guidelines require such rigor.
C.  Lenn imel
47.   While there is increasing evidence that many of the possible negative environmental impacts
have been exaggerated by critics and a number of secondary environmental benefits ignored, there
are still several important lessons.
48.   The AM lesson is that the Bank should not approve a project, particularly one that involves
a large dam, without a proper Environmental Impact Assessment and management plan. Strict
adherence to the Bank's Operational Directive No. 4.01 on Environmental Assessment should now
ensure that environmental issues are addressed more thoroughly and at a much earlier stage.
49.   The second lesson is that no project should be approved until a formal environmental
clearance is obtained from the Borrower.
50.   The thiEd lesson is that, in the case of a project with a large environmental impact, a
mitigatory environmental component should be made an integral part of the project supported by
strong legal covenants.
51.   The fourth lesson relates to the need for the Bank to use highly qualified environmental
specialists to supervise the environmental component and, as needed, to provide guidance to the
Borrower in the resolution of special environmental issues.
52. The fifth lesson is that ample use should be made of remote sensing and computer
modeling technologies for assessing environmental impacts of large projects such as SSP.



xiii                     Attachment I
Page 1 of S
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR
DAM AND POWER PROJECTI
Relevant Bank Guidelines and Project-Specific Covenants on Environment and
R&R
Guideline/Covenant                           CompliancelStatus
OMS 2.33 (Involuntary Resettlement) February 1980
At project identification, magnitude of    The Bank received a copy of the Sardar
resettlement efforts needed and population  Sarovar Project R&R Program Supplementary
affected should be identified. Affected groups    Report dated October 1984 prepared by the
and host communities should be consulted. A  NCA. This report contained a detailed plan
resettlement policy and a development strategy    for Stage I (up to June 30, 1987) covering 52
should be formulated based on the principle that   out of 224 villages. At negotiations, this
affected persons should recover a living standard  report and plan were found acceptable, with
at least equal to that enjoyed before resettlement.  clarifications given in the Agreed Minutes of
Preparation of resettlement plans and component  November 21, 1984. In retrospect, the R&R
should keep pace with other preparation efforns.   plans approved did not conform with OMS
Appraisal should ascertain whether resettlement   2.33: (i) consultation, if any, was minimal; (ii)
plans are adequate and feasible, including  state R&R policies were not provided; and (iii)
organizational and legal framework. At      total number of affected villages was not
negotiations, a workable plan must be agreed,    covered. However, after some delay,
including borrower's obligation to implement    consultation, policies and state R&R plans
During implementation, Bank missions should    have improved to a large extent particularly in
pay careful attention to sociological and technical  GujaraL Maharashtra's policy is satisfactory
aspects of resettlement.                    but plan is still partial and implementation
hampered by activists. Mls policy is, in
general, satisfactory except for cash
compensation to landless families. Quality of
plan remains uncertain and implementation is
sluggish.
I     Tbough the title of the project mentions only Gujarat, Attachments 1, 2, and 3 Also Apply tD
Maharshtra and Madhys Pradesh.



xiv                       Atahment I
Page 2 of 5
OMS 2.34 (Tribal Peoples) February 1982
During project identification, the approximate  Project implementation was preceded by a
numbers, location and degree of acculturation of  number of baseline anthropological studies of
tribal people in project area should be ascertained  tribal populations in Gujarat. These studies
and the status of demarcation of tribal lands and   described the situation before resettlement but
their enforcement should be outlined. Pre-  did not propose any well defined resettlement
feasibility and/or anthropological studies should   policies or plans. No such studies had been
be prepared and include consultative procedures   prepared in the other two states . In
to ensure the participation of the affected people.  retrospect, the project did not conform with
The Tribal component should be designed before  OMS 2.33 as it did not contain any tribal
or during project preparation and include  component per se, nor any tribal-specific
adequate health safeguards as well as the  Loan/Credit conditionality. While states'
strengthening of relevant government agencies.   R&R policies did not initially contain special
Project appraisal should assess the adequacy and  provision for tribal populations, this was
appropriateness of tribal component, the need for  rectified in later revisions mostly through the
legislation and capability of designated agency to  recognition of landless and encroachers.
implement component. During implementation    Training programs for tribal populations and
and supervision, information about tribal  their implementation have remained weak
component should be updated. Specialists should  throughout project implementation.
be included as necessary. Investment Agency
should monitor progress.
OMS 2.36 (Environment) May 1984
Projects with unavoidable adverse effects on the   During project identification and preparation,
environment should contain a compensatory  Guidelines were being formulated and in early
component adequate to mitigate these effects. At  stages of implementation. However, some
identification a review detenrines what   studies on adverse effects and mitigating
investigations are needed to ensure prevention or  measures were prepared by the Borrower but
mitigation of serious adverse effects. During  did not contain the type of detail and
preparation the Borrower carries out necessary    assessment necessary for a project of this
environmental inquiries and outlines the  magnitude. The SAR contained a brief
measures needed to avoid or mitigate serious  description of the impacts and the legal
environmental risks. At appraisal, Bank staff    documents required that an Environmental
assess environmental findings and evaluates the   Work Plan be prepared by December 31,
future magnitude and timing of adverse effects.   1985. Project was approved by Bank's Board
The SAR describes the environmental measures   without the required forest and planning
provided in the project's design. At negotiations  clearances within India. In retrospect, OMS
the Bank and Borrower discuss environmental    2.36 was not followed and the Environmental
requirements and loan agreements may contain    Work Plan poorly defined. Ultimately the
covenants or other provisions concerned with  Work Plan was submitted on August 5, 1993
environment.                              after the closure of the Loan/Credit as part of
the Borrower' compliance with the Bank's
benchmarks.
IDA Credit DCA
The Borrower to take all such actions as   Partial compliance. Availability of forest
necessary, including the provision of forest  land for resettlement proved contentious.
land for enabling Gujarat, MP and Maharashtra    Forest lands were released in Maharashtra
to implement the project within their state  with great difficulty. Gujarat has purchased
boundaries including R&R programs (Article  private agricultural land at market prices
3, Section 3.02).                          through Land Purchase Committees. MP has
identified but not yet purchased agricultural
land.



xv                         Auabhment1
Page 3 of S
By September 30, 1985, the Borrower shall  Partial compliance. NCA hired a local firm to
employ or cause to be employed and thereafter    oversee M&E of R&R activities within thre
assign to NCA a qualified social scientist to  states, and the states did the same at a later
assist in carrying out the R&R M&E of the  date to monitor and evaluate their own
project (Article 3, Section 3.04).         activities with the assistance of Social
Scientists.
The Borrower to funish to IDA semi-annual   Full compliance. NCA is submitting
and annual reports of R&R of oustees in     regularly R&R Quarterly Progress reports to
Gujarat, Maharashtra and MP through         the BankL Quality of reports needs further
June 1, 1995 (Article 3, Section 3.05).    improvements.
DCA  Conditions of Effectiveness
Gujarat to take all necessary governmental action   Full compliance. GOG Resolution (November
required for adopting and implementing its R&R   1985) accepted as fulfilling condition of
plan (Article 5, Section 5.02(d)).         effectiveness.
Madhya Pradesh to take all necessary       Paal conpliance. GOI clarified that existing
governmental action required for adopting and    legislation would allow Madhya Pradesh to
implementing its R&R plan (Article 5,      comply with agreements reached at negotia-
Section 5.02(e)).                         tion. No separate work plan submitted as
evidence of compliance.
Maharashtra to take all necessary governmental   Partial compliance GOI clarified that existing
action required for adopting and implementing its  legislation would allow Maharashtra to comply
R&R plan (Article 5, Section 5.02(f)).     with agreements reached at negotiation. No
separate work plan submitted as evidence of
compliance.
GUlJarat Project Agreement
GOG to provide NCA facilities and resources to   Full compliance. In fact, NCA was
enable it to assist the Borrower in carrying out    established at Indore (MP).
M&E of R&R (Article 2, Section 2.01(c)).
GOG to implement a satisfactory R&R plan for   Partial compliance. Though Gujarat has a
oustees to include the principles and objectives    good policy, has involved NGOs and has
set out in Schedule 3 of the DCA (Article 2,  continued to give good performance in
Section 2.10).                             resettlement of PAFs, plans for resettlement of
MP oustees are not final.
By December 31, 1985, GOG to furnish a work   Partial compliance. Deadline for compliance
plan for environmental effects derived from  amended to December 31, 1989, and thereafter
implementing project (Article 2, Section  lapsed. A number of studies were prepared.
2.11 (a(i))).                              Compensatory afforestation and catchment
area plans were initiated. Enviromnental work
plan was submitted by NCA on August 5,
1993 as part of benchmarks fixed by the
Board including: (a) a prioritized
environmental overview of SSP; (b) TORs for
preparation of a Nanmada Basin
Environmental Management Plan; and (c) a
malaria control program at the SSP site.



xvi                       AttachmentI
Page 4 of 5
By December 31, 1985, GOG to develop a
training program on R&R of oustees for staff
of Gujarat, MP and Maharashtra (Article 2,
Section 2.1 1(a(iii))).
Partial compliance. Deadline for compliance
amended to December 31, 1989, and thereafter
lapsed. Some training programs have been
caried out, but more needs to be planned and
implemented
GOG to implement an agreed work plan and   Partial compliance. Some training programs
training programs in collaboration with MP and    have been carried out, but more needs to be
Maharashtra (Article 2, Section 2.11(b)).  planned and implemented.
GOG to take measures to minimize the risk of    Parial compliance. Work plan for control of
malaria, filaria, schistosomiasis and other water-  malaria and other diseases finalized. Malaria
related diseases (Article 2, Section 2.17).  control program has been initiated in areas
impacted by the project but staffing and
funding remains inadequate
Msharbahtra Project Agreement
GOM to implement within its state boundaries a   Patial Compliance. Plan submitted late and is
satisfactory R&R plan for oustees to include the   still incomplete. Severe implementation
principles and objectives set out in Schedule 3 of  problems persist in about half of the 33
the DCA (Article 2, Section 2.07).        affected villages due pardy to inadequate R&R
consultation and grievance procedures.
By December 31, 1985, GOM to furnish a work  Partial compliance. Deadline for compliance
plan for the environmental effects derived from    amended to December 31, 1989, and thereafter
implementing project (Article 2,         lapsed. A number of studies were prepared.
Section 2.08(a(i))).                      Compensatory afforestation and catchment
area plans were prepared and implementation
initiated Environmental work plan was
submitted by NCA on August 5, 1993 as part
of benchmarks fixed by the Board.
By December 31, 1985, GOM with Gujarat and   Partial compliance. Deadline for compliance
MP to furnish a suitable training program on  amended to December 31, 1989, and thereafter
R&R of oustees (Article 2, Section 2.08(a(iii))).  lapsed. Some training programs conducted,
but more need to be planned and implemented.
GOM to take measures to minimize the risk of    Partial compliance. GOM has finalized plans
malaria, filaria, schistosomiasis and other water-  to strengthen state and distnct health facilities
related diseases (Article 2, Section 2.14).  in villages and resettlement areas through
additional public health units, mobile units and
a floating dispensary as well as for villages
within 10 km of the submergence zone, but
adequate staffing and funding remain an issue.



xvii                      Attachmnt
Page S of S
Madhya Pradesh Projeet Agreement
GOMP to implement within its state boundaries   Partial compliance. R&R plan revised in 1993
an R&R plan for oustees to include the principles  but are based on partial land acquisition
and objectives set out in Schedule 3 of the DCA    records and are unclear regarding the number
(Article 2, Section 2.07).                 of oustees wanting to move to Gujarat R&R
policy has improved, but questions remain
about cash compensation for landless arnd
adult sons. Implementation remains sluggish
in spite of some progress on streamlining
grievance and appeals processes, as well as
staffing and consultation with project-affected
people. Land purchase remains inadequate.
By December 31, 1985, GOMP to furnish a     Partial compliance. Deadline for compliance
work plan for the environmental effects derived    amended to December 31, 1989, and
from implementing project (Article 2,       thereafter lapsed. Work plans on
Section 2.08(a(i))).                       compensatory afforestation and catchment
treatment formulated, and implementation
underway. Studies and action plans on flora
and fauna made. Environmental and health
management plans have been prepared.
Environmental work plan was submitted by
NCA on August 5, 1993 as part of
benchmarks fixed by the Board.
By December 31, 1985, GOMP with Gujarat     Partial compliance. Deadline for compliance
and Maharashtra to furnish a suitable training  amended to December 31, 1989, and
programn on R&R of oustees (Article 2, Section    thereafter lapsed. Some training programs
2.08(a(iii))).                             conducted, but more need to be planned and
implemented
GOMP to take measures to minimize the risk of    Not yet due. Detailed work plan to be
malaria, filaria, schistosomiasis and other  prepared to address impacts of project
water-related diseases (Article 2, Section  through strengthening of health facilities,
2.14).                                      establishment of monitoring cell and creation
of additional facilities by 1994/95 when
submergence in MP commences.



xviii                      AtahrnKt 
Page I of 2
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR
DAM AND POWER PROJECT
Key GOIVState Environment- and R&R-Related Decisions
December 1979             Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal final award.
1983                      Project referred to Department of Environment for clearance.
July 1985                 Legal Opinion issued by GOI Solicitor-General that project legal
documents are consistent with Indian law.
March 1985                World Bank Board approval of project.
1985                      GOG extends the NWDT policy decisions of 1979 to include
oustees from Gujarat.
UP Project Displaced Persons (Resettlement) Act.
Ministry of Environment and Forests established and charged,
:er-alia, with clearance of selected development projects
1986                      GOI passes Environmental (Protection) Act.
1987                      Secretary (MOEF) included in the NCA to head the Environmental
Sub-Group and the Minister (MOEF) in the Review Committee of
NCA.
September 1987            MOEF clearance for submergence of 13,000 ha of forest land for
the Sardar Sarovar Dam, subject to conditions.
December 1987             GOG expanded its R&R policy to include both encroachers and
landless within the definition of project-affected persons.
late-1987                 GOG extends its R&R policy to include major sons of both landless
and landed as project-affected persons.
October 1988              GOI Planning Commission gives formal endorsement for project
subject to conditions.
1989                      NW revises R&R policy, maling it consistent with NWDT
decisions.
Gujarat Land Purchase Committee established to assist with land
purchases and valuation process.
NCA Chairman inforned by MOEF hat failure to submit
Environmental Action Plans by end-November 1989 would invoke
action under the Environment (Protection) Act of 1986.



xix                ~~~~~~Page 2 of 2
June 1989                 GOM adopts its first R&R policy related to inter-state projects as a
government resolution.
December 1989             SSCAC approves the Revised Implementation Schedule (RIS
12/89) with linkage to submergence and envisaging partial irrigation
and power benefits by August 1995 and completion of SSP dam
with full submergence by January 1998.
July 1990                 With Prime Ministerial intervention, MOEF gives final clearance for
Maharashtra to take 2,700 ha of forest land at Taloda for
resettlement
March 1991                On basis of RIS 12/89 NCA issues a submergence schedule ("The
Blue Book") to assist the phasing of dam construction with R&R.
September 1991           The Supreme Court of India in a public interest petition has directed
the R&R Sub-Group of NCA to monitor, inspect and submit
reports on R&R implementation in the three implementing states.
January 1992              MP produces an R&R action plan updated in December 1993.
February 1992            GOM amends R&R Government Resolution giving major sons of
landed oustees a claim to land.
September 1992           GOI assures the Bank that it would address with urgency the
concems raised by the Independent Review and the recent Bank
review mission and that management and organizational
weaknesses in its R&R program would be addressed.
December 1992             GOM releases a revised R&R plan including provisions for tribals
March 1993                GOI decides to cancel the balance of Ln. 2497-IN for the project,
but reaffirms its commitment to sound environmental and R&R
practices.
August 1993               NCA complies by letter with the Board's benchmarks with key
environmental reports attached; shortly therafter NCA requests
until December 31, 1994 to complete the command area
Environmental Impact Assessment to incorporate the results of
ongoing studies.
January 1994              GOI reaffirms to synchronize construction with R&R of affected
persons.
February 1994             MOEF gives Maharashtra the final environmental clearance to take
an additional 1,500 ha of forest land adjacent to Taloda for
resettlement.



xx                         A1hmnt I
Page I of 9
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT (GUJARAT) SARDAR SAROVAR
DAM AND POWER PROJECT
Selected Bank and Government Documented Actions on Environment and R&R
(July 1983 - June 1991)
Date          Bank Action                            Government Action
7/1/83        Letter to GOI re need for R&R
Plan
/5/83         Post-mission letter to GOI, GOG,
GOMP & GOM re R&R
/25/83        Letter to GOI on need for R&R
Plan
10/83         Consultant Report on R&R
1984          Letter to GOI on R&R policies/plans
1984          Minutes of Meeting with GOT on
R&R
4/12184       Letter to GOI re R&R information
for negotiations
6/22184       Telex re R&R Plan preparation
7/21/84       R&R Aide Memoire for GOI re
requirements for negotiations
7/23/84       Consultant R&R Report
8/21/84       R&R Aide Memoire
10/84                                                R&R Supplementary Report
Supplementary to the R&R Plan to
incorporate information required by
the WB mission. Include updated
figures of oustee famiLies from
three states; revised cost estimates
for R&R of all oustees; updated
schedule for acquisition of land;
compensatory afforestation; and
organizational set up for
monitoring and evaluation
11/21/84      Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
1984                                                 Socio-Economic Survey 23 MP
villages



xxi                       Atachment3
Page 2 of 9
1/16185                                             R&R Advisory Group set up by
GOI
1/28/85       Letter to GOI with R&R checklist
2/12/85       Staff Appraisal Reports - Dam &
Power and Water Delivery and
Drainage
3/8/85        Telex to GOI re Boards approval
5/10/85       Legal Agreements - Dam & Power
and Water Delivery and Drainage
5/30/85                                              GOG Resolution on compensation
and Land for Encroachers
7/11/85                                              Report of Supreme Court
Commission re R&R - mainly
related to Vadgam, criticized GOG
for R&R performance related to
tribals, makes recommendations
for special tribal programs.
9/85          Consultant R&R Report
10(30/85      Letter to GOG re fulfilling R&R
agreements with Bank
11/1/85                                              Resolution RHB-1085D re GOG
R&R policy on land allocation and
sources. (Did not meet Bank's
conditions since excluded major
sons and encroachers.)
11/18/85      Supervision Mission Report
11/19/85      Telexes to GOI & GOG re R&R
conditions of effectiveness and
Resolution 1085 in relation to
oustee definition, encroacher
entitlements, landless and tribals
12/85                                                First GOG R&R M&E report from
Center for Social Studies
1985                                                 Report on R&R and planning for
oustees, GOG
1985                                                 Madhya Pradesh Bill No. 10 on
R&R (but not considered sufficient
by Bank)
1/6/86        Telexes re loan effectiveness
2t7/86        Letter to GOI re MP M&E Agency



xxii                       Attaen
Page 3 of 9
2/21/86                                              GOG R&R Resolution MISC 1086
increasing loan subsidy level for
tribals.
6/12/86       Supervision Report including
R&R (concern expressed about
GOMP progress, M&E, proposed
redesign of plans, commendable
GOG progress reported
2/16/87       Telex advising that satisfactory
R&R plans needed to closing date
extension of Canal Project
2119/87       Letter to GOI on R&R reporting
requirements
3123187       Letter to GOI re land provision and
tribal oustees
4/10/87                                              GOG report on R&R training
4/26/87       Aide Memoire R&R Supervision
re land allocation, tribals, M&E,
NGOs, host populations, etc.
5/87                                                 GOG Land Acquisition and
Rehabilitation Report
6116/87       Letter to GOG on tribal plans
7/1/87        Letter from WB Director to GOI re
R&R issues
10/2187       Letter from WB Director to GOI
expressing concem about failure to
provide the agreed 2 ha, with
threat of suspension.
11/87         WB President meets NGOs in
Delhi
12/4/87                                              GOG Resolution specifying the
minimum 2 ha
12/4/87       Aide Memoire R&R Supervision
including agreements on definition
of tribal target group and plan
revision
12/10/87      Letter from WB Director to GOI re
R&R
12/14/87                                             Two GOG Resolutions on R&R:
one accepting encroachers as
eligible, the other increasing the
level of grant.



xxii                      ,Attachment
Page 4 of 9
1217/87                                             GOG Resolution on R&R: gave
landless 2 ha
3/88                                                 GOG Pamphlet on R&R Package
4/4/88                                               GOM Resolution on minimum 2
ha, and limited conditions for
granting to encroachers. (later
relaxed)
5/11/88                                              GOG response on R&R actions
taken following supervision
mission
5/88                                                 GOG revised tribal development
plan
6/6/88        R&R Review Mission Aide
Memoire
610/88        WB comments on revised GOG
tribal plan
6/88                                                 GOG Resolution (amending
Resolution of 8/86) on R&R
Advisory Committee purpose &
membership
8110/88       Letters to GOMP/GOM/GOG re
R&R concerns
9/88                                                 GOM Note on strategies for
MaharAshtra oustees moving to
Gujarat
11/88         WB Vice President visits SSP
11/28/88      Vice President's letter to State
Chief Ministers: Bank had serious
concems regarding management,
planning, design and execution
aspects of the Project.
1216/88                                              GOMP Note on R&R responding
to WB Vice President's letter on
policies and management
1214/88                                             GOMP response to Bank
supervision letter - Comments in
details on almost every paragraph
of the letter. Main points covering:
(i) R&R issues pointed by the WB
would be handled on priority;
(ii) special policies regarding
oustees who wish to live in MP
was being formulated;
(iii) relationship between GOG and



Auachmenat 3
xxiv                      Page 5 of 9
MP in respect of R&R of MP
oustees; etc..
1988                                                GOM Report on R&R
1988                                                GOMP Socio-economic profile of
first seven villages
1/89                                                GOG Status Report on R&R
early 89                                            Land Purchase Committees
established by GOG
2/10/89       Letter from WB Director re forest
land for R&R needed for extension
of Canal Project
2/89                                                GOI R&R Status Report
3/29/89       Extension of closing date of Crdit
1553 to end June 89
5/18/89       Supervision Report and letters.
SPN report notes that: for Gujarat,
while elements of comprehensive
R&R plan exist, need to bring aU
together in one document (Land
Purchase Committees function) for
MP, preliminary, but inadequate,
Phase I R&R plan prepared;
Maharashtra plan not made due
uncertainty about forest clearance.
5/28/89       Consultant report on R&R
recommending suspension
6/8/89        Post mission letters on R&R to
GOG, GOM, GOMP, and GOI
(1) Response to the Memorandum
of Understanding: (i) action plan
was insufficiently responsive; (ii)
the preliminary draft of SSNNL's
Org. & Manag. Proposal contained
litte detail;
(2) Project progress;
(3) Extension of Cr. 1553 closing
date.
6/17/89                                             GOG R&R semi-annual progress
report
6/29/89                                             GOM Resolution on overall policy
for Maharashtra oustees including
land eligibility and other benefits.
6/29/89                                             GOI clarification on GOG, GOM,



xxv                       A na=me3nt
Page 6 of 9
and GOMP policies on R&R to
India Department Director.
6/30/89       Approval of extension of Cr. 1553
to July 2, 1990
6/89                                                 Summary of socio-economic report
for 6 first phase villages in
Maharashtra
7/89                                                 GOG Progress Report on R&R
8/6/89                                               GOMP Revised R&R policy note
increasing grant in aid, providing
for transportation of materials,
providing three years income
support on declining basis.
8/10/89       R&R supervision report and letters
to GOM, GOG, & GOMP
9/12J89                                              Corrgendum to GOM R&R Policy
on R&R
11/89                                                GOMP report on R&R progress
plus work schedules by village
12131/89      R&R review mission report and
letters (still concern re lack of
forest land clearance in
*Maharastra, progress in MP but
need for detailed plan for first 17
villages
12/21/89                                             GOG Policy Order on Employment
Opportunities
1989                                               . GOG Work Planning and
Monitoring Table for R&R
provided
12189         Supervision Mission
12189                                                GOG reports on: (i) R&R; (ii)
Environment; (iii) Implementation
Schedule
1989                                                 Draft National R&R Policy by
National Working Group on
Displacement (draws substantially
on Gujarat experience)
215/90                                               GOM Resolution on Acquisition of
Marooned (tapu) land
3/12/90                                              GOM Resolution on cut-off date
for major sons and encroachers



xXvi                      AaQad 3La
Page 7 of 9
(major daughters added later)
3/21/90                                             GOI Report on R&R Action talen
3/90                                                Reports from all three states on
R&R status
4/90                                                Minutes of Ninth Meeting of GOI
(NCA) R&R Sub-group. (These
meetings were held regularly to
review policies and implementation
progress - they are not all listed
here)
4/90                                                GOMP (NVDA) Work Plan for the
first 16 villages scheduled for
submergence 92-94 (now delayed
to 94-96)
5/10/90       Revised Economic Analysis of
SSP
5/29/90       Letter to GOI re non-compliance
with extension conditions
5/31/90       Post mission letter and report, esp.
re still lack of Maharashtra land
clearance and need for more
ealistic submergence schedule.
6/7/90                                             Interstate GOG/GOMP Task Force
Meeting (Minutes of
6/15/90                                             GOG Policy modification on
Acquisition of Marooned Land
6/18/90                                             GOI letter to WB regarding
conditions for closing date
6119/90                                             GOG Policy Modification on major
sons cut-off date 1/1/87
6/29190       Telex to GOI re Closing Date
extension issues
6/29J90                                             GOI letter re extension of closing
date and release of forest land at
Taloda (Maharashtra)
7/1290        Extension of Closing Date of
Canal Project approved to July
91.
7/20.90                                             GOI letter releasing 2700 ha forest
land at Taloda (aarashtra)
8/27/90       LeAers to MOWR, GOM and



xxvii                     A=brnIII.3
Page 8 of 9
GOMP re R&R
9/10/90       R&R Supervision
9/10/90                                              GOMP report on status of actions
remaining from Dec 89 and May 90
missions
9/90                                                 GOG R&R Status Report
10/31/90                                             GOMP Documentation on
Amended Policy - Questions and
answers village data, local
language. Translation (3
pamphlets) compensation
procedures, etc.
10/90         Consultants Report on Laws and
Regulations on R&R in India
11111/90                                             GOM  response to Bank's post-
mission letter (August 1990)
11190         Consultant Report on R&R
following field trip through valley
11/90                                               GOI R&R Status Report
12/90         R&R Supervision Report
12/5/90                                              GOMP response to Bank's post-
supervision mission letter of
August 90 advising of completion
of detailed surveys of 141 villages,
outlining problems in completing
surveys due activists, outlining
status of R&R staffing and plans
for future.
12/20/90      Letter to GOM and GOMP on
R&R planning issues
1290         R&R Supervision Mission, plus
letters to states esp. re Maharashtra
and planning for Taloda site. Good
progress Gujarat. Weak MP
implementation.
2/8/91                                               GOMP response to Bank's post-
mission letter to December 90.
2/25/91       Meeting by Bank staff with Chief
Minister on R&R issues.
3/14/91       Letter from WB Director to Chief
Minister MP re R&R.



xxviii                    Athment3
Page 9 of 9
3/18/91                                             GOG letter proposing providing
common facilities to host villages
3/91                                                GOG Rehabilitation Action Plan
covering idendfication of PAPs,
land availability, planning, NGO
working Action Plan etc.,
including MP oustees.
4/2/91        Post mission letters to GOG and
GOMP re R&R
4/9/91        Report on meeting between GOMP
and GOG on R&R.
4/11/91                                             GOMP response to letter from WB
Director to Chief Minister about
land identification in MP and
survey problems due to activists.
4/30/91                                             GOMP response to Dec 90 mission
recommendations.
5/13/91       R&R Supervision letter & report to
GOI (MOWR). Progress in
updating annual and long term
R&R plans but policy issues
Maharashtra and MP.
5/28/91       Letter to MOWR re R&R policy
issues. Not find. But there was a
letter to MOWR on 5/17/91,
discussing about upgrading R&R
policy in Maharashtra and MP.
5/91          WB Review Mission for extension
of credit beyond June 1991.
6/17/91       WB President commissions review
of projecL



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT - GUJARAT
SARDAR SAROVAR DAM AND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN)
PART I. POJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name                  :     Narmada (Gujarat) Sardar Sarovar Dam &
Power Project
Credit NoJLoan No.            :     Credit 1552-IN; Loan 2497-IN
RVP Unit                      :     South Asia Region
Country                             India
State                         :     Gujarat
Sector                        :    Agriculture
Sub-sector                          Irrigation
2.    Background
2.1   At the time of Appraisal, India had a population of over 700 M, growing at an annual rate
of about 2.4%. More than two-thirds of the labor force was employed in agriculture, which
accounted for about 40% of the Gross Domestic Product. Agricultural growth remained rather
sluggish, averaging only 2.3% a year, and India was experiencing a small deficit in food
production, mostly wheat and edible oils. With regard to power generation, India had made
impressive progress. From a mere 1,362 megawatt (MW) at the time of Independence, the installed
generating capacity had risen to 63,275 MW by the end of the Seventh Plan (March 31, 1990),
corresponding to an annual growth of 11%. Between 1970-75, the annual growth decreased to
5%, but the situation improved again in the 1975-80 period. At Appraisal (March 1983) the
installed capacity was 35,363 MW and was increasing at the rate of 9% per year. However, power
generation still fell considerably below demand. At the end of the Seventh Plan, there was a deficit
of about 8,000 MW in pealing power, and about 18,000 M kwh in energy nation-wide. Power
generation remained about 30% below requirements.
2.2   India's development objectives at that time included substantial resource deployment to the
development of irrigation, agriculture, water supply to drought prone areas, energy and
infrastructure facilities for raising the levels of economic growth and alleviating poverty. Particular
importance and priority were given to investments in irrigation, storage reservoirs and power
generation, with special emphasis on improving efficiency of the water conveyance systems and
power generation to ensure reliable delivery to water and power users. In addition, investment in
the development of large river basins was considered essential for the expansion of irrigation and
power. Accordingly, expansion of irrigation and power facilities, as well as agricultural and
industrial growth, became the cornerstones in the development strategy of India's Five Year
Economic Plans.
2.3   Today, almost ten years later, India's population has increased to about 870 M and the
annual rate of population in growth has dropped to 2.0%. Agriculture's share of the Gross
Domestic Product has decreased to about 30%, while agricultural growth has risen to 3.2% per
year. However, growth in per capita food production Is still sluggish at 1.6%. During the Eighth
Plan (1992-1997) about 38,369 MW of additional power is targeted to be installed. Even after this
significant expansion, however, India will still be short of power and energy at the end of that



2
Plan. Hydro-power represents about 29% of the country's power generation. In its development
objectives, India continues to give priority to agriculture, irrigation, rural development and energy.
2.4   The State of Gujarat covers an area of 19.6 M ha and, at Appraisal, had a population of
about 36 M that was growing at an annual rate of 2.5%. Although Gujarat was relatively
urbanized and had a large manufacturing sector, its economy was also highly influenced by
agriculture. In a normal rainfall year, agriculture contributed some 33-35% of the State's income
and employed about 60% of its labor force. With many regions experiencing low and highly
variable rainfall and with only about 18-20% of the cultivated area under irrigation, Gujarat had
long been susceptible to drought and famines. For example, from 1900 to Appraisal (1983/84),
the state suffered at least 25 severe food shortages and water scarcity due to drought. The
economic costs of dealing with these droughts constituted an increasing drain on Gujarat's budget.
2.5   Gujarat's population has now grown to about 45 M, but the share of its labor force
employed in agriculture has declined--thus allowing the consolidation of holdings and the release
of some land for resettlement activities. Gujarat's investments in irrigation declined in the 80s as
older projects were being completed and new areas (other than the Narmada River Basin) were
becoming scarce-whereas investments in base and peak power generation have increased.
2.6   The Sardar Sarovar hydro-power complex forms part of the Western Region grid, which
comprises Gujarat, Goa, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. This region had an installed capacity
of 1 1,640 MW at the end of the Seventh Plan, representing about 18% of India's total capacity. At
the end of the same period, this region had a peak power deficit of about 1,250 MW and an energy
deficit of 330 M kwh. The Worling Group on Power, GOI estimated that the peaking power
deficit would be 8% at the end of the Eighth Plan (March 1995), and 3% at the turn of the century.
The installation of 1,450 MW under the project will substantially improve the hydrothermal mix of
the Western Region grid, though this mix will still be below the all-India average.
2.7   At Appraisal, the Government of Gujarat (GOG) estimated that it would exhaust the
potential for all further surface water irrigation schemes, with the exception of the Narmada Basin,
within the next ten years or so. Thereafter, the development of the Narmada Basin would become
the only feasible means of simultaneously assuring sustainable agricultural growth, and meeting
the pressing domestic, municipal and industrial needs for water. Consequently, GOG accorded
high priority to irrigation development programs, including construction of storage reservoirs
through the implementation of major and medium projects, in line with the priorities fixed by GOI.
2.8  It was against this background that GOG began to plan the Sardar Sarovar Project (SSP),
one of the most ambitious water resources development projects ever attempted. It accorded the
highest priority to Narmada River Development (NRD), beginning with the construction of the
Sardar Sarovar Dam and power complex (SSP), and the canal network. In view of SSP's
immensity and complexity, the Government of India (GOI) sought the Bank Group assistance in
financing this first stage of NRD-Gujarat. This project was to be among the first in a series of
some 30 major projects planned to develop the Narmada Basin. Given the project's potential for
benefitting the basin region and the entire nation, plus the Bank's desire to assist and guide GOG
in project preparation and implementation, the Bank agreed to finance simultaneously two key
components of SSP:
a.    a Bank Loan/International Development Association (IDA) Credit of US$ 300 M
toward the cost of constructing the dam and power complex; and
b.    an IDA Credit of US$ 150 M towards the cost of constructing the water delivery
and drainage networks, constituting the first time slice (3 years) of Phase I.



3
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The Narmada (Gujarat) Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project (Credit 1552-IN/Loan
2497-IN) is interdependent with the Narmada (Gujarat) Water Delivery and Drainage Project
(Credit 1553-IN), Phase I. The latter has been covered under a separate Project Completion
Report (PCR). The overall long-term objectives of these projects, together with the subsequent
phases of the Water Delivery and Drainage Project up to the Rajasthan border are to create a
modem multi-purpose agricultural and power production system for the welfare of the growing
rural population and economic growth of the Gujarat State as a whole. More precisely, the
objectives of the Narmada Sardar Sarovar Projects were to:
a.   provide storage and regulation of Narmada River flows for establishing a reliable
and efficient generation capacity of 1450 MW through the Riverbed Powerhouse
(1200 MW) and Canal Head Power House (250 MW) and distribution of hydro-
electric energy, including peaking capacity, to the western region power grid
serving the States of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra;
b.   provide storage and regulation of the Narmada River flows for establishing a
reliable, efficient, and equitable supply of: (i) irrigation water to about 1.79 million
hectares of command area in Gujarat; and (ii) municipal, industrial, and domestic
water in Gujarat; and
c.   provide annuaUy 0.5 million acre feet (MAP) of water to irrigate about 70,000
hectares of command area in Rajasthan and/or provide municipal, industrial and
domestic water in Rajasthan.
3.2   The components of the Narmada Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Complex were sub-
divided in the Legal Documents into 16 Parts lettered from A to P:
(A)  Construction of: (i) the Sardar Sarovar concrete gravity dam 128.5 meters high
(above the riverbed) and 1,210 meters long, with a gated spillway and a gated
auxiliary spillway, creating a reservoir with a storage capacity of 5800 Mm3 and
extending about 210 km upstream, (ii) the water intake facilities for the
underground riverbed powerhouse, and (iii) the related structures and equipment;
(B)  Construction of: (i) an underground riverbed powerhouse located in the right
abutment of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, with an installed capacity of 1,200 MW and
housing six 200 MW reversible turbine-generator units, (ii) a two-way access
tunnel 850 meters long, (iii) a sequentially aligned water conductor system
extending from the intake facilities through the tail race returning to the Narmada
River, (iv) the related structures, and (v) provision of the required electro-
mechanical facilites and equipment, including a surface transformer deck, a switch
yard for transmission connection, cable shafts and other miscellaneous works;
(C)  Provision of six 200 MW reversible turbine-generator units to be installed and
operated in the riverbed powerhouse;
(D)  Construction of the GaudeswarWeir about 23 meters high, to be located
downstream of the dam across the Narmada River, designed to provide about 26
million cubic meters of water storage for use during hydro-electric pumpback
generation operations;



4
(E)  Construction of the Vadgam saddle dam. about 60 meters high, to be located about
800 meters upstream of the axis of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, that would secure the
reservoir impoundment near the dam site on the right rim and provide the structural
base for canal head power house intake and penstock arrangements;
(F)  Construction of the canal head power house located on the right rim of the reservoir
about 800 meters upstream of the axis of the Sardar Sarovar Darn, with an installed
capacity of 250 MW and housing five 50 MW conventional turbine generator units;
(G)  Provision of five 50 MW conventional turbine-generator units to be installed and
operated in the canal head power house;
(H)  Cbnstruction of an irrigation byass tunnel, together with an intake to be located
about 75 meters upstream of the axis of the Sardar Sarovar Dam;
(I)   Completion of a headworks reservoir regulation system to control mismatches
between releases from the canal head power house and diversions into the Narmada
Main Canal, including four interlinked reservoirs created by four rock-fill dams and
three inter-linking open channels and one spillway structure for flood protection;
n)  Installation of 400 kilo volt (kv) double-circuit transmission lines to evacuate the
power generated at the riverbed and canal head power houses;
(K) Implementation of a suitable training program for Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra staff assigned to the carrying out of the project as well as to the future
operation and maintenance of the facilities included in the project;
(L)  Establishment of a management infrmaion system for the various activities under
the project, other than the resettlement and rehabilitation of the oustees;
(M)  Provision of tehnical assistance for the project's overall design, construction, and
quality control; design and construction of the underground riverbed power house;
operation and maintenance of the Sardar Sarovar Project, including the dams,
spillway and related equipment, hydroelectric power plants, power supply systems
and water delivery and drainage systems; carrying out of the hydro-meteorological
network; the Dam Safety Panel; and monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement
and rehabilitation program;
(N)  Establishment, operation and maintenance of a basin-wide hydro-meteorological
network for flood warning and the day-to-day operation of the project, including
civil works, equipment and technical assistance therefor,
(0)  Implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of a comprehensive resettlement and
rehabilitation Dpan for the oustees within Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharshtra
States boundaries; and
(P) Provision of an overall monitoring and evaluation system for the resettlement and
rehabilitation of the project oustees.
3.3   The Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project (Credit 1552-IN/Loan 2497-IN) consisted of
selected components of the SSP Dam and Power Complex described above, over a 1 10-month
period - i.e., 9 years and 2 months from June 1985 to August 1994. Using the same lettering as
indicated in the previous paragraph, the components eligible for financing were: (A) the S&rd
Sarovar Dam including instruments, gates, pumps, elevators, etc.; (B) the  y= = =



5
power house including civil works excavation, tunnelling and concreting, the water conductor
systems including the intake to the tail race and related equipment, the transformer deck and switch
yard and selected electro-mechanical equipment (400 kv geographical information system
equipment, power transformer, isolated phase gas duct, control and relay panels, and power and
control cables); (H) the irriat  bypass unel; (K) the trining for project design, implementation
and quality control quality control as well as future operational and maintenance (O&M) of the
project facilities; (L) the computerized management information system (MIS) to monitor
construction activities; (M) technical assistance for the project's overall design, construction and
implementation; and (N) the basin-wide hydro-meteorological network for flood control and real
time reservoir operation.
3.4  It is noteworthy that the Credit/Loan did not finance any environmental component, nor
any of the resettlement and rehabilitation activities which became so critical during project
implementation. In retrospect, these turned out to be serious omissions.
4.    Project Design and Organization
Narnada Water Disp  Tribunal
4.1  In 1965, GOI appointed a committee to prepare a master plan to develop the Narmada
Basin and, when the riparian states failed to accept its recommendations, GOI - as per the Inter
State Water Dispute Act, 1956 - appointed the Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal (NWDT) to
adjudicate. Following ten years of deliberations, the NWDT gave its final award in December
1979. According to estimates on available data at that time, the annual 75% dependable quantum
of water available for the project was estimated at 28 MAF, of which approximately two-thirds was
alocated to MP, and one third to Gujarat. Rajasthan and Maharashtra were allocated minor
amounts. NWDT issued orders regarding the main features of the projects, including the
following:
a.   The full reservoir level of Sardar Sarovar Dam at Navagam was fixed at 455 ft.
(138.68 m), thus setting the reservoir gross storage volume at 7.7 MAF (9,500
Mm3); it also stipulated the maximum water level at 460 ft. (140.21 m);
b .   The ful supply level of Narnada Main Canal was set at 300 ft (91.44 m);
c.   The sharing of water amongst the four party states was established on the basis of
the 75% dependable utilizable Narmada flow of 28 MAF:
AIIwQnQfWatCr                Sham
(MAF)   (Mm3)                 (%)
Gujarat               9.00     11,100             32.14
Madhya Pradesh       18.25     22,500             65.18
Rajasthan             0.50        600              1.79
Maharashtra           025         30               089
Total:               280       34.5              100.00
d.   A riverbed power house (RBPH) and a canal head power house (CHPH) were to be
constructed;
e.   The inter-state sharing of costs for the Sardar Sarovar Project was fixed as follows:
i.    Sardar Sarorm: Power 56.1%, Irrigation 43.9%;



6
ii.    Power Component: Gujarat 16%, Madhya Pradesh 57%, and Maharashtra
27%;
iii.    rrigaton:    - Dam: Gujarat 94.74%, Rajasthan 5.26%
- Main Canal: Gujarat 88.97%, Rajasthan 11.03%
- Distribution Network: Gujarat 100%
f.    The sharing of costs for the Sardar Sarovar Dam was fixed at Gujarat 50.57%,
Madhya Pradesh 31.98%, Maharashtra 15.15%, and Rajasthan 2.30%;
g.    Gujarat was to bear the cost for the R&R of project oustees in the command area,
with benefits allocated according to certain rules';
h.    The Narmada Control Authority (NCA) was to be set up to co-ordinate the
implementation of the NWDT award; and
i.    The Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee (SSCAC) was to be set up to
advise on civil works and approve programs for the construction of the dam and
power complex.
4.2   In addition to the above, the NWDT also ruled that Narmada Sagar Dam in Madhya
Pradesh should be completed at the same time as the Sardar Sarovar Dam, in order to regulate
releases for power generation at Sardar Sarovar Dam and, to a lesser extent, irrigation in Gujarat
and Rajasthan. Thus, the NWDT award created the basic framework and parameters for the
subsequent planning and design.
EW&ehri andArisal
4.3    Following the award of the Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal and GOI's proposal to the
Bank for financing the SSP, GOG sought the Bank's assistance in the project preparation and
planning efforL In response, the Bank mounted a special mission in August/September 1980
which led to the introduction of a multi-disciplinary planning approach and the establishment by
GOG of a high-level Narmada Planning Group (NPG). The objective of this permanent planing
organization was to provide comprehensive studies and analyses on the design, construction and
operational aspects of the project The major characteristics of project design with regard to water
allocation, height and storage capacity of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, power generation, length and
elevation of the main canal, and size of the command area had already been determined directly or
indirectly by the NWDT or were part of its basic assumptions. Under these circumstances, the
major role of the NPG consisted in carrying out a number of supporting studies which became part
of project preparation and appraisal of the Phase I project. These included studies on the modeling
of water availability, the determination of the optimal size of the two power houses, and the
amount of energy generated.
1     However, the povisions of the NWDT award regarding shaing cost of R&R have been interproed in
diffaent ways by the diffent paty state. As a rult, the opinion of the Union Ministry of law on
this issue wa obtained. According to it, al coste incurred by Gujuat on acquisition of land rnd
rehabilitation of oustees in poct of Sard Saovar all be cbarged to Sr Sova Dam  timate,
Unit-L Dam nd appurtenat wodu as spulated by NWDT vlde Clause-X(, Sub-claue V (12). As the
party states wer not agreeable to the conclusion drwn by the Ministry, they wer advised by the
RCNCA to settle this matter amongst themslves tbrough muta dicusion. In cas of no agreement,
the matter is likely to be refred to the Atorney Genl of India. RhR activity in the State of Madhya
Padesh, Maharhabtra A Gujat is progesing in spite of this issue being uwrsolvod.



7
4.4   The NPG comprised a multi-disciplinary team of national experts to which the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Bank provided extensive technical and financial
assistance. The Narmada Development Department (NDD), in charge of project implementation,
had the task of preparing the detailed designs and cost estimates of the major components such as
Sardar Sarovar Dam and the two power houses. In this work, the NDD was assisted by the
Central Water and Power Commission and the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), among others.
The NPG and NDD also made extensive use of local research institutes such as the Central Water
and Power Research Station (CWPRS) and the Gujarat Engineering Research Institute (GERI), as
well as consulting firms and specialists in the fields of system planning and scheduling, hydrology
and hydro-power. All this collaboration resulted in high quality designs and specifications.
Another important task for NPG, to which the Bank staff contributed actively, was the analysis of
the financial and economic benefits of the project.
4.5   Project preparation took four years from identification in 1979 to the beginning of appraisal
in 1983. The identification mission made several important recommendations, including the
creation of a Narmada Planning Group for project preparation. Due to the complexity and size of
the project, appraisal was carried out in 17 months by several missions: in March, June and
September 1983; a post-appraisal mission took place in August 1984 to review R&R aspects. The
project was negotiated in November 1984 and approved by the Board in March 1985.
4.6   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). together with the two Supplementary Data Volumes
(SDV), provide a comprehensive description of the project components, economic analysis, and
organizational and institutional arrangements for project implementation. and to a lesser extent of
the R&R, environment and O&M aspects. Annex 3 provides information on the project's
hydrology and water resources, while Annex 9 gives a complete technical description of the Sardar
Sarovar Dam and Power Complex. However, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and Annex 1 give
a sketchy description of the project's probable environmental impacts and benefits. The SAR and
Annex 1 also describe the land acquisition and resettlement aspects of the project, but did not
include detailed state R&R plans whose implementation could easily be supervised and monitored
as required by OMS 2.33. Schedules A and B of the SAR set forth the resettlement policy as well
as the institutional, monitoring and evaluation arrangements under which the resettlement and
rehabilitation of project-affected persons (PAPs) was to be carried out during implementation.
Table 22 of the SAR lists the priority studies to be carried out by NPG with regard to resettlement
and rehabilitation, watershed management, computer needs, the management information system,
the communication and operational control system, and project-wide manpower requirements. The
civil engineering aspects of the project were well understood by the Borrower but the complexities
and issues associated to large-scale R&R operations were not adequately appreciated by the
participating states and the Bank.
4.7   The Legal Documents with GOL GOG, GOM and GOMP also gave a thorough description
of the project and the components eligible for financing. These documents included some 95
covenants relating to availability of funds, timely implementation, adequate staffing, proper O&M
plans, supply of irrigation water, water supply for domestic, municipal and industrial use, supply
of hydro-electric power to beneficiary states, training of staff, establishment of MIS, establishment
of a Central Procurement Unit, establishment, operation and maintenance of a Narmada Basin
hydro-meteorological network, maintenance of NPG as well as the other inter-state agencies such
as NCA, the Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee (SSCAC) and the Narmada
Review Committee (NRC), monitoring and evaluation and reporting. The covenants also covered
the preparation and implementation of detailed R&R plans for each participating state, and the
preparation of an environmental work plan including the training programs for project staff in all
three states and implementation of mitigating measures. However, the description of the
environmental work plan and its implementation were not clearly stated in the SAR and Legal
Documents.



8
Board Presentation
4.8   On March 7, 1985 Bank staff presented the Water Delivery and Drainage Project in
conjunction with the Dam and Power Project to the Board, referring to them as one of the largest
multi-purpose schemes ever planned and designed as one unit, and making special note of the
R&R program for Sardar Sarovar Dam and Reservoir. They argued that the objectives and
principles embodied in this R&R program were a significant improvement on standard Indian
practice: (i) the program's intended provision of land and employment was superior to the practice
of cash compensation; (ii) its emphasis on resettling communities wa communities would
accelerate oustees' rehabilitation; and (iii) its planned intensive follow-up M&E by independent
agencies would set the standard for similar schemes in the future. Staff pointed out how well the
two projects supported the Bank's lending strategy for India and how their innovative concepts in
design, construction, and management practices would serve to catalyze progress in these areas as
well.
4.9   Four Executive Directors spoke and raised issues, though each supported the proposals.
Their main issues related to project size, the prospects for Bank involvement in future Narmada
catchment projects, and social and environmental effects.
4.10  Regarding roect si, one Director asked why the Bank had divided an obviously unified
investment into two projects? Was it because of the customary limit of US$300 M on Bank
loans/credits? Management's response assured the Board that the preference for two projects had
nothing to do with such limits which were in any case, flexible. A single project would have
simplified Board documentation, but would have complicated implementation, which involved
different agencies. Staff added that a further consideration in the choice of two projects was the
distribution of benefits among the states. The set of beneficiary- states for power differed from
that for irTigation.
4.11  Regarding future Narmada Basin DevelopmeM, a question was asked whether the Bank
was considering additional projects, given the large size of these first two. Staff responded by
referring to one large and two smaUer dams then under appraisal in Madhya Pradesh; only the
construction of the large Narmada Sagar wservoir in Madhya Pradesh upstream would optimize the
power benefits of Sardar Sarovar. In addition, the Bank was considering involvements in power
transmission and in the canal network.
4.12  Regarding soial and enxinm3 na1 effects, a Director queried: (i) whether there were still
any ill-defined areas of responsibility among states and GOI for implementing and monitoring
resettlement that could cause delays in resolving problems; and (ii) whether the relatively undefined
environmental studies and potential problems arising made future consideration and implementation
of study recommendations too uncertain. He also asked if the Bank's semi-annual reports on
project status and execution could note the state of progress with these aspects. Another Director
supported this sentiment to keep the Board informed. Yet another Director, voicing similar
concerns about social and environmental effects, expressed concern that the Bank was paying
insufficient attention to issues like resettlement at the earlier stages of project preparation.
4.13  Management responded that each state had established a resettlement wing, staffed with
responsible and experienced officers, to conduct the program. The states were also expected to
contract with independent research institutions that would monitor and evaluate its implementation.
Furthermore, the Central Government and the interstate Narmada Control Authority would
coordinate overall monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement plan. Management also indicated
that although a full environmental impact assessment had not been completed, a comprehensive
first-stage assessment had been conducted by the University of Baroda and then examined by
members of the Bank appraisal team. That study had covered public health, flora and fauna,
fisheries, wildlife and archeology and had determined that there were no endangered species in the



9
area. Management said that by the end of the calendar year, each state government was expected to
prepare an environmental work program, which would be submitted to the Bank for approval.
Under covenants in the Loan/Credit Agreements, these programs would include training for
environmental staff. Sufficient time (15-18 months) would be available before the commencement
of construction to remedy any defects in the environmental work program.
4.14  Management also promised to cover the social and environmental aspects explicitly in the
semi-annual reports and to keep the Board informed of progress - especially if difficulties in need
of remedy emerged2. Staff expressed the view that institutional arrangements and responsibilities
for resetdement were firm enough at that point. They admitted that there was no full environmental
impact assessment, but they felt that legal covenants covered these aspects adequately. In this
view, there was sufficient time to complete studies before construction commenced.
4.15   Other issues discussed were electricity tariffs for satisfactory ERRs, financial analysis of
power projects and the sensitivity of the economic analysis to cost estimates. After a thorough
discussion by Board members, the two projects were approved unanimously. The discussion
flagged significant concerns about R&R and the environment.
4.16 In sum, these Board concerns are important because they reveal the early exposure of all
parties in the Bank to the R&R and environmental issues, and the attention afforded to them. The
Bank not only kept the Board informed through regular semi-annual reports, but as critics were
becoming more vocal, it held briefing meetings from 1990 onwards at the request of the most
concerned EDs, in particular those of Netherlands, UK, US and Germany. In addition, Bank staff
responded to a large number of queries by many EDs throughout implementation.
j  Design
4.17  Hydrolgy. The Narmada River hydrological series were reviewed during appraisal, and
again in 1992 by the Borrower's Central Water Commission (CWC) and consultants3, after the
Independent Review report raised some doubts about their accuracy. All reviews have concluded
that the basic hydrological data used for the design of the project are satisfactory. The annual 75%
dependable water availability for the project has been determined by the NWDT to be 34,580 Mm3
( 28 MAF), of which MP has been allocated 22,500 Mm3 (18.25 MAF) or 65.2%, Gujarat 11,100
Mm3 (9.0 MAF) or 32.1%, Rajasthan 600 Mm3 (0.5 MAF) or 1.8%, and Maharashtra 300 Mm3
(0,25 MAF) or 0.9%. According to the NWDT, first priority is to be given to water supply,
second to irrigation, and third to power generation. No provision of water was made for
environmental protection downstream of the SSP dam. The NWDT envisaged that the
development of the Narmada Basin would be completed in three stages over 45 years, and that at
the end of the third stage, i.e., in 2024, the NWDT award could be revised. At Stage 1 (10 years
after start of construction) the Sardar Sarovar and the Narmada Sagar Dams would be completed.
SSP would be in its initial stage of development, with low water requirements for irrigation and
high water availability for power generation. At Stage 2 (30 years after start of construction)
Gujarat would make full use of its water allocation for irrigation, MP would increase its water
consumption, and power generation would decline. At Stage 3 (45 years after start of
construction) Gujarat and MP would make full use of their shares of water, and base power
generation of the RBPH would be reduced to practically nil. However, the dam and power
2     Reference to this promise wu found in the verbatm transcript of the March 7, 1985 Board meeting, but
wa not specifically indicated in the Summary of Board DiWusions (SD85-10) of March 21, 1985)
3     MIe consultants wer reranted to asist the Borrower in meeting the benchmarks set by the Board by
March 31, 1993. The conaultancy wu financed by n Oversea Development Agency (United Kingdom)
Trust Fund managed by the Bank.



10
complex as well as the canal head powerhouse (50 MW) would continue to generate mostly peak
power. At the present rate of development, it is likely that the Sardar Sarovar Dam will not be
completed before 1998 and the Narmada Sagar Dam, before 2003. The late completion of the
Narmada Sagar Dam will reduce the amount of regulated flows available for power generation. It
also appears unlikely that MP will use more than 16,000 Mm3 or 70% of its share by 2024 and,
therefore, the NWDT predictions may not apply at the end of Stage 2 and during part of Stage 3.
It is difficult to predict how the water will be distributed among domestic, municipal, and industrial
users, and irrigation and power in 2024, when the NWDT award may be reviewed. However, on
the basis of current trends throughout the world it is likely that a higher proportion of water will be
allocated to domestic, municipal and industrial use, and also that some water will need to be put
aside for environmental protection downstream from the dam.
4.18  The darmdesign was drawn up by the Narmada Project Dam and Design Circle of NDD,
with a comprehensive overview by the Dam Review Panel. The salient technical features of the
dam and power complex are summarized in Part IH, Table 14. GOG appointed CWC as their
Design Consultant for both the riverbed power house and the canal head power house. Five dam
sites were investigated and four dam types were evaluated for the selected dam site. The geology
was thoroughly investigated and analyzed, and corrective measures were taken for the final dam
site and design. The fault zone encountered in the bed of the present site was treated through deep
excavation and backfiling with reinforced concrete. Comprehensive geologic investigations were
also conducted on the right abutment of the main dam, to determine its suitability for construction
of the riverbed underground power house.
4.19 The final design specifications and bid package for the dam were reviewed at appraisal by
expatriate consultants. A Dam Review Panel was established by Government of Gujarat in June
1981, to ensure the adequacy of foundations and the overall design, safety of the main dam and
appurtenances, including the reservoir, spillways, underground riverbed power house, canal head
power house and river diversion facilities. This panel comprised of five national and two
expatriate experts.
4.20 Special attention was paid to flood hydrology and the size of the spillway. Extensive
studies were made to determine 1/1,000 year flood and the probable maximum flood, which might
take place only if all aggravating factors occurred simultaneously. The probable maximum flood
was found to be 169,923 m3/s. To accommodate the possibility of such an exceptional flood, the
size of the initial spillway was increased by adding an auxiliary spillway on the left flank of the
dam. As a result, the spillway of the Sardar Sarovar Dam is one of the largest in the world. The
overall layout and configuration of the spillways were checked through extensive hydraulic model-
ling studies carried out at CWPRS, Pune, and at the GERI, Vadodara. These tests and results
were duly reviewed by the Dam Review Panel during design preparation, and by the Bank's
expatriate consultants during appraisal. The Dam Review Panel accepted the layout, design, and
dimensions of the facilities, while the Bank's consultants concurred with the Panel's conclusions
and confirmed the adequacy of the design data, criteria, and safety factors and the resultant integri-
ty of the main dam, spillways, intake and oudet works and other structures.
4.21   GOG had stipulated that the Dam Review Panel would be maintained only through the
design stage. However, the Bank appraisal team argued that review functions should remain under
the auspices of a reconstituted Dam Safety Panel throughout project implementation, and GOG
agreed. Accordingly, a national Dam Safety Panel was constituted in February 1985 and it has
since been conducting periodic reviews of the overall designs and construction of the dam and
hydropower components, through visits to the project sites and research stations. The Dam
Review Panel's findings and recommendations have helped in modifying and improving the
designs wherever site conditions and hydraulic model tests warrant. The Dam Safety Panel has
also helped in the resolution of many design and construction issues affecting the project from time
to time.



11
4.22 The underground riverbed power house was envisaged by NWDT as a conventional plant
However, based on studies carried out jointly by GOG and the CEA, the design was modified by
including a pump-back capability with reversible turbines. A comparison of the economic cost
streams for three power generation alternatives-that is, (i) with Sardar Sarovar - conventional; (ii)
with Sardar Sarovar - reversible; and (iii) with thermal peaking capacity--indicated that the "Sardar
Sarovar - reversible" option was the least costly. Moreover, the installation of reversible turbine
generating sets appeared attractive when considering that (i) the project site offered the possibility
of creating a tail pool through the construction of the Garudeshwar Weir, about 12 Ikm downstream
of SSP Dam, (ii) the flows for conventional hydropower generation would decrease overtime, and
(iii) there would be shortages of peaking capacity in the predominantly thermal grid of the Western
region at the end of the Eighth and Ninth Five Year Plans.
4.23 The impact of sedimentation on the 'feasible service life" of the Sardar Sarovar reservoir,
and its influence on projected benefits, was assessed by the Narmada Project Dam Designs Circle
in a document entitled: "Sedimentation Studies and Life of Reservoir " dated June 1982. Based on
suspended sediment data from 1962 to 1981, and the bed load and trap efficiency projections, a
sediment rate of 5.34 ham/100 an 2/year was adopted and the life of Sardar Sarovar Reservoir was
estimated to vary from 180 years to 233 years, depending on when the upstream Narmada Sagar
Dam would be completed.
Cases Sudied                       Feasible ServiceL
of SSP (Years) (a)
i     SSP and Narmada Sagar Project (NSP) completed together .233
ii.   NSP completed 5 years after SSP .......................     222
iii.   NSP completed 10 years after SSP .......................    212
iv.   NSP completed 15 years after SSP .......................    201
V.   NSP completed 20 years after SSP .......................    191
vi.   NSP completed 25 years after SSP .......................    180
a.    Empirical Area Reduction Method
4.24 NWDT had directed Madhya Pradesh to complete the Narmada Sagar Dam (NSP) at the
same time as the Sardar Sarovar Dam, because the NSP is crucial for the operation of Sardar
Sarovar. In reality, however, SSP construction began in 1987, whereas the contract for the
construction of NSP was awarded only in 1992. Assuming a five-year delay, i.e., with
completion of NSP around 2003, Borrower the estimated the life of Sardar Sarovar Dam to be 222
years -- more than four times the conventional service life of 50 years considered for the cost-
benefit analysis of such projects. This estimate also fulfilled the Borrower's standards under the
Indian Standard IS 12182-1987 which stipulates that the service life of a dam should not be less
than 100 years after the start of operation.
4.25  The project design provides three outlets to release water for hydro-power, irrigation and
emergency depletion of reservoir, respectively. Their types and elevations are as follows:
Typ of Outlet                               Desi gmd bottom level
i.    Penstocks for riverbed power house              93.69 m
ii.   Penstocks for irrigation and canal
head power house                                98.13 m
i$i.   River sluices (for emergency depletion of
reservoir)                                      53.00 m



12
4.26  NPG determined in its June 1982 study that the riverbed power house, canal head power
house and irrigation outlets would continue to function with enough water for irrigation and power
generation even after 200 years impoundment and despite some loss of live storage by
sedimentation.
4.27  Closely related to the pattem of sediment dynamics is the "backwater effect" of the dam on
water levels upstream of the dam during high floods. Long and narrow reservoirs, as in the case
of SSP, tend to behave like a river during high floods and to develop a slope upstream of the dam.
The NWDT had specified that "the back water level at the highest flood level in Sardar Sarovar
shall be worked out by the CWC in consultation with Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat". Accordingly,
back water studies were carried out by CWC, and documented in a report dated August 1984, to
determine the submergence in the reservoir due to back water effect. Back-water profiles were
estimated for the following conditions:
a.   Water level at full reservoir level (138.68 m) at dam and a peak flood of 69,376
cumecs (1 in 100 year flood); and
b.   Water level at maximum water level (140.21 m) at dam and a peak flood of 86,933
cumecs (1 in 1,000 year flood).
4.28 The R&R policy set forth by NWDT requires the acquisition of all lands and property
below full reservoir level (138.68 m/455 ft.) and all buildings with their appurtenant plots of land
between full reservoir level and maximum water level (140.21 m/460 ft). In view of the fact that
the highest observed and recorded flood in 1970 was the 1 in a 100 year flood, the party states
agreed that the acquisition of property - i.e., houses and structures but not land - would not be
limited to maximum water level at dam site but extended to the backwater profile of this flood.
Thus, acquisition of houses and structures would be extended to the areas between maximum
water level (140.21 m) and the water profile for a 1 in 100 year flood over the entire length of the
reservoir.
iect Oroan nat
4.29 Initially, the Narmada Development Department of the Government of Gujarat was the
main implementing agency for the project, with primary responsibility for planning, designs,
implementation, and operation and maintenance of SSP. About one year after construction had
begun, a number of deficiencies and delays became apparent in construction management,
execution of works, and establishment of the critically needed MIS. Fundamental institutional
changes were needed in order to meet the challenges of this large and complex project.
Accordingly, Gujarat decided to create the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) as a
para-statal company under the Indian Companies Act on March 24, 1988. In so doing, GOG's
objectives were to: (i) significantly improve the efficiency of planning, designing and construction
of SSP by reducing the cumbersome procedural requirements to which NDD was submitted, and
(ii) supplement government financing through the issuance of debt and equity instrments to raise
funds. GOG indicated that it was not intending, through the formation of the Sardar Sarovar
Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL), to transfer its responsibilities to another agency, and
confirmed that GOG would continue to be directly responsible to the Bank, GOI, GOM and
GOMP for all obligations set out in the Legal documents. The change of implementing agency was
formalized through an amendment of the Development Credit Agreement.
4.30  However, it was not until September 1988 that the detailed functions and organizational
and financial structure of SSNNL had been finalized to the point where it could effectively take
over NDD's responsibilities. At the Bank's suggestion, the management and administrative
structure of SSNNL were organized on a functional basis, with separate divisions for: (i) planning,



13
designs and surveys; (ii) procurement; (iii) construction; (iv) quality control; (v) evaluation and
monitoring, (vi) administration, finance, budgeting, personnel and legal, and (vii) R&R. In
addition, the Nigam expedited the establishment of a comprehensive computerized MIS able to
prepare implementation schedules, performance reports, and management reports, and to monitor
and evaluate SSNNL's activities from planning to implementation, in addition to serving the
accounts and finance wing. SSNNL's organization is depicted in Attachment 1.
4.31  In view of the multi-state nature of SSP and its unusual magnitude and complexity,
requiring a high level of technical standards and monitoring, and in compliance with the orders of
NWDT, a number of interstate agencies were set up: (i) the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) to
ensure compliance with and implementation of the decisions and directions of the NWDT; (ii) the
Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee (SSCAC) to review and make recommendations
concerning the planning, design, and construction of the dam and power complex, including
funding requirements and recommendations to the concerned states; and (iii) the Review
Committee for Narmada Control Authority (RCNCA)to review and rule on any decision of NCA.
The composition, powers and functions of these Institutional Agencies have been detailed by the
NWDT and are outlined in Annex 2 of Supplementary Data Volume of the Staff Appraisal ReporL
Because of the statewide importance of SSP, many of Gujarat's own state-wide departments and
agencies were also involved (including Agriculture, Health, Water Supply and Sewerage Board,
State Electricity Boards, GERI, the Water and Land Management Institute [WALMI], and
Communications).
53.   Project Implementation
eneral
5.1   The Credit became effective in January 1986 after a delay of eight months. However, the
awards of international competitive bidding contracts on Sardar Sarovar main dam and riverbed
power house civil works were delayed by about two years for lack of environmental clearance by
the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF). The lowest bidder for the main dam contract,
an Indian contractor, accepted to extend his bid validity and was awarded the contract. However,
the lowest bidder for the riverbed power house works, a Japanese contractor, refused to do so,
resulting in the award of the contract to the next lowest bidder who happened to be the same Indian
contractor as for the dam. The contract for the dam was awarded in April 1987 in anticipation of
GOrs environmental clearance, and that for the riverbed power house civil works in July 1987.
The contract schedules envisaged the completion of dam and riverbed power house civil works
within 110 months and 93 months of the award of contracts, i.e., by June 1996 and April 1995,
respectively.
5.2   The project made a promising start after the contracts were awarded and the contractor had
initiated the works. However, slippages started occurring in construction works and the NDD was
unable to take the requisite managerial and technical steps to ensure timely implementation and
adequate quality control. Several critical issues slowed down implementation. The main issue was
the high variability of cement quality, which resulted in inadequate concrete strength. In addition,
construction management, mobilization of skilled manpower, and use of proper construction
equipment all needed substantial improvements by the contractor. Delay in establishing the
proposed computer-based MIS was adversely affecting the planning, scheduling, and monitoring
of project implementation, and GOG appeared reluctant to utilize the critically needed and
experienced consultants. Another issue was the need to expand the Dam Safety Panel through the
recruitment of an expert of international stature, to enhance its ability to carry out independent
technical reviews.



14
5.3   Concerned by persistent implementation deficiencies and continuous slippages, the Bank
communicated to GOG on August 31, 1988, a list of phased "critical implementation steps" to be
taken on priority basis. These included:
a.   implementing a Comprehensive Management Plan to demonstrate SSNNL's
institutional and technical capability for carrying out SSP;
b.   establishing an adequately staffed and computerized MIS, including a fully
operational multi-calendar scheduling package;
C.    preparing a Project Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT)-type Revised
Implemnentation Schedule for the entire SSP reflecting realistic physical and financial
implementation schedules;
d.   strengthening the independent technical review capability of Dam Safety Panel;
e.   establishing remedial procedures to review deficiencies and areas of immediate
concern throughout the SSP;
f.   reviewing the suitability of contractors' acquisition of equipment and their
equipment planning;
g.   creating a cadre of competent quality control and construction supervision
inspectors in all relevant construction activities, through appropriate training; and
h.   constituting a team of experts to furnish a detailed technical report covering all
aspects of the cement production process and concrete placement practices,
extending from the basic mining operation through the manufacturing of Portland
Cement up to and including sampling, testing and placement of concrete at site.
5.4   The Ministry of Water Resources, GOI, set up a six-member Indian Team of Experts
(TOE) in October 1988 to address the various technical, organizational, implementational and
quality control problems highlighted by the Bank. A Bank team met with officials of GOI
(Ministry of Water Resources [MOWR], CWC, Department of Economic Affairs [DEA] and
NCA), GOG, GOMP and SSNNL in Delhi from December 5 to 8, 1988 to review issues
concerning SSP implementation. This meeting resulted in a Memorandum of Understanding
regarding future implementation of SSP. One important outcome of the Memorandum of
Understanding was that GOI enlarged the Team of Experts to include three expatiiate consultants.
Broadly, their terms of reference were to:
a.   examine construction quality, adequacy of quality control and supervision
arrangements;
b.   review construction methods, adequacy of construction equipment used by
contractors and their capability of achieving the desired progress;
c.   identify bottlenecks and suggest measures for accelerating progress;
d.   examine the fulfillment of stipulations made in the Bank letter of August 31, 1988;
e.   recommend organizational and institutional improvements;
    review and evaluating all aspects of constuction supervision; and



15
g.   address coordination between SSNNL and its design consultants (CWC, CEA and
others) concerning: (i) the delivery of construction drawings in accord with
construction schedules, and (ii) the designers' role during the construction phase.
5.5   On March 23, 1989 the nine-member Team of Experts finalized its report and made a
number of important observations and recommendations.   They  observed that, when
considering the present status of construction, the contractor's implementation schedules and
various other aspects, the dam was likely to suffer a slippage of about 1.5 years and the riverbed
power house about one year. The team declared that the quality of work on the dam and power
house was satisfactory. It also observed that the recently expanded project organization would be
able to handle the work load and that the Nigam staff had the necessary ability to implement the
project. The Team made a number of recommendations on designs, construction and quality
control aspects to further enhance project implementation. The SSNNL prepared an Action Plan
for implementing the Team's recommendations and took expeditious actions to address the
scheduling, implementation and quality control issues. The Bank supervision missions monitored
closely the progress of implementation.
5.6   Project implementation indicators are given in Tables 4 and 5, Part III. Table 4 shows the
implementation status of the main milestones for the Dam and Riverbed Power House, and the
pace at which they were achieved compared to the appraisal targets. Table 5 summarizes the
physical and financial implementation of the Sardar Sarovar Dam & Power Project as a whole as of
March 29, 1993, when the balance of the Loan was canceled at GOI's request. Overall, the
achievements of the Dam & Power Project were slow to start with, and then became excellent on
dam construction and reasonably good on the underground components of the riverbed power
house, albeit about two years behind schedule. Table 7, Part III outlines the financial
implementation of the Credit/Loan by components. It indicates a completion level of 58%, which
also tracks the physical implementation level.
Sardar Sarovar Dam
5.7   The Sardar Sarovar concrete gravity dam, with its 30 crest gates, was planned to be
completed in 110 months, i.e., by June 1996. One of the most important activities for the
construction of Dam Complex was to create a peak concrete placement capability of 7,000 m3/day.
This was to be done within 26 months of the award of the contract, i.e., by June 1989. The
procurement, installation and commissioning of this state-of-the-art concrete production and
placement plant, the largest of its kind ever built in India, took about 42 months, i.e., by October
1990. The equipment had to be imported by the contractor and included: (i) a batching & mixing
plant of 330 m3/hr capacity, with its associated aggregate crushing and screening machinery and
cooling plant; (ii) two cable ways with cables spanning 1,567 m over the dam gorge, each of 28
tons hook load capacity for concrete placement at the dam; and (iii) miscellaneous equipment
including high capacity mobile concrete compaction rigs, 9 m3 capacity concrete buckets, a fleet of
transit mixers and other concrete compaction and cleaning equipment. The late commissioning of
the plant was due to delays in obtaining import licenses for the equipment and in preparing the
required infrastructure. The erection of the cableways suffered large delays because the supplier
from West Germany declared bankruptcy in November 1987 and had to be replaced by another
supplier, also from West Germany. There were also substantial delays in the release of foreign
exchange to the contractor. Still more delays were due to weak foundations exposed during
excavation that required a large number of deep 45 ton capacity pre-stressed anchors. Rectification
of "teething problems" during the commissioning of the batching and mixing plant, the cableways
and other equipment of this large complex took more time than initially envisaged by the
contractor. OveralL mobilization of the concrete production and placement plant suffered a slippage
of 16 months.



16
5.8   The contractor, who was already engaged in other construction activities (such as the
treatment of dam foundations and the construction of the rock fill dikes, link channels and the left
non-overflow portion of the dam), had enough manpower and equipment to initiate work on the
main dam. Drilling, blasting and rock excavation as well as concrete placement were started
immediately after the contract award in April 1987. Concrete placement went up to 2,000 m3/day
with the use of a fleet of tower cranes, transit-mixers and an imported conveyor system to
accelerate concreting in the stilling basin.
5.9   From 1989 onward, SSNNL took steps to address several critical issues including quality
control, establishment of an MIS, and construction management. An Expert Committee on Cement
and Concrete was set up which, through a dynamic Action Plan, reinforced the Quality
Control/Quality Assurance organization of the project; shortlisted the cement plants; upgraded
cement specifications; improved the laboratory facilities in the selected cement plants; arranged the
training of Quality Control/Quality Assurance (QC/QA) personnel at the National Council of
Cement and Building Materials (NCB) laboratories near Delhi; and provided on-job training to the
construction supervision personnel through NCB specialists. These activities helped to create a
core of competent QC/QA inspectors. The Nigam also addressed some deficiencies noted by Bank
supervision missions, such as green cutting, preparation of construction joints, clean up, and
finishing of concrete surface in blocks. With respect to the MIS, SSNNL appointed a reputed
management consultant and a computer specialist to assist in the development of an Integrated
Project Planning and Monitoring System and a Top Management Control System. To achieve this,
the Nigam established a full-time Project Management Information System Group, which led to the
development of a computerized full fledged MIS.
5.10 In December 1989, SSNNL prepared a Revised Implementation Schedule taking into
account the initial delays and also anticipating further constraints to progress. This schedule,
known as RIS (12/89), was approved by the Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee on
February 20, 1990. It envisaged the completion of the dam and power complex in all respects by
January 23, 1998, or 129 months after the award of contract (compared with the 110 months
stipulated originally). Diversion of water for irrigation and power generation was then scheduled
for June 1995 instead of May 1994, i.e., a delay of 13 months. Following approval of the RIS
(12/89) in March 1991, NCA prepared a submergence schedule which governs the pace at which
the R&R program must be implemented to be in line with dam construction. This submergence
schedule was published in a document known as the SBlue Book'.
5.11  A crucial and major milestone was achieved in October 1990 when the two cableways were
successfully commissioned. Concrete placement increased substantially and a breakthrough in
progress was achieved, with 1.013 million m3 placed during the 1990-91 construction season
compared to the target of 0.900 million m3 anticipated in the revised implementation schedule
(12/89). Quality control and quality assurance measures also improved through meticulous
implementation of the recommendations of the Expert Committee on Cement and Concrete, as well
as those provided by the Bank missions. Excellent progress in concreting and quality standards
were also maintained during the 1991-92 construction season. However, as dam construction was
running ahead of R&R implementation, a meeting of SSCAC restrained concrete placement in the
central part of the dam from January 1992 onwards, so that submergence during the 1992
monsoon would not exceed the levels published in NCA's Blue Book Accordingly, only 0.933
million m3 of concrete could be placed in the dam and stilling basin, falling short of the RIS
(12189) target. The SSCAC also took, two other major decisions: (a) plugging of the construction
sluices at the foot of the dam was postponed to 1994 to avoid permanent flooding during the 1993
monsoon; and (b) henceforth, dam construction program would adhere strictly to the annual
submergence schedule determined by the progress of R&R. These measures demonstrated the
Nigam's and the party states' commitment to link the construction of the dam to implementation of
the R&R program. A good construction tempo, associated with high construction standards, was



17
also maintained during Fiscal Year (FY) 1992-93: 0.789 million m3 concrete was placed by the
end of March 1993 and a record 1.14 million m3 placed during the 1992-93 construction season.
An important milestone relating to the construction of the permanent river sluices at elevation 53.0
m was also completed.
Riverbed Power house
5.12 The civil works contract for the riverbed power house was awarded on July 7, 1987 and
was to be completed in 93 months, i.e., by April 1995. This timing was in tune with the original
construction program of the dam which envisaged the diversion of water in June 1994. This
schedule was revised in August 1989 and again in June 1991, based on the dam revised
implementation schedule (12/89), which encompassed the completion of all dam blocks up to
elevation 112.5 m by June 1995. The revised implementation schedule (6/91) of riverbed power
house stipulated the completion of civil works by September 1995, i.e., six months after the initial
date.
5.13 The supply of the six 200 MW turbine generating sets was to be financed under a separate
Credit arrangement with the Government of Japan. The contract was awarded to a Japanese firm
on August 13, 1987 with financial assistance of V 2.85 Billion that Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) had provided in November 1985 for initial design and
modelling works, followed by a loan of X 24.65 Bilion more for the manufacture and supply of
the turbine generating sets. The contract envisaged the supply of all turbine generating sets by
June 1995. The commissioning of the first turbine generating set was initially planned for August
1994 but was later delayed to September 1995 to match the riverbed power house construction
schedule. The commissioning of the five other sets was to follow at 4 months intervals each, until
full completion by April 1997. This commissioning schedule suffered a severe set back when
OECF withdrew its financing in 1991, following a hearing at the Japanese Parliament in which the
Indian environment lobby protested against the dam and complained about poor R&R
implementation.
5.14  The components of the riverbed power house are exceptionaly large and complex. The
underground machine hail cavern is 23 m wide, 58 m high and 212 m long. It is amongst the
largest cavities in the world. The other components include: (i) 6 inclined penstocks (pressure
shafts) of 7.61 m diameter and a total length of 657 m to lead the reservoir water to the turbine
generating sets; (ii) 6 draft tube tunnels, each of an average length of 172.5 m and of 10.5 m
diameter to collect water from the turbine generating sets; and (ii) 3 exit tunnels of 11.50 m
diameter and 213 m, 296 m and 379 m length respectively to lead the water to the riverbed.
Besides these major works there are a number of underground works including: (i) an access
tunnel to the service bay, (ii) a network of bus shafts and bus galleries for power transmission, (iii)
a control room, (iv) a drainage and grouting gallery, and (v) a ventilation shaft. Amongst the
surface works is the collection pool associated with deep rock excavation.
5.15 Excavation of the open cut and underground works made a promising start but were soon
subject to considerable slippages. The collection pool encountered severe slope stability problems
which almost halted excavation. CWC had to design a comprehensive treatment plan for
stabilizing the slopes, and remedial worls took much more time than anticipated. Some changes
were also made in the design of the collection pool based on site conditions and hydraulic
modelling. The construction schedule of the riverbed power house also suffered slippages due to
adverse geological conditions encountered in the draft tube and exit tunnels. The contractor was
not adequately equipped, with respect to either methodology or equipment, to handle tunnelling in
poor strata. Rock falls from the machine hail roof in the vicinity of shear zone brought works to a
halt. The excavation could be resumed only after the initial support system was further
strengthened through additional anchor bolts and shotcreting. Progress resumed satisfactorily but
was again affected following the occurrence of fissures in the cavern walls, as described below.



18
Tunnelling progress on the exit and draft tube tunnels improved significantly when SSNNL and
the contractor followed the Bank's suggestions on methodology of excavation. The excavation of
the pressure shafts progressed well.
5.16 Distress occurred in the upstream and downstream cavem walls of the machine hall when
fissures developed in the vicinity of shear zones, during the period March-October 1991. The
fissures developed and extended from the springing level of the cavern (elevation 36 m) to above
the crown level of the pressure shafts (elevation 11 Im). About 60% of the machine hall had been
excavated when the distress was first noticed. Fissures had developed even in four of the six
pressure shafts (pressure shafts nos. 1,2,3 and 5). The design consultants (CWC) and the Dam
Safety Panel discussed the remedial measures in the 21st meeting of the Dam Safety Panel in April
1992. The Panel, while proposing provisional remedial measures, recommended that advice
should also be sought from intemational experts. Excavation had to be stopped when the
provisional measures did not prove sufficient to stop the progress of the fissures.
5.17 The development of fissures was brought to the attention of the Bank supervision mission
in July 1992. After visiting the cavern, the Bank mission concluded that ad hoc and interim
remedial measures could not solve the problem and would only lead to further delays. The mission
emphasized that sound and specific advice from highly specialized international consultants was
needed to address the distress problem. Accordingly, the Bank took the initiative to recruit two
renowned experts through the Austrian Consultant Trust Fund. These consultants visited the
cavem in November 1992 and had comprehensive discussions with the Dam Safety Panel, CWC,
SSNNL engineers, geologists and consultants, and the representatives of the Central Soil and
Material Research Station, New Delhi. The consultants submitted their draft report in December,
1992 and final report on January 8, 1993. The experts made a thorough evaluation of the stability
situation of the cavern and provided detailed recommendations for installing a network of supports
and anchors in the upstream wall, pressure tunnels, downstream wall, and the draft tube tunnels.
They also provided an instrumentation and monitoring program for the critical areas, to enable the
Nigam and CWC to modify the network of supports depending on the monitoring program. The
evaluation and the practical recommendations of the consultants were well received and accepted by
the Dam Safety Panel, CWC and SSNNL. Implementation of the recommendations has been
successfully completed on the upstream cavern wall, and is reported to be in progress on the
downstream wall and the draft tube openings. The remedial works should be completed shortly
and should thus allow the engineers to complete the excavation of the machine hall. The
consultants also resolved the issue of structural design of the crane columns, over which the Dam
Safety Panel and CWC had disagreed.
Garudeshwar Weir
5.18 The purpose of the Garudeshwar Weir, which was to be financed by the Borrower without
the assistance of the Bank, is to allow the turbine generating sets of the riverbed power house to
reverse operation and pump back water into the main reservoir during the low power demand
periods. As planned, the Garudeshwar Weir will be constructed about 12 km below the main dam,
and will consist of a 23 m high ungated concrete structure with a storage capacity of about 26
Mm3. It will allow the six turbine generating sets to produce 1200 MW of peak energy for 6
hours. SSNNL has finalized the design of this weir after a comprehensive review by the Dam
Safety Panel. However, construction has not yet initiated.
Canal Head Power House (CHPH)
5.19 The canal head power house, which is being constructed without the Bank's financial
assistance, is located at Vadgam on the right bank of the reservoir, about 800 m upstream of the
Sardar Sarovar Dam. It is a power station of conventional type, designed for a total capacity of
250 MW comprising five turbine generator sets of 50 MW each. For economic reasons, the



19
turbine generating sets will not allow the full discharge of 1,107 m3/s (40,000 cusec) of the main
canal to pass through the canal head power house, but only 706 m3/s (25,000 cusec). The contract
for the canal head power house civil works was awarded on March 18, 1989 and was to be
completed by July 17, 1995. The civil works as well as the erection of penstock liners and the
installation of electro-mechanical equipment are progressing according to schedule. The first unit
is expected to be commissioned in August 1995. This would meet the revised implementation
schedule (12/89) milestone of dam construction, which envisages the completion of dam blocks to
a minimum elevation 112.5 m by June 23, 1995 to permit diversion of water for irrigation and
power generation.
Trrgain Bya&ssunnel
5.20  The irrigation bypass tunnel is an important component of the Sardar Sarovar Project to be
financed under the Credit/Loan. It is proposed to be located next to the canal head power house
and to serve as a link between the reservoir and the ponds leading to the main canal head regulator.
Its purpose is to provide controlled releases from the reservoir when the canal head power house is
not operating, or when the canal demand exceeds the discharge of the canal head power house.
Under normal operating conditions, the total volume of water required for irrigation and domestic,
municipal and industral use will pass through the canal head power house. However, since the
discharging capacity of the canal head power house is limited to 706 m3/s (25,000 cusecs), the
balance 400 m3/s (14,000 cusec) will have to pass through the irrigation bypass unnel in periods
of peak demand. Moreover, since the canal head power house could be out of commission during
the peak demand period, the original idea was to design the irrigation bypass tunnel for the
maximum discharge capacity of the main canal, i.e., 1,106 m3/s (40,000 cusec).
5.21  The discharge and invert level have been the source of extensive discussions between the
participating states, NCA and the Bank. As per SAR (para 4.14), the Bank recommended that its
invert level be set at elevation 86.86 m (285 ft), to draw an additional 1,640 Mm3 of active storage
during severe drought by lowering the minimum draw-down level (MDDL) of the reservoir from
elevation 110.64 m (363 ft) to about 93.6 m (307 ft). Subsequently, Bank supervision missions
favored lowering the invert level still further to elevation 86.0 m (282.17 ft) to increase diversions
during drought years. To preserve power generation and also to reduce the risk that Gujarat may
draw more than its share of water, particularly in drought years, Madhya Pradesh prested a note
in June 1984 to the Sardar Sarovar Construction Advisory Committee (SSCAC) suggesting that
the invert level should not be kept lower than 90.13 m (295 ft). In response, Gujarat proposed an
invert level of 88.39 m (290 ft) to prevent the formation of vortex. This was accepted by the
SSCAC during its 17th meeting of April 1986, but Madhya Pradesh's acceptance was subject to
the condition that Gujarat would never bring the reservoir down below the designed MDDL of
110.64 m (363 ft).
5.22 In 1989, the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) took up the issue of the invert level and
the discharge capacity of the irrigation bypass tunnel by appointing a sub-committee headed by the
Chairman CWC. The sub-committee, in consultation with CWC, CEA, and the party State
representatives, discussed various alternatives and submitted their final recommendations. The
NCA, during its 31st meeting of April 1989, resolved that: "An irigation bypass tunnel should be
constructed as part of the Sardar Sarovar Project for a capacity of 10,000 cusecs with reservoir
water level at elevation 97.54 m (320 ft), and 15,000 cusecs with reservoir water level at elevation
110.64 m (363 ft), with an invert level of 88.39 m (290 ft), and that the number and dimensions of
the unnels should be worked out in consultation with the CWC." The NCA also outlined detailed
guidelines and criteria for the operation of the irrigation bypass tunneL It specified that: (i) the
reservoir operation shall be carried out under the overall supervision of NCA; (ii) water shall not be
drawn down below MDDL in more than one year in succession; and (iii) whenever the irrigation
bypass tumnel is to be operated for drawing water below MDDL, the plan of operation shall be snt



20
to the states by the NCA sufficiently in advance. On that basis, the SSNNL, in consultation with
CWC, fmalized the design of the irrigation bypass tunnel which envisages two tunnels of 5.5 m
diameter, capable of discharging 908 cumecs (32,050 cusecs) at full water level 138.68 m (455 ft).
5.23 Initially, all party states agreed to NCA's decision. However, in NCA's subsequent
meeting, GOMP's representative stated that the decision on inrigation bypass tunnel was subject to
confirmation of his State Government. Later on, GOMP intimated that it had no objection to the
construction of the irrigation bypass tunnel on technical grounds, provided that: (i) its use is limited
to the drawing of water for the normal irrigation requirements in case of a shut down of canal head
power house; and (ii) it should not be capable of drawing water below the MDDL. As there was
stfill no agreement between the states, the matter was referred to the RCNCA made up of the Chief
Ministers of the States under the chairmanship of the Minister of Water Resources, GOI in May
1990 and subsequently in September 1990, but the issue could not be resolved. Therefore, the
issue of the invert level and, hence, the design of irrigation bypass tunnel still remains unresolved
today.
5.24 The failure of the party states to resolve the question of the invert level has abnormally
delayed the construction of the irrigation bypass tunnel. It is already too late for the irrigation
bypass tumnel to become operational by June 1995 when irrigation is scheduled to start, according
to the revised implementation schedule (12/89). It will require a minimum of three years to
construct the irrigation bypass tunnel once the issue of the invert level has been resolved. If the
final decision is further delayed, the construction of this structure will pose serious problems.
Madhya Pradesh's concerns could be met in several ways, e.g. by: (i) strictly enforcing the
implementation of the NWDT award, or (ii) establishing a system of cash compensation to be paid
by Gujarat to the other states for any excess uses, or (iii) closely monitoring water use during
command area construction and putting a cap on command area development as soon as Gujarat
has used its full NWDT water allocation.
Bydro-Meteorologcal NetwoQk   I
5.25 The Nannada Basin hydro-meteorological (hydromet) network for flood forecasting and
reservoir operation is another important project component to be financed under the Credit/Loan.
The SAR (paras 4.25 and 4.26), stresses the critical need for establishing an efficient hydromet
network in the vast Narmada Basin (1300 kan long and 100 km wide) through real-time acquisi-
tion, transmission and processing of data. The 96 manually-operated hydromet stations already in
the basin were to be upgaded, enlarged and automated for real time operation. The data on stream
flows would be collected from the remote stations, and transmitted through a dedicated
communication system linking them to a central master computer center at Indore, where NCA
headquarters are located.
5.26 The Project Agreements with GOG, GOMP, and GOM provided for phased implementa-
tion of the hydromet network, and stipulated that in coordination with NCA the three states should:
a.   by December 31, 1986, prepare a final system design for the hydro-meteorological
network, including equipment specifications and construction schedules;
b.   by December 31, 1987, furnish an O&M plan for the hydro-meteorological
network; and
c.   by June 30, 1988, have the components of the hydro-meteorological network that
are to be located within state boundaries installed and operationaL
5.27 Concerned by the non-compliance with the above Hydromet Covenants, the December
1989 Bank supervision mission recommended that as a Condition of Extension of the Water



21
Delivery & Drainage Project (Credit 1553-IN) beyond July 2, 1990, the NCA and the States
should by May 15, 1990: (i) invite bids for the supply of equipment for the hydromet data
collection network; and (ii) fumish a phased implementation schedule for its commissioning by
December 31, 1992. Soon thereafter, CWC made a first step by finalizing the specifications,
which was followed by a second step in June 1990 when NCA initiated the procurement of the
hydromet system. As per NCA's latest Implementation Schedule of June 1991, the installation of
hydrometry equipment was to be completed by April 30, 1992 and the commissioning of the
complete system by June 15, 1993.
5.28  In October 1988, the Bank recruited two international experts to review the Detailed Project
Report prepared by NCA. In their report, the consultants concluded that: (i) "Given a preference, a
dedicated communication system is preferred to a shared system"; and (ii) "Meteor-burst is
recommended as a viable telemetry alternative." As the meteorburst technology did not exist in
India, felt that its feasibility in India would need to be demonstrated. The demonstration was
conducted between Pune and Delhi in late 1988 under rather unfavorable conditions, and this
system was compared with the satellite communication system operated throughout India by the
National Informatics Center, GOI. As the demonstration was positive and the meteor-burst
technology responded well to the special needs of the proposed hydromet system, the Telecom
Commission, GOI, in consultation with experts from various departments, decided in its favor.
5.29 Accordingly, NCA initiated a two-stage international competitive bidding (ICB) process in
September 1991 for the supply, installation, testing and commissioning of a telemetry system
based on meteor-burst communication technology, along with appropriate interface equipment
between sensors and a Central Computer System. The pre-bid conference was held in October
1991, with eight prospective bidders participating. The first stage technical bids were opened in
November 1991 and five bidders (3 domestic and 2 foreign) submitted their bids. The technical
bids were evaluated by a Technical Coordination Committee under the Chairmanship of Member,
CWC, and included the representatives of the Deparunent of Electronics, National Informatics
Center, CWC, and NCA. Only the two foreign bidders were deemed responsive and thus eligible
for the second stage commercial bidding. The Bank agreed with NCA's recommendation to invite
the two foreign firms to submit financial bids in September 1992.
5.30 The invitation for second stage financial bids was stalled, however, following the
intervention of the Director General of the National Informatics Center who informed the Executive
Member, NCA, that the Satellite Communication System already in place in India would be more
cost effective, and also more reliable than the meteor-burst communication system (MBC). The
Bank held a meeting with the Executive Member, NCA, and the Member (RM), CWC, on
February 5, 1993 to end the stalemate and expedite the matter. During this meeting, NCA
indicated its desire to not restrict the telemetry system to meteor-burst technology, and to re-open
the bidding process so that other communication systems available in India could compete with
meteor-burst. Meanwhile, the Dam and Power Project came to a close on March 29, 1993 without
the required Narmada Basin Hydromet Network. Since then, global tenders were invited by NCA
under two stage bidding procedure, permitting bidders to offer any suitable communication
system, viz. Satellite/MBC/any other suitable system. Evaluation of technical bids is in advanced
stage. The second stage commercial bids are likely to be invited soon.
OperaDon & Maintenance Plans
5.31  SSNNL has initiated the preparation of a 3-volume draft Plan of Operation and
Maintenance for the project as a whole, covering the Sardar Sarovar Dam and Reservoir, the
rockfll dikes, the riverbed power house, the Vadgam saddle dam, the canal head power house,
irrigation bypass tunnel, the mechanical plant, instruments, equipment and the canal system. The
successive drafts of this document were revised and updated throughout project implementation,
by incorporating comments from the Bank missions, the Engineer-in-Chief, the Chief Engineer



22
Designs, the consultant mechanical and the suggestions provided by the Dam Safety Panel and the
Board of Consultants from time to time. The latest draft Plan of Operation and Maintenance (5th
Edition) was submitted by SSNNL in October 1992. The Bank has provided its comments on this
document.
5.32 The O&M of the riverbed power house, canal head power house, and the 400 kv double
circuit transmission lines will be under the responsibility of the Gujarat Electricity Board. The
O&M of other components, including the dam, reservoir, dikes, irrigation bypass tunnel, intake
works, colonies, laboratories, and central workshop, will be handled by SSNNL. Although the
Gujarat Electricity Board has already identified and listed its tentative O&M staff requirements,
SSNNL has yet to identify and quantify the various specialized O&M crews that wiU be needed for
handling its numerous O&M activities. As it now stands, SSNNL's Plan of Operation and
Maintenance still needs further improvements to include a phased action plan for implementing a
number of preparatory O&M activities, such as:
a.   procurement of O&M equipment, job-facility plant, accessories and tools;
b.   identifying and quantifying the various specialized O&M crews and their phased
wecruitment;
c.   preparing the manual on instrumentation, covering their worling procedures for
observations, method of recording, and conclusions to be drawn; and
d-. planning and implementing tra1iing programs for the O&M personnel.
5.33   SSNNL should immediately strengthen and staff the existing core O&M Unit for the Dam
and Power Complex to implement the above requirements, in view of the present plan to divert
water for power generation and irrigation in June 1995.
Manaement IfIormation System
5.34 The Nigam has established an excellent computer-based MIS through the operation of 15
computer centers for both the Dam & Power Project and the Water Delivery and Drainage Project.
The MIS provides tabular and graphical displays as well as physical and financial progress reports
for all project components under construction. Besides the preparation of an overall construction
schedule for the project as a whole, it also provides detailed implementation schedules for each
project component. The MIS also covers procurement and contract implementation schedules
which are updated every month. Most importantly, the MIS provides feedback on critical points
that require immediate actions. The MIS has enabled the Nigam engineers at all levels to focus
attention on shortfalls, deficiencies and bottlenecks in project implementation, and has enabled
them to take remedial actions in a timely manner. As a result, the MIS has proved to be a very
useful project management tool, and has had a significant impact on project performance. At
present, more and more activities including finance, administration and R&R are being brought
within the scope of the MIS.
Project Cost. Budgeting and Fmancing
5.35  Project cost estimates and expenditures, by components, are presented in Tables 6 and 7,
Part IIL At Appraisal, the total cost of the entire Sardar Sarovar Project, including physical and
price contingencies, was estimated at Rs. 136,407.0 M (US$ 11,367.2 M) at 1985 price levels.
The estimated cost approved by the Planning Commission, GOI in October 1988, was Rs.
64,060.4 M at FY 1986-87 price levels. During project implementation, the cost of SSP was re-
estimated at Rs. 145,985.1 million at 1992 price levels, i.e., a 128% increase over the cost
approved by the Planning Commission and only 7% above the appraisal estimate. Of this total



23
amount, the cost of the Dam and Power project is estimated at Rs 28,670 M (19.6%). In Dollar
terms, the revised cost of SSP is estimated to be US$ 5,576.5 million at 1992 price levels,
compared to the appraisal cost of US$ 11,367.2 million. This enormous decline in dollar value is
due to the large devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar, which fell from Rs. 12 at Appraisal, to
about Rs. 26 in 1992. At the time of the PCR the Rupee had further devalued to Rs. 31 per Dollar.
According to the NWDT ruling, the cost of the total project is to be shared amongst the four
beneficiary states as follows.
Cost Sharing as per the NWDT
Darn ImPower               Irrigation
Gujarat             50.56           16.0         96.87
Maharashtra         15.15           27.0          0.00
Madhya Pradesh      31.98          57.0           0.00
Rajasthan            2.31            0.0          3.13
Total               100.00          100.0000.0
5.36  The financial implementation of the project, by category, is indicated in Table 8, Part m.
The IDA Credit (1552-IN) of SDR 99.7 million (US$ 100.0 M) and the Bank Loan (2497-IN) of
US$ 200 million were signed on May 10, 1985, totalling a Credit/Loan amount equivalent to US$
300 million. The Bank Group financing amounted to about 18% of the project cost, net of taxes
and duties. No co-financing arrangements were made, but it was understood that the procurement
of the six reversible turbine generating sets would be financed through a special Credit arrangement
with the Government of Japan. The Borrower approached OECF and a first Loan Agreement of V
2.85 billion ($14.5 million) was signed on November 25, 1985 for the design and the tendering of
the six T/G sets. Thereafter, a Loan of V 24.65 billion ($ 125 million) was signed in July 1987 to
finance the manufacture of the six T/G sets by a consortium of Japanese and Indian firms. The
first Loan had practically been exhausted when the Government of Japan decided in early 1991 to
withhold the second loan on account of unsatisfactory R&R progress.
5.37 As indicated earlier, the Credit/Loan became effective on January 6, 1986, but
disbursements began only in 1987, after the project had obtained environmental clearance from
GOI. Thereafter, disbursements continued to be slow for another two years but picked up
momentum in 1990 when the concreting plant and cableways became fully operational. On
September 1, 1990, the disbursement percentage of the Credit/Loan for civil works was increased
from 15% to 90% and, on June 6, 1991, the Development Credit Agreement was amended to
permit financing of electro-mechanical equipment to the extent of SDR 12.4 M. After the closure
of the Water Delivery and Drainage Credit in November, 1991, the consultancy for the design and
installation of a remote control and monitoring system for canal operation was transferred to the
Dam and Power Credit/Loan because of its importance for the project's operation.
4     The cost allocation betwoen Guj at and Rajasthan for the irrigation system is baed on the cost
estimat (at 1992 price level) indicated in Table 6, Part m.



24
5.38 At the time of Loan cancellation, the rate of disbursements was on the order of $ 25.0 M
per year. The Credit was fully disbursed in September 1992. The civil works category was fully
drawn down, the electro-mechanical goods category was utilized to the extent of 71%, the
Technical Assistance category to the extent of 32%, and the Training Category to the extent of 9%.
The large allocation of funds for the hydro-meteorological network was not utilized due to delays
in finalizing the designs and procurement actions. The financing of the consultancy for the design
and installation of a remote control and monitoring system for canal operation, which was
transferred from the Water delivery and Drainage Credit, could not materialize. The training
component was not adequately utilized due to delays in finalizing the training programs for the
O&M, R&R, and environmental aspects of the project. On March 29, 1993, only US$ 18.49 M
(9%) of the Loan was disbursed when the Borrower decided to terminate the Loan. Thus, a total
of US$ 151.79 M (51%) had been disbursed against the Credit/Loan amount of US$ 300 M, by
the date the loan was canceled.
5.39   After cancellation, the Borrower continued to provide adequate funds for the construction
of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, but the construction of the canal system suffered extensively from
inadequate financing. The funding of SSP is likely to be difficult in the future. Based on present
estimates, Gujarat expects a financial gap of about Rs 23,550 M during the Eighth Five Year Plan
(April 1992 - March 1997). This gap will need to be filled through borrowings, as well as other
sources like Central Government funding and farmers' contributions (with the help of the National
Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development [NABARD]) to finance the smaller distribution
networks. In October 1993, the SSNNL issued 20-year bonds on the local market, with a yield of
17.5%. The fund raising operation was over-subscribed by about Rs 2,000 M, and enabled
SSNNL to retain about Rs 3,750 M (US$ 121 M). However, the budgetary requirements for FY
1993/94 for the project as a whole, including irrigation, dam and T/G sets, will be Rs 12,000 M
(US$ 387 M). The funding of the T/G sets in foreign currency (about US$ 125 M) was still
unresolved at the time of the PCR
6.    Environment
Backeround
6.1   The Sardar Sarovar Dam and Power Project will cause the loss of forest, wildlife, and
cultural resources. The reservoir will submerge about 37,600 ha of land, of which about 13,500
ha are classified as forest. In addition, the dam will affect the flows in the downstream portion of
the Narmada River, and particularly the Narmada estuary and Gulf of Khambat. The present
chapter will summarize the implementation of the environmental component, the environmental
impacts, and the mitigating measures. A detailed description of the environmental aspects is given
in Annex 1.
6.2   The SAR and its Supplementary Data Volumes gave only a sketchy description of the
environmental impacts, based on studies prepared by the Borrower that focused mostly on
fisheries downstream of the Sardar Sarovar Dam and forest in the reservoir area. The SAR did not
contain an Environmental Assessment or Management Plan. However, the project's Legal
Documents contained several paragraphs and clauses on environment, stipulating that by December
31, 1985, the party states should prepare an Environmental Work Plan on: (i) fisheries
downstream of the dam, (ii) forest and wildlife in the submergence area, (iii) health hazards as a
result of project implementation, and (iv) training programs for staff, including plans, schedules,
syllabi and provision of funds. Table 22 of the SAR also shows a list of priority studies to be
carried out by NPG, which include watershed management and development of an Afforestation
Plan for reservoir and adjacent areas, to achieve a higher production base and an improved
environment However, the Environmental Work Plan and its contents were not clearly defined
though the Bank operational directives in force at that time (OMS 2.36 of May 1984) specified that
projects with unavoidable adverse effects on the environment should contain an outline of



25
measures needed to avoid or mitigate these effects as well as a component to implement these
measures.
6.3   The Dam and Power project was approved and became effective without a formal review of
its impact on the environment or a forest clearance from the Borrower's MOEF. Whereas the
Borrower's and the Bank's environmental guidelines did not require the formal review of an
Environmental Impact Assessment as a condition of project approval at that time, the Borrower's
Forest Conservation Act of 1980 did require the project to obtain a forestry clearance prior to
implementation. One year after project approval, the Borrower issued the Environmental
Conservation Act of 1986 that required major irrigation and hydro-power projects to obtain
environmental clearance in addition to the forest clearance, prior to commencement of works. A
conditional environmental clearance was given on June 24, 1987, which noted that existing
enviromnental surveys were incomplete and that full details would have to be submitted by the end
of 1989 according to an agreed schedule. The clearance required the preparation of a: (i) rehabilita-
tion master plan, (ii) phased area catchment treatment scheme, (iii) compensatory afforestation
plan, (iv) command area environmental assessment, (v) survey of flora and fauna, (vi) estimate of
the carrying capacity of surrounding areas, (vi) study of seismicity, and (vii) survey of health
aspects. The clearance also indicated that the Narnada Control Authority (NCA) "will ensure that
environmental safeguards measures are planned and implemented pari pasu with progress of work
on projects". Finally, the clearance emphasized that it did not cover the release of forest lands,
which would be subject to a separate clearance in line with the Forest Conservation Act of 1980.
6.4   Subsequently, on September 8, 1987 the MOEF gave the requisite forest clearance for the
submergence of 13,385 ha of forest land by the Sardar Sarovar Dam, subject to the following
conditions: (i) detailed compensatory afforestation plans would be submitted by September 30,
1987, (ii) compensatory afforestation would be double the area affected, (iii) a catchment area
treatment plan would be prepared by November 30, 1987, and (iv) no forest lands would be
utilized for the resettlement of oustees. This latter condition actually contradicted the project's
Legal Documents, which stipulated that forest lands could be released, if needed, for the settlement
of oustees. Finally, in October 1988, the Government of India Planning Commission also gave its
formal endorsement to the project, again subject to several conditions relating to environment and
R&R.
I mDImentation
6.5   During project implementation, the Borrower continued to prepare a number of studies
relating to compensatory afforestation, catchment area treatment, fisheries, wildlife and
archaeology in the upstream part of the project. A study of the impact of the project on fisheries
downstream of the dam was also undertaken. In 1987, the Bank commissioned an Overview of
the environmental aspects of the project5 which, after publication in 1989, made a number of
recommendations. In particular, the report indicated that the Bank should intensify its supervision
and enter into supplemental agreements to strengthen the environmental aspects of the project.
Supervision missions also requested the strengthening of NCA and stated the need for a river basin
management plan.
6.6   NCA's coordination of environmental work remained rather weak, particularly in the early
stages of project implementation. Although many individual studies and plans were completed,
these were not directed towards the preparation of a comprehensive Environmental Impact
AssessmenL The Bank supervision missions concentrated their reviews mostly on the upstream
impacts, and repeatedly stressed the need to recruit technical expertise in the environmental field.
5     Overview Environmental Asseument Sardar Sarovar and Narmada Sagar Projects, Narmada River Basin,
India. Consultant to the World Bank, 1989.



26
The missions also noted that the lack of an Environmental Work Plan as required by the Bank's
Legal Documents was hampering the monitoring of environmental studies. Initially, very little
attention was paid to either the health aspects or the environmental training programs. For these
two activities, Bank missions relied heavily on the reports of the Borrower. It was only at the end
of the project that the Bank engaged a malaria specialist who concluded that this component had not
been treated adequately and made recommendations for remedial measures to correct this. The
submission date for the Environmental Work Plan was extended to December 1989, but was still
not submitted by that date. Some of the plans required by the Borrower's environmental clearance
were submitted, such as the compensatory afforestation and the catchment area development plans.
6.7   Ever since its inception and particularly from 1989 onwards, the project was criticized by
advocacy groups and NGOs, first from India and then from abroad, because of the allegedly poor
R&R implementation in the submergence area of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, and because of
environmental concerns. In response to project critics, Bank staff answered to a large volume of
queries from NGOs as well as from member countries through the Bank's Executive Directors
(EDs). The Bank staff also organized regular briefing meetings with the Bank's Executive
Directors and participated in a number of hearings in the US and abroad to give an account of the
situation. Inspite of these efforts, the environmental NGOs put more and more pressure on the
Bank to take corrective actions. Finally, in 1991 the Bank commissioned an Independent Review
of the project. The terms of reference of the Independent Review team called for an objective
account on the status of project implementation in the environmental, R&R and health fields.
6.8   The Independent Review team, headed by Mr. Bradford Morse, ex-Administrator of
UNDP, initiated its field work in September 1991 and published its final report in June 1992.
With regard to the Dam and Power project, the Independent Review report, observed that by the
end of 1988, all required agreements had been reached between the GOI, the States, the
implementing agencies including NCA, and the Bank to ensure that an adequate assessment of the
environmental impact of the Sardar Sarovar Projects would be made by 1989. However, it noted
that by the time of the review, most of the Bank's 1985 legal requirements and most of the con-
ditions attached to MOEF's 1987 environmental clearance had not been met and concluded that, by
any standards, this was unacceptable. The report also criticized the "pari pasu" approach on
grounds that it subverted any acceptable notion of environmental planning, and defeated the
purpose of preparing environmental assessments designed to anticipate and prevent impacts and
incorporate remedial measures in the project design. The report made a number of critical remarks
on hydrology, sedimentation, back water effects, afforestation and fisheries, as well as on R&R
implementation which is reviewed in a separate chapter below.
6.9   On health aspects, the Independent Review report states that at the time of the project
appraisal, the dangers of water-borne diseases in irrigation projects were well known and
documented, particularly those related to malaria and schistosomiasis. The report quotes a status
report on malaria and other health-related aspects, prepared by the Bank's consultant in January
1992, which states that the project had been planned, designed and executed without incorporation
of health safeguards and that the levels of malaria in villages near the dam site were nearly double
those of the other villages served by the health center in that area. The report concluded that the
Bank and the state governments had failed to address the issue of public health adequately.
6.10  The Bank issueda    gement Resaos on June 23, 1992. This document agreed with
the Independent Review report on the description of the delays which occurred in completing the
mandated environmental studies, and on the need for a more effective central management or
coordination function in the Narmada Basin on environmental impact studies and mitigation
programs. Management also agreed on the need to accelerate work on health matters in Gujarat.
In particular, the Management noted that greater urgency was needed in the analysis of impacts on
the estuary (particularly fisheries) and in the treatment of health issues. However, Management did
not share the conclusions of the Independent Review about the severe environmental consequences



27
of the study delays. With regard to wildlife management, Management believed that adequate
work had been done or was due shortly. On hydrology, and sedimentation Management disagreed
with the analysis and particularly with the assumptions behind the upstream Narmada Sagar Dam.
However, the findings of the PCR and the Bank's consultants indicate that the Independent
Review made a reasonable assessment of sedimentation and reservoir life. The Management's
response appears to defend the Borrower's understanding that the pari-pasu approach to
environmental assessment was adequate in view of the long development period of the project, and
the difficulty of assessing impacts that will develop over time. The Management believed that,
with an adequate environmental monitoring system, most impacts would be identified and
mitigated long before reaching any damaging dimensions. The PCR does not share this position
and believes it is always preferable to carry out preventive measures based on prior assessment
than to implement corrective measures based on monitoring and evaluation. On health aspects, the
Bank staff noted that the data presented did not appear adequate to derive clear conclusions on the
increase of malaria near the dam site, nor did the Independent Review report appear to
acknowledge that there was still adequate time to deal with health aspects prior to the commence-
ment of irrigation.
6.11 Thereafter, in the light of the Independent Review findings, the Bank mounted a review
mission in July 1992 to assess the status of implementation and compliance with the Bank's Legal
Agreements. The mission reported that the Borrower had completed 22 environmental studies
prior to the MOEF environmental clearance in 1987, that 11 had been completed since then, and
that 15 more were underway or proposed. The mission concluded that there had been no severe
environmental consequences to date because of study delays, but there was concern about the
potential impact of the project, particularly downstream of the dam. The mission also
recommended that a detailed Environmental Management Plan be produced as soon as possible.
On health aspects, the mission noted that the Government of Gujarat had accepted the findings and
recommendations of the January 1992 mission, which included setting up a Health Planning and
Monitoring Cell in SSNNL, preparing an environmental health management plan, and setting up an
anti-malaria Unit at the dam site (Kevadia), to be followed by others in the command area later.
6.12 The Borrower in a letter of September 1, 1992, ensured the Bank that GOI would
promptly address the concerns raised by the Independent Review and Bank missions and correct
management and organizational weaknesses in the R&R program. The attachment to the letter
indicated that a comprehensive environmental action plan had been prepared and was presently
under review by NCA. Also attached to the letter was a bar chart showing a list of environmental
studies completed, ongoing and proposed.
6.13  The Management Response, the mission's findings, and the Borrower's action plan were
presented to the Board, together with three options for actions in a document entitled Reviewf
Current Status and Next Steps. On October 23, 1992 the Board discussed this document and
agreed with the analysis of the Independent Review which had identified a number of deficiencies
in the Bank's appraisal and the Borrower's implementation of the projects. The Board agreed to
the Management's third option of continuing support to the projects subject to the Borrower's
compliance with a series of benchmarks by March 31, 1993. The Board fLxed two benchmarks
relating to environment and one on health aspects of this project
a.   completion of terms of reference for the preparation of a comprehensive Narmada
Basin Environmental Management Plan;
b.   completion of a prioritized environmental overview report for the Sardar Sarovar
Projects, including: (i) a summation and qualitative analysis of the 22 studies
aleady completed, as well as the 11 now underway, and covering upstream and
downstream impacts on such areas as wildlife, flora and fauna, archeological and
religious sites, catchment area treatment, reforestation, and (ii) an environmental



28
work plan covering works remaining to be done in both the upstream and
downstream areas; and
c.   adequate implementation of Gujarat's malaria control program at the SSP project
site, in line with the specific recommendations of the July 1992 Bank mission.
6.14 The Board requested that a special review mission visit India during April 1993 to assess
progress in the implementation of the agreed action plan and indicated that continuation of the
Bank's support after April 1993 would depend on fulfiUment of the benchmarks.
6.15 Compliance with the Benchmarks. A Technical Assistance grant of  1.0 million from the
United Kingdom's Overseas Development Agency (ODA) was then established with the Bank to
assist the Borrower in meeting the benchmarks. Two British consulting firms were recruited by
the Bank in consultation with the Borrower and completed their work by mid-March 1993. On
March 29, 1993, the GOI requested the Bank to cancel the remaining portion of the Dam and
Power Loan, thus terminating the Bank's lending for the Sardar Sarovar Projects. By that time,
the Consultants had completed their field work and submitted the major part of their draft reports to
NCA. Generally, the consultants were impressed by the amount of work that had been done.
However, NCA submitted its final response to the benchmarks only on August 5, 1993. The
reports, which generally complied with the environmental benchmarks, comprised: (i) terms of
reference for the preparation of a comprehensive Narmada Basin Environmental Management Plan,
(ii) an Environmental Overview of the project and Prioritized Action Plan, (iii) several technical
reports on sedimentation, hydrology, backwater effects and downstream impact, and (iv) steps
taken by Gujarat to meet the Bank's recommendations on malaria control. Although these
documents include recommendations for further work, particularly on hydrological modeling and
downstream impact, they do not support some of the positions taken by the Independent Review-
particularly with respect to hydrology, sedimentation and back-water effects. The Borrower
concurred with the Consultants that no major impact had yet occurred as a result of the project and
that the potential impacts would develop over a considerable period of time. As discussed in
Annex 1 (para. 35), this PCR finds this to be a weak position since it is true for any project under
construction and is not an excuse for not preparing or for delaying the preparation of the required
Environmental Work Plan. The major findings of NCA and the Consultants are summarized below
and in Annex 1. There is every reason to believe that these findings provide an accurate and
satisfactory description of the status of environmental implementation at the date of Credit/Loan
closure.
Impact Assessment
6.16 Hydrology and Downstream Impact. The Independent Review report strongly criticized
the Borrower and the Bank for failing to conduct an impact assessment of the lower part of the
Narmada River. Studies on the Ecology and Environment were carried out in 1983 and, thereafter,
studies on the estuary and fisheries were prepared by the Central Inland Capture Fisheries
Research Institute in 1988 and 1991. In addition, ample data on water quality had been and
continues to be collected on a regular basis by CWC, Gujarat Pollution Control Board, and the
national Institute of Oceanography. As these studies and data were largely descriptive, it is true
that no comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment and management plan had been
prepared. A number of studies are presently underway, including estuary modelling by CWPRS,
reservoir and dam operation by NPG and its consultants, and on quality of return flows from the
command area (among others) by SSNNL. On-going studies will provide further information on
such matters as fish ecology, water quality, flood risk, discharge patterns, and socio-economic
trends, enabling a comprehensive impact assessment and management plan for the estuary
downstream of the dam to be produced by December 1994.



29
6.17  Before any significant water resource development took place in the Basin, the natural flow
of the Narmada was typical of rivers in a monsoon climate: high and widely varying flows in the
wet season from July to September, followed by sharply declining flows in the dry season from
October until May/June. In the lower reach of the Narmada, the flow dropped almost to zero in the
dry months, and the salt front moved some 70 km up the river from the estuary. This situation has
improved since the completion of the Bargi Dam in 1989 which releases regulated flows during the
dry season. The potential for environmental changes in the lower river and estuary should be seen
in the context of the Basin's long-term development:
Stage 1 - 1995 to 2005. During this stage the Sardar Sarovar and the Narmada Sagar dams are
expected to be built and placed in operation in Gujarat and MP, respectively. These two states will
be using about one third of their water allocations, and the remaining two-thirds will be used for
power generation. During the monsoon season, peak floods and the overall discharge of the River
will be marginally reduced. During the dry season, the overall discharge of the River will be
largely enhanced due to power generation. As a result, this stage can be considered beneficial,
because it will augment the dry season flows without affecting the wet season flows.
Stage 2 - 2005 to 2024. During this stage Gujarat is expected to make full use of its share, while
MP's water demand will increase to about 16,000 Mm3 or 70% of its allocation. During the
monsoon season the peak flows and overall discharge will decrease, while during the dry season
the flows will be reduced (and close to nil during drought years). Fishing activities and
particularly that of hilsa, which breed during the high water season, will be adversly affected. In
addition, the concentration of industrial pollutants and return flows from irrigation will increase
during the dry season and particularly during drought years. These aspects will need to be closely
monitored. Reservoir operation and power generation will need to be adjusted to ensure some
minimum water releases during the dry season, for environmental control.
Stag, 3 after 2024. The NWDT award may be revised at this time. This is the final stage during
which Gujarat, MP and the other two states will make full use of their shares. During this stage
both monsoon and non-monsoon flows will be considerably reduced, and the quality of water in
both seasons will be greatly affected by the increased quantities of effluents from domestic,
municipal and industrial use, and return flows from irrigation. Special measures will have to be
taken to control water quality and maintain a minimum flow in the Narmada River during the dry
season. The review of the NWDT award will have to take these needs into account.
6.18 The Consultants, who assisted the Borrower in meeting the benchmarks, state that the
eventual decline of hilsa and giant freshwater prawn fisheries seems highly probable, certainly after
Stage 2, although higher non-monsoon flows in the early stages of development may actually lead
to an increase. The loss of hilsa would be significant in relation to stocks on the west coast of
India, but not in relation to global resources. Thus, the loss of genetic resources is not an issue,
with respect to either hilsa or giant freshwater prawns. The most significant impact would be on
the livelihood of fishermen. The Consultants state that recent estimates of the number of fishing
families dependent on stocks in the Narmada River vary from 2,200 to 4,700, and that special
measures will be needed in due course to safeguard their livelihood. On these aspects, the
Consultants concur with the fingings of the Independent Review, however, they expect that the
economic loss will be largely offset by the development of aquaculture in the reservoir and
command area.
6.19 The consultants have made several recommendations to mitigate the impact of the project on
the downstream portion of the Narmada River. These include, in the immediate future, further
modelling studies on the estuary and a plan of action to prevent the loss of flow that will occur
during the closure of the riverbed construction sluices and subsequent concreting of the stifling
basin downstream of the dam. In the short term, they recommend further studies on the impact on
fisheries, the preparation of an R&R plan for the fishing communities, and the creation of an



30
effective environmental monitoring system. They state that "The one issue, which should be
reassessed in the next ten years and regularly thereafter, is whether it is feasible and appropriate to
allow a minimum flow of water to be maintained in the lower Narmada." On this latter aspect, the
consultants should have recommended an immediate study of when and how much water will need
to be put aside for environmental control, since this aspect will not only affect the environment but
could also have an effect on the economics of the project--depending on the outcome of the 2024
Tribunal review.
6.20 Sdimentation The Independent Review reported that the assumed annual sediment load
entering the reservoir had been underestimated by a factor of two. This implied that the service life
of the Sardar Sarovar Reservoir estimated by the Borrower at 180 to 233 years was excessive.
The Bank consultants reviewed the sedimentation studies carried out by the NPG in June 1982 and
the CWC in January 1990. The Consultants also made their own analysis. According to their
calculations: (i) the annual storage loss will be of 7,603 ham/year, representing 0.35% of the total
storage or 0.52% of the live storage; and (ii) the "half life" of the storage will be in the range of 90
to 120 years. If the service life of the dam is equated to its "half life", the Consultant's findings are
then consistent with those of the Independent Review.
6.21  The service life of the combined SSP and NSP storage, is also consistent with GOI's
Standard IS 12182-1987 which stipulates a minimum of 100 year service life for large reservoirs.
However, without the NSP, the SSP storage would have a shorter life and sedimentation would be
a more serious problem. The non-construction of the Narmada Sagar Dam would also affect water
supply during the dry season and, hence, power generation as well. MP initiated the construction
of NSP in May 1992, and present plans are that the dam should to be completed around year 2003
unless there are unexpected delays. It is difficult at present to pre4ict the future of this dam with
certainty when considering the environmental and R&R impacts and financial difficulties of the
state6. For this reason the PCR for the Water Delivery and drainage project recommends a
continuous step-wise approach towards the completion of the full command area, to prevent
development that might be excessive in light of new scenarios.
6.22 Back-Water Effects The Independent Review Report observed that the 1984 CWC study
on back-water effects had made no allowance for the possible fonnation of a delta in the upstream
reach of the reservoir. The report declared that sedimentation would have startling effects in that:
(i) lands situated above the present submergence line would be inundated; (ii) forest areas would
be affected; (iii) people's use of the lands would be affected; and (iv) the inundated area would
continue to increase significantly year after year. These observations led CWC to conduct its own
study on back-water effects for the 1 in 100 year flood, which was reviewed by Consultants. The
results show a possible increase of 3.5 m over the 1 in 100 year flood level, over a period of about
200 years, with effects on an additional 20 villages. The CWC calculations are based on the
assumption that Narmada Sagar will be completed 20 years after Sardar Sarovar. However, if
NSP is delayed more than 20 years, or is not constructed at all, the water levels would increase
even more quickly. The Consultants, after reviewing the CWC study, concluded that:
a.    initially, sedimentation will have an insignificant effect and the increase in back-
water levels for the 1 in 100 year flood will develop slowly over a 200 year period;
b.    the increase in flood levels will, to a certain extent, be marked by variations in
flows from year to year, and
6     Te Brrower rwcognizes that the Namada Sagar Dam may be delayed by some yean, but hu no doubt
about its completion.



31
c.   in view of the slow development of the impact, there will be sufficient time
available after the construction of the dams to assess the problem and take suitable
action to mitigate the effects on the inhabitants involved.
6.23 Compensatory Afforestation. The Sardar Sarovar Dam will submerge about 37,600 ha, of
which about 13,500 ha were classified as forest and granted environmental clearance by MOEF in
September 1987. Baseline studies carried out in all three states suggest that most of the
submergence areas are characterized by highly degraded, low productivity forest. For example, in
Gujarat tree densities are about one tenth of a full forest stand. The project authorities have
arranged for the afforestation of an equal area of non-forest land or the afforestation of double the
area of degraded forest. All three states have produced detailed action plans which place the
responsibility for compensatory afforestation with their Departments of Forestry. Each state has
also produced a policy statement outlining the participatory management approaches to afforesta-
tion. At Loan cancellation, all three states had made significant progress and it was estimated that
about 70% of the areas had been completed. The entire work is scheduled to be completed by June
1996, i.e., well ahead of submergence. Monitoring of compensatory afforestation work and
assessment of its quality is carried out by the Central as well as the State Forestry officers and the
NCA staff.
6.24 Maharashtra had planned to resettle its project-affected families (PAFs) in a tract of 2,700
ha of forest land at Taloda. The MOEF opposed the release of this land for a long time, because it
was contrary to the requirements of the forestry clearance of September 1987. However, since the
project's Legal Documents specified that forest lands could be released for resettlement, the Bank
insisted that this land be released and threatened not to extend the Water Delivery and Drainage
Project if the Borrower refused to release the amount of land required. The issue was ultimately
resolved and the MOEF issued the forestry clearance on July 20, 1990. In spite of this difficulty,
Maharashtra planned again, in October 1992, to resettle an additional group of PAFs (resulting
from an expansion of its R&R policy) in a tract of about 1,500 ha of forest land adjacent to Taloda.
The Bank supported Maharashtra's request by including the release of this forest land as part of the
benchmarks to be met by March 31, 1993. The MOEF again opposed release of this land for
resettlement, and the matter was finally resolved on January 13, 1994 when the MOEF gave
Maharashtra the required environmental clearance. In hindsight, the Bank could have been more
attuned to MOEFs concems by recommending Maharashtra to purchase land through the Land
Purchase Committees as in Gujarat At the time of drafting the PCR, about 1,200 ha of the initial
forest land at Taloda had been cleared of all vegetation, a resettlement center was being
constructed, and about 700 PAFs had resettled.
6.25 Catchment Ara Treatment. In its forestry clearance, the MOEF had requested the project
to carry out soil conservation measures in the Narmada Basin. There has been some dispute over
what area should be covered and MOWR has taken the position that it should only be the critically
degraded watersheds draining directly into the Sardar Sarovar reservoir. A phased program has
been prepared to treat about 176,000 ha out of the 2.45 M ha draining directly into the reservoir. A
detailed survey has been implemented by the State and appropriate treatment regimes established.
The Government Forest lands are being treated by the State Forestry Departments, while private
agricultural lands are being treated with the assistance of the State Agricultural Departments under
the guidance of local Land Improvement Committees. Treatment has been initiated and is expected
to be completed by June 1997.
6.26  Flora and Ean. Detailed studies of flora and fauna of the submerged areas in Gujarat,
and ongoing studies in Maharashtra and MP, have concluded that no rare or endangered flora or
fauna will be lost or threatened by the reservoir. It is expected that the presence of water will
benefit the environment surrounding the reservoir. A detailed plan has been drawn up for the
development of the Shoolpaneshwar wildlife sanctuary in Gujarat. In addition, the Central Inland
Capture Fisheries Research Institute (CICFRI) is conducting studies to assess the potential for



32
fisheries in the reservoir and to develop artificial breeding and rearing techniques for commercially
important fish. Detailed plans for fisheries development and exploitation have been prepared and
an Interstate Fisheries Development Board proposed, with responsibility for research and
development of fisheries in the reservoir. CICFRI is also carrying out detailed studies on the
impact of the project on fisheries in the estuary, as indicated earlier.
6.27  Cultural Hertape. The Narmada River Basin contains a large number of shrines, temples
and places of worship which form part of the cultural heritage of the Indian sub-continent. The
principal impacts of the project on these cultural sites are the disruption due to construction
activities and the loss of access to sites due to submergence. To ensure adequate protection of the
cultural heritage, each of the riparian states has carried out a detailed survey of archeological sites
witiin the submergence zone. Gujarat has identified two temples for relocation and submitted an
action plan in 1985. No sites have been identified in Maharashtra, while a large number of
potential sites for relocation have been identified in MP. A final decision on the number of sites to
be moved in MP was taken by an Expert Panel appointed by the project. The Department of
Archeology of MP has produced a draft action plan with schedules for relocation of temples
consistent with submergence.
6.28  Public Health. The impact of the project on public health relates primarily to the possible
expansion of malaria at the dam construction site and in the villages settled on the rim of the
reservoir. After a long delay, each of the three States has carried out in-depth baseline surveys of
existing diseases in the project area, and has set up health care facilities for resettled and permanent
populations. The state programs on the control of malaria were strengthened, through the
organization of information workshops and the introduction of guidelines for malaria control.
Gujarat proposes to introduce an Urban Malaria Scheme for population centers not covered by the
national program. A major outstanding task in the project area is the posting of health staff in the
newly established infirmaries, monitoring cells and other health care facilities and providing
adequate funding.
7.    Resettlement and Rehabilitation7
3ackgwound
7.1   In its report entitled "Sardar Sarovar Project, Land Acquisition and Rehabilitation of
Oustees" and its "Supplementary Report " of October 19848, NCA estimated that the Sardar
Sarovar Dam would inundate about 37,600 ha at full reservoir level (138.68 m) and 41,000 ha at
maximum water level (140.21 m) temporarily, and that the reservoir would displace about 11,850
families (or about 74,230 persons) located in 235 villages. The report indicated that nearly 70% of
the families were living in MP, 18% in Gujarat and about 13% in Maharashtra, and that the
majority of the oustees in Maharashtra and Gujarat were tribal people belonging to a number of
distinct ethnic groups. The Report also noted that the majority of oustees relied on agriculture,
with forest produce and wage labor providing supplemental income. The proportion of landless
was estimated to be in the range of 23% in Gujarat, and as high as 47% in MP. This report
described an overall inter-state R&R program including a phased schedule for the relocation of 224
villages in the three states, and a detailed Stage I Plan covering 52 villages up to reservoir elevation
of 350 feet (106.7 m). It also provided procedures for semi-annual and annual monitoring,
evaluation and reporting. However, these plans turned out to be mostly desk exercises prepared
7     More details on this Section am provided in the Annex 2 on Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project
Affected Persons.
8     This report was submitted at Project Negotiations. The number of families is about 10% highor than
indicated in the SAR.



33
by NCA, without the full commitment of the states concerned. As a result, the quality of initial
planning was partial and inadequate.
7.2   The SAR contained a chapter on land acquisition and resettlement, which was further
detailed in Annex 1 of the SDV. During appraisal it was agreed that more detailed state R&R plans
would be prepared in accordance with the decisions of the NWDT, as well as with the principles
and objectives discussed with Bank missions. In addition, the plans would utilize data from the
NCA report dated October 1984. The Legal Documents stipulated that the party states should
adopt and thereafter implement within their respective state boundaries, a resettlement and
rehabilitation plan for the Sardar Sarovar Dam reservoir oustees, satisfactory to the Bank, which
would include the principles and objectives given in Schedule A and the institutional arrangements
provided in Schedule B of the SAR.
7.3   The NWDJ  final order of December 1979 included detailed provisions relating to the
acquisition of land and the rehabilitation of project-affected families. This was the first time that a
Water Dispute Tribunal in India had contained any provisions on the resettlement and economic
rehabilitation of project-affected persons. The Tribunal award stipulated that oustees would be
given the option of resettling, as communities, either in the command area in Gujarat or in the
reservoir catchment areas of their own states. The NWDT determined the rehabilitation package
that Gujarat was to provide to oustees from the other two states, but did not stipulate the packages
that each state would offer to its own oustees. Gujarat was required to provide, free of cost, a
house plot and a minimum of 2 ha of irrigable land to every landed family that had lost more than
25% of its holding. Gujarat was also to provide a range of civic amenities to communities that had
been relocated in resettlement centers. The NWDT also stipulated that submergence should not
take place until all compensation has been made, and that resettlement costs would be paid by
Gujarat regardless of whether the oustees opted to relocate within the SSP command area or within
the reservoir basin. The NCA was responsible for monitoring the implementation of the R&R
program.
7.4   Schedule A of the SAR stipulated a number of principles and objectives in addition to the
NWDT provisions:
a.   soon after their displacement, the oustees will improve or at least regain the standard
of living they had enjoyed prior to displacement, be relocated in village units in
accordance with their preference, be fully integrated in the host community, and
receive appropriate compensation as well as social and economic rehabilitation;
b.   oustees will participate in the preparation of the R&R plans;
c.   each landed oustee will be alotted a minimum of 2 ha of irrigable land, acceptable to
him in the state of Gujarat, Maharashtra and MP of his choosing;
d.   each landless oustee will be rehabilitated in agricultural or non-agricultural sectors
and shall be entitled to a stable means of livelihood in accordance with para. a.
above;
e.   the level of land compensation will be based on current market value;
f.   the cost of replacement land would be covered by 50% of the compensation
received by the landed oustees, and the balance through an interest-free loan
repayable in 20 years; and
g.   in no case shall cash payment be made in substitution for land or actual
rehabilitation.



34
7.5   Schedule B of the SAR provided the institutional, monitoring and evaluation arrangements
for R&R In particular, it specified that the party states should establish a separate R&R Wing,
employ suitable institutions for monitoring and evaluating implementation of the R&R program,
prepare semi-annual and annual R&R reports, and establish Advisory Committees on R&R matters
within specified dates.
7.6  In summa, the appraisal devoted much attention to the R&R aspects of the project and,
recognizing the deficiencies of the Stage I Plan prepared by NCA, took a number of steps to ensure
that, during implementation, the individual states policies, plans and implementation capabilities
would be brought in line with the NWDT and the Bank's Operational Manual Statements (OMS)
2.33 of February 1980 on Involuntary Resettlement, and OMS 2.34 of February 1982 on Tribal
People. However, in doing so, the Bank failed to ensure that its guidelines had been fully
complied with particularly with regard to early consultation with oustees and preparation of detailed
R&R plans by the states prior to project approval. In retrospect, and in view of the greater
knowledge of social issues developed during implementation, higher standards of preparation and
appraisal would have been warranted.
7.7   The difference in the number of affected persons between SAR estimates and PCR
estimates (10,758 compared to 41,014 persons) is explained largely by changes in eligibilities and
definition of oustee families. It also results from improved surveys, enumeration and population
growth. In 1979, the NWDT authorities estimated the number of oustee families at 7,366 or -
using an average multiplier of 5 - approximately 36,830 project affected persons (PAPs). By
utilizing 1981 Census Population and growth figures of 2.2% per year, the Bank Appraisal
estimates in 1985 grew to a total of 67,340 PAPs. These estimates were thereafter revised at
negotiations to 11,850 families or about 74,230 persons as per NCA's Supplementaty Report of
October 1984. The latest estimates which are now based on partial house-to-house surveys and
new categories of oustee families such as adult sons, landless laborers and encroachers lead to a
figure of about 41,014 families corresponding to about 131,245 PAPs using an average multiplier
of 3.2. However, these figures are still not final because of uncertainties regarding the total number
of PAFs in Maharashtra and MP and also because of anomalies still persisting in NCA's quarterly
R&R Status Reports. For example, in NCA's R&R Status Report of May 1994, the multiplier
coefficient between the number of families and the population affected works out to 4.0 in Gujarat,
7.0 in Maharashtra and 2.7 in MP. These strong variations show that: (i) the states are not using
the same criteria for reporting the number of affected families; and (ii) NCA is not exercising
adequate control over the figures submitted by the states. The high multiplier in Maharashtra leads
the PCR to believe that this state is still not counting adult sons and maybe other categories of
PAFs, and the low multiplier in MP, on the contrary, could mean that this state is inflating the
number of PAFs by perhaps counting a larger number of adult sons than actually exist. Though the
resurveying of families in MP is said to have been completed, the PCR has some doubts as to its
accuracy with regard to the number of families and persons affected.



35
Sardar Sarovar Dan Resettlement Program
Maharashta           M P                1
SAI  E   SAR  MM    SAR PCR   SAR 
Area Inundated (ha)  11,608  7,469  7,050  9,399    22,882  20,722    41,540  37,590
Villages (No.)        19    19    36       33       180      193       235      245
Families (No.)     1,900  4,500  1,358  3,500 *  7,500  33,014 ** 10,758  41,014
Persons (No.)     10,593 14,400 11,747 11,200    45,000 105,645    67,340  131,245
* Estimate based on parial resurvey of 15 villages out of 33.
** May increase after land acquisition is completed
Source SAR, Feb. 1985, p. 24; R&R Status Report, NCA, May 1994
R&R Generic Issue
7.8  Implementation of R&R was not easy nor timely. A number of problems arose regarding
the application of the NWDT decisions, the consideration of certain categories of oustees, the
preparation of the State R&R Plans, the selection of resettlement sites, the construction of
resettlement centers, and meeting the special needs of tribal people. Many of the problems arose
from the inadequacies and incompleteness of the states' original R&R policies. In 1991, R&R
implementation came under such heavy criticism from NGOs and donor countries that the Bank
commissioned an Independent Review of the project's R&R and environmental aspects. This
effort led to the publication of an Independent Review report in June 1992.
7.9   The R&R component was faced with a number of issues. Some were due to the non-
application of OMS 2.33 at project outset while others became apparent only during project
implementation. However, the lack of prior consultation with the affected families is probably one
of the major rasons for difficulties encountered in carrying out socio-economic surveys, preparing
satisfactory R&R policies and plans and implementing the program in a timely manner. The time
required for preparing R&R policies and plans and implementing them in a satisfactory manner is
also an important factor which was underestimated by the Borrower and the Bank. Experience
shows that it can take from five to ten years between the decision to move oustees from the
submergence area and the time that oustees are rehabilitated within the receiving area. The
sequence of operations comprises: (i) awareness campaigns; (ii) socio-economic surveys; (iii)
policy decisions; (iv) physical planning of resettlement centers; (v) movement of families; (vi)
economic rehabilitation; and (vii) integration within the administrative set up. As a result,
preparing and implementing R&R plans turned out to be a more lengthy and difficult procedure
than initially anticipated. Some of the difficulties encountered during project implementation could
have been avoided had OMS 2.33 been followed strictly, such as the early consultation with
oustees; but other difficulties such as the differences of treatment of landless, adult sons and
encraochers were not foreseen in the OMS. The major difficulties encountered are summarized as
follows.
7.10  The f1  problem was to determine the precise number of PAFs. Usually the state
governments base their estimates on land acquisition records. However, this number does not
account for all affected persons, particularly the landless, encroachers living in forested areas or on
government land, adult sons and migrating populations. The final and correct number per category



36
can only be obtained after: (i) the Government has prepared a preliminary list of oustees, based on
land acquisition records, (ii) a second list has been prepared on the basis of a house-to-house
socio-economic survey to capture the landless and other oustees not included in the first list, (iii)
camps are organized in each village to reconcile Government and independent lists and to hear
objections, and (iv) identity cards have been issued to each oustee, together with their entitlements.
These are lengthy operations which can take several years, particularly when rather large numbers
of PAFs are involved. In Maharashtra and MP, this exercise was further complicated by the need
to learn dhrough the socio-economic surveys whether the PAFs wanted to resettle in their own state
or in Gujarat. This is a difficult point: PAFs do not finalize their decisions until they are about to
move because individuals are influenced by the choices that others are making. As a result, there
are always last minute changes. Under these circumstances, it is unreasonable to demand precise
numbers in advance. In these two states, the field surveys were also hampered by oustees
opposed to the dam, who prevented Government officials and their survey teams from entering the
villages. To date Maharashtra has not been able to complete the survey of oustees in all its villages
and, therefore, the final list of oustees is still not known.
7.11  The second difficulty was how to implement the land-for-land principle. State
governments have several options for providing replacement agricultural land to oustees, but few
are workable on a large scale. These options are:
a.   to acquire replacement land from others, under the Land Acquisition Act. This
option is not practiced because it would create a second group of oustees who
would themselves require rehabilitation;
b.   to allocate government land to oustees. This option is difficult to implement for
three major reasons: (i) government forest lands are not available for resettlement,
according to the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, although some exceptions have
been made, (ii) agricultural government lands are usually occupied by encroachers
and are therefore difficult to access without creating secondary displacement, and
(iii) other government-owned properties, such as waste lands, are usually not
suitable for agriculture;
c.   to apply the Land Ceiling Acts as a means of releasing land in the areas benefitting
from the project. However, this option has proven very difficult if not impossible
to implement because land ownership is highly fragmented; and
d.   to purchase land on the open land market This solution has been used extensively
in Gujarat, because of the relatively large number of absentee landlords who were
willing to sell land.
7.12  Under this last procedure, Gujarat's R&R Wing purchased land through a special
provision of the Land Acquisition Act, which permits acquisition by consent award. In this
particular case, Gujarat set up Land Purchase Committees whose role was to negotiate the selling
price and to obtain the seller's consent. Thus, Gujarat was able to create a pool of replacement
land which became available for redistribution to oustees under the provisions of the NWDT. The
method's major drawback was to put a heavy burden on the State Government to: (i) locate the
land available for sale, (ii) evaluate its quality, (iii) fix the price, (iv) carry out the transaction, (v)
and allocate the land to eligible oustees who might or might not accept what was offered them. An
alternative to this method, which is being implemented successfully in Karnataka but was not tred
out in SSP, is to deposit the money required to purchase replacement land in a joint account for the
oustee and an R&R officer, and let the oustee find his own land. In this case, price of land is
controlled by a Land Valuation Committee to protect the poorer (tribal) oustees from being
exploited by the richer landlords and oustees tend to resettle in villages where they have relatives or
friends.



37
7.13  A thild difficulty relates to the precise linkage between dam construction and R&R
implementation. The NWDT stipulates that oustees must be resettled one year in advance of
submergence. A Supreme Court ruling later reduced this time lag to six months. In practice, the
concept of submergence needs to be better defined because there are two different types of
submergence: (i) permanent submergence, when water inundates land for extensive period of time
and, (ii) temporary submergence, when water covers land for a short period, such as during a
flood. In the latter case, the NWDT gives the right for oustees to return to their land once the
temporary submergence is over, to resume their usual way of life. Therefore, there is no need to
resettle oustees before land is permanently submerged, but contingency plans must be put in place
to accommodate oustees during periods of temporary submergence. The notion of resettlement
also needs to be better defined. For example, an oustee can be considered resettled when: (i) he has
been allocated a house plot in the new resettlement village, or (ii) he has rebuilt his house, or (iii)
he has been allocated replacement agricultural land/cash compensation. In practice, an oustee can
in fact be considered resettled when he has been allocated a house plot within a resettlement center
fully equipped with civic amenities, particularly access roads and water supply in working
condition. The actual allocation of replacement land could be deferred if a subsistence grant is
provided the oustee and his family until land becomes available.
7.14 A fourth difficulty was how to determine in advance the likely levels of permanent and
temporary submergence in a highly variable rainfall situation. To that effect, in March 1991 the
NCA published a schedule (the Blue Book) showing the two types of submergence and giving the
names of all villages to be affected until dam completion in 1998. This submergence schedule was
based on the dam construction schedule prepared in December 1989 and approved by the SSCAC.
However, because it is difficult to make long-term predictions concerning the exact pace and order
of block construction, the dam construction schedule has since undergone some modifications. In
January 1992, the SSCAC, which approves the annual dam construction programs, halted dam
construction to prevent it from getting ahead of the NCA's submergence schedule. With the dam
profile being irregular during construction, there have been some variations between the flood
levels estimated through hydraulic modelling studies and those computed through mathematical
modelling. NCA's back-water profile is reported to be about 7.90 m lower than that of the
hydraulic model. There is also a discrepancy between the Court's ruling (allowing six-months'
notice in advance of submergence) and the needs of dam construction programs. For technical and
financial reasons, such major construction programs must be scheduled on an annual basis.
7.15  A f=  difficulty concerns the location and size of resettlement centers. Resettlement
centers must be located near the replacement agricultural land. However, when this land is
acquired on a voluntary basis, as in Gujarat's case, it is difficult to know in advance how much
land will be sold and, therefore, how large to make any given resettlement center. In many cases,
resettlement centers had to be smaller than initially contemplated, e.g. the NWDT had anticipated
that oustees would be relocated in villages able to accommodate 400 to 500 families located in large
degraded forest tracks, whereas during implementation, families could be relocated only on private
lands9 with much smaller villages able to accommodate 50 to 100 families at the most. Under
these circumstances, not all resettlement centers could be provided with the civic amenities - such
as infirmaries, schools and other public buildings -- considered basic by the NWDT. Usually,
these services can be made available to all oustees through an extension of existing facilities in the
host villages.
7.16  A 3i2& difficulty, which was anticipated in OMS 2.33 concems the slow integration of the
new resettlement centers within the host community, particularly when this latter is located in the
command area at a long distance from the original village. In these cases, oustees are usually seen
9     except in Mhauashtra



38
as intruders and a burden to the host community, because they belong to a different social group.
As a result, they may not be integrated into the mainstream of regular rural development (zilla pari-
shad) programs. Oustees also have difficulties in: (i) participating in community life of the host
village, (ii) sharing village public facilities like water supplies, power supply, schools and
infirmaries with the host village, and (iii) obtaining assistance from regular rural development
programs as well as funds to maintain their structures and civic amenities. To help overcome this
segregation, OMS 2.33 (para. 13) required that resettlement packages should also benefit the host
communities through the provision of additional public facilities, education, water, health and other
services so that equitable treatment be accorded to both oustee and host communities. However,
this was not envisaged in the NWDT award and therefore not implemented by the participating
states.
R&R Implementation in the States
7.17  Gujarat. About 4,500 PAFs from 19 villages are to be resettled by June 1994. The
majority are Scheduled Tribes living in the narrow and deep valley of the Narmada River
immediately upstream of the dam, with little access to the outside world because of poor
communications and lack of roads. These tribal people live mostly in hamlets at subsistence level,
growing meager rainfed crops on poor soils, fishing from the river, and harvesting some products
from the adjoining forests. About 31 % of Gujarat oustees are landed or co-sharers, 19 % landless
laborers, 1 % encroachers, and 49 % adult sons. Encroachers are mostly PAFs living on
government forest lands, whose situation has not been regularized but have now been entitled to
the rehabilitation package.
7.18 In addition to its own oustees, Gujarat will also have to resettle about 14,124 PAFs from
MP and about 999 PAFs from Maharashtra. Thus Gujarat will have to accommodate a total of
about 19,623 PAFs, including its own. However, the exact number of PAFs from MP which
actually want to move to Gujarat is still not fial (see MP below). At Appraisal Gujarat did not
have an R&R policy, and the NWDT had not defined any rehabilitation package for Gujarat's
oustees. However, thanks to some initial socio-economic studies of oustees caried out in the early
80s, in addition to pressure from NGOs and the Bankl, Gujarat's R&R policy evolved from an
undefined package in 1985 to a rather liberal one in 1988. Under the current policy, all categories
of oustees-whether landed, as per the NWDT, or landless agricultural laborers, adult sons and
encroachers on government forest and non-forest lands--are entitled to receive a minimum of 2.0
ha of irrigable land in the command area. In addition, they are entitled to receive a house plot, a
minimal house construction grant, a displacement allowance, and free transport for their household
goods and materials. Gujarat established a well staffed R&R Wing within SSNNL whose role
was to implement the R&R policy by preparing an R&R Plan, acquiring land in the submergence
areas, constructing resettlement centers, and distributing replacement land in the command area
(not only for its own oustees but also for those of Maharashtra and MP, as per the NWDT
decisions). In March 1991, SSNNL prepared an R&R Plan which was subsequently upgraded to
satisfactory standards in February 1992. SSNNL also established Land Purchase Committees to
buy land on a voluntary basis in the command area, and to allocate this land to beneficiaries as
replacement to usually rainfed agricultural land.
7.19  In spite of these achievements, there were some problems. In particular, Gujarat did not
want its R&R policy applied to the families who had been affected in the 1960s by the
establishment of the dam construction colony at Kevadia. Gujarat was afraid that by making its
R&R policy retroactive it would create a precedent for other projects. It relented in 1993 when
additional cash compensation was given to these claimants. The Bank did not object to the cash
compensation in view of the special circumstances. An additional problem arose in connection
with replacement land allocated to Maharashtra oustees that was not properly selected. However,
this problem has since been overcome.



39
7.20  As of March 31, 1994, Gujarat had nearly completed the resettlement program for its own
oustees, with about 4,271 PAFs having received land. In addition, Gujarat had relocated about
633 PAFs from Maharashtra and 2,203 PAFs from MP. However, if the number of families
wanting to move to Gujarat is correct, Gujarat has completed only about one third of its total
program. Gujarat is reported to have 16,446 ha currently available, and to have identified another
8,837 ha of land for the resettlement of PAFs from MP. This means that to meet the total land
requirement, Gujarat would have to identify and acquire an additional 13,900 ha. This will be a
difficult task for Gujarat to carry out unless the number of PAFs from MP moving to Gujarat
proves to be smaller. This point should be clarified between the two states as a matter of urgency.
Gujarat: Achievements by March 31. 1994
PAFs from            GU         Mahar,    NE       ktal  Target  % of Target
PAFs Allotted Land (no.)  4,271    633   2,203    7,107    19,623    36
Land Allotted (ha)      8,500     1,283   4,406    14,189   37,190    38
House Plots Allotted (no.) 4,194   577   1,804    6,575    19,623    34
Source: R&R Status Report, NCA, May 1994
7.21 Maharashtra. As per NCA's latest report about 2,801 PAFs from 33 villages must be
relocated between 1992 and 1996. Of these, about 999 PAFs are expected to resettle in Gujarat,
and the remaining 1,802 in Maharashtra. However, these figures are still tentative, as the total
number of PAFs is likely to rise to about 3,500 and even further when the village resurveys are
completed and the enhanced 1992 R&R policy is applied10. All oustees in Maharashtra are
Scheduled Tribes. Their living standards are similar to those of Gujarat, with subsistence
agriculture supplemented by some fishing and gathering of forest products as their main
occupations. Communications and access to the villages is equally poor. About 52% are landed or
co-sharers, 17 % landless, 30 % adult sons and unmarried adult daughters, and less than 1%
encroachers. These figures are also provisional and are likely to increase, particularly the number
of adult sons, adult daughters and encroachers, when the ongoing socio-economic surveys are
completed.
7.22  Though this state had a well established R&R policy under the Maharashtra Project
Affected Persons Rehabilitation Act of 1986, amended in 1990, the implementation of the Act did
not apply to interstate projects such as SSP. It was only in June 1989, under pressure from NGOs
and the Bank, that Maharashtra issued a policy statement applying to the project. This policy was
criticized by the NGOs, the Independent Review team and the Bank for failing to meet the
minimum living standards for landless, adult sons and encroachers who were tribal people living in
government forest but whose situation had not been regularized. Under this policy, the landed
oustees were to receive a minimum of 2 ha and the landless agricultural laborers 1 acre of irrigated
land, if available. For some time, Maharashtra resisted any liberalization of the 1989 policy,
arguing that the precedent for its many other projects would be too costly. However, after several
studies of tribal needs, pressure from NGOs, and the Bank's threat of suspending the Water
10    As of March 31, 1994, 15 villages out of 33 have been resurveyed and total population affected ha been
estimated at 19,650. If the average multiplier coefficient of 3.2 is applied and if the populaton estimate
is correct, the total number of PAPs could rise to 6,140.



40
Delivery and Drainage Project, Maharashtra revised its policy in February 1992. As per the
revised 1992 policy, adult sons and daughters of landed oustees have been recognized as landless
oustees, and encroachers prior to March 31, 1978 were recognized as landed oustees. The
landless oustees are to receive one hectare of irrigated land and the encroachers 2 ha of irrigated
land, thus bringing the revised 1992 policy in line with the spirit of the NWDT and the Bank's
Legal Documents. It should be noted that Maharashtra oustees being relocated at Taloda on
Government (forest) land, are allocated this land free of charge.
7.23 On institutional issues, the R&R program was implemented by an Additional Collector at
Dhule without sufficient administrative and financial powers or adequate staff to conduct this
complex program. Staffing was improved in 1992, and again in 1993 as part of the benchmarks.
On planning issues, Maharashtra was not able to complete the socio-economic survey of its 33
villages because opposition from oustees and activist groups, and therefore had to prepare a
provisional Master Plan for R&R in February 1992 based on a survey of about half the villages to
be submerged.
7.24 The first villages affected by the construction of the rock-filled dikes at Navagam in the
mid-1980s, were relocated in GujaraL This first relocation program was not fully satisfactory
because of the poor quality of some relocation sites in Gujarat, and also because of arguments
between the oustees and the Government of Maharashtra over the relocation and reconstruction of
the Shoolpaneshwar temple. Ultimately, the oustees were shifted to better lands and the relocation
and reconstruction of the temple was done to the liking of oustees. Thereafter, Maharashtra
oustees were relocated in a 2,700 ha stretch of forest land at Taloda with good agriculture soils.
The Ministry of Environment and Forest strongly opposed the release of this forest land, in accor-
dance with its forest clearance of September 1987, though the Bank's Legal Documents had
stipulated that forest lands could be released for the relocation of oustees. A three-year deadlock
was lifted on July 20, 1990 when the MOEF released the forest land, after the Bank had threatened
to suspend the Water Delivery and Drainage project. Once the forest land at Taloda was released,
Maharashtra prepared a plan for clearing and developing the site with groundwater irrigation
satisfactory to the Bank. This site, which will be able to accommodate about 1,800 PAFs in five
resettlement centers, is currently under construction. However, the Taloda site is not large enough
to accommodate the estimated 2,50011 PAFs oustees (as per the enhanced R&R policy) who are
likely to resette in Maharashtra. An additional 2,000 ha of forest land adjacent to Taloda was to be
released as part of the benchmarks set by the Board but, at the time of the PCR, only 1,500 ha had
been formally released by MOEF.
7.25  The implementation of the R&R program in Maharashtra has had to face strong resistance
from NGOs and particularly from the Narmada Bachao Andolan (NBA). On several occasions the
police have clashed with oustees, as in Taloda in June 1991 when governnent officials wanted to
complete the survey of affected villages. Such incidents reached a climax in June 1992, when the
last families of Manibelli - the first village to be submerged in the Narmada Valley - had to be
evacuated before the onset of the monsoon. Resistance is still present in about half the villages in
the valley, and new incidents were reported in October 1993 during the survey of affected villages.
As a result, dam construction may have to be slowed again during the 1994 and 1995 construction
seasons. Some of this resistance could have been avoided had the Bank followed OMS 2.33 -
which required prior consultation with the affected groups - at preparation and appraisal stages.
7.26  As of March 31, 1994, about 687 PAFs had resettled in Maharashtra and 604 in Gujarat.
Overall implementation was thus slightly below 50%.
11    Assuming 3,500 PAFs, s per NCA's cunent etimae, minus about 1,000 PAFs resiling in Gujarat.



41
Maharashtra: Achievements by March 31. 1994
PAFs Settling in        Gujaju        Mahar,   Iial   Target*        % of Target
PAFs Allotted Land (no.)   633           704   1,337    3,200           42
Land Allotted (ha)       1,283         1,124   2,407    5,900           41
House Plots Allotted (no.)    577        678    1,255    3,500          36
* Based on 3,500 PAFs
Source: R&R Status Report, NCA, May 1994
7.27 Madhya Pradesh. Based on the present estimates, about 33,014 PAFs from 193 villages
will have to be relocated between 1994 and 1997. However, as land acquisition is not
completedl2, the total number of PAFs may increase further. About 29 % of MP's oustees are
Scheduled Tribes living in the upper narrow and deep reaches of the Narmada Valley, in conditions
similar to those of Gujarat and Maharashtra. They are mostly at subsistence level. The remaining
71% live in the Nimad area where the Narmada valley opens up and gives way to fertile
agricultural land. Of these, about 29 % are landed oustees; 4% are Scheduled Castes; and 37% are
adult sons and others living on their parents' land or working as agricultural laborers. About 1%
are encroachers.
7.28 Of the total number of PAFs, about 18,890 PAFs (56 %), mainly located in the Nimad
area, are estimated to be minimally affected (losing only a house or less than 10% of the land) and
are expected to relocate close to their villages in MP. As for the remaining 14,124 PAFs (44 %),
mostly tribals who do not live in the Nimad area and who will lose more than 25% of their land,
MP estimates that only about 830 PAFs will remain in MP and will be allocated agricultural land
there and the other 13,294 PAFs will be moving to Gujarat and be allocated land in that state.
Whether this estimate is accurate remains to be seen, given the limited land options so far identified
in MP. In general, there appears to be still some uncertainties in MP with respect to the total
number of PAFs who will move to Gujarat, and the number whose land will be minimally
affected. One estimate suggests that because of the marginal impact on land, only about 7,000 of
the estimated 33,014 PAFs in MP will require compensatory land, the remainder needing to be
moved back higher up the hill.
7.29 MP was quite slow in finalizing its R&R policy and in preparing a satisfactory R&R
implementation Plan. There are two main reasons for this: (i) initially MP expected Gujarat would
carry out its R&R program; and (ii) MP's program was to start much later than in the other two
states. Though MP passed a Madhya Pradesh Project Displaced Persons (Resettlement) Act in
1985, it was not until 1989 that an R&R policy was drawn up to conform with the decisions of the
NWDT. However, this policy was not satisfactory because, like Maharashtra's, it took account
of only the landed oustees while disregarding the landless, adult sons, and encroachers. Under
pressure from NGOs and the Bank, MP revised its R&R policy and prepared its first detailed
resettlement plan in 1992, based on the analysis of partly computerized survey data. The present
policy provides for (i) a house plot for all categories of oustees; (ii) a minimum of 2 ha for the
landed oustees as per the NWDT, (iii) 1- 2 ha for oustees having encroached on government land
12    Only 149 villages out of 193 have been ijued the Section 4 Dotifation of the Land Acquisition Act.



42
prior to April 13, 1987; and (iii) a rehabilitation grant or income-generating schemes for landless
agricultural families and adult sons. This policy is generally in line with the Bank's latest
guidelines except for the cash compensation to landless agricultural families and adult sons. In
addition, MP has created an R&R Wing within the Narmada Valley Development Authority to
implement the policy. Initially, MP thought that all of its oustees would move to Gujarat.
However, in light of the resurvey of oustees carried out in 1992J93, MP now estimates that about
60% of its PAFs will stay within the state, and that the majority of those losing land will resettle in
Gujarat. It is difficult to say whether these assumptions are realistic. However, because the R&R
package for landless, adult sons and encroachers - representing 70% of the total number of PAFs -
is more attractive in Gujarat than in MP, a large number of these oustees most likely will want to
move to that state, despite the cultural change. It is likely that the younger oustees will leave MP,
while the older ones will stay. The number of landed oustees who opt to remain in MP will
probably fall in the range of 4,000--far more than the 830 PAFs estimated by MP. In this case,
MP's agricultural land requirements will exceed the 2,000 ha presently planned.
7.30  MP had to face strong opposition in recent years from NGOs opposed to the dam. This
situation appears to have improved in 1993, with the departure of a prominent activist from the
Valley. However, opposition may resume in 1994 and 1996 when a large number of PAFs will
have to move. It is likely that dam construction will have to be slowed down during those years,
and that the crest gates will have to remain open beyond 1997 until the MP R&R program is
completed in full. Much of the resettlement in MP will depend on the closure of the crest gates
and, therefore, can be readily linked to dam operation. As indicated in the case of Maharashtra, it
is likely that some of the opposition could have been avoided had the Bank followed its guidelines
on prior consultation.
7.31  As of March 31, 1994, MP had surveyed 62 resettlement centers, mostly in the Nimad
area, of which 17 were under construction and 6 completed. In addition, MP had identified about
1,892 ha of land for resettlement purposesl3. So far 2,203 PAFs have been resettled in Gujarat
and 424 PAFs have been resettled in MP with a houseplot. In all, resettlement of MP oustees in
MP as well as in Gujarat was behind schedule and did not appear feasible within the time frame
fixed by the NCA resettlement schedule.
Madhya Pradesh: Achievements by March 31. 1994
PAFs Settling in        Gliarat       MP        Ital  Target  % of Target
PAFs Allotted Land (no.)   2,203        -      2,203   14,124       16
Land Allotted (ha)       4,406          -      4,406   30,248       15
House Plots Allotted (no.)   1,804     424     2,228   33,014        7
* These figures may increase when the land acquistion is competed.
SQurc: R&R Status Report, NCA, May 1994
7.32 In summary, Gujarat has resettled the majority of its own oustees, but will still have to
resettle a large number of oustees from MP. Maharashtra has resettled about 40% of its oustees,
either in Gujarat or in its own state, but the remaining 60% may be more problematic. The final
number of oustees in that state is still unknown. MP has resettled about 15% of its oustees mostly
13    Of which 1,022 ha for agriculture and 870 ha for rmidential purposc.



43
in Gujarat and only a few in its own state. However, there is still some uncertainty concerning the
total number of oustees in MP and the number willing to move to Gujarat.
Achievements by March 31. 1994
Ggjarat  Mahar,            ][ lda  Target  % of Target
PAFs Allotted Land (no.) 7,107    704     -      7,811   22,100     35
Land Allotted (ha)    14,189    1,124      -    15,313   44,000     35
House Plots Allotted (no.) 6,575  678     424   7,677   41,000      19
Source: R&R Status Report, NCA, May 1994
7.33  Economic Rehabilitation of PAFs. In general, most of the tribal oustees relocated in the
upper reaches of the command area are expected to improve their living standards within a span of
4-5 years, by gaining better access to education, health services, and communications, as well as
better income opportunities as soon as irrigation comes to their resettement villages. But for those
PAFs relocated in remote parts of the command area, it may be many years before they benefit
from irrigation. Therefore, it would be preferable to relocate the oustees in the upper reaches of the
command area and, if this is not possible, to provide them with lift irrigation or wells until flow
irrigation comes. The PAFs relocated near the fringe of the reservoir are also likely to recover an
acceptable living standard if adequate lift irrigation schemes are developed for them. As no definite
programs have yet been prepared toward that end, it wil take some more years before these
oustees recover an adequate standard of living. As for the minority of PAFs relocating on remote
rainfed lands, their only hope for an adequate standard of living is through the implementation of
special Integrated Rural Development Programs to suit there needs. No such programs exist yet. If
MP's statistics are correct, the landed oustees of the Nimad area should retain the same living
standards as before because their land wil be minimally affected and only their houses and vilages
wiU be relocated to nearby higher elevations. Finally, a large effort remains to be done to improve
the integration of oustees within the host communities of the command area. Special programs
need to be developed for that purpose.
7.34  NCA. The role of this agency was to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the
R&R programs in each state. NCA coordinated dam construction with R&R by preparing a
submergence schedule (otherwise known as the Blue Book) in March 1991, which served as a
basis for determining the rate at which R&R was to be implemented. NCA also monitored R&R
implementation by preparing quarterly statements based on progress reports submitted by each
state. Some institutions had been preparing Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) reports for NCA
since the mid-80s. Before 1992, however, work in this area was not satisfactory primarily
because of the absence of detailed R&R plans, and the irregular and late submission of progress
reports by the states. In July 1992, with the assistance of the Bank and the National Informatic
Center, an effort was made to computerize the monitoring of R&R. At the time of Loan
cancellation, the computerized monitoring program was ready for implementation and NCA
monitoring performance had improved to some extent However, NCA's progress reports
remained somewhat out of touch with on-the-ground realities. NCA reported that three prominent
Social Science Institutes had been recruited to monitor and evaluate R&R implementation in each
state. To the Bank's knowledge, these institutes have yet to submit their semi-annual progress and
evaluation reports.



44
7.35  In June 1992, the Independent Review report criticized the Bank, the three party states, and
the Central Government for poor implementation of the R&R program. The report offered three
main criticisms of the Bank:
a.   despite the existence of explicit operational guidelines with respect to involuntary
resettlement and tribal people, the Bank failed to insist on proper preparation of
R&R plans by the Borrower and, accordingly, failed to appraise adequately the
resettlement components of SSP;
b.   the appraisal team and the Legal Documents did not adequately address the special
needs of tribal people affected by the project, because they were mostly
'encroachers' on government land and therefore legally treated as landless; and
c.    during the last few years of project implementation, Bank efforts to compensate for
the lack of an adequate appraisal have helped to bring about some improvements,
particularly in Gujarat; however this "incremental approach" failed to achieve all the
changes needed, particularly in MP.
7.36  On the Borrower's side, the principal criticisms related to:
a.   the lack of sufficient baseline data gathered on the affected population, which made
it impossible to prepare effective resettlement plans;
b.   the lack of consultation with the affected population, and failure to inform them of
their resettlement options and rehabilitation packages;
C.   the lack of compliance with the provisions of the NWDT and the Bank's Legal
Agreements; and
d .   institutional weaknesses, poor implementation particularly in MP, and inadequate
linkage between dam construction and R&R implementation.
7.37 The Independent Review report also gave a detailed description of R&R implementation in
the three states and drew attention to specific issues. In its concluding remarks, the report
indicated that R&R could not be implemented as planned and recommended that the Bank "step
back" from the project to re-evaluate the situation and institute improvements.
7.38 Management Response to the Independent Review. The Bank's Management, in its
response of June 23, 1992, generally agreed with the description of R&R experience in these three
states, and also agreed that: (i) adequate R&R plans had not been prepared by the Borrower for
appraisal by the Bank, (ii) while the development of the resettlement policy in Gujarat was indeed
an achievement, R&R policy in the other two states - Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh - needed
urgent improvement, and (iii) implementation needed to be further strengthened in all three states.
The Management Response explained that the Bank's supervision strategy had focused on
obtaining incremental progress through: (i) improvements in resettlement policy, planning and
implementation in Gujarat; (ii) efforts to replicate Gujarat's R&R policy and standards in the other
two states; and (iii) concentrating its supervision efforts on MP during the remaining years up to
1994, when R&R will commence in that state. Nevertheless, Management concluded that the
incremental approach did not yield the results expected and were too slow in the light of the time
before submergence. It supported a new approach embodied in a monitorable action plan which
became the benchmarks subsequently approved by the Board. Finally, the Bank believed that the
establishment of these measurable benchmarks for addressing the situation was preferable to
stepping back, as recommended by the Independent Review. In retrospect, the incremental



45
approach proved to be a necessary process toward the Borrower's adoption of the changes in R&R
policies and implementation that were so strongly advocated by the Independent Review and the
Board. Finally, the Bank believed that the establishment of measurable benchmarks for addressing
the situation was preferable to stepping back, as recommended by the Independent Review.
7.39 July 1992 Review Mission. Following the Management Response, the Bank organized a
major mission in July 1992 to review the status of implementation in light of the Independent
Review report, and determine what next steps would be appropriate. The mission was seriously
concerned about the status of R&R, with respect to policy and implementation. It identified some
generic implementation issues relating to: (i) government bureaucracies that were too inflexible to
handle the myriad of small problems and expenditures demanded by the R&R program; (ii) the lack
of sufficient staff, especially resettlement officers and specialists like sociologists; (iii) lack of basic
resources, especially in MP; (iv) lack of adequate procedures to handle grievances; (v) lack of
reliable, easily-accessible data on families for monitoring and planning; (vi) limited and sometimes
ineffective consultation with PAFs; and (vii) poor coordination among the states with regard to the
oustees who were going to Gujarat. The mission also noted some specific issues in Maharashtra
arising from strong agitation against the dam in about half of the affected villages--primarily
because of the failure to recognize or provide land to encroachers and adult sons. The mission
noted that policy issues still remained in MP, as well, concerning the provision of land to major
sons and landless. The mission concluded that under current conditions, satisfactory resettlement
of oustees in Maharashtra and MP by the scheduled date of final submergence was almost
impossible. However, with improved policies and implementation capacity, successful R&R
could be carried out. In its action letter, the Bank requested the Borrower to prepare an action
program to correct the prevailing situation, along with a set of criteria to link the progress of R&R
with dam construction.
7.40 The Borrower, in a letter of September 1, 1992, ensured the Bank that: (i) it would
promptly address the concerns raised in the Independent Review report, and (ii) it would correct
the policy, managerial and organizational weaknesses that the Bank identified in the R&R pro-
grams. In particular, the letter reaffirmed the principle that the R&R packages would enable
oustees to maintain their previous standards of living, at the very least. Attached to the letter was
an Action Plan for narrowing the policy differences among the three participating states and for
instituting the necessary improvements in organization, staffing and implementation. The
improvements included: (i) in Maharashtra recognizing encroachers beyond the cut-off date of
1978, and providing 1 ha of land to landless laborers and adult sons; and (ii) in Madhya Prdesh
enhancing the cash compensation to the landless for purchasing productive assets including land,
and providing up to 2 ha of land to encroachers. However, the case of adult sons remained open.
In addition, special measures were announced to: (i) enhance the administrative powers of R&R
staff and increase their numbers in each state; (ii) improve coordination between Gujarat and the
other two states; and (iii) formally link dam construction with R&R implementation. On this latter
point, the Borrower indicated that, in accordance with the NWDT award and a Supreme Court
order, NCA would certify that R&R has been completed at least six months prior to submergence,
when the SSP Construction Advisory Committee approves the annual dam construction schedule.
7.41  Board Review. On October 23, 1992, the Bank presented the Board with a document
entitled Review of Current Status and Next Steps-based on the Management Response, the July
1992 review mission, and the Borrower's Action Plan. In this document, Bank Management
reiterated its awareness of the long-standing problems identified by the Independent Review report,
and of the inadequacies of past efforts by the Borrower and the Bank. Accordingly, management
submitted for Board consideration and approval an action plan that included three options: (i)
suspension of disbursements, pending completion of steps identified in the Borrower's response;
(iu) reappraisal of the R&R aspects of the project, as a basis for future Bank involvement; and (iii)
continuation of support for the project, subject to the Borrower's compliance with several
benchmarks on R&R by March 31, 1993. In light of the measures recently taken by the Borrower,



46
Management believed that satisfactory R&R was feasible and, therefore, recommended the third
option, which maximized the prospects for successful implementation of the Borrower's
commitments.
7.42 The Board agreed with the analysis of the Independent Review, which had identified a
number of deficiencies in the Bank's appraisal and the Borrower's implementation of the project.
The Board favored the third option because of the considerable efforts made by the new
Government of India to address the project's problems. The action plan and benchmarks involved:
(i) improvements in policies, organization and management, and implementation of the R&R
program; and (ii) tighter linkages between progress on R&R and dam construction. More
specifically, the performance benchmarks to be met by March 31, 1993 comprised:
a.    satisfactory improvement of the data describing the number of PAFs in the reservoir
area, including an analysis of affected tribal people;
b.    satisfactory completion of comprehensive R&R plans for all three states;
c.    adoption of strengthened institutional arrangements for implementing R&R,
including an appropriate role for local NGOs;
d.    satisfactory demonstration of improved consultation practices;
e.    satisfactory demonstration of the feasibility of land acquisition on the required scale
in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. This benchmark included the release or
acquisition of about 3,300 ha of additional land in Maharashtra and 2,000 ha of
good agricultural land in MP14.
7.43 These basic benchmarks were further elaborated and adjusted in the Bank's letters to
MOWR, NCA and the participating states dated November 9, 1992. The Bank requested, inter
alia, that
a.    MP and Gujarat agree on the eligibility criteria for the resettlement of MP PAFs in
Gujarat;
b.    MP clarifies the package for landless laborers and specify the assistance to be
provided to these PAFs for the purchase of productive assets, particularly land;
c.    MP activates Land Purchase Committees and identifies and starts to acquire about
1000 ha of good quality land;
d.    Maharashtra obtains formal release (or acquire) about 2,000 additional hectares of
unencumbered forest land for R&R or acquire equivalent amount of other suitable
land;
e.    The participating states establish detailed description of the "due process" (including
appeals mechanism) which is to be adhered to;
f.    The participating states issue guidelines for R&R staff on "due process" and
consultation;
14    Review of Cuaent States and Next Steps, consolidated Acton Progrun (revised) of October 20, 1992 for
consideration by the Executive Directon in their meeting of October 23, 1992.



47
g.   The participating states and NCA establish clearly defined operational linkages
between the dam construction and the R&R implementation schedules as per
proposed criteria and procedures attached to the letters; and
h.   The participating states agree on the issue of sharing the cost of R&R activities.
7.44 As indicated earlier, on March 29, 1993, the Borrower requested the Bank to cancel the
remaining portion of the Dam and Power Loan, thus terminating the Bank's lending for the Sardar
Sarovar Projects.
7.45 Compliance with the Benchmarks. The Borrower's compliance with the benchmarks took
the form of several reports that were prepared by NCA and submitted to the Bank on August 5,
1993. The Main report included a Chapter on the Attainment of Performance Benchmarks. This
Chapter and attached reports showed that the Borrower had met a substantial part of the bench-
marks on R&R, namely: (i) a tribal study and analysis for each state; (ii) an improved system for
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the R&R program through a computerized MIS
and the assistance of three prominent social science institutes; (iii) the creation in Gujarat of a new
R&R Organization directly under the Chief Minister, and the strengthening of existing R&R
organizations in Maharashtra and MP; and (iv) a certification process linking R&R implementation
to dam construction. On two occasions during 1993, the closing of the construction sluices at the
foot of the dam, which would create permanent flooding up to elevation 61 m, was delayed.
Ultimately, the sluices were closed in February 1994. However, the resurvey of oustee families
in some villages of the Akrani Taluka in Maharashtra is not complete and the Maharashtra action
plan is still based on partial data. The action plans in Gujarat and MP were updated with
information from new surveys, but there are still some doubt as to the total number of oustees in
MP and the number of those who are to move to Gujarat still appears inflated. Maharashtra has
obtained the approval for the release of an additional 1,500 ha of forest land at Taloda and the
MOEF's clearance was issued in February 1994. MP has identified - but not purchased - about
1,022 ha of agricultural land. There is still no final inter-state agreement on the sharing of R&R
Cost.
7.46 The "OED Special Study: Early Experience with Involuntary Resettlement - Overview",
produced in May 1993, contributes to the Bank's overall understanding of R&R issues. After a
thorough review of the R&R components of four separate agriculture and energy development
projects, one of which was SSP, the following main conclusions were drawn:
a.    Systematic attention must be given to minimize displacement;
b.   Attention must be given to the rehabilitation program in addition to the displacement
and resettement process;
c.   High priority must be given to acquiring land in the command area to afford people
affected by the project the opportunity to increase their income by resettling there;
and
d.   Unlike irrigation projects, those projects which cannot promise an increase in
income for PAPs should include a separate development project. This rehabilitation
mechanism would begin after the people have moved and would help to increase the
incomes of the affected families as its main objective.
7.47 In conclusion, considerable progress was achieved immediately after publication of the
Independent Review report and the benchmarks established by the Board. However, the
benchmarks have still not been met in full and a number of problems remain due to the continued
opposition of anti-dam activists. It is doubtful that enough progress has been and will be made on



48
the resettlement of Maharashtra and MP oustees, in their own states or in Gujarat, to enable dam
construction to stay on schedule. As a result, Gujarat will probably not be able to adhere to the
dam RIS of December 1989 and Maharashtra and MP to follow the corresponding submergence
schedule published by NCA. Therefore, the construction of the dam is likely to be delayed in the
1994/95 construction season. Later, the closing of the crest gates may also be delayed because of
slow R&R implementation in MP. Before closing the crest gates a thorough review of R&R
progress will be required in Maharashtra and MP.
8. Project Achievements
8.1   With respect to the Sardar Sarovar Dam complex, despite some initial delays the project
achieved excellent results and set high standards in construction pace and quality. As of March 29,
1993, when the Borrower requested the Bank to cancel its financial assistance for the project, the
the main components of the dam complex had been completed to the following extent: (i) Main
Dam: excavation 81.6%, concrete placement 50.6%, and drilling & grouting 74.8%; (ii)
Instrumentation: procurement 100%, and installation 69.4%; (iii) Seismic Instruments:
procurement 100%, and installation 71.1%; (iv) River Sluice Gates & Stoplogs: fabrication
85.1%; (v) Crest Radial Gates & Stoplogs: fabrication 42.7%. So far, the construction has been
able to proceed in accord with RIS (12189). However, the dam construction is about two years
behind the original SAR targets. Failure to meet the SAR schedule was due primarily to delays in
completing the infrastructure and mobilization of plant and equipment. These delays were
associated in part with the import of major construction equipment, as indicated previously. It
now appears unlikely that the construction of the dam will be able to adhere to the RIS (1289)
target date of June 23, 1995 for achieving the dam height of 110.0 m - which will permit diversion
of water for irrigation and power generation through the canal head powerhouse - should be met.
The date at which this major achievement in the construction of the dam will be attained will
depend upon progress in R&R implementation, to which dam construction is closely linked.
8.2   On February 25, 1994 the 10 riverbed construction sluices at elevation 18.0 m were closed
to enable the concreting of the stilling basin on the downstream side of the Sardar Sarovar Dam.
On that same date the central spdillway blocks had reached the following levels:
Block No.         30   31   43    44    45    46    47    48
Present Level (m)   69.0  69.0  70.2  80.3  80.3  80.3  79.0  80.3
As per GOI's letter of February 23, 1994, the plans for the 1993/94 construction season are to
keep Blocks 30 and 31 at elevation 69.0 m, Block 43 at elevation 70.2 m, and Blocks 44 to 48 at
elevation 80.3 m. Thus only Block 47 would be raised by 1.3 m, while all other Blocks would
remain at their present elevation. The configuration of the Block levels would ensure that the
afflux level of the 1 in 100 year flood would not exceed 100.0 m during the 1994 monsoon
season. GOI estimates that the water level would recede to the permanent pondage level of about
elevation 59.0 m by the second half of December 1994, due to the functioning of the river sluices
at elevation 53.0 m.  In addition, special measures were to be taken through pumping
arrangements and release of water from the nearby Karjan project, to ensure a minimum flow of
about 70 m3/s downstream of the dam. By the same letter, GOI informed the Bank that R&R had
been completed in Maharashtra and Gujarat up to elevation 69.0 m and that MP would not be
affected.
8.3   With regard to the Riverbed Power House (RBPH), the achievements varied from below
average to good depending on the components. At Loan cancellation, the level of physical
completion of the main components stood at: (i) Undrgu  Ecavatn: machine hall, control



49
room and bus galleries 87.3%; pressure shafts 100%; exit tunnels 83.7%; draft tube tunnels
59.4%; access tunnel to service bay 100%; (ii) Open Excavation: overall 90.6%; (iii) p=nstock
lners fabrication 97.8% and installation 15.4%; (iv) draft tube gates fabrication 39.2%; and (v)
penstock gates and stoplogs fabrication 89.1%. In addition, the concrete columns and crane beams
have been completed in the service bay and the electric overhead travelling crane (EOT) has also
been installed. This level of implementation is about three years behind the initial SAR targets.
The erection of the T/G sets, which was earlier planned to commence in October 1992, has been
abnormally delayed due to three serious constraints: fiEL the excavation in the machine hall was
held up due to the development of fissures; second, the measures to redress the distress in the
cavern walls could not be decided upon until the Bank consultants had evaluated the stability
situation and remedial works had been agreed upon, thereby delaying completion by about one
year; and third, the withdrawal of OECFs assistance for the financing of the T/G sets. GOG and
GOI (MOWR and DEA) are now reported to be negotiating some other financing arrangement with
the Japanese supplier. If the funding issue is resolved in the near future, the installation of Unit 1
could commence upon completion of machine hall excavation in June 1994. In that case, the Unit
1 could be ready for commissioning by September 1997, i.e., three years later than the initial
plans. However, this commissioning schedule appears optimistic for the present time.
8.4   With regard to the other project components, achievements were as follows: (i) canaLhead
power house: good progress has been made on civil works and the installation of the electro-
mechanical equipment is progressing on schedule. The first unit is expected to be commissioned in
August 1995; (ii) irrigation bypass tunnel: agreement on the invert level is still pending. Designs
are yet to be finalized and construction has not yet begun. As construction is expected to take at
least three years, it is already too late for commissioning this structure in June 1995. Any further
delays will complicate construction because of the raising of the dam; (iii) remote control and
monitoring system for the operation of the main canal: the technical and financial proposals were
evaluated and the consultant selected, but the contract could not be signed due to the Credit/oan
cancellation. SSNNL is now looking for bilateral technical assistance to finalize this component,
(iv) O&M Plans: good progress has been made; drafts have been reviewed from time to time and
will need to be updated as soon as the remote control and monitoring system for the main canal is
fnalized; (v) Hydro-meteorological network: tenders had been called for the meteor-burst system
but at the last moment were canceled to allow the national satellite communication system to
compete; therefore the system was not installed and commissioned as initially intended; and (vi)
Management Information System: this system was fully developed to monitor the civil works
component of the project, and is now being expanded to cover the financial and administrative part
of the project
8.5   In addition to the above, the Nigam constituted in a timely manner an Experts Committee
on Cement and Concrete which contributed significantly to the attainment of the high quality and
high speed of concrete placement on the dam. The Committee reviewed the cement and concrete
process, made improvements in the characteristics of cement for use in the mass concrete of dam,
and guided the project management in enforcing quality control (QC) and quality assurance (QA)
on all aspects of cement and concrete. The Committee also made a valuable contribution in
coordinating and providing on-the-job training and training in the NCB (National Council for
Cement and Building Materials) laboratories for the quality control and construction supervision
personnel. This helped in building a team of competent QC/QA inspectors. Based on the
guidelines framed by Expert Committee on Cement and Concrete, the NCB prepared a
comprehensive document titled, "Guidelines for Management of Quality Control (QC) and Quality
Assurance (QA) System for Concrete in Sardar Sarovar Project". This is an excellent document
and can serve as a model for use on other irrigation and power projects in India. The management
of Nathpa Jhakri Power Project (Loan 3024-IN) has already taken steps to base its QC/QA set-up
on this document



50
9.     Project Benerits and Revised Economic Analysisls
9.1   The project is still in its construction phase and no components are yet operational.
Therefore, a significant part of the analysis remains a projection. To date, there has been no
change in project objectives and scope. The revised analysis - which was completed in April 1993
as part of the benchmarks set by the Board - is based on the irrigation, power, and domestic,
municipal and industrial benefits, including the fuelwood and fisheries benefits, together with
adjustments that were made to the SAR economic analysis to take into account changes in
quantities, prices and phasing since 1984. The revised economic analysis has been based on the
SAR cropping pattern and water requirements for a cultivable command area of 1.87 M ha. The
base year of the analysis has been brought to 1992 prices. The revised analysis has paid particular
attention to environmental costs or benefits such as estuary changes, fisheries costs and benefits,
fuelwood, and wildlife, which might have been underestimated or omitted in the original analysis.
9.2   The benefits would accrue in stages over the 15-year period from 1995 to 201016, upon
phased completion of the dam, phased commissioning of respective units of canal head power
house and riverbed power house, and phased completion of the water delivery and drainage
systems (including the command area development, D, M&I water supply schemes and upstream
development). Irrigation and agricultural benefits are expected to begin in July 1995, upon the
partial release of water from Sardar Sarovar Dam through the canal head power house. Initially,
not more than about 50,000 ha of the distribution system are likely to be ready to receive water for
irrigation. Power benefits from the would also start flowing in August 1995, with the
commissioning of the first unit of the canal head power house, but the bulk of power generation
would begin in September 199717 when the first unit of the riverbed power house is expected to be
commissioned. However there is a strong likelihood that dam construction will not be completed
within the RIS timeframe, because of delays in finalizing the financing arrangements for the
riverbed power house T/G sets, as well as possible delays due to application of the
construction/R&R linkage criteria. Under these circumstances, irrigation and power benefits may
not start before July 1997. This eventuality is dealt with in the sensitivity analysis.
9.3   The economic price of power was estimated at Rs. 1.39/kWh (see Annex 3, Table 14).
This figure is higher, in real terms, than in the original analysis and is based on the willingness-to-
pay approach used in the SAR. Estimates on the willingness-to-pay and average prices for the
various segments of the power market were updated by using the findings of the latest available stu-
dy (SAR of Second Maharashtra Power Project). The methodology used in that SAR takes the
economic value of the average tariff in each consumer category, and adds half the additional
economic cost of an alternative private supply to account for "consumer surplus". The power
benefit has been underestimated to the extent that it has been valued at a base power rather than a
peaking power value.
9.4   The Sardar Sarovar Project, with an installed generating capacity of 1450 MW in two
power houses, would be supplying base power in the initial 20 years and would also contribute
valuable peaking energy as well to the predominantly thermal grid of the Western region.
Currently, the hydro-thermal mix is alarmingly low in this region. The contribution from riverbed
IS    Portions of this chapter   identical to the chapter on Project Benefits and Economic Analysis of the
Water Delivery and Drainage PCR.
16    ie. tbree yea later than in the SAR. Further posible delays in irrigation development ae treated in the
ensitivity analysis.
17   i.e. four years later tn ausumed in the SAR.



51
power house and canal head power house would further improve the hydro-thermal mix and thus
hep to improve the plant load factor of thermal stations. This peaking energy element has not been
valued in the analysis but would be substantiaL The original SAR equations were used to calculate
the power generation and power benefits. Power benefits were assumed to start in 1997, i.e.,
three years later than assumed in the SAR. Due to expected delays in upstream water development,
the SAR estimate on upstream diversion was adjusted downward from 24,300 to 16,000 million
m3 in 2026. No analysis has been carried out for a scenario in which the Narmada Sagar Dam is
never constructed because: (i) the two dams have been designed to operate as a package; (ii) the
contract on Narmada Sagar has been let; and (iii) a major new water modelling exercise would be
required. A new modelling exercise is not simply a question of omitting Narmada Sagar. It
would need to take into account what alternative upstream patterns of storage construction and
operation, i.e. up to 2002 would replace Narmada Sagar since it would be theoretically possible for
a series of alternative smaller dams to hold similar amounts of water and feed into Sardar Sarovar
in a similar operational pattern. However, the alternative with smaller dams in place of Narmada
Sagar was reviewed by the NWDT and considered not to represent a ralistic scenario or economic
preposition. To factor in the impact of the delays in the construction of the Narmada Sagar Dam,
water released for power generation was reduced by 25% during the first five years of operation.
This is higher in real terms than the original analysis. The incremental power benefits are shown in
Annex 3, Table 15.
9.5   The ERR of the revised analysis is 12%. This is slightly lower than the 13% found in the
original SAR analysis, but still acceptable assuming an Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) of
12%*1. It represents a large quantum of benefits, relative to any feasible alternatives, and has
substantial multiplier effects. Had the SSP project been conceived as a power project alone, the
ERR would have been 14%. The command area taken by itself, exhibits an ERR of 11%. If
expenditures to date are treated as a sunk cost, the ERR is 17%. Project Risks and Sensitivity
Analysis
9.6   The major risks that may affect this project relate to delays in the implementation of the
Sardar Sarovar and Narmada Sagar dams, the SSP power complex and the command area. An
other set of risks relate to the scope of project components which may be reduced such as a smaller
reservoir capacity at the Sardar Sarovar and Narmada Sagar Dams than initially contemplated.
These risks would reduce power generation and the extent of irrigation. While there is a likelihood
for delays to materialize, the change of scope is conjectural as it would be contradictory to the
decisions of the NWDT. However, such views have been expressed in political gatherings in MP.
9.7   While there remain uncertainties about timing of developments and efficiencies, we do not
consider the base case ERR estimate to be skewed in the distribution of possible outcomes because
there are also the following reasons why real benefits might be higher than projected:
(i)      power has not been valued at a peak power value although a substantial proportion
(falling over time) will be peaking power. The economic value of power has been
calculated at Rs.1.74 per hwh. The marginal cost of pealing power is estimated to
be at least double the value taken in the analysis (in some countres it is estimated at
10 times the base load cost);
(iu)     since there appear to be no adequate D, M and I water alternatives on the scale
provided by the project, the value of D,M&I water at about 0.05 US cents per
gallon still seems low in an area where there are water riots during droughts;
13   ibi OCC is cunently under review by the India DepartmenL



52
(iii)    cropping pattern taken from the SAR is conservative and one would expect a higher
proportion of high value crops and, over time, gradually increasing water use
efficiency as drip and other systems expand;
(iv)     the Kutch branch and the Rajasthan component should not be included in the
economic analysis; these were well known at the outset to be low return
components but were included for very valid social and political reasons; and
(v)      surplus water available in the early years above the ultimate per hectare delivery has
not been given any value.
9.8   The sensitivity analysis shows that a delay of four years in the commissioning of the
riverbed power house would reduce the ERR to 11%. The economic analysis also indicates that
extensive irrigation yields a low ERR and, therefore, may not be the best economic solution.
However, this approach was chosen deliberately at the outset for equity reasons. For example,
part of the Saurashtra and the whole of the Kutch branches were included for largely social
reasons. These are areas with serious water problems and water-related health problems. The
latter have not been valued in the economic analysis. The analysis shows that the economic
benefits resulting from power generation are higher than those derived from irigation. However,
the benefits derived from the municipal and industrial water supply are also likely to be more subs-
tantial than initially anticipated; given the apparent lack of any viable alternative on this scale, the
value of these latter benefits have probably been underestimated. As the main canal and command
area are still in their initial stages of construction, there may be a case to readjust the irrigation and
water supply components so that the project could become more profitable economically- that is,
to reduce the command area in the higher cost and/or lower benefit zones, and give more
importance to the domestic, municipal and industrial aspects of the project. At appraisal, the
project was to supply domestic, municipal and industrial water to 131 urban centers and 4,720
villages through 1.06 MAF of SSP surface water. These have now increased to 135 urban centers
and 8,215 villages, though the allocation of water has been kept the same, viz, 1.06 MAF. It is
reasonable to expect that the demand for domestic, municipal and industrial water will continue to
increase over time and the SSP could become a major water supply project. Tbis is a world-wide
trend. In this context it would be prudent to consider reducing the water demand for irrigation and
earmarking more water for the high-value domestic, municipal and industrial needs. Various
options are available to improve overall water use efficiency: (i) use less water-demanding crops;
(ii) improve water-use efficiencies with sprinkler and drip irrigation; and (iii) limit the command
area to the most economically viable areasI9.
9.9    The project has begun to generate a number of secondary benefits, among which
employment generation is the most prominent. Tens of thousands of male and female workers are
gainfully employed on the construction of the vast network of project components. Compensatory
afforestation and catchment area tratment are the other important components which have provided
employment benefits. GOG, GOM and GOMP have initiated the implementation of their
respective action plans for compensatory afforestation and catchment area treatment.
10.  Project Sustainability
10.1  The Dam and Power Project has achieved high standards of construction quality during
implementation. The quality of construction on the Sardar Sarovar Dam came up to intemational
standards. Because the SSNNL was able to develop the necessary infrastructure and institutional
19    Ib Boerower reses that one of SSPs ajor objestive was to bring 1igition and DM&I wat to the
drought pone aeas of Sanshtra and Kutch and that corresponding water requirements have been
adequately studied by tbe project authrities. Ihe limiting of the command aea for achieving bettcr
economic returns is contrary to the initial objective and thus cannot be considered.



53
capability for constructing the dam complex, including a team of competent QC/QA inspectors,
good construction standards are expected to be maintained until completion of the various project
components. It is also hoped that the economic constraints following cancellation of the Loan will
not force the Nigam to adopt lower construction standards. Assuming that the Nigam will be able
to maintain the present levels of QC/QA, the sustainability of the project appears to be guaranteed
over the normal life expectancy of over 100 years for projects of this type. However, the project's
ultimate sustainability will depend on the adequacy of its operation and maintenance. Although
India, like many other developing countries, does not have a good track record on O&M, the
exceptional nature of this project and the standard of excellence developed by the SSNNL staff
may enable new standards to be set for O&M.
10.2  Even assuming good construction quality and adequate maintenance of infrastructure, the
project's reliability and sustainability will also depend on the efficient and real time operation of the
Sardar Sarovar reservoir. Accordingly, the establishment, operation, and maintenance of an
efficient hydromet network in the Narmada Basin are essential from the stand point of dam safety,
reduction of flood damage, and efficient reservoir operation. At Loan cancellation, the
implementation of the hydromet network was still far short of the agreed program. The
sustainability of the dam will rest heavily on the prompt installation of an efficient hydromet
network. At the time of the PCR, NCA was looking actively into the matter.
10.3  The delays in initiating the construction of the Irrigation Bypass Tunnel, due to a
disagreement on its invert level between Gujarat and MP are a cause for serious concern. Project
objectives and sustainability cannot be fully achieved in the absence of this structure. The
irrigation bypass tunnel is necessary to provide controlled releases to the main canal when the canal
head power house is partly or fully out of commission, and also whenever the canal demand
exceeds the discharge capacity of the canal head power house. The construction of this structure is
now on the critical path and its invert level must be decided soon.
10.4 At Loan cancellation, SSNNL had established a core O&M Unit and had prepared a three-
volume Plan of O&M for the project as a whole. Though the O&M phase of the project is planned
to begin in July 1995, a great deal of preparatory work is still required to meet the special needs of
the Dam & Power Complex. Most importantly, this includes timely recruitment and training of
skilled O&M staff and crews, the purchase of O&M equipment, and the earmarking of adequate
funds. Though the SSNNL has until June 1995 to initiate O&M in earnest, the establishment of an
O&M Wing-duly staffed, equipped and trained one year in advance--is a prerequisite for project
sustainability. A phased Action Plan to this effect should be prepared and implemented urgently.
10.5  As part of the benchmarks, the Borrower has drafted TORs for the preparation of a
Narmada Basin Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to the Bank. The preparation and
implementation of this plan are crucial for the project's long term sustainability. As part of this
plan, the impact of the dam and plans for reservoir operation on the downstream communities,
fisheries and Bay of Khambat are to be further investigated. Although a decision is not required
immediately, the Borrower has so far not given sufficient attention to the option of releasing a
minimum flow of water in the lower Narmada as this was not required under the NWDT award.
However, the PCR mission feels that this option should be studied in detail as soon as possible.
Unless this is done, environmental sustainability in the Gulf of Khambat cannot be guaranteed2O.
10.6 The Borrower has agreed with the recommendations of the July 1992 Bank mission which
required the strengthening of the existing health services and the opening of new anti-malaria units,
20    The Boirower has indicated that Gujarat was prepaed to reloe the minimum flow requirement to the
downstream  ach of the dam by diverting water from other projects and lo by pumping wawer from the
SSP reservoirs whenever needed. However, the fesibility of this proposal would have to be studied
carefully.



54
first, near the Sardar Sarovar Dam site and, thereafter, in the command area. Though much more
needs to be done on health aspects, the incidence of malaria due to the project should be reduced to
accepted national levels if the Borrower implements the health plans described in the Environmental
Overview and Action Plan.
10.7  Maintaining the necessary funding level for this large project is a serious issue. Gujarat,
which has primary responsibility for fmnancing this project with the assistance of GOI, is currently
facing serious resource constraints. The availability of funds was reduced drastically when the
Water Delivery and Drainage Project closed in July 1992, and the situation worsened still further in
1993 after the cancellation of the Dam and Power Loan. In view of this serious financial crisis,
SSNNL obtained its long-awaited GOI clearance for raising funds in local financial markets.
Though the first bond issue was successful, it still fell short of the funding requirements for the
entire SSP project. It is also difficult to predict whether Gujarat will be able to maintain the
attractive rates of the first bond issue and, therefore, continue to raise sufficient funds in the future.
Funding for the TIG sets for the riverbed power house was still an issue at the time of the PCR.
For these reasons, the Nigam's project implementation schedule now appears optimistic, and the
pace of construction on the project as a whole is likely to be slowed not only for technical reasons
but also for lack of adequate financial resources.
11.   The Bank Performance
11.1  Overall, the Bank's performance in the engineering fields was excellent, whereas in the
fields of R&R, environment and health it was initially poor and thereafter generally satisfactory.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank failed to follow its own guidelines on involuntary
resettlement and environment. During the initial years of project implementation, the Bank staff
had a bias towards engineering, but this attitude was corrected and after the Independent Review,
the Bank's major concern shifted to R&R and environment. Throughout the project cycle, the
Bank provided a large staff input as indicated in Tables 12 and 13 of Part IIL Project identification
and preparation took 325 staff weeks (34%); appraisal required 154 staff weeks (16%); and
supervision consumed 448 staff weeks (47%). The large supervision input in FY93 resulted from
the publication of the Independent Review Report. Between June 1992 and March 1993, the Bank
staff held intensive discussions with the Borrower on R&R and environmental work plans and
implementation, and thereafter monitored the implementation of the benchmarks fixed by the
Board. The Bank had a positive impact on the technical aspects of project formulation, planning,
institutional arrangements and implementation, and was also instrumental in the adoption of
modem design criteria in these fields. In particular, the Bank staff input covered hydrology, hy-
draulics, dam and power engineering, R&R, environment and health. Moreover, the Bank had a
positive impact on the coordinating role of NCA and the flow of information among NCA, the
party states and the implementing agencies.
11.2   Bank supervision missions have provided valuable technical assistance and contributed to
establishing high standards for progress and construction quality in a number of engineering fields.
Bank inputs on methodologies of tunnelling and equipment deployment have helped to achieve
good progress and safety standards in the excavation of the exit tunnels and the draft tube tunnels
of RBPH complex. Inputs on the Dam also helped to improve quality and expedite constuction of
dam blocks. It was also at the Bankg' insistence that the following committees were established:
(i) the Narmada Planning Group which prepared quality studies and plans for the project as a
whole; (ii) the Team of Experts which addressed the technical, organizational and
implementational problems highlighted by the Bank and which drafted a Memorandum of
Understanding in December 1988 to improve overall SSP implementation; (iii) the Experts
Committee on Cement and Concrete which upgraded the project QC/QA organization and also
helped to improve the quality of cement and concrete; and (iv) the Dam Safety Panel which
contributed to enhancing the safety standards of the dam and power complex as well as to
resolving specific design and technical problems.



55
11.3  The Bank also provided technical assistance through the recruitment of high level
consultants. During appraisal, Bank consultants reviewed the project hydrology and extensive
hydraulic modelling carried out by CWPRS and GERI, as well as the layout, designs, and investi-
gations of the dam. The Bank arranged these consultancies to ensure that the highest standards of
design and quality would be adopted by the Narmada Project Dam Design Circle and CWC.
During implementation, the Bank continued to provide technical assistance through consultants,
including the two experts financed by the Austrian Consultant Trust Fund in November 1992 to
address the problem of fissures in the walls of the machine hall cavern, and the two consulting
firms financed by ODA to help the Borrower prepare the Environmental Overview and several
other benchmarks (relating to upstream sedimentation and downstream impact).
11.4 With respect to the Bank's performance in the fields of environment, R&R and health, the
Bank failed to follow its guidelines: fiat: by not requiring detailed R&R plans by each state at the
time of appraisal, and second: by agreeing that a comprehensive work plan to mitigate the project
impact on the environment would be prepared during project implementation rather than prior. In
addition, the Bank approved the project in anticipation of the Borrower's environmental clearance,
and failed to provide any financing to implement R&R and environmental activities. These
deficiencies had severe repercussions for the project and its implementation. Not only was
construction delayed by two years, due to the absence of the Borrower's environmental clearance,
but in addition, there were no reliable plans for monitoring R&R and environmental performance in
the project's early stages.
11.5  The Bank took a risk when it approved the project in anticipation of the Borrower's
environmental clearance. In the event, the MOEF issued a conditional environmental clearance and
required that the mitigating measures be planned and implemented "pari pasu" with project
implementation. Whether this strategy was the best for the project is debatable. Obviously, for
planning purposes, the "pari pasu" approach is not satisfactory but, for implementation of remedial
measures, this approach is acceptable because mitigating measures can be carried out at the same
pace as project construction.
11.6  The argument later used by the Bank that the situation was not critical since no
environmental damage had occurred as a result of the project appears weak because this is true of
any project which is being constructed and is not an excuse for not preparing the required
Environmental Management Plan. Throughout project preparation and implementation, the Bank
missions paid more attention to the engineering and later to R&R than to the environmental aspects
of the project. After seven years of implementation the Bank took appropriate action by fixing
environmental benchmarks to be met by March 31, 1993. Similarly, Bank supervision missions
did not pay enough attention to the health aspects of the project and relied too heavily on the
Borrower's assessment of the situation. It is only towards the end of the project when the
Independent Review team was at work that the Bank recruited a malaria specialist to assess the
situations. His findings were critical of the prevailing situation and helped in redressing what had
been a lacuna.
11.7   In view of the initial problems regarding the release of forest lands at Taloda for the
resettlement of oustees in Maharashtra, the Bank could have shown more flexibility in setting up
the Benchmarks in 1992. The Bank could have requested Maharashtra to alternatively consider the
purchase of land by consent award, i.e., at market price, as was being done in Gujarat and MP.
11.8  In the initial project years, the Bank should have taken stronger action to correct the
observed deficiencies in R&R and environmental implementation. From 1989 onwards, the Bank
combined the threat of suspending the Water Delivery and Drainage Project, with a considerable
strengthening of its dialogue with project authorities, to improve implementation of R&R
(particularly in Maharashtra and MP). Though a prominent R&R specialist had recommended



56
suspension in 1989, the Bank argued that better results would be achieved by applying an
incremental approach and continuing to dialogue with project authorities. As the results of this
incremental approach were neither sufficient nor swift enough, pressures from local and
international NGOs mounted against the project. Finally, in June 1991, the Bank commissioned
an Independent Review of the project. The publication of the Independent Review Report in June
1992 had a beneficial effect on Bank as well as Borrower performance in the R&R and
environmental fields. From that point on, and with the approaching submergence, the Bank took
firmer steps to improve the situation and ensure that its guidelines would be followed adequately
by the Borrower.
11.9 The Bank was not realistic when it fixed a two-tier disbursement percentage for civil works
which was to be reduced from 45% at project inception, to 15% in FY 1990 until Credit-Loan
closure. The assumption was that 80% of the total Credit/Loan amount would be disbursed in the
first five years of project implementation. Not only were the riverbed power house contracts
signed two years behind schedule, but the heavy expenditures envisaged in the initial contract years
did not materialize. The second disbursement percentage was increased from 15% to 90% in
September 1990 when the Gulf Initiative was applied to all projects implemented in India. The
Bank was similarly unralistic in setting project implementation schedules. The length of the dam
construction contract (110 months) was too short in view of the fact that most of the key equipment
for concrete placement was not manufactured in India. The import of equipment, associated with
the difficulties of obtaining foreign exchange and custom clearances, plus the time required to
commission imported equipment, were not properly appreciated. Thus, no contractor could be
expected to construct the dam in the prescribed time limit
11.10 In retrospect, the Bank funding of US$ 300 M through the Credit and Loan amounts was
not commensurate with the magnitude of the project, as evidenced by the extremely low funding
ratio of about 16% for the project as a whole and about 37% for eligible expenditures. At the time
of project approval, the cost sharing ratios for other Bank-assisted projects in India were much
higher. In view of the delays in project implementation and later of the substantial devaluation of
the Rupee against the SDR and Dollar, it was obvious that the Credit/Loan would not be fully
disbursed by the expected closing date. Under these circumstances, the Bank should have
increased the financing ratio immediately after the award of ICB contracts, or have allowed the
expansion of the eligible expenditures and particularly of the R&R component which had become
so critical to the project. The Bank's Gulf Initiative subsequently rectified the situation.
11.11 The wisdom for splitting of the project into two interlinked loans with only one economic
analysis appears debatable. It has created some confusion in the application of conditionalities but,
above all, has increased the paper work and demand on staff resources throughout the project
cycle. When an ED raised the splitting issue during Board Presentation, Management responded
that it was not because of a financial limit on the amount of Bank loans/credits but because different
agencies were involved in the implementation of each project. This answer needs to be qualified.
In fact, SSNNL (previously the Narmada Development Department), a Government of Gujarat
undertaking, was the sole agency for implementing the civil works of both projects, whereas the
R&R and environmental components were to be implemented by each of the participating states.
However, a more important issue is whether it was justified for the Bank to consider the SSP in its
entirety as planned by the Borrower or whether different planning approaches should have been
considered. From the Bank's point of view, the best solution would have been to finance a self-
contained Dam and Power project with an independent economic analysis - which would have
yielded a higher rate of return - and a smaller and more intensive self-ontained Water Delivery and
Drainage project - which also would have yielded a higher rate of return. However, this view was
not shared by the Borrower who wanted the Bank to consider the SSP project in its entirety as per
the ruling of the NWDT. The Bank ultimately accepted the Borrower's comprehensive plan as a
package.



57
11.12 The SAR and Legal Documents did not include any provision for force account or local
shopping. These provisions are always necessary, even when large contracts are involved, to
cover preparatory works or special needs (such as unexpected damages due to natural calamities,
or purchase of small quantities of special equipment readily available on local markets). Most
projects involving large civil works include a provision for force account and local shopping of up
to an aggregate of 10-15% of disbursements for civil works. This should have been done under
the project.
12.   Borrower2l Performance
12.1 Overall, the Borrower's performance on civil works in the implementation of the Sardar
Sarovar Dam and Power Project was good. In particular, performance on the dam was impressive
after "teething problems" were overcome. During the two years preceding Credit/Loan closure,
performance on placement of good quality concrete was high and compared favorably with interna-
tional standards. Performance on the riverbed power house was also quite encouraging, despite
difficulties that developed in the cavern walls and that were resolved satisfactorily after a certain
delay. However, performance was less satisfactory on the R&R, environmental and health
components, and disappointing with respect to setting up a basin-wide hydro-meteorological
network and construction of the irrigation bypass tunnel which did not materialize during the
Credit/Loan disbursement period22.
12.2 During project implementation, the Borrower took a number of positive decisions which
helped improve project performance. Among the most noteworthy was the creation of the Sardar
Sarovar Narmada Nigam, a public corporation with considerable flexibility for dealing with the
administrative, personnel and financial aspects of this large project Because the SSNNL was
organized on a "functional basis," it was able to respond efficiently to the project's demanding and
complex aspect. However, throughout the project cycle, SSNNL was over-optimistic about its
ability to implement the entire project within the proposed time frame. Even after a two-year delay,
due to environmental clearance and other implementation lags, the Borrower was still optimistic
about the possibility of completing the entire SSP by the year 2000. In light of on-the-ground
realities and current financial constraints, the Borrower may have become less optimistic, realizing
that except for the dam and power component, this large project will be completed only well into
the first part of the 21st century.
12.3  In 1987, the MOEF should not have issued a forest clearance stating that forest lands could
not be released for the resettlement of PAFs in contradiction of the Project Legal Documents. This
contravention created a major legal problem in 1990 when the Bank had to threaten to suspend the
Water Delivery and Drainage Project unless forest land at Taloda in Maharashtra was released.
This situation was repeated in 1992 when the Bank required as part of its benchmarks that another
tract of forest near Taloda be released for resettling the additional PAFs created by the expansion
of Maharashtra's R&R policy.
21    In actual fact, GOI is the Borrower and Gujarat, Maharashtra and MP are the implementing States. Ratder
than to differentiate the roles played by each entity, the generic term "Borrower" wu used in this
Section.
22     The Borrower notes that delays in the construction and commissioning of the hydro-meteorological
network wer due to its desire to the use of a more cost-effective system than the proposed meteor-burst
communication system under Indian conditions. The Borrower expects the new system should be
implemented in two years time. Similarly, the Borrower is hopeful that lEPFT issue will be resolved soon
and the works completed before the completion of the dam.



58
12.4 Throughout project implementation, the Borrower was responsive to Bank suggestions
regarding the engineering components. However, such was not the case in the initial project years
from 1985 to 1990 regarding the implementation of the project's environmental, R&R and health
aspects of the project. The Bank had to use the threat of suspending the Water Delivery and
Drainage Project before some improvements could be made. But it is only from 1992 onwards,
that substantial improvements were made just before and after the publication of Independent
Review report, and also as a result of the measurable benchmarks established by the Board in
October 1992.
12.5  The Nigam's eagerness to accelerate construction of the main dam in July 1991-- to start
diversion of water for irrigation and power generation one year ahead of the RIS (12/89)--was not
realistic. The Nigam had submitted the matter to the SSCAC and NCA while knowing well that by
June 1994: (i) the initial reach of the main canal would not be ready to receive water, (ii) the com-
missioning of the canal head power house and riverbed power house were not feasible, and (iii) the
implementation of the R&R program in MP and Maharashtra was being delayed. The SSCAC and
NCA took a wise decision by rejecting the Nigam's proposal. In the process, however, the Nigam
managed to obtain the deletion of the intermediate diversion sluices at Elevation 35 m as per
original plans and provisions of the SAR. The construction of these sluices would have facilitated
implementation of the R&R program, by reducing the level of permanent submergence during
construction to Elevation 35 m.
12.6 The Borrower has operationalized the linkage between dam construction and R&R
implementation. The NCA and the SSCAC meet from time to time to approve the dam's annual or
intermediate construction programs. These meetings have already resulted in a decision to slow
down dam construction or delay the plugging of the riverbed construction sluices at Elevation 18
m, in view of constraints and difficulties in the R&R program. The latest decision taken on
January 12, 1994 by the GOI in consultation with the Chief Ministers of Gujarat, Maharashtra and
MP was to synchronize the closure of the riverbed construction sluices with the rehabilitation of the
affected persons, to hold up construction of the spillway portion of the dam at Elevation 69.00 m
until R&R is satisfactorily implemented in Maharashtra and MP. Thus the construction of the dam
is behind schedule when compared to NCA's submergence schedule of March 1991, and there is
now a high probability that it may be further delayed because of slow R&R implementation in MP.
One concem about the dam/R&R linkage is whether officials are actually using the forms that have
been prepared to certify completion of resettlement, village by village, with three signatures to
show approval.
12.7 The findings of the Independent Review Report were disappointing to the Borrower who
believed their performance was satisfactory by Indian standards. The Borrower, for some years,
believed that too high standards in the environmental and R&R fields were being imposed upon
them and initially felt that the Independent Review report was biased. Nevertheless, the Borrower
ultimately responded positively to the findings and recommendations of the Independent Review
report by recognizing many shortcomings and in doing its best to meet the benchmarks set by the
Board of Directors. However, the Borrower took the unilateral decision to request the cancellation
of the remaining Dam and Power Loan while reiterating its full commitment to satisfactory R&R
and environmental implementation. Later in August 1993, when the Borrower submitted its
report, the Bank felt that the Borrower had met a substantial part of the benchmarks, but as of the
July 1994, the benchmarks still to fully met are: (i) the completion of socio-economic surveys in
Maharashtra; (ii) the acquisition of 2,000 ha of agricultural land in MP (about 1,022 ha have been
identified but not acquired); (iii) an inter-state agreement on the sharing of R&R cost; (iv) the R&R
plan for Maharashtra is still based on a provisional number of oustees; and (v) the R&R Plan of
MP requires improvements with regard to the total number of oustees and those willing to resetle
in Gujarat



59
12.8  Throughout project implementation, the Borrower and the activists opposing the dam were
unable to establish a dialogue of any kind. In Maharashtra, the Borrower used on a few occasions
intimidation and even force to reduce opposition during the submergence of Manibelli, the
resettlement at Taloda23 and the implementation of socio-economic surveys in non-cooperative
villages, but to no avail. At least on two occasions, the leader of the Narmada Bachao Andolan
was temporarily arrested. In contrast, Maharashtra developed valuable efforts to have a dialogue
with the oustees willing to move by organizing visits to the Dam and the Taloda resettlement sites.
These visits, in conjunction with the proposed infrastructure and the quality of the agricultural
land, did much to convince oustees to move freely to this site. In Gujarat, the consultation process
took place with friendly NGOs, particularly Arch Vahini, which led to a good R&R policy.
Gujarat also organized visits to potential replacement agricultural lands, and oustees were given the
choice between three possible sites. In MP, the consultation process was mixed and relied mostly
on the findings of the social institute engaged to carry out the socio-economic surveys.
Nevertheless, the quality of R&R planning and implementation has been and remains weak in this
state.
12.9 The Borrower's performance in recruiting consultants of international renown was often
hamnpered by administrative tangles. The Borrower's performance in training staff in the R&R and
environmental fields was poor. While Gujarat was able to set up a well staffed and functioning
R&R wing, this was not the case in Maharashtra and MP in spite of a few good officers whose
desire to carry out their task in line with the agreed procedures was often restrained by
administrative and political difficulties.
12.10 In conclusion, notwithstanding a range of serious problems, the Borrower's performance
for the SSP project in the field of engineering has been clearly superior to any other irrigation
project in India. The Sardar Sarovar Dam meets international standards both in construction
progress and quality. In the fields of R&R, environment and health, the Borrower has not been
able to establish so far a consultative process with the NGOs that oppose the dam, nor to meet
fully the expectations of all oustees and the Board's benchmarks. However, the Borrower is now
committed to improving the current situation and therefore there is a good prospect of satisfactory
future performance.
13.   Project Relationships
13.1  The relationships between the Bank and the Borrower's various implementing agencies,
including MOWR, NPG, NCA, SSNNL and the State Governments, were good at all times--even
during the most difficult periods following the publication of the Independent Review report and
the creation of the benchmarks by the Board of Directors. The Bank's and the Borrower's project
staff have maintained excellent professional, amicable and open relations throughout the project
cycle. Discussions and presentation of each other's viewpoints were always frank and candid.
The Borrower was always diligent and open in responding to the Bank's technical suggestions, as
well as the numerous requests relating to R&R implementation and other sensitive aspects such as
the Borrower's dealings with critics of the project. The project management continued to give full
consideration and encouraging responses to the Bank's observations and suggestions, though
these did not always accord with the Borrower's view. Notwithstanding some minor stresses and
strains, particularly regarding implementation of the R&R, environment and health components,
strong professional bonds between the Bank, Gujarat and SSNNL existed throughout the
operation of the CreditlLoan, allowing the satisfactory resolution of practically all issues.
23    Thc actual problem was not with the oustees but with some encroachers of the host community who said
they were losing rights to their land.



60
13.2  The relationships between the Borrower and the representatives of the affected persons
were in general limited and often stressed. However, in Gujarat, relationships improved after the
issuance of a generous package of compensation. However, some disputes still remain on the
retroactive application of this package to the persons affected by the construction of the dam and its
appurtenant structures and also by the construction of the staff colony. In Maharashtra, the
relationships between the Government and its social institute in charge of preparing the social
economic surveys have remained strained throughout project implementation. In MP, the
relationships between the Government and representatives of oustees continue to be strained.
However, good relationships were established with the social institutes in charge of the tribal
studies and the socio-economic surveys. The PCR has no information on the relationships of the
three states and the independent social institutes in charge of the monitoring and evaluation of R&R
implementation. However, there is every reason to believe that these are satisfactory.
14.   Consulting Services
14.1  The Borrower made extensive use of local consultants, consulting firms, institutes of
technology and research stations throughout the project cycle. National consultants were engaged
to study hydrology, hydro-power, dam design, technical specifications, seismicity, finite element
analysis (FEM), engineering geology, hydraulic modelling, underground works and support
systems, instrumentation, gates equipment planning, environment, and many other matters. The
Borrower made heavy use of government agencies and national institutes such as the CWC, Delhi;
CWPRS, Pune; GERI, Vadodara; Central Soil and Materials Research Station, Delhi; National
Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad; Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi; Central Mining
Research Station, Dhanbad; and CEA, Delhi. The services of the National Council of Cement and
Building Materials were also used for training Nigam engineers and technicians in NCB
laboratories on QC/QA aspects. The SSNNL also used the services of a local management
consultant firm, as well as a local computer specialist, to assist project management in the
development and implementation of an Integrated Project Planning and Monitoring System and a
Top Management Control System.
14.2 The seven-member International Dam Review Panel, dissolved by GOG after the project
was appraised by the Bank, was reconstituted into a four-member Dam Safety Panel. This
important Panel of local consultants was effective in reviewing the dam and power complex
designs and implementation. A second local consultant panel created under the project was the
Expert Committee on Cement and Concrete, which made a contribution by improving the quality of
cement and concrete, and construction works. Liberal use of local consultants and universities was
made for the environmental and R&R components of the project. In general, these consultants and
government institutes provided satisfactory studies and assistance, despite their limited exposure to
modem technologies applied outside India. Lack of experience was also noted in the preparation
of comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessments and management plans by local consultants
and universities.
14.3  Individual foreign consultants were also recruited from time to time, though with some
difficulty, to advise on highly technical issues including: geo-technical aspects of the underground
riverbed power house; drilling and blasting patterns for optimizing progress in tunnelling and
shafts; and the establishment of a Narmada Basin hydromet network. However, many foreign
consultancies were actually financed directly by the Bank or through Consultant Trust Funds and
not through the Credit/Loan because of administrative difficulties on the part of the Borrower.
These included experts for R&R implementation and monitoring, preparation of environmental
studies, a team of two high level geo-technicians to help resolve the problems that developed in the
walls of the riverbed power house cavern, and two large teams of hydrologists, engineers and
environmentalists to assist the Borrower in meeting the benchmarks on environmentL



61
14.4  In conclusion, the Borrower made extensive use of its governmental institutes and local
consultants, whose performance was satisfactory on average. Foreign consultants were employed
mostly on highly technical problems and environmental matters. They were also used on one
occasion to resolve diverging views between the Borrower and its local consultants. The
performance of the foreign consultants was fully satisfactory.
15. Project Documentation and Data
15.1  The SAR, with its two Supplementary Data Volumes, gave a good description of the
project's technical and engineering aspects, and served as a good basis and reference document for
the implementation of the major civil works. In particular, Annex 9 of the SDV on the Dam and
Power Complex provided a detailed description of the studies, designs, reviews, specifications and
contracting arrangements of the major civil works components. Annex 9 also gave the basic data
and assumptions for estimating the economic benefits of the power component. Annex 10 gave a
detailed description of the project's overall economic analysis including the power, irrigation and
domestic, municipal and industrial components. The SAR and SDV gave sketchy descriptions of
the R&R and environmental conditions prevailing at the time of appraisal. However, these
deficiencies were recognized by the appraisal mission and, as a result, the SAR and Legal
Documents contained several covenants for the preparation of detailed R&R and environmental
plans by the implementing states, based on agreed policy, training and monitoring arrangements.
During Board presentation, several EDs also observed deficiencies in the R&R and environmental
preparation and appraisal work. In general, the SAR and Legal Documents were quite
comprehensive on the irrigation and institutional aspects of the project.
15.2 The Borrower and the Bank produced an exceptionally large amount of valuable technical
and non-technical reports. There is a larger volume of documentation for this project than for any
other project supported by the Bank in India. The Borrower produced quarterly progress reports
which gave a clear picture of project implementation. The Borrower also produced all the
necessary information and latest data for the preparation of this PCR. The project data were found
to be comprehensive and generally reliable except for some information on R&R in Maharashtra
and MP and also in early environmental data in all three states. This project has generated a large
quantity of good quality of technical data which are kept by the Borrower's various implementing
agencies and in the Bank's project file. However, persons not conversant with the project have
experienced some difficulties in obtaining information, for lack of a centralized and easily
accessible arrangement for project documentation. This situation was affected by the Bank's
disclosure policies.
16. Lessons Learned
General Lessons
16.1     The flr= lesson is the need to ensure that all Govemment clearances have been obtained
before negotiations are finalized, particularly in a sensitive area such as environment. The project
had not been cleared by the Planning Commission nor by the Ministry of Environment and Forests
at the time of Board approval (see Evaluation Summary, Attachment 2). As a result, the lack of
clearance led to at lease a two-year delay in project implementation. .
16.2 The seond lesson is the need for the Bank to apply more rigorously its guidelines on
environment and R&R during the preparation, appraisal and supervision stages. One of the major
criticisms that emerged from the Independent Review was that the project had been approved
without a proper Environmental Impact Assessment of the dam and power complex, and also
without adequate policies and plans for the R&R of project-affected persons. Bank policies on the
environment and R&R were still relatively new at the time of project formulation and appraisal and
much less stringent than current requirements with respect to operational requirements. Clearly,



62
the Bank's performance was wanting in terms of quality at preparation and appraisal of the R&R
and environmental plans. The Bank should have taken a stronger stand in the application of its
guidelines during the early stages of project implementation. Legal covenants on R&R and
environment should be strong and specific and the Bank must also be willing to enforce rigorously
its conditionalities, which it failed to do early enough under the project.
16.3 The third lesson concerns the need to be cautious when financing a large multi-purpose
project with a development period exceeding 10 to 15 years. In view of the difficulties in predicting
performance of such projects, it would be wise for the appraisal mission to select smaller, self-
contained portions of the overall program, such as the dam and power complex, or at least to
recommend, as is the Bank's current practice, a thorough mid-term review at an appropriate point
to enable updating of data on the basis of actual performance and to enable required adjustments to
be made. It is difficult to predict the final outcome of a project so far in advance. In the case of
SSP, the Bank was over-confident throughout project design and implementation that this project
would be implemented as planned. However, this outcome was--and remains-uncertain: (i) there
are always unforseen delays due to technical and financial constraints, (ii) R&R and environmental
issues have and will continue to hamper project implementation, (iii) there is still uncertainty about
adequate funding for the Narmada Sagar Dam in MP and its pace of implementation, the final size
of the command and the important role that the domestic, municipal and industrial component is
likely to play in the future.
Lessons on Resettlement and Rehabilitation24
A. General Lessons
16.4 The fLis lesson concerns the need to ensure the quality of the R&R process at project
outset. The R&R component could have been improved early on through prior consultations with
PAFs to gain a better understanding of land acquisition issues, transaction costs and the special
needs of tribal people. The R&R training program should have been developed with more input
from NGOs which had local knowledge of the PAFs. Additionally, a detailed review of the R&R
process itself in the project's early stages would have improved performance.
16.5  The second lesson relates the need to empower the Borrower and executing agencies to take
greater ownership for implementation of the R&R process. The Bank should have confirmed that
the Borrower and executing states would assume greater ownership of the R&R implementation
process. In the case of the SSP, this would have required GOI to supervise the execution of R&R
policies while the Bank played an "arns-length" role, simply holding the Borrower to the terms of
legal agreements. The SSP operated in a particularly difficult context, however, because GOI
entered into financial agreements with the Bank, while the states actually executed the R&R
policies while the states actually executed the R&R policies. The alternative of establishing a
common authority which in turn would have taken charge of all operational issues as regards R&R
was not considered under the NWDT award and was not possible under the Indian Constitution.
16.6 The Ihkd lesson is with regard to the need for the Bank to develop better communication
and decision-making policies for R&R. There were major political difficulties to be faced in
achieving R&R objectives across three states. Facilitating communications among the states
should have been set as an early priority; decision-making should have been made more explicit
and timely. In addition, alternative views should have been both recognized and encouraged. A
qualified sociologist/anthropologist should have been hired to handle R&R issues for the Bank.
The SSP lacked this needed expertise and authority at the early stages of appraisal and supervision.
24   lbe first four lessons we abstracted from the Bank statement entitled 'Bank-wide Lessons Learned from
the Experience with the India Sardw Sarovar (Narmada) Poject issued on May 19, 1993.



63
16.7  The fourth lesson concerns the importance of maintaining strong ties with NGOs.
Through the development of the R&R policy for the SSP, the Bank recognized the important
contribution that NGOs could make towards devising a more acceptable policy. During the early
years of project implementation in Gujarat, NGOs played an increasingly useful role. NGO
complaints should have been responded to by the Borrower rather than the Bank.
16.8  The fi= lesson concerns the need to go through a lengthy and sometime complex learning
period. In the case of SSP, neither the Bank nor the Borrower had anticipated the complexity and
magnitude of issues that emerged during implementation. Even if the R&R component had been
prepared to the standards prevailing at the time of appraisal, it is likely that further adjustments
would have been required during implementation. NGOs played an important role in drawing the
attention of the Borrower and the Bank to the inadequacies of implementation, and particularly to
the importance of assuring equitable treatment for all categories of oustees, whether they be landed,
landless or tribal. The legal covenants must therefore be flexible enough to accommodate any
improvements to the policies and plans.
16.9 Finally, the sixh and last lesson relates to the due processes of R&R developed during
project implementation. This project has been the source of many improvements in R&R policies
and implementation, which are now being put into practice in other projects. With respect to R&R
policies, the principle of land-for-land was implemented on a large scale, adult sons were
recognized as separate families, tribal people living in government forest lands were considered as
landed families, and the need for additional assistance for subsistence and house construction was
recognized. On the implementation side, Gujarat developed a unique mechanism for acquiring
replacement agricultural land, at market prices through Land Purchase Committees. Well-
developed R&R units with central monitoring cells were established.
16.10 In summary, all future projects with major R&R aspects should conform to the upgraded
standards that ensure: (i) baseline studies are adequately completed, (ii) specific project policies are
agreed upon, (iii) institutional arrangements have been made for project implementation, and (iv)
proper monitoring and evaluation arrangements through independent agencies have been made.
Such projects should have a separate R&R component financed under the Credit/Loan. Precise
legal covenants should be agreed and enforced. The Bank should use highly qualified R&R
specialists to supervise implementation and provide recommendation to implementing agencies.
Current Bank guidelines require such rigor.
B. Specific Lessons
16.11 The first lesson on R&R concerns the complexity of R&R and the need for well established
and agreed objectives, policies and plans prior to project approval. House-to-house socio-econo-
mic surveys following a participatory approach are essential not only to gather data on village life
and economic status of oustees but also to: (i) familiarize each family with their rights and benefits;
(ii) register the wishes of the affected persons; and (iii) prepare realistic and implementable R&R
plans. The R&R plans should cover not only the socio-economic aspects of R&R but also the
physical planning of the new resettlement centers which includes: (i) site selection; (ii) layout of
civic amenities and house plots; (iii) construction programs; and (iv) cost estimates. The initial
surveying and planning phase is a lengthy operation which must be initiated at least three to four
years prior to the date of resettlement depending on the size of the R&R program.
16.12 The second lesson on R&R relates to the proper identification and classification of oustees.
Usually the Government has an official list which is based on the land acquisition procedure. This
list is incomplete as it does not take into account the persons living on government lands - often
called encroachers - or the tenants and migrating populations who own no land or house. The
implementation of a house-to-house socio-economic survey is not only necessary to establish the



64
pre-project situation but also to remedy the lacunae of the Government lists and help in preparing
the R&R plan in line with the wishes of the oustees. Following the socio-economic survey, a final
list of oustees should therefore be prepared by reconciling the Government and survey lists. This
exercise should be done through village meetings during which the villagers, the Government
officials and the surveyors discuss and agree on a final lisL During these meetings R&R Identifica-
tion Cards indicating the category and the benefits should be established for each eligible oustee.
These ID cards provide the oustees a sense of confidence that: (i) they are officially recognized as
oustees; and (ii) they are eligible to a number of benefits before resettlement takes place.
16.13 The third lesson on R&R refers to the participatory approach to R&R planning. This
approach is essential to create an awareness and build confidence between the oustees and the
Government officials. NGOs can be used but in places where they are not active, it is useful to
select among the oustees R&R motivators who will function as intermediaries between the R&R
officials and the oustees. Their role will consist of informing and communicating the R&R policies
through meetings with oustees and distribution of leaflets describing the R&R policies. The socio-
economic survey should follow the participatory approach and each surveyor should be perfectly
aware of the rights and benefits of each oustee. At the end of the survey, the survey team should
make recommendations on the needs of the oustees and assist the R&R officials in preparing the
village-wise R&R plans.
16.14 The fourth lesson on R&R concerns the land-for-land principle for economic rehabilitation.
This principle has been applied to landed oustees because it is one of the most reliable means to
restore or even improve their living standards. This is particularly true when oustees are resettled
in the irrigation command area as was done in Gujarat. However, this principle should not be
considered universal because the evidence suggests a number of small land owners may want to
move out of agriculture and be provided permanent jobs. The employment of oustees on construc-
tion sites or the provision of jobs under state employment guarantee schemes are not satisfactory
because they are not permanent solutions to employment. Therefore, economic rehabilitation
schemes should be geared to provide permanent jobs such as: (i) on-the-job training and provision
of jobs in local industries or business concerns; (ii) allocation of financial assistance for income
generating schemes; and (iii) allocation of government jobs to the extent possible.
16.15 The fifth lesson on R&R concerns the procedure for the application of the land-for-land
principle. The procedure for acquiring and allocating replacement agricultural land to landed
oustees needs to be well defined as part of project preparation and appraisal. Eir  it is essential to
carTy out a survey on land availability early in the program to determine where land can be acquired
and the likely market price. Second, oustees' preference for places of relocation and desire to be
allocated replacement land should be investigated through the socio-economic surveys. Third,
resettlement centers must be located close to the places where replacement land is available and
designed accordingly. And Fourth the responsibilities for financing and acquiring land must be
defined in advance. In the case of SSP, Land Purchase Committees were set up by Gujarat to
acquire land under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 while the Irrigation Department with the
assistance of the rural planners were given the task of locating, planning and constructing the
resetdement centers. Both tasks were large and the lack of coordination between the two led to
some difficulties in matching land availability with location of resettlements and oustees' wishes.
An alternative to this procedure, which has been implemented with success under the Upper
Krishna Il project, consists of locating the resettlement centers as per the findings of the socio-
economic surveys and thereafter assisting the oustees in purchasing replacement agricultural land
on their own through grants and loans deposited in advance in managed bank accounts.
16.16 The sixth lesson on R&R concerns the compensation to be paid to oustees for loss of land
and structures. Government estimates have always been under-valued and have led to a large
number of court cases to enhance compensation. To avoid such situations, it is essential that
compensation be based on actual market price. This can be achieved by setting up Land Valuation



65
Committees comprising representatives of the Government and the oustees to fix a fair market
price, as was done in Gujarat. However, the fair market price is usually not sufficient to purchase
land of equivalent size, or reconstruct a house and other structures such as a well or to replace
plantation crops. While fair evaluation of fixed assets can help, it is also necessary to provide
additional financial assistance in form of grants and credit to the oustees. In cases where land
acquisition has already been completed, it is essential to set up as part of the project a mechanism to
redress inadequate land compensation and accelerate the outstanding court cases. This can be done
through special courts whose mission is to arrive at a rapid agreement on an enhanced
compensation amount followed by immediate payment by the Government.
16.17 Overall, there have been a wide range of lessons from the R&R experience in SSP and
many of these lessons have already been incorporated in on-going further work on R&R both by
the Bank and GOI.
Lessons on Environent
16.18 While there is increasing evidence that many of the possible negative environmental impacts
have been exaggerated by critics and a number of secondary environmental benefits ignored, there
are still several important lessons.
16.19 The fir lesson is that the Bank should not approve a project, particularly one that involves
a large dam, without a proper Environmental Impact Assessment and management plan. Strict
adherence to the Bank's Operational Directive No. 4.01 on Environmental Assessment should now
ensure that environmental issues are addressed more thoroughly and at a much earlier stage.
16.20 The second lesson is that no project should be approved until a formal environmental
clearance is obtained from the Borrower.
16.21 The thid lesson is that, in the case of a project with a large environmental impact, a
mitigatory environmental component should be made an integral part of the project supported by
strong legal covenants.
16.22 The fourth lesson relates to the need for the Bank to use highly qualified environmental
specialists to supervise the environmental component and, as needed, to provide guidance to the
Borrower in the resolution of special environmental issues.
16.23 The  lh lesson is that ample use should be made of remote sensing and computer
modeling technologies for assessing environmental impacts of large projects such as SSP.






67
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR THE SARDAR SAROVAR
PROJECT FOR DAM & POWER PROJECT [CREDIT NO.
1552-IN/LOAN 2497-IN]
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
(A)   Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part -III
Information given in Part-mi of the PCR is adequate and factually
accurate.
(B)   Comments on analysis contained in Part I of the PCR
1.0 Para-22 (Page-VI) & Para -35 (Page-IX)
[A] Evaluation Summery :-
The Bank has expressed its concern regarding impact on downstream of
Sardar Sarovar Dam under para 22 and 35 of the Evaluation Summery. In
this connection it is clarified that the Bank consultants themselves have
observed that there will be no adverse effect downstream of the dam till
the year 2024, i.e. when full basin developments has taken place and also
the SSP command has developed fully. The experience of initial 5 to 10
years of inigation will provide useful insight about the quantity of return
water from both the banks including that from the Kaijan Project on left
bank. There will be sufficient time available to consider and study this
issue keeping in view the circumstances prevailing at that time and also
the experiences gained and therefore, there is no need to finalize the
plans immediately, Gujarat, in the meanwhile would like to ensure that
the environment of the downstream river will not be allowed to suffer in
any respect.
So far as R&R of fishing community is concerned, following mitigating
strategies are proposed to ensure that they do not suffer :-
(a)   Retraining and equipping fisherman with boats more suitable for
marine fishing in the Gulf of Cambay.
(b)   Retraining and equipping as culture fishermen in brackish ponds
on coastal mud flats and freshwater ponds inland.
(c)   employing the fishermen in Hilsa, carp and giant prawn breeding



68
stations to supplement natural stocks in the river after stage I and
to supply hilsa to the SSP reservoir and to brackish ponds in the
estuary and giant prawn to the freshwater ponds inland.
(d)   Retraining and equipping fishermen for reservoir fisheries.
2.0   Para - 39 (Page x)
Gujarat basically does not agree to the suggestion under para 39 of the
Evaluation Summery of deriving higher returns with intenstive irrigation
in a smaller command area. Narmada Waters provide the last dependable
opportunity for the backward and drought prone areas of the command
located in North Gujarat, Saurashtra and Kutch. The social objectives of
SSP can not be diluted merely on the score of narrow economic cost
benefit analysis. It is clear that social benefit to these distant areas in the
form of human misery during consecutive drought spells, large scale
migration of cattle population, health problems arising from lack of
drinking water or from drinking non- potable or saline water by people
cannot be evaluated in economic terms. Even after inclusion of these
areas in the conmmand, the overall ERR and benefit cost ratio are
favorable (ERR 12%, B/C ratio 2.0). Our studies indicate that many of
these areas may need only 2 to 3 waterings for irrigation (overall depth
not exceeding 12") and even in economic terms, the gains or the benefits
would be very high per unit of water supply in terms of yield increments
of cereal, fodder and fiber crops. Local water harvesting will also be
integrated as now decided. The views of NCA, on this issue forwarded
separately to the Bank are also on these lines.
3.0   Attachment-I
It is heartening to note that the Bank has appreciated the quality of
environmental work done to date in its comments on the status of
Environment Management Plan under Attachment 1.



69
Part I :- Project Review from the Bank's perspective
4.0   Para 5.2
With reference to the Bank's comment under para 5.2 of Part I regarding
high variability of cement quality and consequential inadequate strength
of concrete, the following clarification is offered :-
The main issue was high variability of cement strength as received from
the manufacturers. This resulted in higher coefficient of variation. The
problem was satisfactorily resolved by referring it to the Expert
Committee on Cement and Concrete. This Comnittee observed that
subsequently the degree of control exercised by the manufacturers, after
complying with the observations as commnunicated by the committee was
found to be satisfactory. The Committee had laid down the procedure of
procurement of cement from only pre- specified companies which were
required to adhere to a very strict control during the manufacture of the
cement.
It is also not true that GOG has been reluctant to utilise the critically
needed and experienced consultants. GOG has already used a number of
consultants or organisations in the fields of ground water modeling,
drainage studies, fisheries, flora and fauna studies, sanctuary
assessments, network planning and design, command area development
and several other aspects. GOG has also not hesitated to agree to the
consultancy assignment given to M/s H.R. Wallingford, U.K. The
consideration has been that looking to the size of the project and nature of
unprecedented work, GOG is very careful in using knowledgeable people
or organisations for the work and this cannot be termed as reluctance.
5.0   Para 5.30
In connection with the comments of the Bank regarding hydromet
network as contained in para 5.30 the factual position is as under -
A proposal of setting up of Narmada Basin Hydrometeorological
Network with a real time data acquisition system, specific to the Narmada



70
Basin was envisaged. Keeping in view these requirements; various
alternatives for the telemetry system ranging from VHF- UHF satellite
integrated system; PC based satellite network system and Meteor Burst
system etc. were under consideration.
The initial work leading to the procurement of a Meteor Burst
communication system, received a set-back, as the National Informatic
Centre (N.I.C.) volunteered to accept the responsibility of providing a
cheaper alternative, considering the telemetry system by utilisation of the
core-user group of NICNET on a turn- key basis. In view of this
development, invitation of second stage commercial bids for MBC
telemetry system were postponed. However, when the preliminary initial
proposal of N.I.C. was received, it was not found to be very attractive.
However, the NCA directed its Hydromet sub-group to also consider the
suggestion of adopting conventional method and indigenous technology
instead of going for a highly sophisticated system for the network. It
was considered that the sophisticated technology should be introduced in
the entire catchment having 96 station, but only at an appropriate time of a
successful pilot scheme, proving first, having a few representative
forecasting stations could be guaranteed. Accordingly a small network
consisting of 26 hydromet stations on real time was designed the
Secretariat of the NCA.
The estimated cost of this phase of work is Rs. 17.53 crores against the
total cost of the scheme of Rs. 43.94 crores for the 96 stations. After
evaluation of the technical bids and short-listing of the eligible bidders,
the second stage commercial bids will be invited for the setting of initial
phase of the network comprising 26 stations.
6.0 Para 5.39
Reply to para No. 5.39 of World Bank Project Completion report :- A
plan outlay of Rs. 6950 crores is provided for the SSP in VIII Five Year
Plan (1992-97) of Gujarat. Of this outlay, Rs. 4595 crores is indicated
as budgetary support from Government of Gujarat, including the shares
of participating States, and the balance of Rs. 2355 crores is indicated as



71
Nigam's resources.
In the two years and a half starting April 1992 the Nigam has mobilised
resources net of repayments to the extent of Rs. 735 crores as per details
given in Annexure - 1 including Rs. 375 crores through a Public Issue
of Bonds made in 1993-94.
Efforts are currently in progress for another Bonds Issue of a similar sum
as last year through Public Issue/Private Placement Thus, around Rs.
1100 crores (net of repayments) have already been mobilised or tied-up
or efforts for mobilisation are in progress and only a balance of amount
Rs. 1250/- crores is untied-up as on date. Looking to the mobilisation
achieved in the last two years and a half, mobilisation of the balance
amount of arnount Rs. 1250/- crores in the remaining two years and a
half of the current plan period is not expected to be a difficult task. The
Nigam is confident that the target indicated in the 8th Five Year Plan for
mobilisation of resources from the market would be achieved.
7.0   Para 6.8
With reference to para 6.8 of the PCR this is to inform that the concern of
the SSP authorities for assessment of environmental impacts was
demonstrated by the fact that in 1983, i.e., long before the loan
agreement with the World Bank was signed, and clearance by the
Ministry of Environment and Forest were considered, a preliminary
impact assessment study was completed through the M.S. University,
Baroda. This study was commissioned by the Narmada Planning Group.
The bank credit and loan agreement in 1985 for SSP covered certain
environmental issues. Based on this, the Government agreed to prepare a
work plan by December, 1985 dealing with environmental issues.
Consequently, GOG had prepared the work plan in February, 1986 and
were furnished to MOE&F and World Bank.
Thereafter, the clearance for the project was received from MOE&F and
Planning Commission. Since the work plans for environment related
mitigative measures were ready, Gujarat was able to launch immediate
implementation of these.
While implementing these measures in real spirit, main thrust was laid to



72
fulfil the conditions stipulated by GOI, so that these are implemented pari
passu with engineering components of the project.
8.0   Para 6.10
The Bank's stand regarding borrower's approach to environmental issues
as reflected in para 6.10 of the PCR needs to be complemented.
9.0   Para 6.11, Para 6.19, Para 10.5
The Bank's concern regarding impact on downstream environment as
reiterated in para 6.11,6.19 and 10.5 of the PCR is already replied under
para 1.0 above.
10.0  Para 6.16
The remarks regarding Environment Impact Assessment and management
plans (para 6.16 of PCR) are incorrect.
A work plan for the environmental aspects was prepared soon after the
agreement with the World Bank and this was fmalised and made available
to the World Bank and the Ministry of Environment & Forest in
February, 1986. These work plans did not follow an impact assessment
in the sense being talked now since the procedures for environmental
impact assessment were in a state of development and for example, the
Daly Guddines of the World Bank came later but, the work plans were
prepared by the experts in the respective fields. The database was further
strengthened by detailed studies by a multi-disciplinary team of scientists
of eminence belonging to M.S. University, Baroda.
In fact downstream impacts could not have been appreciated in depth
without assessments by NPG/SSNNLICICFRI and M/s HR.
Wallingford. Most of the command area studies are nearing completion
and infact, impacts and broad management approaches have already been
documented in the EIA Interim Report prepared by NPG in April, 1993
and furnished to GOI, NCA etc. (the report is under print in a form of a
book and is due to be published by end of December, 1994). There were



73
some delays because of the nature of basic work changing EIA
guidelines which made the work much more detailed, developments in
post Morse Berger Review period and other factors. Detailed
management plans are being framed and these will be ready well before
irrigation commences under SSP in conformity with the pari-passu
clause governing the clearance of the project. It is also to be noted that
reports of M/s HR. Wallingford on agrochemical pollution and more
detailed ground water modeling are yet to be received.
11.0  Para6.19
The issue of downstream impact is already covered under para 1.0 above
and hence not reiterated.
12.0  Para 6.21
With reference to para 6.21 of the PCR, this is to state that GOG and
SSNNL are fully aware about the need of having a stepwise approach
towards the completion of full command area. In fact, due to this
approach recent approaches on filling up command area tanks and
integrating water harvesting measures are being put into effect.
13.0  Para 6.22
Calculations in respect of back water impacts (for 1 in 100 year flood)
obviously incorporate a number of assumption about the sediment
composition, where delta formation may occour, the outgoing silt loads
(over spillway & through sluices) etc. The CWC study has to be
assessed in this light.
Firstly we do not foresee that Narmada Sagar Project will be completed
as late as 20 years after Sardar Sarovar Project. Govt. of M.P. has
already commenced the construction work on dam and this is a
requirement as per NWDT award. However even assuming that more
delays would occour, Gujarat does not agree that this would necessarily



74
increase water levels for 1 in 100 year flood event when NSP is not
there. The SSP spillway discharges would be more frequent in timing
and quantum. Outgoing silt contents would also thus be higher. It is thus
difficult to conclude that affluxed water levels would necessarily be
higher. In any case as concluded by the World Bank itself there would be
sufficient time to assess the problem and plan remedial action.
14.0  Para 9.8
Regarding Bank's concern on improvement of overall irrigation
efficiency (para 9.8) it is well-known that GOG and SSNNL are
committed to secure the overall design efficiency of 60% and even
improve the same to the extent possible. When water allocations for the
regions themselves are limited and pre-declared, the farmers would adopt
consistent cropping patterns. Perennials and water-intensive crops are not
being encouraged either in the allocations or in the operational planning.
As stated under para-38 of evaluation summary the command area cannot
be curtailed, though water allocations may be reviewed for the difficult
areas like Bara tract, Bhal area and Sami-Harij lower tracts. GOG is
already considering introduction of drip irrigation in the drought prone
areas of North Gujarat, Saurashtra and Kachchh.
15.0  Para 12.2
In connection with Bank's comments on completion of the project as
contained in para 12.2 of the PCR this is to state that the works on project
are going on as per schedule and the project is scheduled to be completed
by 2000 AD.
16.0 Para 12.7
The borrower feels a sense of satisfaction at the appreciation of its efforts
(para 12.7) in fulfilling benchmarks as set out by the Bank.



75
17.0 Para 13.1
With reference to para 13.1 of the summary it can be stated that
development and environment are two sides of the same coin. Practical
difficulties still remain in combining both the objectives which may
account for some minor stress and strain. However, the sincerity with
which the SSP has implemented its environmental action plan has
silenced the critics of the project
18.0  Para 14.2
Regarding Bank's comments in para 14.2; on lack of experience
regarding environment impact studies it can be said that contribution of
M.S. University team in Environment impact study has been
acknowledged by several knowledgeable international experts on
environment. A multi-disciplinary team of about a dozen professional
experts worked for almost two years to produce an authentic report on the
environmental impact on the submergence area. Hence, it is incorrect to
say that, local consultants and universities lacked experience in the
preparation of comprehensive environmental impact assessments and
management plan.
19.0 Para 14.4
In connection with para 14.4 of the summery, we consider that the
performance of local consultants was by and large good and up to the
standards considering the nature of unprecedented work for SSP. It may
be pointed out that over 90% of the work was done by local consultants
or organisations and foreign consultants
were engaged only for specific assignments for which Indian expertise
was not readily available.



76
20.0  Para 16.3
Bank's comments under para 16.3 are already replied vide para 12.0
above and hence not repeated.
[B]  Annexure-1
1.0   Para 140
Regarding Bank's comments on yield as contained in para 140, this is to
inform that the 75% dependable flow for Narmada basin is 27.01 MAF
and the utilisable quantity considering evaporation, regeneration and carry
over estimated as 28 MAF. CWC has already issued a revised note in
May 1992, based on the reconciled flow volumes as checked by the
Govt. of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The CWC has worked out the
75% dependable flow as 26.60 MAF which is not much different from
the figure of 27 MAF considered by the NWDT. The CWC has also
concluded that there does not exist any trend for lower annual flows, as
seen from the last two years data given below 1993-94 (monsoon period
only). In fact the NWDT had got the flows examined from various expert
hydrologists and the engineers of party States before deciding the
quantum.
2.0   Para 143, 146
Factual position on para 143-146 is as under
As per the Diwan Committee report the rate of siltation in the Narmada
basin can be taken as about 5 ha.m/100 sq. km per year. This figure is
relatively lesser than the figure of 5.34 adopted for the Sardar Sarovar
Project.
The latest findings on silting of reservoirs in India are now available in
the form of the "Compendium on Silting of Reservoirs in India"
published by the Central Water Commission in January, 1991. In this
compendium, survey data of sedimentation of 46 important reservoirs in



77
India have been given. As per the finding of these studies mentioned in
the conclusion of the narrative report, the situation is not as bad as had
been apprehended in certain quarters and sedimentation rates are not
alarming.
Another important finding is that the sedimentation rates in reservoirs are
usually higher for first 15-20 years of their operation and thereafter they
fall off significantly. Some of the reservoirs are serving even after
completing their planned life.
3.0   Para 157
The downstream impacts of the closure of the sluice gates as mentioned
in para 157 of Annexure I were examined by the Government of Gujarat
and all necessary steps for mitigating the downstream effects were taken.
While closing the sluice gates, the Government of Gujarat has ensured
release of adequate quantity of water in the downstream basin. Water was
released from Kaijan dam as well as from Karjan main canal.Pumping
was also resorted to from SSP so as to maintain the required flow till the
regular river flow recommenced. No adverse impact on the downstream
of the dam was reported in the intervening period. Normal flow resumed
after 12 days from the date of closure of sluices.
4.0   Para 158
Regarding Bank's concern on salinity ingress on downstream (para 158)
the factual is as under :-
For the stage m, since assumption has been made that after completion of
45 years from the commencement of the dam or 35 years from the start of
the commissioning of the project. 100% utilisation of the 75%
dependable inflow would take place, there would be no water available
in the SSP reservoir for production of electricity through the RBPH
except when spills occur in good years where production will be
sporadically limited to monsoon flows. Apart from flood flows of
Orsang, Karjan & other smaller rivers. There will, also be post monsoon



78
regenerated flows from irrigated areas not only from the Narmada
Command of 2,66,800 ha. but also from the commands of Karjan Project
(56,000 ha.) and Sukhi Project (25,000 ha.) in the basin. There would
thus be substantial regeneration & zero flow condition will not arise in
any case. There will be sufficient time available to consider and study this
issue keeping in view the circumstances prevailing at that time and also
the experience gained. Gujarat in the meanwhile would like to assure that
salinity regims will not be allowed to deteriorate in the downstream
river.
5.0 Para 160
CWPRS, Pune has conducted mathematical model studies for assessing
the effect of construction of SS Dam on the river reach downstream
which shows that maximum degradation of 40 cm is possible near
Garudeshwar. The effect of SS Dam on morphology of river downstream
may be restricted only to small reach of about 30 to 40 km. downstream.
Under the post dam condition, the degradation may progress at slow pace
and may not have appreciable effect on river platform and river cross-
section and therefore the Bank's comments under para 160 need to be
modified.
6.0 Para 163
The point regarding mitigating strategy for fishermen downstream of the
dam (para 163) has been dealt with in detail at para 1.0 above and
therefore not repeated.
(C) Annexure 2
1.0 Para 8
Factual position on para 8 (a) of Annexure 2 is as follows:
According to R&R policy framed and being implemented by GOG/



79
SSNNL for the PAPs of SSP, oustees are allowed to select the site and
land for agriculture and residence after inspecting different lands.
Therefore, such a problem does not arise.
Tribals by and large live in a single unit. However, at the resettlement
places where rehabilitation is done as an ethnic homogenous unit, this has
not been resisted and then there is an enmasse rehabilitation which is
desirable also as this would further enhance the values of community
living by PAP in the new environment.
2.0   Para 96, Para 164 & para 191
Comments of the Bank under para 96, 164 & 191 are agreed to.
However, the policy in its true form and
spirit is an attempt for rehabilitation of oustees who lose their lands for
ever.
3.0   Para 99
Since the Nimad area as mentioned under para 99 is situate within the
boundaries of the State of MP, it is desirable that the said study be carried
out by GOMP or its agency.
D.: Annexure 3
1.0   Para 6
Though in theory and in narrow economic terms, ERR would improve
with restriction of command area and more intensive irrigation as
mentioned under para 6 for reasons discussed under para-38 of
evaluation summary, GOG would not like to curtail the command area.
The social objectives of SSP are equally sacrosanct. As regard ERR with
power project alone, it may be stated that irrigation is the primay
objective of SSP and power generation is a necessary adjunct in a multi-
purpose frame work "power alone " option only strengthens the case of



82
Package if the limits of any condition or stipulation of the Donor
Agency is not well defined in terms of its implications or scope
(Financial or technical) the same must be made more defined at
the stage of the agreement for Assistance.
2.    During initial phase of the Assistance, Procurement of import
content if organised properly the problem of Foreign Exchange
could be substantially mitigated.
E.    Effectiveness of the Relationship between the Bank and  the
Borrower during the evaluation and implementation of the
Project.
The overall relationship with the Bank is quite good and cordial during the
evaluation and implementation of the project.
F.    The performance of Co-financiers and the effectiveness  of
their relationship with the Borrower during the Evaluation
and Implementation of the Project:
There was no co-financing agency, hence no comments are offered.



83
ANNEXURE: 1
DETAILS OF RESOURCES MOBILISED               Rs. in crores.
Sr.         Particulars              Net Mobilisation during
No.
1992-93     1993-94      1994-95
(upto Sept."94)
1.  Standby Credit by          92              --             (2)
Consortiun' of Banks
2.  Non Convertible            30              5               --
Debentures on
Private Placement
basis from BOB
PF/Gratuity Trusts
7 years.
3.  3 years loan from          --              --              50
Peerless
4.  Shri Nidhi Public          6                135            44
Deposits.
5.  Public Issue
Deep Discount Bonds - 20 years  -            257          --
Non Convertible Bonds - 9 years  --          59           59
Total-->          128              456            151
Note: Figures are subject to Audit.
f:\ssnnl\edp\ssh\gmniis\note- 15






IBRD 17691
JANUAPrY 190
INDIA
P   A   K   I   S   T  A  N                                                                                       NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT- GUJARAT
LVz//-{ 5       -tP                                 COMMAND AREA
BANASKIANTH,AED
-0  <~ )   .  j Dom Sites
.r.-j >  _                                                                                                                                                 k'i  7v/  AW   Major Command Areas
M A                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Main Canal
I~~~~~~~ ~~ u Tu c H
-Proposed Branch Canals
GNINAN                                                          -    National Highways
GA    IAR ~HA-                                                      Selected Railroads
A    Selected Towns
--Rivers
0                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rann of Kutch
-                                  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries
Etd e                   MbJStote Boundaries
H                         ~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
DESH~~~~~~~IE
_          AMRELI         BH                                                                                         KILOMETERS If    L
9..qWh .: , K                                                                                                                                v0
.~~~~v. 5..9.9. 4w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9. -  9.~~~~~0                                                          4?       I
- *9  -  - ft. 9.U 9.  -9. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.W9.Wfr.W   C.w.~~~~~~~~~~  KJ                                                  26     k wW4
9.9.~ W~ *~JUNAGA6H






IBRD 17691
JANUARY 19U
INDIA
p   A   K   I   S   T  A  N                                                                                   NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT
-~' -/~-JL                 .si                                COMMAND AREA
BANASK                                                       "a-* J1 J ANTHASKA.  4 4EI2
|sipn..g'                                  -~    ~)    C_._  Dom Sitel
L,W Maio( Comnmand Areas
M A                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Main Canal
-Proposed Branch Canals
|.u, -   National Highways
H                            -  ~~~~~~~~~~Selected Railroads
0   Selected Towns
_--- Rvers
-              ~~~~Rann of Kutch
|  |   Pit tict Boundaries
Dohod                ~~~~~State Boundaries
ly                                             HMA                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
JAMNAGAR                                                                                 ARRES
T j~ ~ RL       HANGR
AM_ R E L\ I  v            R                                                                                  o       120
Oi~~~~~~~~h
JU A18A   U2HMILES
_.-rwinwlw_~~~~~~___ J > *~~~IUb 
DtU                                            ALSAD                                       PAkISTAN _                             ro.
20,                N      IA
.~ r ~   ~  ~n mw                be.-Wo
005      PM s1 nw O" -W  OW' FSW  C01.S  WS                                                                                                                                    i LAmoA
- Wbeea.   N- vW WV P  S. u 



IBRD 17694
7;-                                  ;6, X                                                                        5AN   '\                            O  _'
\    JAroco.hicrp         SANGMADES~11&
I N D I A 
NARMADA RIVER DEVELOPMENT-GUJARAT                                                                         K  INDIA
ILoA4tER5                                             BASIN  PROJECTS
PROJECT                               EXISTING                                               A or                             of 8Jgong
B& jrSordar Sarovar Dam Site           Ci  Dams                            |
-   Main Canal                              Rvers eand Streams             7                                              /
JBEronch Canals                f 7joBasin Boundary                                                                  (      \A/
-National Highways                                                            \  /        LANKA
11.       tof(     S                            dI- Prooosed Darns                          Stote Highwovs                                                                (')
1, 1---Main Canal Under Construction                             -  Railroads                      j
24_Principal Cities 
10           1                                                              Airports
PI                                                                  State Boundaries                                                          b?
Internotional Boundaries
24-
HArXP~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Medi yr  fUDAI S. \iCwb
/ \  "^", '(tAo e M    A D  H  Y  AAH,' 
I ~~~~~~~~~~~.                                        \                      -r  ;o _e~ '  .~ --                                                  l _ 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r AIol AlW C*e SI. .                                                                 U_n___. bwee o.  o  
Am    \ . J  h o"ber        )t4.   MA HARASHRA                      7o6                                   71 a_                                                                         JANuArY 1914
L-~~~~~












FILE COPY            OCDj(b I
Report No:      14159
Type: PCR



