                                                                        96034                     C O t ,$C5
                                                                                                CONFIDENTIAL
      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                      FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                                           S-cM93-516
FROM: The DeputySecretary                                                 May 24, 1993




                                LESSONS LEARNEDFROM NARMADA




      Attachedfor information
                            is a President's
                                           Memorandum
                                                    entitled"Lessons
Learned from Narmzada"and accompanying reportentitled"Bank4ide
                                                             Lesons
Learned from the Experience vith            the India      Sardar Sarovar        (Narmada) Project'.
      Questions
              may be directedto Mr. Wyss (Director,                         Bank Paris Office,
X580-3010)
         or throughthe Officeof the President
                                            (Ms.Armitage,
                                                        X81114).




Distribution:

 ExecutiveDirectors and Alternates
 Officeof the President
 ExecutiveVice Presidents, IFC and MIGA
 Vice Presidents,Bank, IFC and MIGA
 Directorsand Department Heads,Bank, IFC and HIGA




     This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
                     * t 1r <.t   . r?,¢'>-1ret244';C
                                e's
                              ._1    ?        t t?5
                                             BANK
                                      THEWORMD
                                               D.C. 20433
                                     Washington,
                                            U.S.A.

    T. PRESTON
LEWIS

                                                     May 21, 1993




      To: Executive Directors



                             Lessons Learnedfrom Narmada



            During the Board discussion of the Status Report and Next Steps for
      the Sardar Sarovar (Narmada)Projects last October, we promised to review
      the Bank-wide lessons learned from the Narmadaexperience.

               We asked Mr. Wyss to undertake this review, and his report is attached
      for your Information. It focuses on lessons learned in three main areas:
       :i) project quality at entry; (ii) communications and decision-making; and
      (iii) ownership. We accept the recommendationsmade by Mr. Wyss, which
      are consistent with those of the Report of the Task Force on Portfolio
      Management. They will be implemented in the context of the follow-up to
      that report.




       Attachment
K




           LESSONSLEARNED
    BANKWIDE             FROK THE EXPERIENCEWITH THE

          INDIA SARDARSAROVAR        PROJECT
                             (NARMADA)




                       HANSWYSS




                      MAY 19, 1993
(




                  BANKVIDE LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE EXPERIENCEWITE THE
                         INDIA SARDAR SAROVAR (NARMADA) PROJECT


                                   Table   of   Contents




                                                                  Page No.

    Introduction .1.......................................            I

                                                       Approach. 1
    A. Quality of Project at Entry and the "Incremental"
                                                                 3
                                         .........................
         Communicationsand Decision-Making
    B.

               ......................................                 7
    C. Ownership

                     ......................................
    D. Recommendations                                                7

    Final Comment            ............................             10


    ATTACHMENTS

    1. List of Persons Interviewed

    2. Policy Basis for Projects: Project Appraisal
        (extract from "India: The Sardar Sarovar (Narmada)
        Projects, ManagementResponse," dated June 23, 1992
        (SecM92-849))

    3. Suggestions for Improvementof Quality at Entry for R+R
                                                                 CONFIDENTI4


(-                                             EzPEa1XNCE VIWM THE INDIA
              BANIVIDE LESSONS LEANJED P10 T
                            SARDAl SAROVAR(NA4IMADAAPROJECT



     Introduction
                                                             23, 1992 on the above
     1.        In sumarizing the Board meeting of October          review the Bankwide
                                              that,  "we will....
     project, the Chairman said, inter alia,
                                             this project."
     lessons learned from our experienceof
                                                          may be drawn from what we
     2.        This note sums up the main lessons which                          avoid
                                          It then outlinesactions designed to
     know at present about the subject.                        files in the Asia
                                          on a review of the
     the failures observed. It is based          more than 30 persons (listed in
      InformationCenter and on interviewswith
                                                   with the project and/or
     Attachment 1); all were associateddirectly   Review.
      developmentsleading up to the Independent
                                                       time or another, the attention
      3.        A myriad of factors required, at one
                                            project that is among the largest and
      of those dealing with the project - a
                                                This review zeroes in on those issues
      most complex ever financedby the Bank.     to have an IndependentReview
      which eventually resulted in the decision
                                          main failures occurred in three major
      carried out. It concludes that the
      areas:
                                                                to the 'incremental"
           (i)     quality of project "at entry", leading up
                   approach;

           (ii)    communicationsand decision making; and

           (iii)   ownership of project.
                                             were mutually reinforcing.
      Shortcomingsin each of the three areas
                                                "Incremental"Aoproach
      A.    Oualitv of Prolect at Entryand the
                                                    was prepared in the very best
      4.        On the engineeringside, the project
                                             and reflectingtheir newness in the
      of the Bank's tradition. In contrast,                                     as
                                          resettlementand rehabilitation (R+R)
      Bank's widening development agenda,                   not addressed up to the
                                               aspects were
      well as many, if not most, environmental                       post-appraisal
                                         during a period of intensive
      1983 appraisal. They were handled
                                      were approved in early 1985, there remained,
      work. When the loan and credit
      however, major shortcomings:

            (i)    in R+R:
                                                         for a very small number of
             *     lack of baselineinformation: except      of the people affected,
                   the villages affected, no census existed their future options
                   their economic activity, level of income,
                                                          their preferences. What
                   (most important: land availability)or
                                      2

            was available in terms of baseline information I were surveys of
            differing scope and details;

      *     lack of specific Rolicies covering all the different groups of
            neonle affected - policies which were to ensure that the objective
            stated in the legal documentswill be achieved (i.e., after a
            reasonable transitionperiod, the displaced people would regain at
            least their previous standard of living). Thus, the commitmentto
            this broad policy objectivewas not translated into specific,
            monitorable policy measures agreed with the Government of India
            (GOI) and the three state governmentsconcerned; and

      *     the ganal (Rart of the) Droiect did not grovide tor R+R since it
            was expected that people would be affected only to a limited
            extent and that their compensation would not raise special issues;

     (ii)   on environment:

      *     the effects of the large canal works were not the subject of a
            review of environmentalaspects, though water logging and salinity
            were addressed extensivelyin the engineering studies in the light
            of experiencefrom other irrigationprojects in the region; and

      *     the upstream environmentalreview was limited to the area to be
            inundated rather than covering the full basin.

In sum, shortcomingsat 'project entry" were especially glaring on R+R. In
the light of subsequentdevelopments,this review concentrateson R+R. True,
there are also important environmentalissues, including with respect to
forest cover (especiallyon differences in the assessment of the degraded
nature of such forests), biodiversityand health aspects.

5.        The absence of adequate baseline information,in combinationwith
the poorly specified policies, was certain to make future implementationof
R+R difficult - even more so as R+R touched on politically sensitive points in
GOI and particularly in the three state governments. Therefore, the
resettlementplans prepared for, and agreed to during negotiations,did not
have much operationalmeaning, especially since the institutionalarrangements
for implementingthese plans were not well developed. Finally, the monitoring
arrangements for R+R were woefully weak: there was initially reliance on
poorly selected independent research institutionsretained by each of the
three states and on GOI through the Narmada Control Authority which was
unproven in this area.




            The term "baseline information"is used here in the narrow sense
            of the detailed informationbase essential for R+R planning
            purposes. (In much of the Region's discussion on the project in
            recent years, "baseline"became a measure against which readiness
            of R+R was to be judged.)
                                       3


6.         Project implementation was postponed by GOI for about two years
because of delays in environmental   clearances. But evidence already had built
                                                   had large differences in their
up by 1987/88 that the three state governments
                                               on their different interests vis-
views on the project's R+B dimension,based          Vigorous involvementby the
a-vis R+R and distinct political environments.
                                             overcome these serious shortcomings.
Bank appeared to offer the only chance to
                                             supervision:detailed action plans
Thus, R+R became the subject of intensive
                                                  every six months. This
were being introduced,reviewed and redefined only for obtaining the
                                              not
approach, termed incremental,was designed              but also in the broader GOI
                              the  Narmada  project,
necessary progress on R+R in
 context (variousother Bank-assisted    projects with R+R elementswere being
                                            pursued with special vigor when an
 implementedin India). The approachwas                                         and
 activist team of first-in-line  managers was brought in during late 1988
 project supervisionresponsibility    shifted to the New Delhi office.
                                                     was at Headquarters [HQ] with
 (Previously,overall supervisionresponsibility
                                                office - inter alia, the latter
 some aspects being handled out of the field
                                              and after the 1988 shift of overall
 had a junior person on R+R matters before
                                            the AgriculturalUnit at New Delhi
 project responsibility. The new head of
                                                 R+R aspects, and requested
 took a strong personal lead on the project's and/or consultants.) The total
                                         HQ  staff
 periodicallysupport from specialized
                                               years exceeded 80 staff weeks
 annual level of supervision inputs in many
                                              being devoted to
  (includingconsultants),the largest part issues. Nevertheless,first-in-line
 engineering/procurement  and institutional
                                                provided with more resources for
 supervisorsfelt that they should have been
 project supervision.
                                                               but also considerable
  7.        The result was a very close Bank involvement,   to improve R+R policies,
                                       state governments
  Bank pressure on EOI and the three             At no stage was there an agreed
  and to prepare and implementR+R programs. of R+R implementation    on a project
  basis against which to measure progress         were  plans  of varying scope in
  wide basis, although from 1990 onward, there            paragraph, there  were
                                             preceding
  the three states. As pointed out in the           the  light of the findings  of
                                                in
  periodically (re) defined specific targets           of moving targets   (often
  supervisionmissions. This led to an appearance     "new  conditions"imposed by the
                                                 as
  regarded, and resented, by Indian officials over time, mainly after 1988, in
  Bank). Overall, major progress was achieved
                                            obtaining better knowledge of the
  terms of defining outstandingpolicies,                resettlementplans, leading a
  people affected and enacting specific, 'rolling"
                                                involved to believe - even now -
  good number of the Bank staff and managers to be an excellent development
                                           prove
  that, overall, Narmada will eventually
                           of this progress   was needed simply to overcome
  project. However, much                     Only partial adherence to, and non-
  original shortfalls, and back-sliding.
                                               commonly giving way, in the light of
   fulfillment of, specific targets occurred  to newly defined targets for later
   subsequent supervisionmission findings, of a widely agreed basis for
  periods. Most important,in the absence          the finger on specific
   measuring progress, it became easy to point
   shortcomingsof this approach.

  B.     Communicationsand Decision-Making
                                                        in Operations Policy
  8.       On the advice of the Agriculture Department
                                             concerned decided after the 1983
  (OPS/AGR), the Regional Assistant Director
                                      4

apraisal that the project was not ready for negotiationsuntil R+R and
environmentalaspects were addressed in line with Bank policy. Subsequent
                                                                   staff
work on R+R was done by a (world renowned) consultantwhile a Bank        felt
member dealt with the environmentalaspects. The consultant   eventually
                                                 plan brought by the Indians
under strong pressure to accept the resettlement
to neg tiations - no Bank staff in his profession was at his side during
                                                                       in
negotiations though his earlier reports had been reviewed (favorably) still
                      experience with its recent 11980] R+R policy was
OPS/AGR. (The Bank's                                                  out in
very limited at that time; analytical and planning tools were spelled
                                                                  in
the Bank's 1988 Working Paper No. 80 on 'InvoluntaryResettlement
Development Projects"). When the loan documents were sent to the Loan
                                                                     has been
Committee Chairman, the cover memorandum stated: "a good R+R program
                                                 for  implementationand  for
agreed, togetherwith institutionalarrangements
monitoring and evaluation."

9.        During supervisio, differencesemerged periodicallybetween staff
as to what importanceshould be attached to issues faced in project the
                                                            vis-a-vis
implementationand as to how these issues should be tackled
                                                         1987 onward as to
borrower. Differencescame up at various instances   from
                                              with suspension of disbursements
whether the Bank should threaten the borrower                  conditions.
                                      institutional and/or R+R
in order to enforce agreed technical,                            more than
                              date for the canal credit was used
From 1989 onward, the closing                                  three areas
once for putting specific conditionsonto its extension in the
                                                                 threatening
listed. (Previously,in 1988, a letter was sent to the borrower
eventual suspensionof disbursements,  but a partial response was accepted as
sufficientlyresponsivenot to proceed with suspension.)

10.       Decisionswere made first by the responsibleTask Manager (TM) in
                                                             Department (CD)
New Delhi and by the Agriculture Division Chief. The Country
                                                                Reports
Director was fully brought into this process through Supervision    missions.
(especiallydetailed since  1988) prepared by semi-annual supervision
                                                                        are
Differences of views regarding supervision findings and recommendations, and,
                                                                   Chief
not unusual. Clearly, supervisingmanagers, i.e., the TM, Division
if needed, the Director have to decide on conflicting
conclusions/recommendations.  Some special factors characterizedthis case:

      (i)    the immediate supervisors and the Country DepartmentDirector
             believed stronglv that Bank involvement was critical for imDroving
             the R+R outcome for the DeoDle affected by the proiect.
                                                                        to
             Suspension, in their view, would reduce the Bank's ability
             improve the situation for these people - as one interviewee put
             it: "short leash rather than suspension* was the  motto.  Given
                                                                           in
             the judgement of the TM on a sustained "overall net progress"
                                                                 from 3 to 2
             implementation,the supervisionrating was improved
             from late 1988 onward;
                                                                         faced
      (ii)   the Bank increasinglyrecognized the political difficulties
                                                              states.  GO1
             in achieving the R+R objectives across the three
                                                                             to
             being well aware of this issue, at times leaned on the Bank not
             "give up" (and some NCOs expressed similar views);

      (iii) there was no strong tradition in the India country context for
            using threats of susDension - at least this is what staff
                                               5

            concerned said they felt, especially those who had worked
            extensively in other Regions, and

            finally, greater continuityin HO rofassional                Ito*taff ass
     (iv)
            RaE would have been        helpful   (continuity      at  field  offi
            level was    referred    to  in paragraph      6);  in   this  contextl
                                                                                                ived
            different views have been expressed among those directl
                                                        staff   assignments.      Kos!
            on the reasons for changes in           HQ                                         .

                                                                                           made
            important,     no senior Bank grofessionalstaff. recognize                         dL=
                                                                                     Mae
            and outside the Bank for his/her capacity on R+R,                            lImited
                            charge of this Rroiect         coMM=nent (even     for    a
            take direct
                         Recruitment     of  senior,    highly    experienced    staff and
            period).                                                                    between
            their career development,and             much  closer    collaboration
                                                central    staff    are  clearly   required       -
            the Country Department and                                              new      '
            this is receivingmore management attentionunder the
                                arrangements     which   were    introduced   in   January 1993.
            organizational
            At a different      level,   there were also too many discontinuities
            at Division Chief level - the present              is the sixth since 1984.

                 at least one manager now concludes      that suspension     in 1989
With hindsight,                                                 up R+R  actions.
would have been a healthy   "shock" and might   have   speeded
                                                                           the project
11.         Communications with high2r levels of Bank Management on Operations,
                            1986,  the Senior  Vice   President   (SVP),
were unusually close. In
reviewed all ongoing Bank-financed    resettlementprojects and asked for action
                                                      reorganization,the new
programs, including on Narmada. After the 1987
                                                      by the Country Department
RegionalVice President (RVP)was kept informed            memoranda from Executive
early on (the flow of letters from the    outside    and
                                       to his  attention).     From his visit to
Directors [EDs] had brought Narmada                               about the project.
India in late 1988 onward, the SVP also was well informed
COnsistentwith the 1987 reorganization,      project specific action was left
                                                           (CD). Given the very
largely to the initiativeof the Country Department        SVP on any important
close interactionbetween the CD     Director,  RVP   and
                                communications   were  often  oral. The only written
matter, especially on India,                                     in a draft letter
recommendationfor threateningsuspensionwas contained in direct.
                                                          handled
prepared by the CD in 1991 - this was subsequently
                                                        to the letter sent by the CD
discussionswith GOI (this event was in addition
Director in 1988, referred to in para.     9 above).
                                                                  preparation,
12.       From 1983 onward, i.e., from the period of project
               began with both Indian     and  international Non-Governmental
communications
                                                      criticism about R+R, some
Organisations(NGOs). These generally expressed
                                                         degraded] forest land to
also about environmentalaspects (mainly on [highly took place with NOOs, and
be lost in the inundated area). Detailed exchanges              coming into the
form letters were prepared in response to 'chain letters' through copies.
                                                        informed
Bank. On major letters sent to NGOs, GOI was kept
Bank communications with  NGOs    evolved as  follows:

     (i)     Drior to loan/credit     aDproval: NGOs were assured that Bank had a
                                                                             Manual
             progressive R+R policy (which was outlined in Operationa4
                                                   1980) and  that Bank finaicing
             Statement (OMS] 2.33 of February                         C01 "&isLstent
             would be extended only if there was agreement with                :
             with this policy;
                                                                                 .




                                     6

     (ii)    from loan/creditanDroval till about 1987/88: NGOs were assured
             that the Bank had a progressiveR+R policy, that this policy was
             fully incorporatedin the loan/creditagreements, that there was
             an agreed resettlementprogram (with details for phas- I and a
             rolling plan thereafter),and that carefully designed monitoring
             arrangementsyere in place;
     (iii)   after 1987/88: letters referred to the intensive dialoguebetween
             the Bank and GOI/state governmentsand to the progressive
             implementation plans which had been designed, and were being
             implementedwith a view to ensuring that the agreed R+R
             objectiveswill be achieved.
13.       Communications with EDs started almost at the same time as those
with NGOs - indeed the same international NGOs tended to inform their
respectiveED about the concerns communicatedto the Bank. Many written
briefings were sent to individual EDs in response to specific requests - in
addition to many oral briefings. Beginning in July 1988, "informal'meetings
took place on a semi-annualbasis between Mr. Arlman and other EDs (mainly
attended by Assistantsto EDs), and the Region. It should be noted that the
Indian ED, although invited, did not attend these meetings; this changed in
1990. The RVP and/or the CD Directorwere present at these meetings with a
group of project managers and staff. The meetings generally coincidedwith
the completion of the semi-annual supervisionmissions. The exchanges
(records of these meetings in the files are not detailed) tended to focus
almost exclusively on R+R, although staff tried also to address other major
project issues. From the limited records, especially in the light of the
detailed written briefs for the first meeting, it appears that the message
from the staff was that important progress on pending R+R matters was underway
and/or agreed to be addressed though major difficultiesremained (especially
in Madhya Pradesh). Managers and staff participatingin these meetings
believe they presented complete factual briefings at these meetings.

14.       Over time the EDs became increasinglyimpatient about what they
considered as slow progress and even backsliding. They felt Bank staff gave
them ever hopeful, rosy reports with emphasis on selected areas of progress
while they receivedvery different reports from NGOs. Eventually, in early
1991, meeting among themselves, they concluded that they needed an Independent
Review to satisfy their constituents. When they brought the subject to the
President,he already had significantknowledge of the project: he had
received a briefing on Narmada in preparation of his visit to India in late
1987 (during that visit, a meeting with NGOs had been quite friendly and he
had not obtained a sense of a major problem brewing). Subsequently,
especially in 1990, he had answered many letters sent to him on the subject.

15.       In the light of the foregoing,it is clear that channels of
communicationwere not clogged, either within the Bank or with the outside.
If anything, communicationswere 'too good': a number of messages went
through various channels where, later on, recipients felt the message had been
misleading. This was the case, first, internallyat the time of negotiations
and subsequentlyat Board approval, when R+R arrangements appeared well in
hand given the agreed resettlementplan and monitoring systems. This line was
reflected fully in exchanges with NGOs and EDs. As the Bank moved into its
activist "incremental"approach, communications  became more difficult. The
                                     7

initial answers did not suffice anymore. True, the Bank's efforts were
recognizedfavorablyby NGOs interestedin the betterment of R+R conditions
for project affected people. But those who opposed the project as such found
it convenientto undermine the Bank's credibilitywith 'its' moving targets
(often not entirely fulfilled);the same NGOs pushed the former group from
center stage and vigorously attacked the Bank thereby putting pressure on
"their" EDs for an IndependentReview. Differences of views between staff
members, referred to earlier,became known both to NGOs and to EDs. This
added to the conflictingnature of signals perceived by EDs.

C.     Ownership

16.       Looking over the developmentsrelated to this project, the most
striking feature is the Bank's gradual "loss of control over the agenda." A
group of very determinedpersons, operating through NGOs and other
constituentsof Bank shareholderseventuallytook over the agenda - up to
having a group of EDs induce the President to contract an IndependentReview.
This happened at a time when Bank staff were making strong efforts to ensure
that the R+R objectiveswould be achieved according to the agreementsreached
in only very broad terms in 1985.

17.       Underlying this extraordinarydevelopment was the following:the
Bank had (been) moved into a situationwhere it was seen more and more as the
owner of, or at least the major force guiding, the R+R aspects of the project
(the dam/canal investments as such had the unflagging support from GOI and the
three state governments through numerous government changes). NGOs succeeded
in working directly with, and on, the Bank to take action on R+R - as if the
Bank were the owner of the project. The Bank itself fuelled this tendency in
two ways: first, when responding to NGOs, it addressed on its own the
substance of the issues raised by the NGOs rather than bringing these to the
attention of GOI for its handling (and, as appropriate, advising GOI on
technical aspects). Second, the Bank tried to engage NGOs to exert a positive
influence on GOI and the State Governmentsto improve R+R.

18.       Beyond the NGOs' looking to the Bank as their chosen instrumentfor
ensuring desired R+R results, GOI itself - in subtle ways - also turned to the
Bank for resolving the difficult R+R problem which it, or at least a part of
the Central Government, considered to be mainly in the hands of the three
state governments.

19.       As the pressures from some NGOs mounted on major Bank shareholders,
a group of EDs turned to Bank management for resolving the R+R problems of the
project rather than to the borrower, thereby heightening further the Bank's
exposure as the "main actor". Finally, Bank staff and management, in turn,
added to this tendencyby taking a very active role in pushing for
improvementsto overcome the original project deficiencies. Thus the Bank,
rather than the borrower, found itself tagged as the non-performing party.

D.     Recommendations

20.       This section contains a set of recommendationsfor actions designed
to help avoiding the main failures observed in this project. The proposals
                                     8

are presented along the three priority areas identified in this note. Given
the special importanceof the last factor reviewed ("ownership'),  this is
where we begin:

     (i)     Ensuring greater ownershipby borrower/executingagencies

             (a) Bank/borrogerrelations: there is nuch room for engaging
                 the borrower more deeply in R+R, as has been done by the
                 Bank in other parts of the project (e.g., through the
                 large team of supervisoryengineering consultants as well as
                 two specializedpanels of high level experts for the dam and
                 for the canal - all engaged by GOI/state governments in
                 accordancewith their agreementswith the Bank). The
                 borrower/executing agency(ies),as a matter of course,
                 should be asked to engage consultants,financed under the
                 project, for supervisingexecution of R+R programs.
                 There should also be a preference for Bank financing of R+R
                 components, in which case supervising consultantswould
                 certify reimbursementrequests. As appropriate, i.e.,
                 depending on the complexityof the project's R+R issues,
                 specializedpanel(s) may also be requested (this is already
                 done, for instance, in the large Lesotho Highlands Water
                 Project). The objective of these requirements is to deepen
                 the borrower's ownership,but also to strengthen the Bank's
                 ability to play its "arms length" supervision role, i.e., to
                 hold the borrower/executing agencies to the commitments
                 under loan/credit agreements. (Thus, such 'arms length'
                 role still requires an activist approach by Bank staff.) At
                 the same time. the proposed approach would reduce the undue
                 load now put on Bank staff for R+R supervision.2 (Note:
                 this is much broader than an R+R issue. The above approach
                 ought to be consideredsystematicallyin other soft areas as
                 well). It is recognized that the role of consultants in
                 supervisingproject implementation   has been a controversial
                 subject in India; nevertheless,  in the light of the Narmada
                 experience,a review   of this matter may be merited.

                  The Narmada project suffered from an unusual complexity of
                  contractual arrangementsunder which the Bank had to deal
                  with GOI as the Borrower and three states as executing
                  agents. These arrangementslaid the ground for the Bank to
                  play an active, if not 'directive",role of coordinator.



     2      Since OD 4.30: InvoluntaryResettlement,needs updating in any
            case (in the light of decisions listed in Attachment 2), it should
            be reviewed against the apparent perception of some staff that the
            intent of the OD is to get the Bank directly involved in project
            implementation.
                                9
                                              to States in India (unlike
          The Bank does not lend directly         as has been the case in
          in some other countries)although,
                                          agreementshave been entered
          the Narmada project, project           limits the development of
          into with States. This situationrelation with the decisive of
          a healthy direct (financial)        case. It is the result
          authorities,the States in this Federal government and the
          fundamental arrangements    between
                    and these are  therefore   not susceptibleto change.
           States,                              project, there would appear
          Thus, perhaps in this particular
                                            setting up a cormon authority
           to have been good reasons for critical
           directly taking charge of all (and which would have received
           investment/operational   issues
           Bank financing).   In  any case, agreementsshould be set
                                            n     to make the Bank a
           forth in a way that will tend
                                           and thus an active party to
           de facto project coordinator
           implementation.
                                           of Bank/borrowerrelations,
           Finally, on the same subject mission has probably
            supervision through a resident          of - the Bank's
            increased - at least the perception          While such an
            involvement in project implementation.
                                         be a primary factor of Bank
            arrangement is unlikely to               more carefully where
            "ownership",it should be considered
                                         the Bank toward direct
            other factors tend to draw       coordination.
            involvement in implementation
                                         relations with NGOs have evolved
       (b) NGO Relations: The Bank's          1980s. The Bank has recognized
            significantlysince the early    of obtaining inputs from NGOs
             in particular the usefulnessNGO involvement in specific
             into policy development,and  become much more important.
             Bank-financedprojectshas       vis-a-vis complaints from NGOs
             However, the Bank's practice are not a direct contractual
             on projects in which these
                                              normally such complaintsought
             party, merits to be reviewed:        by the Bank but be given to
             not to be addressed in substance           with Bank advice if
             the borrower for handling (preferably  the  Bank should continue
                                          course,
             government so wishes). Of                as part of its
                                           by NGOs
             to look into matters raised and take such matters up, as
             supervision responsibilities
             appropriate,with the Borrower.
                                                                 major
        (c) EDs/Shareholders   Relations: discussion of anyoperationby a
                                                 Bank-financed
              complaints regarding a specific      should only take place
              group of EDs with the Bank staff            the borrowing country
              in the presence of the ED representing
                                           Secretary of the Bank (or even
              concerned - if needed, the          to get such ED involved.
              the President) should intervene
                                                                             in
                                          to the Bankwide actions covered
(ii)    Oualitx at Entry: in addition                            Review,
                                           to the Independent
        the initial management response
                                          23. 1992 (reproducedas Attachment
        addressed to the Board on June             emerging from various
        2), a number of specific suggestions,    3.
        interviews, are given in Attachment
                                                                                   C




                                      10

             At a more general level, our main recomeendationrelates to the
             need for setting specific guideposts(for proper M&E) at the time
             of project entry. There is a need for the borrower and the Bank
             to ensure that a cormon basis has been establishedand agreed for
             AUl relevant R+R factors so that progress can be monitored
             properly, and also that a meaningfulproject evaluation can
             eventually take place. The interest of OED in such
             guideposts is self-evidentand its role in setting appropriate
             ground rules for defining such guidepostsneeds special
             consideration.

     (iii)   Communicationsand Decision Making:

       (a)   first, the importanceof the highest professional standards,
             includingcandor, for internaland external communicationscannot
             be overstressed. This has been a,hallmarkin the Bank's
             traditionalareas of operationalactivitiesand the Bank cannot
             afford to see these standards weakened in the newer areas of the
             Bank's developmentagenda. Second, the bureaucratic tendency of
             passing the good news - mainly in the sense of (over) optimism on
             timely borrower actions - toward EDs needs greater attention.
             Realism is required, togetherwith timely action on difficult
             issues. Third, on decision-making,    a more explicit/open
             recognition of different staff views needs to be encouraged; this
             would also help maintain broader staff support of final
             decisions;

       (b)   the weakest element underlying decisionmaking in the present
             case was the inability  of the responsible  Division and Department
             management to attract  and nurture  senior professional(s)  in
             sociology/anthropology  (with  on-the-ground  R+R  management
             experience) into responsiblepositions for the handling of R+R
             aspects - this has not been achieved even over a long period.
             (This should be of special concern given the many and large Bank-
             assisted projects with R+R componentsin India). Such a
             professionalvoice is needed to carry weight, both within and
             outside of the Bank.

Final Comment

21.       At least one of the senior intervieweessuggested that the
institutionalcost incurredby the Bank in being associatedwith large
projects involving R+R may be prohibitive. This is the only major suggestion
which the writer of this note does not share. To limit the Bank's assistance
in the area of irrigation (and "clean" hydro power), would be a strong
indictment that the Bank has lost its ability to remain an effective agent in
assisting its members in critical areas of development. An effective response
to the points raised in this note is well within the capacity of the Bank.


Hans Wyss
5/19/93
.




                          Atttagb=et1


    LIST OF PERSONS INTEPVIEVKD

      (in alphabeticalorder)



          Bilsel Alisbah
          Shawki Barghouti
          Thierry Baudon
          Michael Baxter
          Tom Blinkhorn
          David Butcher
          Michael Cernea
          John Clark
          Pamela Cox
          Gloria Davis

          ChristophDiewald
          Carlos Escudero
          Gerald Fauss
          Robert Goodland
          Scott Guggenheim

          Marianne Haug
          Chaim Helman
          Eveline Herfkens
          Attila Karaosmanoglu
          Anupam Khanna

          Jochen Kraske
          Olivier Lafourcade
          Per Ljung
          Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
          William Partridge

          Moeen Qureshi
          Daniel Ritchie
          Sven Sandstrom
          Thayer Scudder
          Ernest Stern

           Heinz Vergin
           Jan Wijnand
           Joe Wood
                                                                              Attachment2
                                                                              Page 1

II. POLICYBASIS FOR PROJECTS; PROJECTAPPRAISAL

6.       The IRR examinesin detailBank operational    guidelines  and procedures
as they appliedin the 1980s to the Bank'swork on the Narmada projectsl. It:'
reviews the evolution of the guidelines  up until the present. characterizing
them as setting the highest standards of any aid or lending organization      in
the world for attempting to influence Borrowers and implementation agencies      to
mitigate adverse consequences to human vell-being  causedby involuntary
resettlement.The IRR also examinesthe aspectsof the Indian Narmada         Water
Disputes Tribunal   award.dealingwith resettlement as vell as the Bank Loan
and Credit Agreements for the Narmada projects.     The IRR concludes that
despitethe existence  of explicit  operational   guidelines, the Bank failed to
insiston a properpreparation    of R&R plans by the Government    and accordingly
did not appraise adequately  the resettlement   components of the SardarSarovar
projects.
7.      Response. Bank management  acceptsthe findings of the IRR with
respectto the guidelines in forceand the failureof the preparation  and
appraisalto take these fully into account. Thesedeficiencies  were
particularlynoteworthyin areas that todayhave become important parts of the
preparationand appraisal process -- i.e. insistenceon Government
consultationwith affectedparties;development  of socio-economic data on
projectaffectedpeoples;assessment   of the Government'simplementation
capacity   for resettlement.

8.           As the IRK acknowledges,        the application      of relatively      new
operational      guidelines     in the early 1980s demanded         high quality resettlement
projectcomponents. This was not a simpletask for eitherBorrowers                           or Bank
staff.     It  required     major  improvements     in the   practices    of  many   Bank  Borrowers
as well as     a   comprehensive     change  in  approaches     and  resource   allocation    for
all Bank     units   dealing   with   such  projects.      During   this  adjustment    process.
particularly       in the first    few years after the 1980 adoption by the Bank of the
new guidelines,       there   were  a significant     number of departures        from the
guidelines,      including    in  the  Narmada   projects.

9.      These departures led management early in 1986 to undertake a thorough
reviewof the operational experience with the guidelines.As a resultof the
review,seniormanagementissuedinstructions     that potentialor known
resettlementissuesbe flaggedprior to   appraisal missiondeparture. In
addition.Bank lead advisersin centraloperating   departments were directedto
raiseany unresolved  problemswith regional  managementand, if  necessary, with
the Bank-wideLoan Comittee.

10.      RemedialAction. Taking into accountrecommendations of the IR!. and
based on the Bank's own broader experience                 management
                                          with resettlement,          has
decidedto initiateseveralorganizational                 measures-- both to
                                          and operational
ensure adequateattentionto projectsin the currentportfolioand to
strengthen furtherreviewprocedures  for new projects.


      1
           Theseinclude(a) OperationalManualStatement No. 2.33, 'SocialIssues
           Associatedwith Involuntary Resettlement in Bank-Financed Projects'
           approvedin 1980; (b) OperationalManual StatementNo. 2.34, 'Tribal
           People in Bank-FinancedProjects'approvedin 1982; (c) Operational
           Manual Statement No. 2.36, 'Environmental Aspects of Bank Work'.
           approvedin 1984.
                                                                              2
                                                                     Attachment
    .                                                                Page 2




C       (a)   Bank-wide Resettlement Review. The Environment
              been requestedto carryout, in cooperation   with
                                                              Department
                                                               all
                                                                        has
                                                                   regions.a
              Bank-wide analysisof all ongoingprojectsentailing
              resettlement, regarding qualityend consistency  of project
              implementation by the Borrower of the Loan and Credit
              agreements and Bank guidelines.  A report.updatingthe 1986
              review,to determine  the extentto which post-1986  appraisal
              work and implementation assistance on RLR conformsto the
                                 directives, will be submitted to the
              Bank's operational
              management, and subsequently to the Board within about 12
              months. In parallel,  a set of remedial measureswill be taken
              immediately in the case of the Narmadaprojects.These measures
              are outlinedin sectionsIII and IV.

        (b)   Staffingand SkillHix. CountryDepartments  (CDs),which have
              a largeportfolioof projects with resettlementand environment
              impacts,will review their staffingpositionswith a viev to
              strengtheningsocialand environmental specialistsin their
              core staff.

        (c)   Asia Environmental     and SocialAffairsDivisions. The
              Environment   and SocialAffairsDivision(ASTEN)in the Asia
              Technical department will be restructured       into two units, one
              dealing with environmental      issues and  the other with socialand
              resettlement   issues.    Staff will  be  augmented  to support
              adequately   the requirements    of the  South and  East Asia Regions.

        td)   Training for Bank Staff.  New trainLng courses will be
              developed for concerned operational   staff covering Bank policy.
              procedures  and best practices  in resettlement.

              EDI TrainingAvailableto Borrowers. EDI will.               introduce
        (e)
              special,   free-standing     training courses on    resettlement,
                                the  current    training courses available      on
              complementing                                                  be
              environmental matters.         These training courses    will
              organized at     the  Borrower's     request, on a regional or country
                                                                             options,
              basis, and will disseminate knowledge on R&Rpolicy                processes,
              legal issues,      compensation approaches, participatory
              and lessons of experience from best practices           in carrying out
              resettlement.

              Improved Review Procedures.           Projects that entail         involuntary
        (f)                                                                  ensure
              resettlement     require special care      and  review     to
              compliance with the Bank operational           directives.        Henceforth,
                                  stage of processing     of  such   projects,      country
              at the initial                                                           project
                                                                    proposed     R&ER
              departments will be required to highlight                                     or
                          in relation     to past R&Rexperience        in   the  country
              features                                                                 Regional
                                         concerned in consultation         with  the
              local jurisdictions
                                 the  Environment   Department staff.          Special
              Technical and
              attention    will be given during pre-appraisal             to the
                                adopted    by Government   for  consultation       with
              arrangements
              affected    people and to assessment of the Government's R&R
               implementation      capacity.    Any divergence of view at that stage
                                                                                         and, if
              will be flagged to the relevant Regional Loan Committee
              unresolved    at that level, to the Bank-wide Loan Committee.
                                                       Attachment2
                                                       Page 3




                                                               Bank will
     (g)   Policy Dialosue. Through its policy dialogue, the
           encourage Borrowers with ongoing or proposed Bank-supported
                                                             issue domestic
           operations involving resettlementto develop and
                                                                 by
           policy and legal frameworks for resettlementcaused         and
           development projects. In formulatingsector strategies review
                                                                   to
           sector investment priorities, Borravers vill be asked
                                                                 energy.
           ezperience with resettlement in key sectors such as
                                                                Ci)
           agriculture, infrastructureand urban, in order to
                                                                 to avoid or
           ascertain whether priority investmentsare designed
           minimiz, resettlement, and (ii) develop acceptable approaches   of
           to implementing R&1, which may be an unavoidable consequence
           certain projects.




(_
                                                                      AttachmenLI
                          SUGGESTIONSFOR IMPROVEMENTOF OUALITY AT ENTRY FOR R+R

               1.   Imorove SubstantiveKnowledge through Guidelines/BestPractice
                    Dissemination:

                    *     on consultationprocesses with people affected by R+R;

                    *     on land acquisitionand related compensation;

                    *     on restoring income to at least earlier, "pre-project"levels;

                    *     on transitioncosts (which may be a multiple of eventual [annual]
                          income levels);

                    *     on relevant training for people affected;

                    *     on resettlementon marginal land (especiallyrelevant for tribal
                          people living on marginal lands).

               2.   Need for Resource Book and Training of Staff in above (and other
                    Relevant) R+R Related Subiects:

                    *     such efforts should be *dovetailed'with knowledge from NGOs;

                    e     relevance of eventual trainingmaterial (and training
                          technologies)to people affected (e.g., videos?).

               3.   Review Process:

                         review at Regional Loan Committee stage, i.e., just prior to
                         appraisal, is too late for effective handling of R+R. Need for
                         consistent review of R+R projects/components at IEPS stage,
                         includingwith ENV resettlementadvisors;

                         in projects with especially sensitiveR+R issues (as identifiedat
                         the IEPS stage), a small team of highly experienced Bank officers
                         may be assigned to review these issues with a view to putting such
                         project to the Bankwide Loan Committee for a decision as to
                         whether to go ahead with such project.




--   7   -7W
