Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C-IZ- /4e9 7 _64A
Report No. 7475-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 1, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department
Asia Regi'3nal Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(January 12, 1989)
Currency Unit         - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00              =  Y3.712
Y 1.00                   US$0.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)           15 mu
1 ton                -  1,000 kg
- 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)      =  2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAHB           - Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Bureau
ABC           - Agricultural Bank of China
AITC          - Agriculture, Industry and Trade Corporation
CMC           - China Machinery Corporation
CNMIEC        - Cbhna National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
CNTIC/ITC     - China National Technical Import Corpuration
DCA           - Development Credit Agreement
FD            - Finance Division
bcm           - billion cubic meters
GVAO          - Gross Value of Agricultural Output
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
kW            - kilowatt
LCB           - Local Competitive Bidding
LG            - Leading Group
mcm            - million cubic meter
MG             - Fish Farm Management Group
MOF            - Ministry of Finance
MWR            - Ministry of Water Resources
NWAU          - North West Agricultural University
PCBC          - People's Construction Bank of China
PMO           - Project Management Office
PO            - Project Office
ppm           - parts per million
RCC           - Rural Credit Cooperatives
SOE           - Statement of Expenditure
SPFD          - Shaanxi Provincial Fisheries Division
SWCB          - Shaanxi Water Conservancy Bureau



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHAANXI AC,RICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      People's Republic of China
Amount:        SDR 78.8 million 'US$106 million equivalent)
ernms:         Standard, with 35 year maturity
Proiect
Descri.tion:   In support of the Government's policy to accelerate
development in China's poorer provinces, the proposed
project for Siaanxi Province would expand the irrigated
area for crop production, provide secure water supplies
to water scarce and highly fluorodized groundwater
areas, expand seed production and processing, promote
and expand aquaculture and intensified livestock
production,   and   develop   pilot   agroprocessing
activities.
Through its features and components the project would
construct and improve irrigation works on 123,000 ha to
be planted with food crops, oilseed, fodder crops, and
fruits; construct 2,100 ha of ponds and facilities for
intensive fish farming; establish. eight poultry farms
for commercialized production oi 12 million hybrid
layers and broilers; introduce improved breeds for
swine and rabbits; equip nine seed production and
processing centers with seed processing and testing
equipment and transportation vehicles; and construct
and equip demonstration agroprocessing facilities for
cold rooms, fruit juice processing, meat packing and
honey products. The project would finance pumping and
electrical equipment, construction materials; special
testing equipment for aquaculture; breeding stock,
hatcheries and ventilation systems, for poultry and
breeding stock for pigs and rabbits; seed and
agroprocessing equipment; fertilizer and pesticides;
and civil and earthworks.   At full development,  the
project would result in increased annual production of
about 300,000 tons of wheat and other grains, 13,000
tons of oilseeds, 11,000 tons of cotton and cottonseed,
156,000 tons of vegetables, apples and melons, 25,000
tons of fodder, 64,000 tons of eggs and 10,000 tons of
poultry and other meats.   It would benefit 180,000
families, provide an additional 65,100 full-time jobs
(equivalents) and raise annual per capita incomes of
farm families to about Y800 and of full time employees
engaged in animal husbandry or agro-processing to about
Y1000.  In addition fluoride free water supply would
enable 75,000 people who are suffering from skeletal
fluorosis to fuW.ly or partially recover from the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise L. disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
crippling effects of this disease.   The project faces
no significant technical, organizational, financial or
environmental risks.
Estimated Cost:
Local       Foreign         Total
----------($ mln)----------
Donglei Irrigation               63.2           46.5           109.7
Dingbian Water Supply            16.0           11.8            27.8
Aquaculture Development          20.5            3.9            24.4
Livestock Developiment:          19.2            8.-            27.9
Seed Prod. and Processing         2.6            2.9             5.6
Agro-processing Pilots            3.5            4.0             7.5
Base cost /_               125.0           77.9           202.9
Physical contingencies            7.4            4.5            11.9
Price contingencies              16.7            6.0            22.7
Total Project Cost         149.1           88.4           237.5
Financing Plan:
IDA                        17.6           88.4           106.0
Central Government         18.0                           18.0
Provincial Govt.           46.5                           46.5
County, Enterprises, etc. 61.7                            61.7
Agric. Bank of China         5.3                           5.3
Total                    149.1           88.4           237.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank/IDA FY               1989    1990    1991   1992   1993   1994
Annual                 0.0    25.0    40.0    25.0  10.0    6.0
Cumulative             0.0    25.0    65.0    90.0 100.0  106.0
Rate of Return:      23%
/a Net of taxes and duties of about 5% of total cost



CHINA
SfiANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
PaZir No.
I.   BACKGRQUND ..........................................          1
A. Introduction                     ..                         1
B.   The Agriculture Sector        .............               1
C. Water Resources Developm-nt             .       .           2
D.   Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending       .     .        2
E. Agriculture in Shaanxi                .        .            3
F. Project Rationale                  ..                       4
TI.  THE PROJECT AREAS ...................................          5
A.   Location .......................................5 
B.   Climate, Topography, and Soils ................           5
C.   Water Resources and Irrigation          .      .          6
D. Water Quality and Health               .       .            6
E. Population and Land Use               .        .            7
F.   Infrastructure and Support Services        .    .         7
III. THE PROJECT .........................................          9
A.  'xoject Objectives and Relationship to Sector..            9
B. Proiect Description                 ..                      9
C.   Irrigation and Water Supply ....................         10
D.   Agricultural Development .......................         13
E. Status of Preparation                .        .            19
F. Implementation Schedule               .        .           19
G.   Cost Estimates         .................                 19
H.   Financing ......................................         21
I.   Procurement          ...................                 22
J. Disbursements                    ..                        24
K. Accounts and Audits                 .         .            24
L. Environmental Effects                .        .            25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
June/July 1988. Members of the appraisal team included D. Gunaratnam
(mission leader), H. Eisa, H. Kim and V. Rosenthal (IDA) and C.
Cronberg, B. Larsen and R. Zweig (consultants). Others involved in
the preparation of the project were H. Frederiksen (IDA), J. Hald and
H. Maters (consultants).



ii
IV  ORGANI=1Z   9 AND MANAGEMENT  ............................ 26
A.  Project CoordinatiJn and Management ................. 26
B.  Execution of Project Works ........................... 27
C. Financial Arrangements .28
D.  Operations and Maintenance .29
E.  Management of Production Activities. .30
F.  Project Launch Workshop ............................. 31
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation ........................... 31
V    PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICING ........................ 32
A.  Production ................................          32
B.  Markets .................................            37
C.  Prices ................................              38
VI   BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .39
A. Benefits .39
B.. Employment and Incomes .40
C. Women in Development .41
D. Rent and Cost Recovery .41
E.  Financial and Economic Analysis .42
F. Project Risks .46
VII AGREE,ETS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .46
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1  Cost Summary ............................           20
3.2 Project Financing .21
3.3 Procurement Arrangements .23
5.1 Donglei Cropped Areas, Yields and Production         33
5.2  Productiou of Eggs and Meat .34
5.3 Rabbit Breeding .35
5.4 Fish Production .36
6.1 Recovery from Skeletal Fluorosis .40
6.2  Summary of Financial Analysis Results .43
6.3 Results of ERR and Sensitivity Analysis .45
ANNEXES
1. Project Area Statistics (table 1)
Climate (table 2)
Grain/Feed Balance (table 3)
Feed Milling Capacity (table 4)
Fertilizer Usage and Balance (tables 5-6)
2.  Cost Summary (table 1)
Expenditure Schedule (table 2)
Estimated Disbursement Schedule (table 3)
Cost Estimates by Component (tables 4-9)
Loan Allocation by Components (table 10)



iii
3. Procurement Summary for Goods (table 1)
Equipment List by Component (tables 2-8)
Civil Works Contract Sizes (tables 9-11)
4. Farm-gate Prices for Major Products and Inputs (tables 1-2)
Selected Conversion Factors (table 3)
Crop Budget at Full Development (tables 4-9)
Animal Budgets at Full Development (tables 10-11)
Forestry Budgets (table 12-13)
Farm Models for Crops and for Aquaculture (tables 14-19)
Crop Production in Dcnglei and Dingbian (tables 20-21)
Economic and Financial Benefit Streams-Base ERR (tables 22-30)
FRR & ERR, Sensitivity Analysis (tables 31-34)
Rent and Cost Recovery (table 35)
Financial Analysis for Enterprises-Poultry, etc. (tables 36-38)
5. Dingbian Water Supply and Health Benefits Analysis
6. Technical Assistance and Training
7. Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators
8. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LISTS OF CHARTS
1. Organizational Structure of PMO
2. Organization of Shaanxi Provincial Government
3. Detailed Organization for Implementation (Aquaculture)
4. Flow of Funds during Implementation
5. Agricultural Bank of China, Shaanxi Branch
6. Village Water Supply Layout
7.  Aquaculture Lined Fisti Farm.
8. Aquaculture Unlined Fish Farm.
MAP
IBRD  -  21111   - Project Location3
IBRD  -  21112   - DongIli Irrigation Layout
IBRD  -  21113   - Dingbian Groundwater Fluoride Levels



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICUL,TURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1         The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in
financing an agricultural development project in Shaanxi Province.  The main
objective of the project is to boost rural incomes ir one of the poorest parts
of China through investments to expand irrigated area, raise crop yields,
diversify into aquaculture and livestock production, and introduce new technology
in farming systems and agro-processing. The project would also provide new water
supply systems to areas where inadequate and contaminated water has caused severe
problems in human and animal health. Project activities, carried out in 40 of
Shaanxi's 107 counties, would bring direct benefits in the form of improved incomes,
employr.ent opportunities, and health to a total of 180,000 farm families.
B. The Agriculture Sector
1.2         Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries,
provides sustenance to over one billion people; it is a major source of income
for some 190 million farm families and accounts for about 30% of the country's
GDP. Only about 137 million of China's 960 million hectares are arable. Farming
systems are intensive with large inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizers,
and water. Nearly half of the cropped area is irrigated. Food grains occupy
about 70% of the crop land and account for about one-third of total agricultural
output. This intensive system of food production has allowed China to meet the
basic food requirements of its population, about 22% of the world's total, from
less than 11% of the world's arable land.
1.3         China's decade-long rural reform program has revitalized the agricultural
sector through improved work incentives, decentralized decision-making, better
exploitation of comparative advantages, decontrolled agricultural markets and
prices, and technological modernization. The program has resulted in impressive
growth of income and production. The gross value of agricultural output (GVAO)
increased by 77% in real terms during 1978-87, at an average annual rate (6.5%)
more than twice that of the previous 25 years (3.2%). Grain production, one of
the key indicators of China's agriculture, increased by about one-third (100 million
tons) over the same period. However, several major problems have emerged in recent
years. First, state investment in agriculture has declined, dropping from 5.3
to 3.7 billion yuan during 1978-86, or from 10.6% to only 3.1% of total state
capital construction. This investment downturn has contributed to a minor decrease
in irrigated area and--of great concern to the Government--a 5% decline in grain
production since tha record harvest (407 million tons) of 1984. Second, while
all regions have benefited to some extent from the rapid growth of agriculture,
income gains have been uneven. In 1980, average rural net incomes in the eastern
provinces were 27% greater than those in western provinces; by 1986 this difference



- 2 -
had increased to 51X. Most of China's extreme poverty is now concentrated in
several inland provinces in the north, northwest and southwest.
1.4         The Government has responded to these problems by reversing the decline
in state itivestment in agriculture and initiating special development programs
for poverty areas: state investment in agriculture was increased to 4.4 billion
yuan in 1987, with priority given to the rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation,
and the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) has earmarked between three and four
billion yuan annually for poverty alleviation. Objectives for agriculture during
the Plan period are to maintain per capita grain consumption at current levels
while continuing to diversify the overall output structure to accommodate changing
consumer preferences. This means increasing food grain output to match population
growth, boosting production of fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, fish, and cash
crops, and expanding output of processed products. To achieve sector growth,
Chinese planners, on the one hand, are calling for technology improvements and
maintaining sown area at current levels, and, on the other, are supporting a series
of systemic reforms which include:   (a) allowing diverse forms of enterprise
ownership and management to encourage growth of rural agro- processing, transport,
and commerce; (b) establishing legal guarantees to farmers regarding land use
rights and ownership of assets; and (c) expanding marketing channels, deregulating
prices, and over the medium term phasing out price subsidies. The Bank Group
is supporting these reforms through a Rural Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2967-CHA,
Cr. 1932-CHA).
C, Water Resources DeveloRment
1.5         China's water resources are limited and unevenly distributed.  About
45% of China's total land area is located in regions with less than 400 mm annual
rainfall, mostly in the north, west and northwest. In these areas, along with
low volumes, the seasonal concentration of rainfall has made agriculture
dependent on irrigation. China's irrigated areas account for about two-thirds
of total grain production and three-fourths of total output of commercial crops.
The expansion of irrigation facilities has been a major factor in the increase
in grain production from about 164 million tons in 1952 to around 400 million
tons by the mid-1980s. However, lack of adequate control structures and the poor
condition of many on-farm works limit irrigation efficiency, which ranges from
30 to 55% for surface water irrigation systems.   Inadequate investment in
maintenance of drainage and irrigation systems has acted as a further constraint
to productivity over much of the existing irrigated area. Increased efficiency
in water use, through improved structures and improved management, is of critical
importance in the Yellow River Basin (where the proposed project is located)
which has only limited water resources potential, a major sedimentation problem,
and few suitable sites for construction of new storage reservoirs and gravity
irrigation systems.   The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) plans to expand
irrigated area by eight million ha by the year 2000, mostly through additions
and improvements to existing schemes.
D. Sectoral Obiectives and Bank Lending
1.6         The Government's long-term objectives for the agriculture sector are:
(a) to increase the production of food, feed and. industrial crops to meet
requirements created by population and income growth; and (b) to raise income



-3 -
and employment opportunities in rural areas. Giver, China's shortage of arable
land (0.1 ha per capita), development planners have focused on the need to
increase the productivity of existing cropped areas and to develop efficiently
the remaining unutilized land. Consistent with this approach, water resources
development policy has given priority to increasing the efficiency of existing
irrigation systems through completion and rehabilitation of irrigation and
drainage structures and improved water managemert.
1.7         The Bank's strategy for lending in China's agriculture sector has
been to support the Government's efforts to expand and diversify agricultural
output through more efficient use of human and physical resources. Lending to
date has covered a broad spectrum of geographic areas and subsectors, with an
overall focus on land development, upgrading agricultural support sevices (such
as research and credit), strengthening specialized product subsectors (such as
rubber, forestry and fisheries), and, more recently, area development. The area
development approach generally targets difficult agro-technical development
problems and combines, in a single project, assistance to crop and livestock
development  and  the  strengthening  of  various  support  services.           The
Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project (Ln. 2579/Cr. 1606-CHA) was the first
of this type, followed by the Red Soils Area Development Project (Cr. 1733-CHA),
the Xinjiang Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1764-CHA), and the Northern
Irrigation Project (Cr. 1885-CHA). Implementation of ongoing Bank Group-financed
projects in the agriculture sector is generally on schedule. Notable features
of all the projects to date are the high standard of management at the central,
provincial and county levels and the enthusiastic participation of farm
households.
E. Agriculcure in Shaanxi
1.8         Shaanxi Province lies in north central China along the great loess
plateau which stretches from Gansu to Shanxi.   To the north the Great Wall
divides the province from Inner Mongolia, to the west is Gansu, anc; to the east,
forming the border with Shanxi, flows the Yellow River on its southward course
to the confluence of the Wei where it turns sharply east onto the North China
Plain. Shaanxi has a total land area of 20 million ha and a population of 30
million, half of them concentrated in the Wei River Valley. It is one of China's
poorest provinces. Average rural per capita income in 1987 was Y325 or 40% below
the national average of Y463. In Shaanxi's poorest counties in the northwest
rural per capita income is Y140.   Shaanxi's main problem is lack of reliable
water resources. In northern Shaanxi, rainfall averages only 350 mm. Annual
precipitation in the Wei Valley, the predominant crop growing area, averages 550
mm but varies from year to year.   Moreover,  water from the Wei is fully
committed, in some cases on schemes that are operating at suboptimal efficiency.
1.9         Land Use and Irrigation.   Shaanxi consists of three agricultural
regions distinguished primarily by topography and rainfall (see map 21111).
The Shaanbei or northern region is a mountainous, low rainfall area which is
entirely dependent on irrigation for crop production. Central Shaanxi, known
as Guangzhong, is a rolling plains area (although there are flat alluvial areas
around the Wei River) with elevations ranging from 350-600 m. Rainfall of 530
mm is insufficient to support intensive dryland agriculture. Central Shaanxi's
total cultivated area is 34% dryland and 66% irrigated. Both the northern region



-4 -
and much of the central region are characterized by ioess soil, a wind-deposited
silty loam often occurring at depths of 50-100 meters. Loess is an excellent
agricultural soil though highly susceptible to erosion.          Southern Shaanxi
(Shaannan) is mountainous and wet, with rainfall approaching 1000 mm.
1.10        Programs to construct irrigat-;':n facilities in Shaanxi have resulted
in a more than five-fold increase in irrigated area from 250,000 ha in 1949 to
1.3 million ha today. 90% of this area is in the central region. Investments
in irrigation since 1979 have been substantially greater than during the previous
decade and the focus of investmer.t has shifted from construction of new
irrigation works to improving the efficiency of existing systems through
completion of on- farm works and strengthening operation and maintenance
practices. In 1986, half of total irrigation investments were earmarked for the
latter activities. Land leveling, completed on virtually all of the cultivated
area in the central region, has resulted in a 50% increase in efficiency of water
use.
1.11        Crops, mostly the temperate grains (wheat, corn, millet and sorghum)
make up about 67% of Shaanxi's total agricultural production. Grain output has
decreased markedly over the past decade as farmers have shifted into cultivation
of cash crops (e.g., vegetables, cotton) and oilseeds (rapeseed, peanuts). Grain
yields (2.4 ton/ha) and per capita production (318 kg) in Shaanxi have remained
consistently below the respective national averages (3.5 ton/ha and 372 kg), the
result primarily of  inadequate  water  and fertilizer.    To meet  the  food
requirements of its population, Shaanxi has had to rely on grain imports (mainly
wheat) which have averaged about 250,000 tons during the 1980s. Another 15% of
Shaanxi's total agricultural production is accounted for by livestock products.
Grassland areas totaling about 6 million ha, nearly a third of the province's
land area, provide grazing area for sheep, goats, and draft animals.   Pig,
poultry, and rabbit raising are important household sideline activities.
However, Shaanxi remains below the national average in per capita consumption
-f meat. Fisheries at present is undeveloped (only 0.02% of total agricultural
output). Timber and other wood products come from a forested area of about 4.7
million ha, mainly in the southern part of the province.
1.12        Shaanxi's Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-1990) calls for an 8.5% per
year increase in agricultural production during the Plan period.   The major
elements of Shaanxi's strategy to achieve this objective are to  (a) develop
irrigation wherever economically feasible, (b) promote integrated rural
development with programs to improve production, processing, and marketing, (c)
increase the availability of improved agricultural inputs, particularly seeds
and chemical fertilizer, and (d) upgrade agricultural research, training and
extension. The province has plans to irrigate an additional 250,000 ha by the
end of the century, mostly through lift pump schemes on the Yellow River.
F. Project Rationale
1.13        The proposed project would aim to raise farm production and income
in one of China's poorest provinces. This would be achieved through expansion
and improvement of irrigated area, raising crop yields, increasing livestock and
fish production, and developing the agro-processing sector througji pilot
projects.   The project would also seek to alleviate health problems through



- 5 -
improved water supply ,or human and animal consumption.  Apart from resource
transfer, the major Bank Group contribution to the project would be assistance
in introducing state-of-the-art pump technology and system layout, designing and
equipping large-scale poultry operations, and setting up modern processing
facilities. Bank Group involvement would also provide access to international
experience in management of large irrigation areas, varietal and breed
improvement programs, and -roduct marketing methods. Project-sponsored training
and overseas study tours would enable Chinese technicians and project staff to
study firsthand alternative technologies in irrigation, animal and plant
breeding, and agribusiness.
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Location
2.1         The proposed project areas are in the central and northern regions
of St.aanxi Province. Most of the project activities are located in the central
region to the east and west of the Luo River and in the Wei River Valley, west
of  the  provincial  capital  of Xian.    This  includes  39  counties  in  the
prefectures/municipalities of Xian, Weinan, Tongchuan, Baoji, and Xianyang.
Project activities in the northern region would take place in Dingbian County
in the northwest reaches of the province. Project locations and area statistics
are given in IBRD Map No. 21111 and Annex 1.
B. Clinate. ToRography. Soils
2.2         Climate.  The central region has a continental monsoon climate with
dry, moderately cold winters and hot, wet summers. Average daily temperatures
range from a January low of -1.5 degrees C to 30 degrees C in July. A frost-free
period of 220-230 days allows a 7-8 month growing season. Annual precipitation
averages 520-550 mm, distributed unevenly through the year and having
considerable year to year variation. Fifty percent of annual precipitation in
the central region is concentrated in the months of July to September (Annex 1
table 2).  The climate in northern Shaanxi is harsh with extreme summer ^-d
winter temperatures and low, irregular rainfall.   Average daily temperatures
range from -9 degrees C in January to 22 degrees C in July. Winter temperatures
remain below freezing from December to February.   The frost free period is
approximately 160 days.   Rainfall averages only 300 mm per year and the
evapotranspiration rate is high (2,500 mm). Most areas are entirely dpendent
on irrigation for crop production. High winds and sandstorms are common in the
spring.
2.3         Topography and Soils. The central region shows wide variation in
topography and soils. The northern third, which includes the project's Donglei
II irrigation area, is part of the loess plateau.  The terrain is hilly with
elevations ranging east to west from 500 to 1000 m. The middle third, centering
on the Wei River Valley, is a lower elevation (300-500 m east to west) area of
rich, alluvial soils. The southern third of the central region is defined by
the rugged Qingling Mourtains. Dingbian County in Shaanxi's northern region is
a high, flat, windblown area in the heart of the loess plateau. As in Donglei,
there is a thick loess layer which is rich in phosphate and potassium but poor
in organic materials.



-6 -
C. Water Resources and Irrigation
2.4         The main sources of irrigation water for the central region are the
Yellow River and three of its large tributaries, the Luo, the Jing and the Wei
Rivers. Total annual regulated flow from the Luo and Wei averages 3.9 bcm which
falls well below crop water requirements in three out of every four years.
Shaanxi's authorized allocation of 4 bcm from the Yellow River has barely been
tapped due to the high costs and technical problems of conveying water to the
bluffs over.looking the river at Donglei.   In 1985,  the Shaanxi Government
completed construction of the Donglei I pumping scheme, the first of a five phase
plan to divert water from the Yellow River. While yields have doubled or tripled
in areas receiving water, Donglei I overall has failed to achieve planned
efficiency due to deficiencies in design and mechanical problems with
domestically manufactured pumps. The Shaanxi Government is currently rectifying
these shortcomings using domestic funding. Donglei II, the second phase of the
program and the largest component of the proposed project, would introduce more
efficient pump design and equioment. Depending on the success of Donglei II,
three additional pump lift schemes would be initiated in the 1990's to improve
irrigation for an additional 250,000 ha (see Map 21111).
2.5         Water resources in Dingbian County are extremely limited.  The sole
source of water for irrigation is the Bali River which irrigates 667 ha of
cropland.    All  other  production  is  rainfed.    Groundwater  resources  are
inadequate, generally unsafe for drinking and not suitable for irrigation. The
water bearing layer is 20 m deep and contains high levels of fluoride.
D. Water QuAlity and Health
2.6         In addition to general water scarcity, natural contamination of water
with excessive levels of fluoride has resulted in se=ious health problems in many
parts of the central and northern regions. In Dingbian County, where the health
hazard is most severe, the mean fluoride content ranges from 1.83 to 4.55 mg/l
with occasional levels as high as 27.5 mg/I. By Chinese health standards, safe
drinking water should contain less than 1 mg/l.   Consumption of water with
excessive fluoride levels leads to discoloration and loss of teeth and, in
extreme cases, skeletal deformities. Skeletal fluorosis, the more severe form
of fluoride poiEoning, causes pain in the joints and, as the condition
progresses, ultimate fusing of the vertebrae and near total incapacitation. The
Shaanxi Health Bureau reports that 70% of Dingbian's 248,000 people and about
20% of the animal population suffer from fluoride poisoning. Some 84,000 people
have skeletal fluorosis. Of these, about 31,000 are in the early stages of the
disease which means that they can carry 80% of the workload of an agricultural
worker in normal health, about 44,000 can perform less than 80%, and 8,000 are
totally incapacitated (see Annex 5). Studies have shown that skeletal fluorosis
is reversible under conditions of improved drinking water.   Patients in the
earlier stages of the disease may recover aa much as 90-95% of their normal
capabilities. Patients in the later stages may recover at least enough mobility
in their hands and arms to perform simple tasks.



-7 -
E. PoRulation and Land Use
2.7         Cetitral Region.   Some 3.0 million farm families live in the 39
counties in the central region. The average household operates 0.66 ha, 46% of
it irrigated. Of the total cultivated area, about 66% is sown with winter wheat,
34% with maize, barley, millet and soybean, and the rest with cash crops
including cotton, oilseed, fruits and vegetables. Total sown area in the central
region has remained unchanged at 2.1 million ha over the last few years, but the
mix of crops has shifted with notable increases in corn, rapeseed, and fruits.
Present cropping intensity for field crops is 116% in the rainfed areas and 150%
in irrigated areas. Yields are low in dryland areas, averaging 1.5 tons/ha for
wheat, 1.1 tons/ha for maize, and 0.4 tons/ha for soybeans.
2.8         Livestock raising accounts for about 20% of total farm income in the
central region which is Shaanxi's major producing area for cattle, pigs, poultry
and rabbits. The bulk of livestock income comes from meat production which has
expanded rapidly in recent years in response to consumer demands. The greatest
emphasis is on pork production (87%), with only small percentages devoted to
beef, poultry, and rabbit meat. However, consumer demand for poultry, eggs, and
rabbit meat is on the rise along with a marked preference for lean over fat pork.
Consumption of poultry and eggs increased 50% p.a. between 1985-1987.  Major
constraints to continued expansion of meat and meat products are the inadequacy
of feed and the need for genetically improved breeds which are more efficient
meat producers.
2.9         Fish farming in the central region is characterized by the pond
culture of carp. Pond culture has expanded rapidly since 1984 with the total
pond area increasing from 1,666 to 2,666 ha.  Yields range between 2.2 and 3.2
t/ha, though there is considerable variation from farm to farm.  This is well
below average yields obtained from intensively managed ponds in other parts of
China similar in climate to central Shaanxi.  Major constraints to better yields
are lack of proper water supply and pond drainage,  and the inadequacy of
ancillary services such as feed mills, hatcheries, extension services, and
marketing outlets.
2.10        Dingbian.  In Dingbian County, where the incidence of fluorosis is
especially acute, an agricultural population of about 207,000 is scattered in
41,000 farm households among 327 small villages. Each family farms on average
1.6 ha of dry land comprising 3 to 4 plots. About 88% of the cultivated area
is devoted to grain crops, predominantly wheat (93%). The poverty of the area
stems mainly from low and variable crop yields. Average grain yields are only
0.5 t/ha, compared to the national average of 3.5 t/ha and the provincial average
in Shaanxi of 2.6 t/ha.  Per capita grain production is 175 kg for Dingbian,
319 kg for the province. Following the drought of 1987, Dingbian County received
in kind grain subsidy of 35 kg per capita. Crop income accounts for only 60%
of total farm income.  Animal husbandry, a traditional activity in Dingbian,
provides another 30%, forestry 1% and sideline activities 9%.
F. Infrastructure and Support Services
2.11        TransRort and Power.  The project areas in the central region are
connected to the national railway network. Sites in the Wei River Valley lie



-8 -
along the east-west line from Xian to Houma; the north-south line between Xian
and Yenan runs through the Donglei II area (see Map 21111). All project sites
in the central region are served by an adequate network of rural, secondary, and
main roads linking villages, townships, county towns, and the provincial capital.
However, the northern site at Dingbian is isolated. A main road runs between
Xian in Shaanxi and the city of Wuzhong on the Yellow River in Ningxia. The
power supply in the central region is reliable.   There are seven 330 kV
substations to redistribute power from five major power stations each with a peak
load capacity of 1000 MW.   For both Donglei and Dingbian, additional power
substations and distribution lines would be built as part of the project.
2 12        Agricultural Research and Extension.   Agricultural research and
training for Shaanxi is centered in the North West Agricultural University
(NWAU), and the provincial Academy for Agricultural Sciences including its
various research and training institutes--such as the Institute of Animal
Husbandry  and  Veterinary  Medicine.    Other  key  institutions  include  the
Agricultural Research Institute and the Agricultural Technical School in
Shaanxi's Weinan Prefecture. NWAU qualifies 800 graduates annually, of which
560 remain to work in Shaanxi, including 40 veterinarians and 40 animal
scientists who have taken a 4 or 5-year course. In addition, there are eight
other technical colleges in the province, with an output of 240 veterinary
specialists and zootechnicians per year. The NWAU has apex responsibilities for
developing technical packages and providing agricultural extension advice
throughout Shaanxi Province.  In the project areas, the University and several
other institutions at Yangling have provided considerable extension and applied
research support for the application of locally adapted technologies to crop
production,   fruits,   waste   and  by-products   utilization,   small   scale
agro-industries and dry land culture.  In other villages in the central region,
efforts are underway in specialized household poultry raising, milk and beef
production and better methods of drinking water collection. During negotiations
an understanding was reached with the provincial government that technical
assistance for new irrigation areas, for setting up of trial plots to optimize
fertilizer input, for poultry development by specialized households, and for
improved pasture development would be undertaken by NWAU or equivalent research
institutions.
2.13        Credit.  The main source of institutional credit for agricult  di
activities is from a network of county level branches of the Agricultural Bank
of China (ABC). The ABC conducts its business at township and village levels
through the local network of Rural Credit Cooperatives (RCC) (see Chart 42692).
Almost every township in the central region has an RCC. About 80% of loans given
by ABC are  short-term production credits and small investments which have to
be repayed within one year.  Borrowing by farmers from ABC has increased 300%
since 1984 and about Y1.0 billion has been lent to farms between 1984-87. During
negotiations an understanding was obtained with the provincial government that
it would arrange with the provincial branch of ABC that adequate production
credit would be made available to farmers in the irrigation areas of the project.
By this understanding the Project Management Office would provide IDA with the
annual plans (1992 onwards) for production credit for its review by December 31,
1990, to be formulated in consultation with the provincial and local offices of
the ABC.



-9 -
2.14        Seed Production and Supply.  The provincial seed company has 104
branches at the prefectural and county levels, but has been unable to provide
farmers with adequate volumes of certified seed because of inadequate drying
and processing capability, insufficient storage, poor quality control, shortage
of transport and working capital, lack of staff training, and problems in
management. The Shaanxi Provincial Seed Company and county-level branches rely
on contract seed multiplication by specialized households for their certified
seed supplies.   Though the contract system is well-organized, the number of
participating households (and thus the volume of seed produced) is insufficient
to service farmers' requirements. Seed proce3sing is performed manually, and
the lack of quality seeds has had its biggest impact on wheat, corn and rapeseed
production where there has been slow replacement of older varieties.
2.15        Livestock Feed and Milling. Livestock feed, especially forage is very
limited. It has been observed that additional crop residues, resulting from crop
intensification through irrigation, would have significant impact on herd growth
of all ruminant animals. In many of the new irrigation schemes (e.g. Donglei
I), the augmented supply of animal nutrients has resulted in an expansion of
cattle, sheep, pig and other animal numbers by 50-90 percent within 3 to 4 years
of completion of irrigation. The poultry population has also increased quite
dramatically due to feed availability encouraged by irrigation.   Grain and
oilseed based livestock feed requirements for Shaanxi Province to year 2000 are
forcasted to increase by 0.6 million tons with the project (see Annex 1 table
3). Despite this increase in demand the province can supply these requirements
based on the forecasted increases of grain production within the province and
imports of wheat.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives and Relation to Sector
3.1         The main objective of the proposed project would be to boost farm
product.on and incomes in the project areas through a program of investments in
irrigation, other rural infrastructure, and in agricultural services. Project
activities would focus on 39 counties in the central region which offer a broad
spectrum of development opportunities. The project would also provide secure
and safe drinking water to some 130,000 people in the northwestern county of
Dingbian, one of the worst affected parts of the province and to another i56,000
people in the central region who are also affected by poor quality water.
Project objectives are in line with the Government's strategy of making more
efficient use of land and water resources, diversifying primary production and
improving the standards of rural life.
B. Project Description
3.2         The proposed project would expand and rehabilitate  irrigation
facilities mainly for cultivation of wheat, corn, oilseeds, cotton, vegetables,
fruits,  and  alfalfa.    A  seed processing  component  aims  to  improve  the
availability of superior seeds.   The project would develop freshwater fish
culture in low-lying areas along the Yellow and Wei Rivers. It would introduce
large-scale poultry farming and a genetic improvement program for swine and
rabbits. Small agro-processing facilities would be established to demonstrate



-10 -
proper methods to organize, manage and finance upgraded processing, handling and
storage facilities. The project would also construct a new water supply system
in Dingbian where contaminated water has caused crippling disease.   The main
features of the project are:
(a)   improvement of irrigation serving 123.000 ha with provision of
supplemental water supply in the Central region through installation of 37 major
pumping stations and construction of a network of canals and drains, and a
drinking and industrial water system to serve 156,000 people;
(b) construction of potable water supply and irrigation systems (4600 ha)
in Dingbian county, including installation of three pumping stations, 140 village
level reservoirs, and a drinking water reticulation system for 130,000 people;
(c)   establishment of 2,100 ha of fish ponds,  including provision of
reliable water service, drainage, power supply, roads and, supporting facilities
such as hatcheries, feed mills and marketing and supply centers;
(d) establishment of 8 breeding farms and 5 commercial farms for poultry
and one breeding farm each for swine and rabbits;
(e)   construction of nine  seed processing and certification plants,
provision of modern processing and testing equipment, and supply of fertilizers
and other inputs; and
(f)  construction and equipping of three demonstration agro- processing
plants for meat, fruit, and honey products and one cold storage facility.
3.3       The proposed project would also supply simple equipment for research
and experimentation on new cropping systems and appropriate feed formulation
for locally-grown carp. It would provide a program of technical assistance and
training (Annex 6), both local and overseas, in such areas as water resources
management and systems operation; breeding, husbandry, and disease control of
poultry,  pigs,  and  rabbits;   seed  technology;  and  new  technology  in
agro-processing.
C. Irrigation and Water Supply
Donglei II Irrigation Development.
3.4          PumD Lift Scheme.  Donglei II is the second phase of the Shaanxi
Government's plan to expand irrigated area in the central region by pumping
water from the Yellow River. The proposed project would provide irrigation to
123,000 ha of presently low-yielding cropland in three counties (Fuping, Pucheng,
and Dali)  in the Donglei irrigation area.   New irrigation works would be
constructed on 71,000 ha and additional water would be furnished to 52,000 ha
presently receiving inadequate service (see Map 21112). A new pumping station
with a capacity of 42 cum/sec would be built on the Yellow River at the site of
the existing Donglel I station. Water would be lifted about 7 meters from the
Yellow River into an existing main canal, then conveyed by gravity to the Beigan
Pumping Station, where it would be lifted to higher elevations in eight stages
involving a total average lift of 135 m. The project would provide a total of



-11 -
37 pumping stations.   Pumping capacity would range from 7 cum/sec per pump
against a lift of 60 m at Beigan to less than 0.3 cum/sec per pump against a lift
of 20 m in the final stage. The pumps and electrical motors would mainly be
imported, needed to ensure that high efficiencies are maintained. For capacities
ever 0.5 cum/sec and lifts of 15 m or more, vertical turbine pumps would be used
ta improve efficiencies. In addition either stainless or high chromium steel
impellers would be used to reduce erosion of the pumping system. Power would
be brought to the pumping stations by 188 km of 100-35 kv lines from 36
substations constructed by the project. Reliable power for pump operation would
be furnished through the Northwest China Grid, which is linked to four major
generating stations with a combined capacity of 3,500 MW.
3.5         Canals and Drains.  The existing canal system is divided into five
levels, from the central conveyance to the smallest sublaterals. Main canals
service the entire area. Each branch canal serves about 700 ha; each lateral:
about 200-300 ha; sublaterals: 30- 50 ha; and on-farm canals: 3-6 ha. In the
existing systems, all canals are lined up to the farm level canals and efficiency
of water delivery is a high 55-58%. The Donglei II pumping scheme would lift
water through 597 km of main and branch canals, to be constructed by the project.
As in the existing system, all project canals down to the sublaterals would be
lined to ensure minimum water loss: a 60% efficiency is planned. Structures
for volumetric measurement are to be located at sub-lateral level inlets. Drains
of standard depth and spacing would be constructed to remove excess surface storm
water.  A.eas where groundwater levels are 20 m and less (about 40,000 ha) would
be provided with additional drains to prevent waterlogging.
3.6         Pumping stations and canals would be designed to cope with high
levels of silt concentration.  While the average concentration in the Yellow
River varies from 3-4%, pumps would be operated to handle concentrations of up
to 10%.  Canal slopes would be designed to maintain velocities sufficient to
entrain the sediment even when water flow is 60% lower than expected. Intake
chambers and canals or pipes would be designed so as to maintain the velocities
needed to move the silt through to the fields. Project design and evidence from
operation of the existing system support the feasibility of moving the silt
through the irrigation works onto the fields in the fashion described.
Moreover, according to studies carried out in central Shaanxi by the NWAU's
research staff, use of silt as a soil amendment has beneficial effects in
reducing salt concentration and increasing levels of organic matter, nitrogen,
and phosphorous.  Results show a 25-40% increase in grain yields when water from
the Yellow River is used in place of groundwater. As an engineering safeguard,
however, the Provincial Government has allotted land close to the site of the
intake pumping station where a desilting basin could be constructed should
problems with siltation reduce the efficiency of the main canal by more than 10%
of its designed capacity.
3.7         On-farm Works.  Land smoothing has been completed on virtually the
entire 123,000 ha in the Donglei II area in preparation for the project.
Occasional leveling of high spots would be carried out while constructing on-farm
canals.   Farmers also would be responsible for constructing and maintaining
on-farm ditches and drains servicing 4-6 ha. Designs for laterals and on-farm
works in the newly irrigated areas have been prepared by the Shaanxi Water
Conservancy Bureau. Some 7,600 ha of poplar and paulownia trees would be planted



-12 -
around fields, along embankments and roads, and on land unsuitable for cropping
to serve as windbreaks and provide additional income.
3.8         Supplemental Water Supply. In addition to providing irrigation water,
the Dunglei II lift pump scheme would supply additional drinking water to some
156,000 people living in water- scarce areas or areas where groundwater is
contaminated by hazardous levels of fluoride (over 2-5 ppm). Allowances i.uld
also be made for water supply to small rural enterprises.  Tho project would
construct 40 km of canals and 104 village reservoirs of 1,300 cum each. It would
construct 36,700 small (20 cum) underground water cellars for 36,700 households
to hold water in reserve for the winter when water flow is curtailed by freezing
temperatures (see chart 42693).   Some 67 larger cellars (50 cum) would be
provided for rural enterprises. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that water quality would be monitored in Donglei and Dingbian areas using
standard health bureau practices and a report of the proposed initial monitoring
would b.> furnished to IDA by December 31, 1993.
3.9         Fertilizer ar;d Other Inputs. About 20,000 tons of fertilizer (mainly
diammonium phosphate andl urea), and some soft pesticides would be imported in
1992 and 1993 to meet incremental requirements while the project becomes
operational.    Imports would be organized by the Provincial-level  Project
Management Office (para 4.2) on the basis of annual fertilizer plans to be
prepared by each of the counties in the project irrigation areas. A revolving
fund would be established by the PMO and the proceeds from the sale of the
fertilizer would be deposited into this fund to be used for future procurements.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that adequate quantities of
fertilizer would be procured for farmers, and that an annual plan for these
procurements would be submitted to IDA for review prior to December 1 of each
year.
3.10        Technical Assistance.   Technical assistance packages have been
included in the project, for ensuring that (a) irrigation systems are properly
operated and (b) appropriate agricultural extension and research is provided to
farmers and specialized households in the project areas (Annex 6, Tables 1 and
2). To these ends training would be provided for 500 staff for operating large
multi-stage pumping systems (local training), international courses for 20 staff
on advanced design and operation of pumping systems, 22 man-months of foreign
consultant services and overseas study tours for 38 staff for familiarization
with international standards in water resources management and the management
and maintenance of multi-stage pumping systems (see Annex 6 table 2).   In
parallel, the NWAU would develop extension packages through field trials in 10
demonstration villages in the Donglei and Dingbian areas.   NWAU and other
research institutes would also provide training for: 300 extension agents posted
within the villages, and at the prefectural bureaus of agriculture; and 3000 key
farmers.   Special field facilities equipped with testing equipment would be
established in the Donglei and Dingbian areas for conducting applied research
in irrigated agriculture.    Foreign consultants  would be  responsible  for
organizing the foreign tours and courses in the project and the plans for these
activities would be reviewed by IDA.



-13 -
Dinabian Water Supply
3.11        The Dingbian water supply component would provide (a) safe drinking
water for 130,000 people and their livestock in parts of Dingbian County where
fluorosis is endemic and (b) water for irrigating approximately 4,600 ha of
presently low-yielding cropland or marginal grazing areas.   Scheduled for
completion in 1992, this component is the Shaanxi portion of tlle multi-province
water conveyance project (Yanhuanding Irrigation Project) which has been designed
to transport water 200 km from the Qingtongxia Reservoir in Ningxia LO the Liming
Pumping Station now under construction at a site near the Shaaiixi border.
3.12       Rural Water Supply. Of the water conveyed from Liming, about 3.2
million cum or 15% would be supplied a- drinking water and for industrial use
to 175 villages in Dingbian County.  F   y-one of these villanges, with a total
population of 46,600, are located in water- scarce mountainous areas and 124
villages, with a population of 84,600', are in areas where fluoride levels are
above the 1 mg/l recommended by Chinese health authorities. (Some 64,000 people
reside in villages where contaminaat levels are in excess of 2.1 mg/1).  The
World Bank's Rural Water Supply Project (Credit 1578-CHA) is constructing water
systems for an additional 30 villages in the flouride affected areas (with a
population of 32,000) ir. Dingbian County.
3.13        Starting from the Liming Pumping Station, the Dingbian component
would construct a four stage pumping system consisting of 370 km of cast iron
and concrete pipes and tunnels, and three main pumping stations, each with a
capacity of 2 cum/sec against a total lift of 150 m. The water would then be
transported to villages via gravicy except for hillside settlements where 27
small booster stations would be built (Map 21113). At the village level, the
project would construct 43 water tanks having a capacity of 500 cum each and
150 tanks, 50 cum each, for village enterprises or small villages, and 80,000
underground water cellars. 20 cum each, for household water storage especially
during the winter months (see chart 42693).  Except in villages where houses
are widely dispersed, individual households would be connected to a piped or
canal distribution network.
3.14        Dingbian Irrigation.  About 85%  (20 million cum)  of  the water
transmitted from Liming to Dingbian would be used to expand irrigated area by
4,600 ha for production of grain, fruit, medicinal herbs, and foclder.  The
irrigation network, starting from the final lift point of tlle water supply
system, would be based on gravity flow and consist of six branch canals with a
length of 19.7 km and 24 lateral canals with a length of 55.9 km.
D.  Agricultural Development
Aauaculture
3.15        The aquaculture component of the project would primarily develop
freshwater fish culture, all of polyculture carp production at 23 sites along
the llei and Yellow Rivers, thus making economic use of land which is unsuitable
for crop production. The project would provide equipment for pond management,
strengthen the support facilities for production and marketing of fish, and serve



-14 -
as a model. for the establishment of commercial fish farms in other parts of the
province.
3.16        Pond Development.  The project provides for construction of 2,100
ha of new ponds.   Rectangular ponds of uniform size  (0.66 ha) would be
constructed in aggregations of 33.3 ha per farm at 23 sites provided with proper
filling and draining controls and organized into 64 operating units at the
township or village levels (see chart w4291b and w42918a). About 6.7 ha at each
site of the pond area would be used for nurseries and 26.6 ha for production.
About 19% of the total pond area would be lined because of sand. soils and
excessive seepage.  Within each operating unit 16.7 ha of land would be for
construction of a farm management center (1,350 sq. m of building area for
offices, housing, and storage), roads, canals and pond dikes. The 2,900 ha of
raised dike areas between the ponds would be used for growing grass or other
crops as inputs for fish food.
3.17        Water would be supplied from the Wei and Yellow Rivers through the
existing irrigation network and from pumped wells. The project would provide
522 km of supply and drainage canals to meet each farm's annual draining and
filling requirements during the spring and winter months.  The supply canals
would be small concrete-lined ditches running along the top of the dikes. Drains
would be unlined and constructed in parallel.
3.18        Infrastructure.  To facilitate marketing about 194 km of farm roads
would be constructed to connect with the existing county and provincial road
systems. The project would provide 110 km of high voltage power lines to connect
each fish farm to the existing county grid. Low voltage lines would be provided
within the farms to supply power to aerators and pumps.
3.19        SunDort Facilities. Supporting facilities would be provided in the
project to serve the project areas as well as to supplement currently inadequate
services available to existing fish farms. Although hatcheries in the project
areas have adequate capacity to produce carp fish fry, the project would
construct two new hatcheries for experimental work on tilapia and other more
prolific varieties. Four feed mills, each with an annual capacity of 3,000 tons
of pelletized feed, would be built. Artificial feed would be used to supplement
the grass and manure, traditionally used as carp feed in the polyculture system.
To supply necessary inputs and facilitate marketing, eight aquatic products
marketing and supply companies would be established under the project at the
provincial, prefectural, and county levels.   The provincial center would be
equipped with an insulated 2.5 ton truck, a 3 ton freezer and other storage
equipment. The prefectural center and the six county centers would sell needed
supplies (e.g., fry, feeds, fertilizers, disease control chemicals, nets, hand
tools, aerators, small tractors) and offer fish marketing services. The project
would also establish technical training centers at Xian, Baoji and Weinan. The
technical training centers would be equipped with simple laboratories,
classrooms, and dormitories, and would be the focus of training and extension
activities for project fish farmers. 60 aquaculture technicians and 1600 farmers
would be trained annually by local staff and consultants (Annex 6, table 1).
The Centers would also have extension staff who would man an outreach program.



-15 -
Livestock Development
3.20        Poultry Breeding and Commercial Operation.  The project would expand
the breeding and commercial production of hybric broilers and layers throughout
Shaanxi province. Separate breeding systems would be set up in the standard
pattern of commeruial integrators in other countries: i.e. grandparent farms,
parent stock farms, and commercial flocks.  The grandparent and parent stock
farms would be  run mainly  by township or village e-iterprises.   Commercial
production would be largely operated by specialized households, sometimes singly,
or as joint household operations. Project activities would be implemented in
three phases: P'nase I (1989-90) would establish the grandparent farms, several
large-scale parent and commercial farms, and specialized households. During this
phase surplus parents would be sold to poultry operations outside the province.
During Phase II (1991-92) and Phase III (1993-94), more parent farms would be
established and the number of commercial broiler and layer specialized households
would be expanded.   Since the development programs for the second and third
stages are contingent on the first phase performance, an assurance was obtained
during negotiations that the Shaanxi Provincial Government would complete Phase
I of the program by December 1, 1991 and that the Shaanxi Provincial Government
would consult with IDA while planning for Phases II and I'I.
3.21        To increase broiler production, the project would construct a
grandparent farm (6000 birds) in Sanmenkou County; two parent farms (40,000
birds total) at Sanmenkou and Weinan; and one commercial broiler farm (250,000
birds) at Weinan. The grandparent farm would produce 300,000 parent offspring
per year. About 240,000 parent offspring would be sold for operations outside
the province while the remaining 60,000 would be distributed to parent farms.
Sixty thousand parent birds would be absorbed in the two new farms and one
existing farm (20,000 per farm). The sixty thousand parent birds would produce
six million commercial birds per year of which 0.55 million would be absorbed
by the new commercial farm at Weinan to be set up by the project and by an
existing farm.   The remaining 5.45 million birds would be raised by 3600
specialized households. In Phases II and III additional parent farms would be
established, and the total number of broilers raised annually would inctease
to 18 million.  To expand layer produccion, the project during phase I would
establish a grandparent farm (3500 birds) in Yangling County to produce 245,000
parent stock, and four combined parent and commercial farms in 4 counties. The
four parent farms and an existing farm would absorb 100,000 parent birds, while
the other 145,000 would be sold outside of Shaanxi. The five parent farms would
produce 6 million commercial layers. The four commercial farms to be established
under the project and one existing farm would also handle 0.9 million layers,
while an additional 5.1 million commercial birds would be raised by 10,000
specialized households. In Phase II and III additional parent layer farms and
specialized households would be established to raise all the parent and
commercial birds. The project would import broilers (Plymouth Rock hybrids) and
layers (Leghorn hybrids) to stock the grandparent farms. Performance of these
imports in other parts of China has been quite good. Egg production of 10-14
kg/bird is three times that from backyard layers, while fead conversion ratios
for broilers of 2 kg per kg of meat is one third that in litter pile operations.
3.22        Under the project a typical grandparent and parent farm would consist
of a hatchery, bird rearing shed, feed mill, feed store, administrative building,



-16 -
veterinai clinlic, and technical services center. The project would equip the
hatcheries anid rearing sheds with automatic feeders, ventilation and heating,
and create a fully closed control system so as to reduce disease and raise
productivitv. Standby generators would be provided to ensure electricity for
heating an(l veentilation. All farms would be provided with a small-capacity feed
mill (3000-600(1 tons/year) producing compound feed.   Veterinary clinics and
technical service centers would be equipped with simple laboratory and testing
instrument.  .
3.23        E,ach phase of the development would be supported by the training of
core personnel hv consultants, the Animal Husbandry Bureau and by NWAU. For the
13,600 special ize(i louseholds it would be especially necessary to strengthen the
county-level traininlg and veterinary services, and to introduce a levy on day
old chicks to finaiace these services.  During negotiations an understanding was
obtained Lo cacore that levies on the sale of day old chicks would be collected
for financirng such training.
3.24        Swine Breeding.  As part of the government's program to expand lean
pig production, Shaanxi plans to improve pig breeding under the project. This
is to be aclhieved by topcrossing the local sow population with improved boars
and by arti.i('iaIl insemination.  A swine breeding farm is to be constructed at
Xianyang, having S0 purebred foundation stock (Landrace, Yorkshire, or Hampshire
breeds) to 1,* ;nternationally procured during years 1 and 2 of the project. A
breeding system would be adopted to ensure that 45 boars would be retained for
producing semen for artificial insemination and 380 would be used for natural
breeding. The 425 pure bred boars have the potential, per year, to be exposed
to 83,000 sok!-;, equivalent to 65 percent of all breeding sows in the project
area. IMPLOVed piigs, raised under contract by client farmers who would purchase
breeding stock and feed from the breeding farm, would be sold back to the farm
for slaughter. A processing plant is planned to convert pork into sausage. To
maximize project impact this component would be operated as a nucleus breeding
farm with a breeding pig selection program for superior lean/fat ratios and
growth rates; local and international training services for farm personnel;
provision of adequate extension services to client farmers; and a closed farm
design coIncept: and management system supported by periodic imports of new
foundatioIi stock.
3.25        Rabbit Breeding.   Central Shaanxi has a tradition of rabbit meat
production  T'o improve productivity the project would improve genetic potential
by establishing Shaanxi's first breeding-stock farm which would produce, in
addition to Lihe requirements for Chunhua township where rabbit meat production
is most advanced), 90% of the replacement males and 18% uf the replacement
females needed by the three neighboring counties. The project would import from
abroad, 100 each of pure bred New Zealand White and Belgian Giant breeds,
expanding this stock in the first year to 420 foundation females and 80 males.
This group would produce 16,000 improved rabbits per year, of which 11,000 would
be sold as topcrossed breeders to farmers who would raise 1.53 million offspring.
She annual supply of 11,000 improved breeder stock would go to Chunhua township
and rabbit mneat packing project areas for the production of 1320 t of meat from
efficiently raised rabbits. The breeding farm would be operated under closed
(isolation) dc-sign concept and management. During negotiations an understanding
was reathed with the government that:  there would be initial imports of New



-17 -
Zealand and Belgian Giant pure bred foundation stock for the project by June 30,
1990 and a foreign currency or local budget would be established for the
continuous importation of new replacement stock to prevent in-breeding.
Seed Processing
3.26    The project would modernize and expand the facilities of one municipal
and eight county level seed companies in central Shaanxi. These facilities are
operated by the Shaanxi Provincial Seed Company and presently supply about 20%
(7000 tons) of total annual seed requirements for major crops in the project
area, primarily corn, wheat and rapeseed. Seed quality is generally low due to
manual processing, lack of proper transportation facilities and the limited
capacity to produce high quality extension seeds. The project would contribite
to production of high quality seed and serve as a model for planned modernization
of other seed companies throughout the province.
3.27    Buildings.  The project would construct about 47,000 sq. m of buildings,
including processing units, warehouses, seed testing laboratories, offices, and
staff housing. The sizes and types of drying and processing facilities would
vary with the kind and volume of seed handled.   Processing units would be
constructed at each site.  Testing facilities would be built at eight sites,
staff housing at seven, and four sites would be provided with additional office
space.
3.28      Seed Farm Development.  At full developuent, the total seed growing
area of the nine companies would be about 10,500 ha, a five- fold increase over
present area. The project would provide about 2,90(0 tons of fertilizer (mainly
diammonium phosphate and urea) and pesticides for use on project seed farms
during the first year of the farm development phase.
3.29       Eauioment and Technical Assistance.   Under the project, the nine
companies would be provided with receiving and precleaning equipment, continuous
flow or bin-type drying systems, bulk storage facilities, and processing
(cleaning and grading) equipment.  The largest operation, the municipal seed
compiany at Xian, would be equipped with a complete line of commercial and stock
seed processing facilities having an hourly capacity of 2.5 tons of cleaned,
treated, and packaged seed. The Xian company would supply seed for wheat, corn,
and rapeseed. The other eight companies are smaller operations, handling seed
for only one or two crops. These would be provi'-d with basic commercial seed
processing equipment having a combined hourly capacity of 0.5 tons. The project
would supply seed testing equipment for all nine centers. This equipment would
enable the centers to conduct the full set of routine tests for varietal purity,
weed content, germination, and moisture content, thus raising the level of
quality control.   The project would also provide training equipment to help
upgrade the technical level of company staff and office equipment, including
micro-computers and photocopying machines.   Technical assistance would be
provided for training of 252 local staff on seed inspection, certification
and processing, and management of the local seed companies. Some key staff of
the province would also be sent overseas for seed processing technology and
management training (Annex 6 Table 1).



-18 -
Agro-processing Component
3.30        The objective of this component is to demonstrate improved processing
techniques and act as a pilot for future processing investments in Shaanxi
Province. The project focus is to upgrade selected processing facilities to the
required market demand standards and to provide technical assistance.   The
component would concentrate in three major areas: (a) slaughter houses for beef
and rabbit meat packing; (b) vegetable packing and cold storage and fruit juice
plants; and (c) honey processing.
3.31        Beef Processing. Beef processing would be upgraded to handle surplus
high quality cattle presently being sold live out of the province. Presently
about 70,000 tons of beef are produced through backyard slaughtering facilities.
The project would rehabilitate and expand a slaughterhouse/meat packing plant
at Fufeng for a throughput of 12,000 cattle, and equip it with proper stunning
and bleeding facilities, a mechanical hide puller, electrical saws, and a
coordinated system for carcass inspection. The facility would satisfy hygiene
standards required for the export of halves or quarter carcasses and deboned cuts
(to Hongkong, East Europe, Philippines and Malaysia). By-product uould be used
to manufacture meat and bone meal.
3.32        Rabbit Meat Processing.   The Provincial Government is promoting
rabbit meat production both for export and to improve the quality and preparation
of rabbit skins for further domestic processing. A new processing plant would
be established under the project to handle 0.75 million rabbits per year and
produce 750 tons of meat. The plant would be located at Fufeng beside the beef
processing plant and would be equipped with a reception facility for receiving
and unloading cages; a slaughter line for handling 400 rabbits per hour; manual
dehiding/dressing area; inspection and control facilities and equipment; cooling
and freezing plant; and a packing plant. The hides would be salted and sold
to tanning plants. By-products would be converted into meat meal for the local
market. Slaughter-house hygiene levels would meet the etandards required by
Japan and Europe.
3.33        Cold storage/Freezing/Fruit Juice Processing: To reduce the spoilage
of fruits and vegetables, and produce juices, a model cold storage/freezing/fruit
juice plant would be built to service local demand. This would be the first
fruit juice plant in the province.
3.34        The cold store/freezing facility and fruit processing plant would
be located at Jinyang. The cold store would have a capacity of 1500 tons and
a floor space of 2100 sq m. and would be mainly for fruits and vegetables. It
would be equipped with proper foam insulation, compressors, an evaporator,
condensers and racks in the cold storage area. The fruit juice concentrate plant
would be a multipurpose plant for processing persimmon, pears, and other fruits.
Its capacity would be two tons throughput per hour.
3.35        Bee Products Processing. Shaanxi produces 4,600 tons of honey, 200
tons of pollen and 80 tons of jelly extract having a large export market
potential. A model hygienic plant for processing honey would be constructed in
the project both for local and export markets. The plant would be located at
Xian and would dry the raw honey and reduce the water content which would then



-19 -
be bottled or mixed with ground pollen. The facility would include a
freeze-drying plant, mixing equipment and autoclaves for sterilizing bottles and
a bottling plant. At full capacity, the plant would produce 150 tons of honey,
30 tons of honey/pollen mixture, and 8 tons of jelly annually.
E. Status of Preparation
3.36        The project is at an advanced stage of preparation with detailed
designs for major components having been completed. The Donglei and Dingbian
components have detailed designs which have been approved by the Ministry of
Water Resources.   Major construction work would be initiated in 1989.  Some
preliminary construction would be initiated in December 1988 for access roads,
etc. in the Donglei Irrigation area. Detailed designs have been completed for
the aquaculture component and construction would start in 1989. Detail design
drawings are also completed for all seed processing, livestock and
agro-processing  facilities.    Bidding  documents  covering  major  equipment
procurements for the Donglei component have been completed for pumps/motors,
electrical and construction equipment, and office equipment, and have been
reviewed in the Bank.   All land and soil surveys and water testing for the
Donglei, Dingbian, and aquaculture components have been completed.
F. Implementation Schedule
3.37        The project would be carried out over a period of five years, from
January 1989 to December 1993 (see Annex 7 implementation chart). Donglei and
Dingbian components would require the full five year implementation period. The
aquaculture  component  would  require  three  years   (1989-93);           while
agro-processing, livestock and seed processing would be largely implemented
within the first two years (1989- 1990). A considerable volume of construction
work would be undertaken during the first two years. The proposed schedule is
considered to be feasible due to the demonstrated ability of the key bureaus,
such as Water Conservancy and Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, which are well
staffed and have sufficient equipment and facilities. The Shaanxi Government
has demonstrated its ability in project implementation  in several recently
completed projects within Shaanxi and its bureaus have also undertaken work in
other provinces.
G. Cost Estimates
3.38     The total project cost is estimated at US$237.5 millior, with a foreign
exchange component of US$88 million or 37% of the total. The largest item, the
Donglei irrigation component, amounts to US$110 million (54% of the total base
cost).   The Dingbian component is estimated to cost US$28 million (14%);
aquaculture--US$24 million (12%); and the livestock component--US$28 million
(14%).  These costs include no significant tax element since civil works and
buildings are essenA;ially free of tax, and imported materials and equipment are
exempt from duties.  Cost estimates are based on quantities derived from the
designs or semi-detailed designs, unit prices prevailing in the project area,
and the import price of imported items. Engineering and management costs have
been calculated at 2% of total costs of works. Physical contingencies are 5%
of civil works for the Donglei and Dingbian components (where detailed designs
have beer. completed), and 10% for all other components.  Price escalation for



- 20 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
fb=n=====CG===n==n=aa====m====G==                        Sa=,========= f===== l=a=========== n=
TOTAL: Y 000's                TOTAL: $ 000's
PROJECT                         -----------------------        ----------------------- Foreign Base
Local  Forelgn    Total       Local  Foreign    Total    %
I. DONGLEI IRRIGATION
Irrigation & Other               225,300  170,908  396,208    60,695   46,042  106,737            43
Water Supply                        5,939    1,485    7,424       1,600       400    2,000        20
Ag. Research & Ext.                 3,341       371    3,712        900       100    1,n00        10
Base Cost                        234,580  172,764  407,344    63,195   46,542  109,737            42   54%
II. DINGBIAN WATER SUPPLY
Water Supply                       51,300   38,700   90,000    13,820   10,426   24,246           43
Irrigation                          7.987    5,187   13,174       2,152    1,397    3,549         39
BASE TOTAL                         59,287   43,887  103,174    15,972   11,823   27,795           43   14%
III. AQUACULTURE
Tech. & Trade Centers               1,659        46    1,705        447        12       459        3
Supply & marketlng centres          3,655    1,059    4,713         985       285    1,270        22
Fish pellet mill                    2,678    1,073    3,750         721       289    1,010        29
Hatcheries                          1,824       200    2,024        491        54       545       10
Ponds ( Lined & Unlined )          66,351   12,191   78,542    17,875    3,284   21,159           16
Base Cost                          76,166   14,569   90,735    20,519    3,925   24,444           16   12%
IV. LIVESTOCK:
a). POULTRY
Weinan Broiler Parent & Comm.   11,505    4,740   16,245          3,099    1,277    4,376         29
Sammenkau Broiler GP & P Farm    8,419    2,912   11,331          2,268       784    3,053        26
Layer Parent and Comm. Farms    44,831   23,160   67,991    12,077    6,239   18,316              34
Yangling Layer GP Farm                434       898    1,332        117       242       359       67
Base Cost                          65,189   31,709   96,899    17,562    8,542   26,104           33   13%
b). PIGS & RABBITS
Xianyang Pig Farm                   4,837       547    5,384      1,303       147    1,450        10
Chunhua Rabbit Farm                 1,071        75    1,146        289        20       309        7
Base Cost                           5,908       622    6,530      1,592       168    1,759        10    1%
V. SEED PROD. & PROC.
Buildings                           9,798         0    9,798      2,640         0    2,640         0
Equipments & Vehicles                  85    5,005    5,090          23    1,348    1,371         98
Materials                               0    4,479    4,479           0    1,207    1,207        100
Training/Consultant                     0    1,362    1,362           0       367       367      100
Base Cost                           9,883   10,846   20,729       2,662    2,922    5,584         52    3%
VI. AGROPROCESSING
Honey Products Processing           2,958    2,536    5,494         797       683    1,480        46
Frost Plant                           985    2,138    3,123         265       576       841       68
Cold Storage                        3,500    1,249    4,749         943       336    1,279        26
Fruit Processlng                    1,336    4,513    5,849         360    1,216    1,576         77
Fufeng Meat Plant                   4,085    4,346    8,430       1,100    1,171    2,271         52
Base Cost                          12,864   14,782   27,646       3,465    3,982    7,448         53    4%
=========c==n== ==,3Z58 ===t= ===833000n00nS=======8   n=a3== ==fl         ===n3.3........s.=.3.=.== .n. .
TOTAL BASE COST                     463,876  289,179  753,055   124,967   77,904  202,871           38  100%
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCY           27,473   16,818   44,293       7,402    4,531   11,932         38    6%
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCY              62,054   22,320   84,373    16,717    6,013   22,730           26   11%
TOTAL COST                          553,405  328,317  881,721   149,086   88,448  237,533           37  117%
Note: Details in Annex 2.



-21 -
both foreign and local costs when expressed in US dollars is based on annual
international price escalation rates for all goods and services of 3% for 1989-90
and 4% for 1991-94. When expressed in Yuan, a price escalation rate of 7.0% was
assumed for 1989 and 6.5% for 1990-93.   The local escalation rates may seem low
when compared with the recently experienced inflation rates of 12% in Shaanxi,
which are mainly for the urban areas. These high rates of inflation would not
be applicable for the project because (a) large portion of the project would be
undertaken using labor intensive techniques and construction labor rates are
fairly stable in Shaanxi because -  the tremendous surplus of labor in the rural
areas; and (b) material prices for locally procured cement and other items for
construction are also fairly stable. Estimated costs are summarized in Table
3.1 and detailed in Annex 2.
H. Financing
3.39         Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 78.8 million
(US$106 million equivalent) and would cover 45% of total project costs.   The
balance of US$131.5 million equivalent would be derived from the state investment
budget (14% of project costs), the Shaanxi provincial budget (35%), county
governments, enterprises and farmers' contributions (47%) and ABC resources
earmarked for China's less developed regions (4%). The project's financing plan
is indicated in table 3.2 below:
Table 3.2  Project Financing
Total  Bank   Bank  Bank X   Local           Local
Item              Cost  Loan $ Loan Yuan Share  Total   State Province  Other/a ABC Contrb
-mil Yuan--mil $---mLl Yuan-  ----------------------------mll Yuan-------------
Donglei   (Irrigation)    478.5  55.70  206.6   43.3X 271.9   60.0  120.0   91.8    0.0
Ding Bian Water supply  119.9  15.00   55.7   46.2X  64.2   0.0    45.2   19.0    0.0
Aquaculture             108.7  12.63   46.9   43.2X  61.5    4.8    5.1   49.8    1.8
Livestock (Pigs)          6.1   0.40    1.5   24.3X  4.6    0.0    0.0    2.1    2.5
(rabbits)       1.1   0.19    0.7   55.9X  0.4    0.0    0.0    0.5    0.0
(Poultry)      111.3  14.16   52.5   48.61  58.8    0.0    0.2   56.2    2.4
Seeds                    22.7   3.85   14.3   59.8X  8.4    0.6    1.6    1.0    5.2
Agroprocessing           33.4   4.07   15.1   48.11  18.3    1.3    0.6    8.8    7.6
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__--------------------------------
Total                   881.5  106.00   393.3   44.8X  488.1   66.7   172.7   229.2  19.5
/a Contribution by farmersl counties and enterprlses



-22 -
I. Procurement
3.40      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.   Procurement
of pumps/motors, electrical works, construction machinery, and agro-processing
machinery amounting to US$26.8 million; and construction materials, fertilizers,
breeding stock, and other materials (pesticides, etc.) amounting to US$20.4
million, would be carried out by International Competitive Bidding Procedures
(ICB)  in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.   Procurement of passenger
vehicles amounting US$1.0 million would be procured using local funds following
Government procedures because the Government does not permit importation. An
understanding was obtained during negotiations that passenger vehicles required
under the project would be procured using other sources of funds. Civil works
(US$45.7 million) would be divided into 25 packages and would be undertaken by
local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank.   The 15
largest civil works packages have a total value of US$43.9 million for Donglei
and Dingbian but each package is much smaller than US$5.0 million (see Annex 3
table 9), the works are geographically dispersed, and would not be of interest
to international contractors. Prequalified domestic contractors would be allowed
to bid for the civil works contracts. Earthworks for canals and drains amounting
to US$71.2 million would be undertaken by force account using labor contracts,
and would be organized by the by the county governments in coordination with
the Shaanxi Water Conservancy Bureau (SWCB) and Shaanxi Agriculture Bureau.
Detailed presentation of procurement arrangements by components and by method
is given in Annex 3.
3.41      Prior IDA review of all draft bid docum4nts and award recommendations
for goods contract awards would be required except for small contracts
(US$200,000 or less) estimated to cover less than 20% of the total value of all
contracts.   Items including (a) a small amount of laboratory equipment and
instruments; and (b) agricultural machinery and implements costing not more than
US$50,000 per contract and aggregating not more than US$1.0 million, would be
procured on the basis of three price quotations under procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Items costing not more than US$200,000 per contract would be procured
in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. All
ICB documents for goods would be prepared by the International Tendering Company
(ITC) of the China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) on behalf of
the Shaanxi Project Management Office (PMO).   ITC would be responsible for
inviting bids for ICB contracts, evaluating bids received and submitting award
recommendations to IDA. LCB tenders for civil works and buildings are being
prepared by the provincial level PMO, based on MWR guidelines and LCB procedures
followed in other Bank-financed projects in China. These procedures would allow
for competitive bidding by all qualified construction and engineering
enterprises, both within and outside the region.  LCB  bidding documents for
large civil works contracts equal to or over $3.0 million would be submitted to
IDA for review  prior to bid invitation.   Consultants would be selected in
accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for the use of conasultants. Overseas
training and study tours would be financed by the Bank and subject to the Bank's
prior review.   The remaining training requirements would be contracted for
locally and financed by the Government.



- 23 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangemerts
Procurement method            Total
Item                       ICB       LCB        Other        cost /a
Workst
Civil works                        -         43.9        '4.4          58.3
-       (16.1)       (0.0)        (16.1)
Earth works                        -                     71.2          71.2
-          -        (23.8)        (23.8)
Sutbtotal                     -         43.9       85.6         129.5
-       (16.1)      (23.8)        (39.4)
Materialst
Construction materiais            14.3        6.7         3.3          24.3
(14.3)     (3.9)       (0.2)        (18.4)
Fertilizers                       4.9         -           -            4.9
(4.9)       -           -           (4.9)
Breeding stock                      -          -          0.5           0.5
-         -         (0.5)         (0.5)
Other materials                    1.2         -           -            1.2
(1.2)       _           _           (1.2)
Subtotal                     20.4        6.7        3.8          30.9
(20.4)     (3.9        (0.7)        (24.9)
Equipments                        26.8       16.0         3.5          46.3
(26.8)     (9.1)       (0.5)        (36.5)
Vehicles:                          2.5        -           1.0           3.5
(2.5)      _            -           (2.5)
Technical Assistance
and Training:                     -          -           7.8           7.8
-         -          (2.7)         (2.7)
Land Mana8ement
and other:                        -          -          19.5          19.5
-         -          (0.0)         (0.0)
Total                        50.5       59.5      133.6         237.5
(50.5)    (27.5)       (29.0)       (106.0)



-24 -
J. Disbursements
3.42         Disbursements against expenditures for machinery,  equipment and
materials under ICB procurement would be 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
the imported items, 100% of the ex-factory price for locally manufactured items;
and 75% of local expenditures for items under LCB procurement. Disbursement
against LCB contracts for civil works would be 55% of contract expenditures.
Earthworks carried out by force account would be disbursed against at 35% of
eligible expenditures. Disbursements for overseas training, study tours, and
consulting services would at 100% of total expenditures.
3.43      Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs)
in the cases of overseas training, study tours and consulting services; contracts
for goods and services, each costing less than US$200,000; and force account
work. SOEs for irrigation and drainage, on-farm works and earthworks would be
supported by progress reports showing physical quantities and unit prices, the
latter updated annually and reviewed by IDA.  In the case of LCB contracts,
disbursements would be made against the contracts themselves and other supporting
documents. In order to provide for efficient disbursement, a Special Account
would be opened having a ceiling of US $6.0 million in a bank acceptable to IDA.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly,
or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit,
whichever comes first. Retroactive financing of up to US$7.0 million would be
made against expendi:ures made after Jan 1, 1989.
3.44       It is estimated that the project would be completed by December 31,
1993, and the closing date would be June 30, 1994. The disbursement experience
in China has been very favorable and better than Bank Group averages.   The
project disbursement profile is essentially in line with that for investment
loans in China. Estimated schedules of expenditures and disbursements are given
in Annex 2, Table 3.
K. Accounts and Audits
3.45      Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment and materials, and
irrigation and agricultural development components would be maintained by the
PMOs in participating counties.   These records would be forwardeci to the
prefectural PMOs which would prepare consolidated accounts including records of
local expenditures  for submission to the Provincial PMO for review.   The
Provincial PMO would be responsible for submitting reports to IDA. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the PMOs would maintain the consolidated
accounts of all components for auditing annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the close of each financial year.   The audited accounts would
include details of withdrawals from the Credit account made on the basis of SOEs
and the auditors' opinion as to whether such withdrawals were against
expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA.



-25 -
L. Environmental Effects
3.46        The environmental impact of the project would be quite positive,
especially in the irrigated areas.   Forest and tree cover in the irrigation
areas would increase from 4% to 12% of the total area and this would tend to
mitigate wind and water erosion around farms. The aquaculture component would
convert low lying swamp areas to productive agricultural areas. The water supply
components would have a significant impact on 300,000 people and their livestock
who suffer from the crippling effects of fluorosis (see Annex 5).  The only
potential negative impact is the possibility of salt logging due to excessive
irrigation in low lying areas. The probability of this negative effect has been
greatly reduced because of the more intensive drainage in areas where the
groundwater table is less than 20 m below the surface. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that all effluents from agro-processing plants would be treated
and that the Provincial Environmental Bureau would clear the final designs of
the treatment plants and would set up and maintain a system of monitoring of
effluent quality through the lifet of the project. Most of the manure from pig,
poultry and rabbit farms would be sold and used as organic fertilizer.



-26 -
IV   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Coordination and Management
4.1         The Government of Shaanxi would be responsible for the overall
implementation of the project. A Leading Group (LG) has been formed to serve
as the review board of the project under the chairmanship of the Vice Governor
in charge of agriculture and rural development. The main function of the LG is
to coordinate and monitor overall implementation progress and to resolve any
procedural or legal issues that might arise related to funding arrangements and
land use.   The LG membership is composed of directors from the Bureaus of
Planning, Finance, Audit, Water Conservancy, Materials, Construction, Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry, the ABC, and the People's Construction Bank of China.
Similar leading groups have been formed at the prefectures, municipality and
county levels.
4.2         At the provincial level a Project Management Office (PMO) has been
set up to handle the day-to-day aspects of project execution in the prefectures
and counties participating in the project. The Provincial PMO would consist of
three divisions:   Water Conservancy (WCD), Agriculture and Animal Husbandry
(AAHD), and Finance (FD).  The WCD would have further sub-divisions for the
Donglei II Irrigation, Dingbian Water Supply, and Aquaculture components ( chart
1); and AAHD would have sub-divisions for animal husbandry, agro-processing and
seeds. A similar structure of PMOs has been established at prefecture level for
the prefectures of Weinan and Yulin, for the municipalities of Baoji, Tongchuan,
Xian, and Xianyang, and fifteen counties in the project. The principal functions
of the prefectural management offices would be to assist in land acquisition and
transfers of funds, materials, and labor mobilization among counties. At the
county level, the PMOs would set up command centers and work schedules for labor
mobilization, for construction contracts related to earthworks, for on-farm
irrigation work and for aquaculture pond construction. In the Donglei II area
irrigation command centers would be set up at Dali, Pucheng and Fuping counties,
while at Dingbian, a water supply command center would be set up.
4.3         Proiect Offices.  The PMOs have set up Project Offices (POs) at the
project sites to execute the engineering of the project works. For example, a
PO for the Donglei II Irrigation component would be established at Heyang
township, having five divisions (construction, design/technical, quality control,
equipment/materials  and finance and general affairs).   POs would also be
established for the Dingbian Water Supply component, the aquaculture component,
the livestock component, and the seeds and agro-processing components.
4.4         PMO  Staffing.    Bureau Directors  for Planning,  Finance,  Water
Conservancy and Agricultural and Animal Husbandry would serve on the provincial
level PMO on a part-time basis. Day-to-day operation of the PMO would be managed
by a senior engineer appointed by the Water Conservancy Bureau who would be the
deputy project manager. The directors main responsibility would be to ensure
that the PMOs work is coordinated with the various provincial bureaus and local
governments. During negotiations an assurance was obtained that the PMO would
be established with a project director from the Provincial Planning Commission
assisted by a Leading Deputy Project Manager (senior engineer) from the
Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau who would be fully responsible for the



-27 -
day-to-day management of the project.   PMO staff would consist of thirty
professionals, including irrigation engineers, agronomists, accountants, and
economists, drawn principally from the water resources and agriculture agencies.
The Leading Deputy Project Manager of the PMO would coordinate and supervise
project implementation in the participating prefectures and counties; review
technical standards for design, construction, operation and maintenance of
project works; disburse funds to executing units; administer project technical
assistance and training programs with the assistance of consultants; ensure
prompt delivery of project inputs; and serve as the liaison with IDA on project
matters. In the procurement of equipment, machinery, and materials, the chief
engineer would review the final equipment lists, prepare technical specifications
and evaluate bids.   The ITC/CNTIC would handle bid invitations and award
contracts on behalf of the PMO. The Provincial PMO and PO would maintain project
accounts, file disbursement applications, and prepare for submission to IDA
quarterly reports on project progress as well as a project completion report.
4.5         Prefecture and county PMOs would assist the PO for supervising
day-to-day activities of project execution.   Each prefecture and county PMO
would be headed by a deputy prefecture or county chief and staffed with about
7-15 people with specific responsibilities for planning and finance, engineering
management, agricultural technology, materials supply, training, monitoring and
evaluation. Major functions of the county PMOs would be contract management and
supervision of local units involved in construction of project works (except for
irrigation and water supply components), including the water resources bureaus'
own construction units and other construction and engineering companies
specializing in civil works, installation of power facilities, and road building.
Due to their more technical and specialized nature, the contract management and
supervision function for irrigation works and water supply would be undertaken
by the irrigation or water supply PO's. The county PMOs would also coordinate
with local technical departments, including agriculture, on provision of
agricultural inputs. An assurance has been obtained during negotiations that
the provincial, prefectural, and county PMOs and POs would be adequately
maintained  during  project   implementation  with   staff,   functions   and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA.   Detailed staffing for the PMO's and a
detailed PERT/CPM chart of all major activities in project implementation has
been agreed with the provincial government.
B. Execution of Project Works
4.6         Major  civil  works  construction  for  Donglei  II,  Dingbian  and
aquaculture components would be contracted to local companies under local
competitive bidding procedures to be determined by Shaanxi Province consistent
with MWR guidelines.   Construction contracts would be signed hetween the
construction companies and the Provincial PMO which would be responsible for
contract management. County governments would organize local farm labor to carry
out earthworks, erect small structures, and land leveling.   Construction of
buildings and minor civil works under the livestock and seeds components and
agro- processing plants would be undertaken by enterprises through local
contractors or direct labor contracts. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that the provincial PMO would submit an annual budget, financing arrangements
and program of works for new construction to IDA for review by December 15 of
each year in respect of work to be carried out in the followtng year.



-28 -
C. Financial Arrangements
4.7         Flow of Funds.  The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed agair,st
expenditures for equipment; materials; earthworks and civil works for canals,
drains, and structures; overseas training, study tours, and consu'ting services.
In line with current budgetary practice, proceeds of the Credit would be passed
internally by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the Shaanxi Provincial Government
at an interest rate at 4.5% with repayment over 20 years including a five year
grace period.   The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Provincial
Government. Most IDA funds would be disbursed directly to vendors under standard
ICB arrangements.   An additional portio- would be used by the provincial
government to cover the costs of technical assistance and training. IDA funds
to be onlent for aquaculture, livestock, seeds and agroprocessing components (34%
of credit) by the provincial government to prefectures, and by the latter, to
the project counties and enterprises, would be onlent at rates no less than at
prevailing ABC rates (See Chart 42691). Contracts would be signed between each
level of government and at each stage of relending operation, indicating the
terms of lending and repayment obligations. An assurance was obtained during
negotiations that project funds would be on-lent to sub-borrowers at interest
rates no less than ABC charges on subloans for similar purposes and with similar
maturities.
4.8         ABC's interest rate of 10.0% for lending to village and township
enterprises was positive in real terms in comparison with the retail price index,
through Janu.,ry 1988.   In subsequent months,  China has experienced rapid
iniiation which reached 17% in August 1988. While inflation has been caused
partially by price reform,   it is more broadly   a result of macroeconomic
overheating due to high investment in construction and the lack of effective
monetary control.   The government recently announced actions to curb the
construction boom and cut non-priority investments. The pace of further price
reforms has been slowed and as of September 1, 1988, interest rates on deposits
of three years and above were indexed to the inflation rate.   Although the
government has not committed itself to adjusting interest rates or rates on other
financial instruments, such adjustments are beginning to occur in view of
increasing sophistication of asset holders. The Government and the Bank Group
are pursuing an active dialogue on macroeconomic management and interest rate
policies throughout the financial sector, which govern ABC policies.
4.9         A Project Agreement incorporating all project terms and conditions
would be signed between IDA and the Shaanxi Provincial Government. State Council
approval of the Project Agreement as well as the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
4.10        Domestic funds, which account for about 55% of project costs, would
be contributed by: the Central Government; the province; prefectural, county,
and township governments; and by ABC as indicated in para 3.39. Contributions
from county budgetary allocations and labor levies on benefiting households are
mainly for earthworks contracts. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
the ABC, province, prefecture and county governments would provide the required
contributions in timely fashion.
4.11         Recovery of Project Investments.  Local branches of the ABC and the



-29 -
People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC) would serve as agents of the county
and prefecture PMOs in both disbursement and recovery of project funds for a
service charge to be agreed between the parties.   Full recovery of the IDA
portion of total project funding would be guaranteed by the financial bureau of
the counties and prefectures participating in the project. Counties would repay
prefectures who would repay the province which, in turn, would repay MOF for the
use of the IDA Credit. Domestic funds would be recovered on terms and conditions
determined by the local governments.   The proposed repayment period for the
seeds, aquaculture, livestock, and agro-processing components would be 3-7 years
for local funds and 10-12 years for IDA funds. Chart 3 shows the cost recovery
channels for a typical component of the project i.e. aquaculture, from village
fish- farm to township or village command headquarters to county fishery office
to prefecture and to province. Similar channels of repayment would exist for
agro-processing and livestock components.   Recovery of funds from project
beneficiaries in the form of payments received for the purchase of fertilizer
in Donglei II area, seed farms and Dingbian irrigation area and for the sales
of fish farm inputs, would be set up to form a revolving fund for purchases of
future fertilizer and other inputs.
D. Operation and Maintenance
4.12        Donglei II and Din&bian Irrigation.  Operation and maintenance of
the main irrigation system up to the lateral canals, serving 200-300 ha lots,
would be undertaken by the Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau through existing
O & M offices at Donglei II and Dingbian.  Below the laterals 0 & M would be
undertaken by the existing network of township water management stations who
mobilize farmers to operate the gates and clean the canals. The offices for main
system 0 & M are organized with a central control center and subsystem centers.
Donglei II would have a central control center at Pucheng township and seven
subsystems headquarters (Map 21112). The project would equip these centers with
microwave communication capability.   Following current practice,  the water
quantities would be delivered on a predetermined schedule for the cropping
patterns agreed by the Prefecture Agricultural Committee. If precipitation is
more than expected, the subsystem chief reassesses the water need and informs
the central station.  Measuring structures would be set up every 50 ha, and
village water management stations would keep records of water released to each
farmer for each irrigation cycle. The costs of the main system 0 & M would be
financed by volumetric water charges, collected by village water management
stations.   The volumetric charges proposed for Donglei II and Dingbian and
practiced in existing irrigation areas would be adjusted in accordance with
current MWR guidelines to recover both the costs of operation and management
(i.e.management, wages, repairs, desilting) and also depreciation costs for a
major portion of the structures and canals. For example in existing irrigated
areas in Donglei II water rates would be increased from Y 0.03/cum to Y 0.057/cum
within three years of start of operation.   For the newly irrigated areas in
Donglei II the 0 & M costs would be raised over a seven year period for the main
system.   During negotiations an assurance was obtained that the provincial
government would collect water charges in Donglei and Dingbian areas at rates
which would recover all 0 & M costs and a portion of the capital costs and to
this end the government would furnish to IDA a plan of operations, maintenance
and collection of charges by December 31, 1997.



-30 -
E. Management of Production Activities
4.13        CroRs  and Horticulture.    The  Bureaus  of Agriculture,  Animal
Husbandry, and Forestry at the provincial, prefectural and county levels would
be responsible for overseeing production activities throughout the life of the
project. Seed companies, organized as independent accounting units under local
agriculture bureaus, would supply farmers with seeds of improved crop varieties;
fruit tree seedlings would be provided by the seed companies or through local
forestry bureaus. Fertilizers and pesticides would be available for purchase
primarily through supply and marketing cooperatives (SMCs) which manage supply
of inputs at the grassroots level in accordance with allocation plans drawn up
by the agriculture bureaus. The SMCs also sell other production items, such as
farm tools and equipment, and arrange for purchase and processing of farm output.
With guidance from NWAU the agriculture and animal husbandry bureaus would
provide technical extension and training to project area farmers. Credit, mainly
loans to purchase fertilizer, small tractors, and farm tools would be available
through existing ABC offices and rural credit cooperative! who are present in
881 locations in the province (Chart 42692 for ABC Organization).
4.14        Aauaculture Component.  Each 33.3 ha. fish farm in the project would
have a contractual agreement coordinated by the Township or Village Project
Command Headquarters administered by the Shaanxi Provincial Fisheries Division
(SPFD) within SWCB. These entities would hire the fish farm directors, who in
turn would hire their respective staff forming the fish farm management group
(MG).   The MG would contract the individual ponds to private operations.
Salaries and other administrative costs for the MG's would be financed by
collecting management fees. The estimated fee would be Y20/mu (Y300/ha) of water
surface area. The MG would consist of a director selected from applicants who
have proven entrepreneurial and managerial skills; a technician with at least
one year of practical experience following graduation from one of China's
technical aquaculture schools; an experienced accountant/bookkeeper graduate;
and a physical plant manager responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of all
farm equipment, management of storerooms and production materials, and
maintenance of records of equipment usage and material consumption.   Two
technical extension workers would be hired for each farm.  Fish pond farmers
would be selected from among qualified farmers in the project area. The farms'
operations would be self-financed, through the sale of fish on the free market
and by the county marketing corporations.
4.15        Seeds ComRonent.   The seed component would be operated and managed
by three of five newly formed seed companies for corn, wheat and rapeseed, in
the nine project areas.  These have 28 branch organizations at county level,
covering all project sites. The seed companies would manage the production of
improved seeds by selected farmers, and the processing of seeds by the project
units. There are generally about 22 staff per seed unit of which about 8 are
technicians, 3 are managerial, and 11 are workers and attendants. The seed
companies finance their operations through profits on sales of certified seeds.
4.16        Agroprocessing and Livestock.  Each agro-processing plant, poultry
operations and the pig and rabbit breeding farms would be operated and managed
by township or county enterprises.  Some of these enterprises are already in
operations at township level. For the demonstration agro-processing facilities,



-31 -
detailed operational guidance would be provided by the Shaanxi Agricultural Trade
Center (for cold storage/fruit juice processing) or the Shaanxi Agioprocessing
Commercial Companyr (for honey products and meat processing). All poultry farms
would be township enterprises, many of which already have operating experience
in poultry farming.   The poultry enterprises would be under the technical
guidance of the Bureau of Animal Husbandry. All these township enterprises would
finance themselves with working capital credits from ABC and self- generated
funds from sales. Detailed financial analysis shows that even with debt service
payments most of these enterprises would have positive cash flows from the start
of production.
F. Proiect Launch Workshop
4.17        To initiate implementation, IDA and local staff would conduct a
prolect launch workshop in Xian in June 1989 for staff of the provincial,
prefectural, and county PMOs. The purpose of the workshop would be to review
the total program for 1 plementation and to clarify individual tasks and
responsibilities at each level. Topics te be covered would include procurement
and disbursement procedures, project financial management, and project monitoring
and evaluation.
C. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
4.18         The provincial, prefectural, and county PMOs would monitor the
project's progress and evaluate the project's economic and financial benefits
for each component and overall impact. The county PMOs would keep a current
account of physical and financial progress of each of the project components.
Physical indicators would include such items as civil works and earthworks to
be completed, equipment and materials (steel, lumber, fertilizer, etc.) to be
procured.   Financial reports would track project expenditures and claims for
disbursement against Credit proceeds. Information on financial and physical
progress would be submitted semi-annually to the prefectural PMOs which would
prepare a progress report to be forwarded to the provincial PMO according to each
component. Routine monitoring of physical and financial progress would enable
project management to identify problems and make adjustments as required in the
project's implementation arrangements, procurement schedules, and resource
allocations. A list of key monitoring indicators for physical progress and
project expenditures is given in the implementation chart (Annex 7). As part of
the process of project evaluation, early in the implementation period the
prefectural PMOs would carry out baseline surveys in the project areas (Donglei
II and Dingbian) to determine current levels of inputs and production, crop
vields, farm incomes, and the present incidence of skeletal fluorosis. These
surveys would form the base line from which to measure changes resulting from
the project.   An on-going evaluation of the project would be included in
quarterly progress reports, to be prepared by the provincial PMOs for submission
to IDA within one month of the end of each quarter. The final, broad assessment
of the project's impact would be the substance of the Project Completion Report
to be submitted to IDA not later than six months following completion of Credit
disbursements ( June 30, 1994).



-32 -
V. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
Cropping Patterns
5.1         The project's irrigation developments in Donglei and Dingbian areas
are expected to generate large increases in the yield and output of annual and
perennial crops. A wide variety of annuals are currently grown, including wheat,
corn, sweet potato, soybean, barley, and millet, and cash crops such as cotton,
rapeseed, peanuts, vegetables and melons. With improved water control, the less
valuable millet and barley crops would be replaced by more valuable perennial
crops such as apples and alfalfa, the latter of which would be used mainly for
animal feed.
5.2         In Donglei II, the project is expected to increase total cropped area
from 151,860 ha, to 180,369 ha at full development. Of total area cultivated
with annual crops, grains would constitute 81% (down from 87%), while area
allocated to the remaining crops, e.g., (oilseeds, cotton, and vegetables) would
increase to 19%. This change would lower the grain to cash crop ratio from 3.5:1
to 2.8:1.   Wheat-- still the preferred staple food grain--would occupy the
largest portion of the cropped area (30%). The area under perennial crops would
increase by about 5% for apples and for forage. The cropping intensity would
increase from 118% to 144% in presently rainfed area, and 131% to 150% in
partially irrigated areas. The "without/with project" cropping pattern in Table
5.1 is indicative of the significant effects of assured irrigation.
5.3      In Dingbian, the cropping pattern is dominated by grain (87%)-- wheat
30%, millet 40%, corn 5%, and soybeans 9% and other crops 3%. This would change
after irrigation becomes available.  More emphasis on the production of high
value crops is expected, such as open field vagetables (2.9% of the cropped area
at full development), apples (2.9%) medicinal herbs (6%), forage (mainly alfalfa)
60% and corn (14%) to meet the feed requirements of high valued cashmere goats
and specialty sheep.



-33 -
Table 5.1: Donalel II Crop Areas. Yields and Production / a
___________..______________________________--------------------------------_____________________-
CROP             Cropped Areas                     Yields                    Production
Present  Future        X       Present   Future    X    Present  Future            X
---(ha)---         Change    ---Tons/ha---    Change   ----(Tons)----   Change
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__---------------
Annual Crops
Wheat                  76,121  79,606         5%        2.1    3.8         81%  '53,346   302503         97%
Barley                  9,116   6,677    -27X           1.3    3.0        140%    9,568    20031    109%
Corn                   16,114  29,446        83%        2.5    5.0       104%   39,115   147230    276X
Millet                 10,242   1,541    -85X           0.7    3.0        329%    7,290       4623      -37X
Sweet Potato/b          7,283   2,911    -60%           2.0    4.5       125%   13,967    13097          -6%
Soybean                 8,529  18,489    117X           1.0    2.0       111%    7,939        9244       16%
Cotton                 13,455  10,271       -24X        0.4    0.9       157%    4,176    15407    269X
Rapeseeds               4,507   9,929    120%           0.6    2.0        233%    7,026    19858    183%
Peanuts(unshell)        3,020   8,731    189%           1.2    2.4        109%    5,794    20955    262%
Vegetables              1,465   2,054        40%       11.7   20.0         72X   18,150    41080    126%
Melons                  1,095   1,541        41%       15.5   25.5         64X   17,980    39296    119%
SUB-TOTAL             150,947 171,196        13%
Perennial Crops
Alfalfa Hay               913   4,973    445%           2.5    5.00    100%    2,283    24865           989%
Alfalfa Seed              913   4,973    445%           0.2    0.60    200X          183      2984   1531%
Apple                       0   4,200   N.A             0.0   25.00       N.A          0   105000    N.A
SUB-TOTAL                 913   9,173
Total Crop. Area   151,860 180,369
Total Land Area       123,000 123,00n
Crop. Int. ( X )         123%    147%
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__---------------
la Agreggated from existing and new areas
/b Dried yields
Cron Yields and Production.
5.4                Improved irrigation combined with the introduction of high yielding
and hybrid varieties and the balanced application of fertilizers would increase
crop yields substantially. The yields both in dryland and irrigated areas would
increase over 100% for most crops in the Donglei area (table 5.1). These yields
are weighted averages of dryland and partially irrigated areas. In most of the
dryland areas, yields would increase by over 200%.  Farmers' response to the
introduction of more advanced technology is positive and no problem is foreseen
in adopting extension recommendations, as has been observed in several of the
recently irrigated areas in the Donglei Phase I.
5.5                In Donglei II, at full development, annual incremental output would
include 149,000 tons of wheat, 102,000 tons of corn and other grain, 13,000 tons
of oilseeds, 11,000 tons of cotton and cotton seed, 45,000 tons of vegetables
and melons, 25,000 tons of alfalfa and 105,000 tons of apples. Although small
compared to the province's total production, the potential benefits from the
project are substantial. By bringing in water, the project would eliminate the
fluctuations in crop production due to weather related factors and would allow
farmers to capture the full benefits from more intensified agriculture.
'.6                In Dingbian, the current average grain yield is 0.51 tons/ha., only
15% of the national average. With irrigation, yields would reach levels similar
as to Donglei II area (see Annex 4, Table 21).



-34 -
Livestock
5.7         The project would overcome some of the main livestock production
constraints i.e. lack of high yielding breeding stock and technology for
intensive production (mainly for poultry, pigs and rabbits) and the lack of
quality forages (for sheep and goats).
Breeding Stock Improvements
5.8         Poultry Subsector Development:  The proposed introduction of Leghorn
hybrids under the project would enable egg production to increase to 10-15
kg/bird p.a. depending on whether it is from specialized households or large
scale commercial farms, compared to the existing litterpile yields of about 4-5
kg/bird p.a. Egg production by commercial farms and specialized households would
increase by 64,003 tons p.a. by 1992. In addition, 8250 tons p.a. of meat would
be produced from the culled layers. In the second and third phases, the product-
ion of eggs would inc.ease by an additional 84,000 tons ( table 5.2). Production
under the poultry component would increase the availability of eggs per capita
province-wide from 4.6 kg p.a. to 8.4 kg p.a. by 1997, while meat production from
culled layers by 1997 would increase by 0.6 kg/capita p.a..
Table 5.2 Production of Eggs and Meat
Present             Production Per Phase
Production     I(1992)   II(1994)\b    III(1996)\b
Eggs                  ------------------Tons 000's------------------
Increase              -              64.0        112.0         148.0
Total                132.0          196.0        244.0          280.0
Increase % \a          -              48%          85%           112%
Meat
Broiler Increase      -              8.5          17.0          25.5
Culled Layer Inc.    -               8.25         16.5          19.0
Total                 12.2          28.95         46.0           56.7
Increase % \a          -             137%         284%          365%
\a Increases without the project would be uniformly 11%.
\b These phases are not financed by the project
5.9         The proposed introduction of Plymouth Rock broilers or equivalent
stock should make it possible to produce 2 kg of meat per bird in Shaanxi within
a cycle of 42-48 days rather than the present system of 150 days using culled
or male layer birds. The production of white meat under the first phase would
increase by 8500 tons (66% of present production). With the culled layer meat
added to broiler meat production, overall poultry meat production would increase
by 137% in the first phase, 284% in the second and 365% in the third (Table 5.2),
thereby expanding the provincial availability of poultry meat from 0.4 kg to 1.7
kg per capita.



-35 -
5.10        Swine Breeding. The importation of Landrace, Yorkshire and Hampshire
pigs for the Xianyang breeding farm would produce 425 cross bred boars to service
83,000 sows per year (65% of all sows in the central region). These sows would
birth 1.49 million piglets whicb over a six year period is expected to raise lean
meat production from 40% per pig to 50% per pig. This represents an additional
14,900 tons of lean meat p.a. at full development because of the improved lean
to fat meat ratio. In addition the farm would produce 5400 crossbred pigs which
would be sold for slaughter.
5.11        Rabbit Breeding.   The 11,000 breeding rabbits to be produced at
Chunchua would supply the Chunchua township with male and female replacements
(males are replaced every year; does every second year). Production efficiency
by the offspring of the farm's improved stock would result in the production
improvements shown in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3 Rabbit Breeding
Parameter                          Types of Breeding
M-ale Parent             Local   Purebred   Local       Purebred
Female Parent            Lbred      Local    Purebred  Purebred
Litters per year                5.0     5.0        6.0      6.0
Offspring per litter            5.5     5.5        5.5      6.5
Offspring/doe/year             27.5    27.5       33.0     39.0
Live market weight, kg          2.0     2.2        2.2      2.5
Age to market weight,mth        6.0     4.5        4.5       3.2
Total kg/doe marketed/yr    110.0   134.3        161.3    365.6
Increase over local x local    -       22%        47%      232%
5.12        Improvement of female breeding stock is an efficient approach to
topcrossing due to the larger number of young born per year to improved does than
could be expected from pairing improved males with local does. The combined
impact of sales of 5,500 improved males and females into the meat rabbit industry
would result in an estimated improvement of output of 24 percent (265 tons of
meat) over the present system of local breeds.
Increased Availability of Forage
5.13        Donglei II.  Present livestock production in the project area is
mainly a backyard ope.ration with livestock production based on draft and dairy
animals, mostly cattle, pigs and other small ruminants such as goats, and dairy
herd and chickens. With availability of forage (alfalfa, and crop residue), and
feed grain, growth in herd and flock sizes would increase from the present rate
of 1-2% p.a. to 10-20% p.a., since improved feed is expected to improve calving
rates, pig proficity, and decrease overall mortality. By the end of the build-up
period, the total numbers of cattle would increase by 90%, chickens would
increase threefold (of which 90% would be egg-laying hens), pigs would nearly
double, while the goat population would more than double. Comparable increases
have been observed in several newly completed irrigation schemes in Shaanxi,



-36 -
where a stark contrast in income levels and living standards between "irrigated"
villages with and without livestock has occured.
5.14        Dingbian.  The lack of overwinter fodder and wintertime mortality
rates approaching 50% place severe constraints on the production of high-valued
sheep and goat products, particularly wool, cashmere and skins. The increased
winter fodder which the project has been designed to provide would reduce
mortality and weight loss, and lead to the expansion of sheep and goats. At full
development, incremental gains in livestock numbers in Dingbian would amount to
92,800 sheep and 81,200 goats. Dairy cows would be introduced in the area and
the herd is expected to reach 5,000 animals by 1996. At full development annual
production is estimated at 1,500 tons of mutton, 260 tons of wool, 28 tons of
cashmere, 142,000 sheets of skins and 15,000 tons of milk. Calculation of feed
balances under with-project conditions confirms that adequate feed would be
available to sustain these gains.
Aguaculture
5.15        The project would expand fish pond areas by 2100 ha and fish
production by 9,600 metric tons p.a.. As a result of the project, overall fish
production in Shaanxi would be increased by about 18% by the year 2000 (Table
5.4). The project would also increase the average vield per mu of fish by about
75 kg and demonstrate the requirements for intensive fish farming.
Table 5.4: Fish Production Targets and Impact of Project
(Tons 000's)
Production Estimates                 1987       1990      1995       2000
Prov. Target Output                  11.4       18.5      35.5       55.5
Project Output                        -          1.8       9.6        9.6
% of Provincial Target                -          10%       27%        18%
Fish Yields for Province  (kg/mu)   215          217       306        313
Fish Yields for project   (kg/mu)   -            225       375        375
Agroprocessing
5.16        This project component would transfer processing technology and give
the province some export capability. The slaughter lines and meat processing
plant would produce 1,700 tons of beef and 750 tons of rabbit meat. These
slaughterhouses would be the first in Shaanxi with hygiene standards sufficient
for meat exporting. Bee products processing would process 200 tons of honey,
50 tons of pollen and 30 tons of royal jelly per year, thereby allowing Shaanxi
to retain additional value-added from processing within the province. The fruit
processing, cold storage and freezing plant in the project would demonstrate
means for reducing the high spoilage of fruit and loss of potential income. The
fruit processing plant would be the first multipurpose juice concentrate plant
in Shaanxi.



-37 -
B. Markets
5.17        The project would produce a number of commodities which are currently
in short supply.  The incremental output is expected to have excellent sales
opportunities both regionally and nationally. Wheat and soybeans are currently
imported commodities. China currently exports coarse grains, edible oil, apples,
vegetables and hides. Domestic demand for these commodities has been also rising
at a phenomenal rate with dhe growth in rural and urban incomes.
5.18       Grains.  Since Shaanxi is generally a grain deficit province (imports
over 250,000 tons of wheat annually), all of the incremental grain output from
the project would be destined for local markets through the province's grain
bureau, SMCs and urban retailers. with the exception of corn which may be
exported to other provinces and overseas. Dingbian county annually imports 6,000
tons of grain and a sizable amount of vegetables from elsewhere in Shaanxi and
neighboring provinces.   Incremental output from the project would be readily
absorbed by local demand as domestic demand for fine grain in regional and
national markets is expected to continue to rise.
5.19        Oilseeds.  Average edibl.e oil and fat consumprion in China has been
growing at an estimated rate of 6.4% per annum since 1982. Present consumption
of edible oil in Shaanxi is about 70% of the national average. Vegetable oil
has a high income elasticity of demand so that provincial demand for vegetable
oil should keep pace with income growth. Some exports of oil crops in raw or
processed forms could also materialize, which would be handled through normal
Ministry of Commerce channels.
5.20        Horticulture and Herbs.   Shaanxi is famous for its hL.gh quality
apples which store well during the cool winter and spring months.   Shaanxi
annually consumes most of the 400,000 tons of apples produced in the province.
China is already a net exporter of apples; in 1985 China exported 53,624 tons,
of which more than 90% went to the Soviet Union. Besides meeting demand within
the province, apple producers in project areas intend to export them to other
provinces and overseas, since roughly about 50% of apples being produced in the
project areas would be of export quality.   Sizable amounts of vegetables and
melons have been imported to complement local production, especially in the
north of the province. Incremental production of these commodities would readily
be absorbed by the local market.  Dingbian county has traditionally produced
Chinese herbs, lycium and astragalus. These are high value products and the
medicinal herb trade is well established. The incremental herb production would
mainly be exported to neighboring provinces.
5.21        Animal Products.   Meat consumption in Shaanxi is only 60% of the
national average. Since 1985, consumption has been growing at the rate of 34%
p.a. despite local real price increases of meats of 3-4% p.a. (nominal price
increases have been 11-12%). The consumption of poultry meat and eggs has been
growing at the rate of 50% p.a. since 1985. Although consumption growth would
not likely be maintained at this pace, a continued strong increase in demand
within the province is expected, at least until the year 2000, due to rising
incomes, sufficient to absorb the incremental poultry meat and eggs output from
the project.  Demand for beef has been steadily increasing as reflected in a
continuous increase in prices. A substantial proportion of cattle is now sold
live  to  other  provinces  incurring high  transportation  costs.    With  the



-38 -
establishment of slaughterhouses and meat processing plants, chilled or frozen
beef would have a greater access to local and outside markets (2000 tons p.a.).
In the case of mutton, production is primarily consumed insitu, but there is also
a strong market demand for mutton. The Shaanxi government plans to establish
h refrigerating plant in Dingbian in 1991 in order to assist farmers in
distributing and marketing mutton. The main markets of rabbit meat would be for
export to Japan, West Germany, Italy, France and U.K.. The rabbit breeding farm
and processing plant would permit Shaanxi's producers to meet export quality
standards, hence alleviate the present quality problems often encountered in
rabbit meat exported from China to Europe. Milk production in the project would
help satisfy a strong local demand.
5.22        Fiber and Skins.  China is a major exporter of cashmere and sheep
and goat skins. There are very good market prospects for these products. With
high demand in world markets, the international price of cashmere has been
increasing at an annual average rate of 50% over the last 5 years.  Dingbian
county is an important producer of cashmere and other sheep and goat products.
Marketing is well organized, and the Shaanxi Export Company reports that there
are backlogs of international orders for local cashmere. The market prospect for
skins is also good. A large shortage of high quality goat skins was reported
in 1987. Thus, increased production would be readily sold in the domestic and
export markets. In 1986, China imported more than 152,000 tons of wool (US$ 500
million)  reflecting the strong domestic demand for woolen products.   The
increased production of wool from the project would partially substitute for
impor.s to satisfy domestic demand.
5.23        A1iculture Products.  The domestic market for bee products is gooi
and some are already being exported. Tne project would produce higher quality
products and given its marginal increase in production capacity, bee products
produced under the project would be easily absorbed by the existing market. Also
given the growing export possibility, the bee products' marketing prospects
appear to be solid.
5.24        Aguaculture.  The demand for fish in the province is high, with over
half (15,000 tons) being satisfied through imports from outside of the province.
Main markets for fish are the urban centers. The total production of fish under
the project would be less than present imports. With increases in income and
dietary awareness, the demand prospects for fish appears to be strong.
C. Prices
5.25      As part of the economic reforms introduced since  1979, the Government
replaced compulsory grain quotas with voluntary contracts, adjusted procurement
prices and greatly enlarged the role of the market. The effect of the new system
has been to bring contract prices more closely in line with market prices, allow
farmers greater autonomy over cropping decisions and crop mix, and diversify
their activities. In 1985, the central and provincial governments decontrolled
wholesale and retail prices of fruits, vegetables, livestock products, and a
range of other staple commodities. In response, prices of these products rose
20 to 40% in the first half of 1985, and the bulk of them are now traded on the
free market.
5.26        Crops and Inputs. Prices of inputs and outputs actively traded in



-39 -
the free market are comparable to world market prices. For some crops such as
corn, oilseeds, barley and soybean, domestic prices in 1987 actually exceeded
world market prices. Details of economic and financial prices are given in Annex
4 Tables 1-2.  The provincial government procures about 70% of the marketed
wheat, 40% of the corn, 95% of the cotton and oilseeds and 10% of the soybeans.
The gaps between the fixed and free market prices have narrowed.  For example,
in 1984, in Heyang county near the project area, procurement prices and
above-quota prices of wheat were 31% and 46% of the free market prices,
respectively; but by 1987, their average reached 70% of the free market prices.
For economic analysis, economic farmgate prices of wheat, corn, cotton soybeans,
peanuts, urea, and DAP are based on the international price projections of the
Bank Group, adjusted for domestic and international transport and handling costs.
5.27        Livestock and Aguaculture.  Financial prices for poultry meat, eggs,
mutton and fish are based on market prices prevailing in Shaanxi.   Economic
prices for exportable commodities such as beef, rabbit meat, cashmere, and skins
and wool are based on international prices using Bank Group economic price
projections and prices received from the Foreign Trade Corporation adjusted for
transportation costs.
VI. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1         Production Benefits. The major benefits from the project derive from
incremental crop production, the result of project investments and the adoption
of new technologies. Physical parameters are detailed in Table 20-21 of Annex
4 for a wide variety of agricultural activities.   As a result of increased
production there would be marked increase in rural incomes. The estimated net
present value of incremental benefits from these activities amounts to Y459
million ($124 million) which would derive from cash cropping (25%), grains (36%),
aquaculture (17%), livestock production (15%), seed production (1%) and
agro-processing (6%) (table 6.3). The ERR for the project is estimated to be
23.0% (para. 6.17).  The project's incremental production would be 5% of the
gross agricultural output value of Shaanxi Province in 1987.
6.2         Water SuoRly and Health Benefits.  At least 286,000 people in the
Donglei II and Dingbian areas would benefit from the water supply components
included in the project.  There are two kinds of benefits from water supply.
The most signx.a.icant beneficiaries would be the 84,000 people in Dingbian and
40,000 in the Donglei area who live where fluoride levels in drinking water
exceed safe limits, where consumption over a period of time has caused crippling
skeletal fluorosis. With provision of safe water, about 75,000 people would show
significant recovery as given in table 6.1 below.



-40 -
Table 6.1 Recovery From Skeletal Fluorosis
Pre-Project    Post-Project        Number of People
Disability      Disability         who recover
25%            10%             30900
50%             20%            23800
75%            40%             20300
100%            100%                0
Total                              75000
Aside from the unmeasurable but obviously enormous humanitarian benefit of
alleviating widespread suffering, this component would recover about 18,700 man
years as a result of fluoride free water (Annex 5) as well as permit decreased
medical costs (about US$2 million). Another significant benefit would accrue
to about 116,00 people in Donglei and 46,000 people in Dingbian areas, who would
save about 10,000 person/years annually in labor for collection of water since
the new water supply systems would have house connections or would service
village reservoirs close to their homes.
B.  EmDloyment and Incomes
6.3         Employment opportunities generated by the project would help reduce
seasonal underemployment among the rural labor force in ard around the project
areas. At full development, farming activities on the project's irrigated areas
would create an annual incremental demand for labor of about 14.6 million work
days, equivalent to 49,000 full time jobs. This represents about a 66% increase.
The project would increase multiple cropping and the volume of crops to be
harvested, thus creating a peak demand for labor in July when temporary labor
shortage could occur. Nevertheless, laborers would be easily obtainable from
near-by counties and, therefore, a temporary shortage of labor would not impose
restrictions on production. Other project components also generate significant
employment: aquaculture would create 1.3 million workdays (i.e. 3,200 full-time
jobs for fish farmers); agro-processing about 200,000 workdays (i.e. 608
full-time laborers); and poultry about 1,076 jobs. Living standards would also
improve for approximately 13,600 specialized households.
6.4         Farm Incomes and Poverty Alleviation.  In Donglei II, the prciect
would improve living standards and income levels of about 130,000 householts.
These households, among China's poorest, have average per capita income of less
than Y290 and receive subsidies of about Y80 per capita. Without the project,
it is expected that per capita income levels would stagnate at current levels
or even decline due to population growth. Farm model analyses show that at full
development (year 2000), per capita income would increase to about Y465 for a
relatively small household (i.e. 10 mu/family--90% of population) and Y616 for
a relatively larger household (i.e. 15 mu/family--10% of population.).  For apple
growing households (averaging 1.4 ha of orchard), per capita income would be
substantially higher at Y1,400 in the 11th year of production. In Dingbian, the
project would improve living standards and income levels of about 26,000
households.   Families residing in the area are poorer even than in Donglei;



-41 -
including off-farm income, the average annual per capita income is currently
Y140. Since area residents also suffer from endemic fluorosis, the government
has exempted the Dingbian area from taxes, and provides annual subsidies in cash
and in kind for treatment and for the development of animal husbandry (in 1987,
subsidies in kind amounted to 35 kg of grain per rural person).  Farm income
analysis for a typical family of 5 people with 1 ha. of irrigated land under the
project shows that at full development, per capita income would reach about Y800
for families who specialize in crop production (15% of the families) and Y1140
for specialized households raising sheep (85% of the families). The farm budgets
and models used in analysis are detailed in Annex 4, Tables 14 to 19.
6.5         Incomes From Poultry and Aguaculture Operations.   For the 3600
specialized households involved with broiler production, incomes per capita would
rise from the present level of Y300 to Y1,210 by the project's third year of
implementation, while, for 10,000 households husbanding layers, incomes would
rise from Y300 to Y1300.   In the fourth year of production, the aquaculture
component would increase present per capita incomes from Y300 to Y600-800 fir
nursery pond farmers, and Y780-1140 for production pond farmers depending on
whether they are operating lined or unlined ponds (Annex 4 Tables 16 to 19).
C. Women in Development
6.6         While the project would provide opportunities to increase real income
and 3mployment for the population at-large in the project area, it would also
alleviate adverse conditions that particularly affect women. Although statistics
reveal that fluorosis attacks men and women equally, women suffer more acutely
since child bearing drains the already low calcium levels in women's bodies and
makes them more susceptible to fluorosis. In addition, in areas where water is
scarce, the average distance between houses and water sources is estimated to
be about 2 km. However, people located in the hills often travel as far as 7
km. In an average day, each household spends 2 to 5 hours transporting water,
which in general, is performed by women (56,000 person years). The project would
eliminate the need to manually transport water. The labor savings and increased
employment opportunities would enable women to contribute more economically and
financially to their household incomes.
D. Rent and Cost Recovera
6.7         Cost and rent recovery would mainly come from collecting water
charges in irrigated areas.  Although agricultural taxes exist in Donglei II
area, the provincial authority does not envisage an increase in tax revenue nor
a change in tax rates in the near future from the project areas. Therefore, no
agricultural or benefit taxes are assumed in the analysis and cost/rent recovery
estimated here is based only on direct charges.   For Donglei II, with total
investment costs of Y428 million, annual O&M costs of about Y200 per ha, and
proposed increase in water charges to YO.057/cum, the cost and rent recovery
indices are 37% and 21% respectively. At this rate, O&M costs would be fully
recovered by year 1995 (two years after completion of the project) and 21% of
the initial investment costs would be recovered during the project period. These
relatively high recovery indices stem from relatively low per ha investment cost
(Y 55C0/ha), and O&M cost (Y200/ha). For Dingbian, the cost and rent recovery
indices are 37% and 26%, respectively, where total 0 & M costs would also be
recovered two years after the project completion (Annex 4, Table 35). For all



-42 -
the agricultural development components there would be complete cost recovery
as indicated by the debt service ratios of 2.0 or more by the ninth year of the
project (table 6.2 and Annex 4, Tables 32-38).
E. Financial and Economic Analysis
Financial Analysis
6.8         CroR Development.  Detailed crop budgets have been computed for all
grains, casherops, forages and other cropping activities. The analysis reveals
that there would be substantial annual incremental benefits especially when
dryland areas are converted to irrigated, eg., increments for wheat, corn,
cotton, and rapeseed are between 100-300%  (Annex 4, Table 4).  For existing
irrigated areas the incremental benefits vary from about 5% to 25% depending on
the crop type (Annex 4, Table 5). Similar budgets have been computed for the
perenial crops and for sideline activity livestock (Annex 4, Tables 6 to 9)
6.9         Agricultural Development Conmponents.   A financial analysis of the
project's livestock, aquaculture, seed production, and agro-processing activities
was undertaken for each sub-component. Financial rates of return, discounted
net present values and final net revenue were estimated. Table 6.2 shows the
FRR's and NPV's for each subcomponent. All FRR's, except for the Fufeng beef
and rabbit meat packing plant, exceed 15% and all NPV's (using a discount rate
of 12%) are therefore positive. The Fufeng meat packing plant is a pilot for
future processing.   Output prices for meat were based on the present market
pLices for the low quality meat, but it is anticipated with incomes rising in
the future, demand for better quality meat would command much higher prices.
If more realistic meat prices for higher quality are used the FRR is 17%. The
financial soundness of most of the investments, as shown by the FRRs, derives
in part from the fact that output prices have increased (for meat, fish, eggs,
and processed foods) at a much higher rate in the past than the cost of
construction, equipment or labor, as a result of the reforms.  The basis for
these estimates is given in Annex 4, Tables 24 to 30. A summary of the FRR and
sensitivity analysis is given in Annex 4, Tables 32-34 for each sub-component.
6.10        Enterprise Financial Analysis Results.  Financial projections were
also computed, since each of the sub-components would be operated as an
enterprise or a group of enterprises.  Detailed cashflow, fund-flows and net
income analysis were performed for each sub-component enterprise, and several
financial ratios were projected to demonstrate the financial viability of the
implementing enterprises in terms of internal cash generation and debt service
capabilities (Annex 4, Tables 36-38). Table 6.2 summarizes debt service ratios
for the fifth and ninth year of the project based on price increases indicated
in Annex 2, Table 1. It should be noted that most debt service ratios are close
to 2 or more within the fifth year of project start (third year of operation)
except for the rabbit and pig breeding farms and some fish hatcheries. This debt
service ratio of 2 indicates that there is sufficient internal cash generation
in most of the enterprises to financially sustain the operations and repay their
debts. By the ninth year of the start of the project, all of the enterprises
show debt service ratios of 2 or more.



-43 -
Table 6.2 Summary of Financial Analvsis Results
_____________--__________------------------------------------___________
FIRR      NPV        Debt Service
Item                        x   at 12X Discount     Ratio\a
Rate (Mil.Yuan)  5Yr   9Yr
1. Livestock
(a) Poultrv (overall)      15      75.5          2.0   2.3
Broiler Farms
Sanmenkou GP               17       3.2          2.3   2.5
Sanmenkou Parent           18       4.2          2.2   2.3
Weinan Parent @ Comnercial   17     9.1          2.1   2.2
Laver Farms
Yangling GP                15       0.9          1.9   2.0
Four parert @ Commercial   15      56.0          1.9   2.0
Specialix,d Households
Broiler (1500 per yr)      85       -             -     -
Layer  (500 per yr)        44       -             -     -
(b) Xianvana Pig Breedina    19     5.7          0.9  13.0
(c) Chunchua Rabbit breeding 15     0.7          0.7  15.0
2. Acuaculture             20      83.9          1.8   3.8
Lined Ponds (6000 mu)      18       9.3          1.3   2.7
Unlined Ponds (26,000 mu)    28    64.3          2.3   4.8
Feed Mills                 28       7.5          3.1   4.0
Hatchery  (125 mu)         20       1.3          1.1   3.5
Hatchery  (50 mu)          15       0.1          1.9   2.2
Farm Unlined (500 mu)      33       0.1          2.6   4.4
Farm Lined (500 mu)        17       0.7          1.4   2.5
3. 1.ro-Drocessing         18      22.0          1.8   2.4
Bee Products Processing    20       6.6          2.4   2.9
Cold Storage etc.          23      15.3          2.5   3.1
Fufeng Heat Processing%b   09       4.8          1.1   2.3
4. Seeds Processing        16       6.1          2.5   2.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------
\a Inflation rates adopted are as shown in Annex 2, Table 1.
\b For revised meat prices based on future estimates FRR ii 17X
Economic Analysis
6.11           An economic analysis was carried out separately for each component
(Donglei II, Dingbian Water Supply, aquaculture, etc.) and for the project as
a whole. Total economic investment costs include physical contingencies and the
economic value of contributed labor but exclude price contingencies. Subsidies,
resettlement grants and taxes have also been excluded. Market prices have been
adjusted for the purpose of economic analysis by distinguishing outputs and
inputs as tradeable or non-tradeable. World Bank price projections or average
export prices actually realized in China were used to estimate the farmgate
economic prices in 1988 constant terms for traded inputs and outputs. Conversion
factors, based on calculated border prices and actual financial prices prevailing
in Shaanxi province for non-traded goods, have been estimated (Annex 4, Table
3)  and  applied  to  convert  financial  values  into  economic  costs.    Then  all
economic values were converted to local currency at the official exchange rate
(Y3.71 - US$ 1.00).  Farm and unskilled labor have been valued at Yl.4 per manday
representing 70% of the presently prevailing wage rate of about Y2.0/manday in
the project areas. Based on these assumptions and an assumed project life of
25 years for most components, ERRs were computed for each component and are
summarized in Table 6.3.
6.12           Irrigation and Water SuDDly.  For Donglei II a base ERR of 20.0% was
estimated on the basis of incremental investment costs and net benefits for new
and existing irrigation areas. Investment costs are Y428 million (US$ 114



-44 -
million) and incremental O&M costs are Y240 per ha for newly irrigated and Y72
per ha for existing irrigated areas. Incremental benefits are estimated on the
basis of average yield projections from representive cropping patterns with aad
without the project. Economic O&M costs include electricity valued at YO.2/kwh
(5.4 cents/Kwh), which is considered to be a close approximation of the economic
value of electricity in Shaanxi. The Dingbian component's ERR is estimated at
13% based on an investment cost of Y124 million including physical contingencies.
Separate ERRs were worked out for the water supply and irrigation components
by assuming: firstly single purpose water supply project and determining its
costs and benefits; and secondly determining incremental costs and benefits for
irrigation over and above the single purpose project (the principle of separable
cost remaining benefits). The ERR for the water supply component is 8% compared
to the irrigation component which is 20%.  The water supply component is the
least cost solution when compared to other alternatives such as chemical
treatment which requires an investment of Y33/cum as opposed to the project
alternative of Y5/cum. Sensitivity analysis show that Donglei component's rate
of return will not fall below 16% even if investment costs are 20% higher than
expected, or prices fall by 20%. For the Dingbian component, the combined ERR
does not go below 11% (Table 6.3) for similar adjustments to costs and prices.
6.13        Aguaculture.  Separate rates of return have been estimated for lined
ponds, unlined ponds, hatcheries and feed mills. All investment coscs related
to fish pond establishment and all costs of management and technical support have
been included in the analysis.   The economic farmgate prices for fish were
derived from current farmgate financial prices (1987 to 1988) at several sites.
Input prices of local commodities were based on current financial prices which
also reflect the economic prices. The ERR estimated on this basis ERR for the
aquaculture component is 32%. SensitivLty analyses show that the ERR is fairly
robust.
6.14        Livestock.  Economic analysis has been carried out for poultry, pig
and rabbit breeding, commercial farms and for the component as a whole.



-45 -
Table 6.3: Results of ERR and Sensitivity Analrsis
EIRR                               Switching ,ValuesbL
Base    Investment    Revenue    Operating         Costs      Benefit
COMPONENT               NPV      Case    Cost +25X       -10          Cost            Up         Down
Mil Yuan                                           +10O           X            X
1.  Donalei II         261.5      20          17           16a1                        70          -40 la
2.  DLnAbian           10.8       13          11           1laL                        15          -15 La
Water Supp        -21.8        8
Irrigation         32.0       20
3.  Aguaculture        82.5       32           26           26           29           165          -30
Hatchery            1.4       23           19           18           21            90          -25
Feed Mills          7.5       49           36           29           33          230           -18
Lined Ponds         9.3       22           18           18           20           172          -22
Unlined Ponds      64.3       34           28           28           31           185          -32
4.  Livestock          71.0       25
Poultry                       25           20           20           23          185           -23
Broiler
Samnenkau GP        3.2       26           21           21           24          111           -26
Parent              4.2       22           17           18           20            65          -23
Layer
Yangling GP         0.9       23           18           18           20            73          -19
Parent &Commercial 56.3       27           22           21           21          106           -43
Xianyana Pi&        5.8       33           25           25           25           120          -40
Chunchua Rabbit     0.7       24           18           19           21           68           -23
5.  Asro-processLna    26.8       23           20           13           16           140          -1.
Bee Products        6.5       28           23           17           20           135          -14
Colds Store Etc.   15.3       30           24           22           22           130          -14
Meat Processing     4.8       21           17            5            8            60           -6
Seeds               6.1       54
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__--------------------------
Total             458.7       23
-----------_.-------------------------------------------------------__-------__--------------------------
a/ Prices down 20X
ML Switching Values were estimated for ERR's of 12X
Since all the meats and eggs except for rabbit meat are consumed locally,
domestic farmgate financial prices were used to reflect economic prices of
outputs. All investment costs for establishing the farms including utilities
(water supply, electricity, etc.) and land costs were ir.cluded. Based on these
assumptions the ERR of all sub-components exceeded 22% and the ERR for the whole
component was 25%. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the component is fairly
robust and costs would have to increase for sub-components between 68% to 185%
or revenues have to decline 19% to 40% before any of the sub-components would
show an ERR less than 12%.
6.15            Agro-processing.    Similar analysis was undertaken  for the separate
pilot agro-processing investments using local financial output prices for most
commodities as good estimators of economic prices. For rabbit meat actual export
prices in China were used. All the components show base ERRs of 21% or more.
The only component which was not robust under sensitivity testing with respect
to changes in revenue or operating costs, was the beef and rabbit meat packing
plant. To ensure that these enterprisas do not fall into the ranges of lower
revenues or high operating cost these enterprises would focus on the full
utilization of, established capacities ensuring production and marketing
efficiencies.  The projects technical assistance component would help in training
the enterprise staff to ensure the required efficiencies in production and
marketing.



-46 -
6.16        Seeds Processing. Economic analysis undertaken for this component
was based on total investment costs for setting up the processing plants, storage
and transportation facilities, and ancillary items. The incremental benefits
were based on the changes in production due to increased use of certified seeds.
Input and output prices were estimated in the same manner as for the Donglei and
Dingbian crop components. Based on these assumptions the ERR is very high, 54%,
which is not unusual for a seeds component.
6.17        Total Project.  Based on the above analysis, a total project economic
rate of return of 23.2% and a net present value of Y459 million (at a 12%
discount rate) have beeni estimated.
F. Proiect Risks
6.18        The project faces no unusual technical or organizational or financial
risks. For the irrigation and water supply components the agricultural and water
resources agencies involved in the project have had considerable project
implementation experience including the nearby Donglei I irrigation project.
The Shaanxi project office has performed well during eroject preparation. 'he
Shaanxi Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau is adequately staffed with com cent
engineers and managers and has had several decades of experience wi.a the
construction and operation and maintenance of large-scale water management
systems. In addition, local farmers have considerable experience with the crops
to be grown and livestock to be raised with the exception of dairy cows. Markets
are well organized and reasonably efficient, demand seems to be strong and with
the on going price reforms, prices have been rising and are unlikely to fall
given the st ong demand situation. For the aquaculture component the Shaanxi
Division of Fisheries in the Water Conservancy Bureau has demonstrated its
capability in similar projects in the province. The Shaanxi Animal Husbandry
Bureau has also demonstrated its capability to implement similar poultry breeding
schemes and its ability to train specialized households who are already achieving
high egg production yields. The agro-processing technology to be introduced for
the cold storage and meat packing is of standard design and would not pose major
learning problems. To ensure effective technology transfer in the processing
component, the project would have a program of local and overseas training by
consultants and equipment suppliers.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1         At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government to the
effect that:
(a) water quality would be monitored in Donglei and Dingbian areas using
standard health bureau practices to monitor the improvements in drinking water
supply and a report of the proposed initial monitoring would be furnished to IDA
by December 31, 1993 (para 3.8);
(b) adequate quantities of fertilizer would be procured for farmers, and
that an annual plan for these procurements would be submitted to IDA for review
prior to December 1 of each year (para 3.9);



-47 -
(c) the province Phase I of the poultry program by the December 1, 1991
and that the Shaanxi Provincial Government would consult with IDA while planning
for Phases II and III (para 3.20);
(d) the PMOs would maintain the consolidated accounts of all components
for auditing annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the
audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
financial year (para. 3.45);
(e) all effluents from agro-processing would be treated and the Provincial
Environmental Bureau would clear the final designs of the treatment plants and
would set up and maintain a system of effluent monitoring starting from December
1, 1993 through the life of the project (para 3.46);
(f) a PMO would be established with a project director from the Provincial
Planning Commission assisted by a Leading Deputy Project Manager from the
Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau who would be responsible for the day-to-day
management of the project ( pata 4.4);
(g) the provincial PMO would submit an annual budget, financing plan and
program of works for new construction to IDA for review by December 15 of each
year in respect of work to be carried out in the following year (para 4.6);
(h)   project  funds would be onlent  to sub-borrowers  in livestock,
aquaculture, seeds and agroprocessing at interest rates no less than ABC charges
on subloans for similar purposes and with similar maturities (para. 4.7);
(i)   that the ABC, province, prefecture and county governments would
provide in timely fashion the required contributions (para 4.10); and
(j) the provincial government would collect water charges in Donglei and
Dingbian areas at rates which would recover all 0 & M costs and a portion of the
capital costs and to this end the government would furnish to the IDA a plan of
operations, maintenance and collection of charges by December 31, 1991 (para
4.12).
7.2       During negotiations the following  understandings were obtained from
the government:
(a) the PMO would provide IDA with an annual plan for production credit
for farmers (from 1992 onwards) for its review by December 31, 1990, to be
formulated in consultation with the provincial and local offices of the ABC (para
2.12);
(b) initial imports of pure bred foundation stock for rabbits would be
performed by June 30 1990; and a foreign or local currency budget would be
established for the continuous importation of new replacement stock to prevent
in-breeding; (para 3.25).
(c)  the government would make adequate provision of financial resources
to procure passenger vehicles needed under the project (para 3.40);



-48 -
(d) the regional, prefectural, and county PMOs and POs would be adequately
staffed with personnel having qualifications, functions and responsibilities
acceptable to IDA (para 4.5);
(e)  the AAHB would levy a charge on day old layers and broilers adequate
to finance the training of specialised households.
7.3      State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
7.4      Subject to the above condition, the propcsed project would constitute
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 78.8   million (US$106 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms. The borrower would be the People's Republic
of China.



- 49 -                      ANNEX  1
Table 1
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Economic Statistics of Project Counties
Item                   Unit      Pucheng   Fuping      Dali    Dingbian
Number of Townships    No.             31        32         28         30
Total Population        ,000         610        610        532        248
Agri. Population        ,000         562        569        502        226
Total Output         Y 000,000       158        143        182
Agri. Output       Y 000,000       114        105        126
Cultured Area          ,000 mu      1740       1218       1092       1650
Sown Area              ,000 mu      1875       1508       1442       1650
Grain Output           ,000 ton      165        149        153        462
Grain Yield            kg/mu         109        122        158         32
Per Capita Grain    kg/person        217        245        288        175
Cotton Output           ton         2800       2200       9000
Cotton Yield           kg/mu          14         12         25
Oilseed Output           ton        4200       1100       7400
Oilseed Yield          kg/mu          54         37         83
Pigs                 ,000 head       157        119        170         53
Sheep                ,000 head       105        160         75        227
Livestock            ,000 head        50         37         43         67
Per Peasant Income    Yuan           203        185        251        140



CHINA
SHAANX7 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CLIMATIC DATA
ItemlLocation             Jan    Feb    Mar   Apr   May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct   Nov    Dec                 Record Period
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__----------------------------------------------------
RAINFALL (n)                                                                                                     TOTAL
Pucheng                   3.9    3.2   20.2   38.7   47.9   42.5  114.1   95.6  88.8   46.1   23.1    4.2    528.3         1959-1981
Dali                      5.0    7.7   22.1   41.9   48.5   47.9  102.9   90.6   77.9   45.9   24.5    4.6    519.5        1956-1981
Fuping                    4.2    7.6   23.1   46.4   53.1   36.5   96.7   83.8  101.6   49.6   26.8    4.0    533.4        1960-1981
Dingbian                  1.4    3.3    7.1   17.6   29.9   25.2   61.2   90.5   49.7   26.0   10.4    1.3    323.6        1959-1980
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__----------------------------------------------------
Temperature ( de8. C )                                                                                        Average
Pucheng                  -1.5    1.6    8.0   14.1   19.8   25.8   26.3   25.9   19.5   13.7    6.1   -0.3       13.3      1959-1981
Dali                     -1.3    1.8    8.2   14.5   19.8   25.5   26.8   25.6   19.6   13.6    6.2    0.1       13.4      1956-1981
Fuping                   -1.4    1.6    8.0   14.0   19.6   25.4   26.4   25.5   19.1   13.4    6.2   -0.2       13.1      1960-1981                   0
Dingbian                 -8.6   -5.3    2.4   10.0   16.0   20.6   22.3   20.5   14.7    8.4    0.2   -6.6        7.9      1957-1980
Evaporation (cm)                                                                                                TOTAL
Pucheng                  67.1   86.4  132.1  201.2  262.1  326.3  257.1  219.0  150.3  118.2   71.5   56.0   1947.3   59-61, 78-81
Dali                     52.6   74.7  132.8  174.2  224.3  298.3  239.2  209.2  144.1  111.6   65.7   46.3   1773.0   56-66, 78-81
Fuping                   67.7   94.7  140.3  207.2  290.9  342.7  252.9  228.4  149.7  111.7   74.0   58.6   2018.8   60-61, 78-81
Dingbian                 64.4   84.2  173.4  303.1  365.3  390.2  344.8  263.4  209.8  161.1   97.5  65.7  2522.9   57-60, 78-80
---------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__----------------------------------------------------
Sunshine ( hour )                                                                                               TOTAL
Pucheng                 175.1  156.7  179.5  191.8  234.1  246.7  242.7  243.0  171.0  175.2  163.0  173.6   2352.4       1959-1981
Dali                    171.4  157.0  182.2  192.5  237.1  248.4  250.0  252.4  180.8  179.0  161.6  166.5   237S.9       1956-1981
Fuping                  183.8  164.5  187.4  199.6  247.2  262.9  260.0  261.9  176.3  178.0  169.4  180.2   2471.2       1960-1981
Dingbian                204.2  194.3  213.2  221.9  262.9  279.4  262.9  244.6  211.9  277.0  202.4  206.6   2781.3       1959-1980
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _- -.. - - - - - - - - - - -     -    , - - - - - -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - - - - -_ _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _ _- - -  -   _ _ _ _t 
Sources: Exploration & Design Institute of Water Resources, Electric Power & Civll Construction of Shaanxi Province                                  ( 3
Note:   1. Al' data in this table are mean values of the record period, respectively;
2. Pucheng, Dali and Fuping are in Guangzhong area ( Central Shaanxi ). Dingbian is in Shaanxi area ( Northern Shaanxi ).



SHAX AIaJLTURAL DEVEM    PRJE)CT
GRAINIFEED BALAC SEEE
GRAIN GfXliT                   NET                          TMA  OCtMJ.  GRAIN (XNSITICN   YEAR-END            FEED SMWY              FEED
---------------------------------------------------  AIN lb TOTAL SEEDS    NES  PCPU-  /CAPITA  -------------------     AIN ---------------------- --------------
YEAR  WHEAT   MIZE RICE SOYBEAN OIE  OILSEID  TUTAL   DIED   GRAIN  & lCSS  QGAIN  LATIGC               HIW1N FM)  TOTAL  SlRPLS GRAI 8RANS CW3 TUAL DDWMI  SJRPLS
___________--------- OOC's T ------------------   --------- 000s T ---------   (mill.)  (T)   ---- 000's T ----  (000's T) ------ 000's T  ------- -- 000's T --
1984   4,496 3,131   933   167 1,510   242  10,479         219  10,698   642  10,056  29.7   0.30  8,906 1,000  9,906   150.0 1,000   961 207 2,168
1985   4,233 2,916   883   189 1,396   299   9,916           (2)  9,914   595   9,319  30.1   0.27  8,118 1,100  9,218   101.0 1,100   891 192 2,182
1986   4,441  2,729   932   213 1,421   301  10,038        194  10,231   614   9,617  30.5   0.27  8,330  1,200  9,530    87.0 1,200   919 198 2,311
1987   4,177  3,250   947   250 1,255   353  10,232        194  10,426   626   9,800  30.9   0.27  8,444  1,300  9,744    56.0 1,300 1,085 281 2,666 2,496   170
1990 la 4,750  3,300 1,020   320 1,402   400  11,192        240  11,442   687  10,755  32.5   0.29  9,350  1,400 10,750         5.0  1,400 1,042 360 2,802 2,637   166
1995 la 5,258 3,625 1,165   510 1,554   450  12,562         250  12,812   769  12,043  34.2   0.30  10,393 1,650 12,043         0.0  1,500 1,000 360 2,860 2,777    83
2000 la 5,840 3,950 1,294   625 1,700   520  13,929         250  14,-79   851  13,328  36.3   0.31  11,378 1,950 13,328         0.0  1,600 1,100 480 3,180  3,176       4
la All figures fmn 1990 are forecastirs estisation.
lb Thls columm represent- a ret of lnport, since vmat is imported %Agle nisze is exported.
I-
m V



- 52-                       ANNEX 1
Table 4
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEED PROCESSING CAPACITY
ITEM                                  1984      1987      1992     2000
Province         269.0    286.0    320.0    340.0
Number of Feed Mills  Guanzhong          116.0    124.0    145.0    170.0
Project Area                          6.0       6.0
Province         220.0    490.0    550.0  1,50C.0
Design Capacity        Guanzhong         142.0    303.8    400.0    800.0
(000 T )             Project Area                           5.6      5.6
Province          91.1    208.1    400.0  1,800.0
Actual Output          Guanzhong          61.8    127.5    280.0  1,000.0
(000 T )             Project Area                           5.6       5.6
Province          32.2      70.8    125.0    500.0
Feed for Poultry       Guanzhong          28.6     64.5    100.0    350.0
( 000 T )            Project Area                          50.0     50.0



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FERTILIZER USAGE
Unit: kg/hec.
TOTAL QUANTITY         NITROGEN FERTILIZER   PHOSPHOTIC FE;<TILIZER
YEAR   ------   .
'CHINA  SHAANXI           CHINA SHAANXI            CHINA  SHAANXI
1979        105.5        68.3          83.0       62.0          22.5         6.3
1980        121.5        71.3          94.0       64.5          27.5         6.8
1981        124.8        62.3          95.0       55.7          29.8         6.6
1985        192.0        97.3         131.0       75.6          61.0        21.7
1986        201.0        97.2         137.0       85.0          64.0        12.2



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FERTILIZER BALANCE SHEET
IRRIGATED AREA           DRY AREA                      FERTILIZER SUPPLY
--------------------  -------------------  TOTAL          -------------------
YEAR        AREA    INPUT/ha        AREA   INPUT/ha  DEMAND        by SHAANXI IMPORTED
(000's ha)   (T)        (000's ha)   (T)   (000's T)    ---- 000's T ----
1984
1985                                                     1,742         1,380       362
.1986                                                     1,889         1,420       469
1987         1,300       1.08        2,600      0.22    1,976          1,400       576
1990         1,400       1.15        2,400      0.25    2,210          1,450       760
1995         1,500       1.25        2,100      0.30    2,505          1,600       905
2000         1,700       1.30        1,900      0.30    2,780          2,000       780



- 55 -                                      ANNEX 2
Table 1
am
sBUDa AWUQLMtL MVAITPRJC
SlMAY                                      $1 tS BY t S  $ - Y 3.712)
TOTAL: Y 000's              TOL; $ 000's         Forzein    Bas
PROJET                              1       otal     Lacl  Poe          Total X X
Prelinaries                11,733    4 418   16,151      3,161    1,190    4,351       27
Earth*orks                120,029   30,500  150,529    32,336    8.216   40,552        20
Puqakhuses                 20,045   17,991   38,036     5,'400    4,847   10,247       47
Cu1al Str,.cniues          30,438   31,554   61,992     8,200    8,500   16,700        51
Eq.zipmsr & Serices        17,765   88,301  106 066     4,786   23,788   28,574        83
3 351        0    3,351       903        0      903        0
Lend                       31,216        0   31,216     8,409        0    8,409         0
Ban Cost                  234 578  172,764  407,342    63,195   46,542  109,736        42       54X
R                  ~~~~~11,729    8,638   20,367  3,160    2,327    5,487       42        31
37 780   13 023  50 804    10 178    3 508  13 686         26        73
SIB-IAL                   2S4,088  194,425  478,513    76.532   52,37   128,910        41       631
11. DIflIMN WATE SLiPPY
PreIImNIIaries              3,858    2,470    6,328     1,039      665    1,705        39
Earthworks                 13,373    2,304   15,677     3,603      621    4,223        15
Major Structnes             7,764    6,305   14,0G9     2,092    1,699    3,790        45
Plpe Installatiot          27,584   15 216   42,800     7,431    4,099   11 530        36
FquI4x1~1t & Vehicles         947    4,700    5,648       255    1,266    1,521       83
aterils                     2,099   11,894   13,993       565    3,204    3,770        85
Teduical Assist. L Resea   3,352       998    4,350       903      269    1,172        23
lIrd                          310        0      310        84        0        84        0
BSE IDL                    59,287   43,887  103,174    15,972   11,823   27,795        43       14X
PHYSICAL CIDECY             2,964    2,194    5,159       799      591    1,390        43        11
PRICE CONTDISEC             8 802    2,809   11 611     2 371      757    3 128        24        2X
SUB-ITOAL .-R 024FONENT    71,053   48,891  119,944    19,141   13,171   32:312        41       162
III. AQUAOJL1JRE
Civil Works                 3 119    1 696    4,815       840       457    1,297       35
Pond Develwpnre/uilding  61,819    5,911   67,730    16,654    1,592   18,246           9
Machinery & Equlpment       3,684    3,434    7,118        992      925    1,918       48
Vehicles                    2,087    1,311    3,398       562       353      915       39
Services                    4,105    2,216    6,321     1,106      597    1,703        35
Ouehrau of Go"ernmnt          389        0      389        105        0      105        0
med      o                    963        0      963       259         0      259        0
Bas  Cost                  76,164   14,568   90,734    20,519    3,925   24,443        16       121
Physical Cotizoency         3,891      731    4,622     1,048       197    1,245       16        1X
Price Contingeny            9344    4,038   13 383      2 517    1 088    3 605        30        2X
SOB-T(YEAL                 89,402   19,337  108 738    24,084    5 209   29 294        18       14X
IV. ASCS
Civil Works                   616        0      616       166        0       166        0
Baldirws                   8,127      320    8 447     2,189       86    2 276         4
Machinery & Eq4iment          787   12,782   13,569       212    3,443    3,655        94
Vdehiles                      164    1,330    1,494        44      358       402       89
Service                       710      350    1 060       191       94      286        33
Lend                        2,460        0    2,460       663        0       663        0
Base Cost                  12,864   14,782   27,646     3,466    3,982    7,448        53        41
Phyical Crnstency           1,286    1,478    2,765       347      398       745       53        OX
Price C-tigency             2 013      866    2 879       542      233       776       30        OX
SiB-TOIAL                  16,164   17,126   33,290     4,354    4,614    8,968        51        4X
V. a. PLThRY
Civll Works                 9,476        0    9,476     2,553        0   2 553          0
&zildin~~~~s        21,493    2,839   24,332     5,790       765    6,555       12
Mach5nery  r EqupMt        13,326   26,553   39,879     3,590    7,153   10,743        67
Vehicles                    1,535    1,790    3,325       414       482      896       54
Service                        56      528      584        15      142      157        90
L1d                        19,304        0   19,304     5,200         0    5,200        0
Bas Cost                   65,190   31,710   96,900    17,562    8,543   26,105        33       13S
Physical Contingency        6,519    3,171    9,690     1,756      854    2,610        33        1X
Price Cmrzingeny            3 403    1 272    4 675       917       343    1 259       27        1X
SU8-TOTAL                  75,112   36,153  111,265    20,235    9,739   29,974        32       15X
b. PIGS & RABsm
Civl Works                    710        0      710       191        0       191        0
Euildlz~~~~s         2,133        0   2,133        575        0      575        0
Machesury  & Eqiiptem       1,177      435    1,612       317      117       434       27
Vehicle!s                     245      112      357        66       30        96       31
Service                       342       75      417        92       20      112        18
LA,n                        1,300        0    1,300       350        0       350        0
e Cost                      5,907      622    6,529     1,591      168    1,759        10        1X
fsical Cntiency               591       63      654       159       17      176        10       0O
SUB-TOTAL                   6,498      685    7,183     1,751      185    1,935        10
VI. SE   1.  &  OC 
Buldings                    9,798        0    9,798     2,640        0    2,640         0
Machry & Equipmmt              85    3,826    3,911        23    1,031    1,054        98
Vehicles                        0    1, 179    1, 179       0       318      318      IO0
Materials                       0    4,479    4,479          0    1,207    1,207      100
Training 4 Cnsultants           0    1,362    1,362         0       367      367      100
"se Cot                     9,883   10,846   20,729     2,662    2,922    5,584        52        3X
Physical Ctingency            494      542    1 037       133       146      279       52        OX
Prioe Coningency             711      311    1,022       191       84       275       30       0
S.3-TOTAL.                 11,088   11,699   22,787     2,987    3,152    6,139        51        32
BASE 008T                   463,875  289,179  753,053   124,966   77,904  202,870        38      1002
PHYSICAL       mcY           27,475   16,818   44,293     7,402    4,531   11,932        3S        61
PRICE OW WICY               62,054   22,320   84,373    16,717    6,013   22,730        26       112
TOML  OST                 553,404  328,316  881,720   149,085   88,447  237,532        37      1171
/a Physical cntlzigsui is 52 for irrigat       star e wl7 pject rd is 0l for other project.
lPric      t gu for    eis    is 32 ppa. for 199-1990  4        f      91-2
adl for locaLl is 72 p. a. forP 1989 aid 6.52 for 1990-2600. ps    r19-00



- 56 -                                      ANNEX 2
Table 2
UIADAI AGRIaLTRAL LEVUMtE ZWE
MLD41DI IN SHEDU                                 LIS$ 1 - Y 3.712
PRaJECT ITEM               1,989   1,990   1,991   1,992  1,993   TL      1,989 1,990  1,991  1,992  1,"3   TO0AL
Y 000 -                                     S 000 -
I. DWtC;Li SRGA=TIO
Prelminaries                   14 536  1,615        0      0      0  16 151   3,916   435        0     0      0   4,351
Earthworks                     22,579 30,106  30,106  37,632 30,106 1O50,29   6 083 8,110  8,110 10,138 8,110  40,552
P'rphoues.                      7,607   7,607   9,509   9,509  3,804  38,037    2,049  2,049  2,562 2.562  1,025  10,247
Canal Structures                9 299 15 498 18,598  15,498  3 100 61,992   2 505 4 175 5 010 4,175    835 16,700
Equiplent 6 Servis             37,123  31,820 26,517  5,303 5,303 106,066  10,001 8,572 7,143 1,429  1,429 28,574
's nagaient                       838    838    503    670   503   3,352         226   226   136   180   136    903
Land                           31,216       0       0      0      0 31,216    8,409       0     0      0      0  8,409
BASE (flST                    123,198 87,484  85,232  68,613 42,816 407,342   33,189 23,568 22,961 18,484 11,534 109,737
II. DINGBIAN WATlE SIPLY
Prelimlnaries                   3,798  2,532        0      0      0  6,330    1,023    682       0     0      0  1,705
Earthwrks                       3,'38   3,138  3,923   3,138  2,354  15,690      845   845  1,057    845   634   4,227
Major Structures                3,518   5,628   3,518   1.407     0  14,071      948 1,516   948   379        0   3,791
Pipe Installatio                6,420  10,700  10,700   8,560  6,420  42,800    1,730  2,883  2,883 2,306  1,730  11,530
Equiprent & Materials           6,874   5,892   3,928  2,946      0 19 640   1,852  1,587  1,058    794       0  5,291
Teehilcal Assist. & Research      870    870   1,305    870   435  4,350         234   234   352   234   117   1.172
Land                              310       0       0      0      0    310        84      0     0      0      0      84
ASE C06T.24,928  28,760  23,373  16,921  9,209 103,191    6,715  7,748  6,297  4,558  2,481  27,799
z.       Ir.LTC Baoji                 425      0       0       0      0    425       114     0      0      0      0    114
lech. Tr. C. Wein                 425       0       0      0      0    425       114      0      0     0      0    114
Tech. Tr. C. Xjn                  855       0       0      0      0    855       230      0      0     0      0    230
SUPDly S Marketing Center       4,713       0      0       0      0  4,713   1,270        0     0      0      0   1,270
Fish Pellet Mill                1 875  1,875        0      0      0  3,750       505   505       0     0      0   1,010
Hatchery 300 mu                 1,734       0       0      0      0   1,734      467      0     0      0      0    467
Hatchery 50 nu                    290       0       0      0      0    290        78      0      0     0      0      78
6,000 mu Ccrete Liret Pctd      5 435   7 247   5 435      0      0  18 117   1 464  1 952  1,464      0      0  4 881
26,000 au Unlinr  Paid         18,128  24,170 18,128       0      0 60,425   4,883 6,511  4,883        0      0  16,278
3ASE aE.                       33,030  33,292 23,563       0      0 90,734   8,898 8,969  6,348        0      0 24,443
IV. AGRPCSSIlW
Hoey Bee Products Processing    3,571   1,923       0      0      0  5,494       962   518       0     0      0  1,480
Frost Plant                     1,874   1,249       0      0      0   3,123      505   337       0     0      0    841
Cold Storage                    3,087  1 662        0      0      0   4 749      832   448       0     0      0  1,279
Fruit Processing                3 509  2,340        0      0      0  5,849       945   630       0     0      0   1.576
Fufeng Heat Plant               3,372  5,058        0      0      0  8,430       908 1,363       0     0      0  2,271
EASE tZOST.15,413  12,232                           0      0      0 27,645    4,152  3,295      0      0      0   7,447
V. a. PCTRYW
Weinan Broller Parent 6 Camr  10,559  5,686         0      0      0  16,245   2,845  1,532      0      0      0   4.376
Senku ( Project No. 2 )         2,396   1,597      0       0      0   3,993      645   430      0      0      0  1.076
Senksu ( Pro3ect No. 2A)        5 137  2,201        0      0      0   7 338    1,384   593      0      0      0  1,977
Project Nos. 3, 4,5, & 6       40,795 27,196        0      0      0 67,991  10,990  7,327        0     0      0  18,317
Yangling (Project No. 7 )         599    733        0      0      0   1,332      161   197       0     0      0    359
EASE OST                       59,486  37,413       0      0      0 96,899   16,025 10,079       0     0      0 26,104
b. Pigs 6 Rabbits
Xiar - P  Far n       5 115    269        0       0     0 5,384    1,378    73         0      0     0  1,450
Ovnhs RabbLt FaeD    1,146       0       0       0     0   1,146      309      0      0      0     0    309
BASE (DST.6,261                           269       0      0      0  6,530    1,687      73      0     0      0   1.759
V. SED PRDTIG    POCSSIW
Buildings                       4,899  4,899        0      0      0   9,798    1,320  1,320     0      0      0  2,640
Exanlning Euiwnt                  500       0       0      0      0    500       135      0     0      0      0    135
Process1naEqu1 munt             2,900       0       0      0      0  2,900       781      0     0      0      0    781
rralnjing        m                255    255        0      0      0    510        69    69       0     0      0    137
Vehleles                        1 179       0       0      0      0   1,179      318      0      0     0      0     318
Materials                       3,583    896        0      0      0  4 479       965   241       0     0      0   1,207
Training                          270   1,082       0      0      01,352          73   291      0      0      0    364
Cwnsultans                         10       0       0      0      0      10        3      0     0      0      0       3
DiASE'k.13,597   7,131                             0       0      0 20,728   3,663  1,921       0      0      0  5,584
TRAL EE OOST                  279,042 208,699 130 517 86.082 48 721 753,061   75,173 56,223 35,161 23,190 13,125 202,872
PHYSICAL  EINCY  Ia            17 527  13,145  6,573   4 382 2,191 43,818   4,722 3,541  1,771 1,180   590  11.804
PRICE 03?r    =  /Ia            8,461 21,153  21,153  21,153 12,692 84.612   2,279 5,699  5,699 5,699  3,419  22,794
6MC16TA                       305,030 242,998 158,243 111,617 63,603 881,491   82,174 65,463 42,630 30,069 17,135 237,471
la See notes in table 2.1.



-57-
ANNEX2
Table 3
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD/I'A          Disbursement          Project    Profile /a
Fiscal Year/  Semestral Cumulative   Cumulative        (%)
Semester        --- US$ million ---      ( % )
1989
1st               0.0        0.0        0.0%
2nd               0.0        0.0        0.0%         2.7%
1990
1st              12.0       12.0       11.3%
2nd              13.0       25.0       23.6%        26.5%
1991
1st              17.0       42.0       39.6%
2nd              23.0       65.0       61.3%        58.5%
1992
1st              12.5       77.5       73.1%
2nd              12.5       90.0       84.9%        88.5%
1993
1st                5.0      95.0       89.6%
2nd               5.0      100.0       94.3%        97.5%
1994
1st               6.0      106.0      '00.0%
2nd                                   100.0%       100.0%
TOTAL              106.0                100.0%       100.0%
/a Disbursement profile for China --- specific investment loa
Completion date: Dec. 31, 1993
Closing date:     June 30, 1994



- 58                                            ANNEX 2
84AAMI A ICL11AL 01MVuLOPHONT MOL'?
iOML1  XIaATION sMItY  coPS
itm             Local          Foreign            TotAl       Local          Foreign            Tothl        S
IndIrect    Draest                           Indirect    Direct                Foreign      Ns.
Civil YWork               -                             -            ----    6 0o .-
Prcl immnrles
1,800.0      800.0        0.0    2,000.0      404.1       134.7        0.0      518.8          258
Comunielon                   88es$ $0.0  880.0       0.0    1.0600        142.6      142.8         0.0      288.6         501
CaMa                       2,660. 0     960.0        0.0    3,840.0       775.9      286.6         0.0    1,084.8         281
Ou.'ry Prpearatiane        1,610.0      690.0        0.0    2,300.0       418.7       168.9        0.0      619.6         Ns1
Other                      5,213.4    1,787.6        0.0    6,981.2    1,404.8       488.2         0.0    1,672.6         281
SUSTO?AL           11,718.4    4,417.8        0.0   16.151.2    8,160 9    1,190.1         0.0    4,351.1          271         41
Eerthworke
Central Canal             26,076.8    3,202.7    6,779.4   36.386.6    7,644.S      6s2.6    1.626.8   10,888.7           281
Shin canal end Structure.   6,267.7     750.6    8,044.7   12.6.0    2,227.8         202.2       901.0    3,230.8         33S
sranch A Laterals,        17047.7    1,009.4    9,369.7   27,426.6    4,592.6        271.9    2.524.2    7.86.7          361
Sub-Laterals              15,782.0    1,016.0        0.0   17,100.0    4,236.1       368.5         0.0    4,606.7          as
Lend levelling            47,587.7    4,138.7        0 0   81,571.4   12U,06.5    1,118.           0.0   13,M20.1          SS
Water Supply               so067.6      541.4        0.0    3,609.2       626.5      148.6        o0.       972.3         181
SwSTOTAL          120,029.4   11,008.6   19,498.63  150,529.0   32,388.8    2,964.9    8,281.6   40,882.0         201         371
Structuree
M;a iSlimi               2.470.0      284.4    1,982.6    4,667.5       665.5       68.1       514.2    1,262.6         471
Seigan                  5,489.4      516.9    4,390.1   10,376.4    1,478.4        139.8    1,182.7    2,798.9         471
Xiaahal                 8,878.6      509.9    4,818.0   10,197.0    1,447.7        137.4    1,182.0    2,747.0         471
Xin)lsa                   619.2       77.7       687.5    1,584.4      220.7        20.9      177.1      416.6         471
Nia                       727.9       69.1       564.2    1,361.2      196.1        16.6      157.4      372.1         471
Jineun                    814.0       29.6      252.1       895.9       64.8        6.0        67.9      150.5         471
Sante                  11126.8       107.1      903.6    2,141.0       304.0       26.8       244.0      576.6         471
Sycte. a3aton              8,742.3      888.1    3,006.6    7,101.1    1.008.2        98.7      6O9.2    1,913.0          471
SUBTOTAL          20,048.2    1,901.6   16,069.4   36,056.5    8,400.1        512.8    4,384.4   10,246.9          471         9
Trunk Canal               22,416.9    2,262.6   20,936.0   45.US. 7    6,039.0       615.0    8.,48.5   12.299.5          SI8
Hein Canal                 4,'e9.6      447.0    4,106.6    6.940.2    1,182.6        120.4    1,108.8    2.406.8         51S
Branch A Sub Main Canals     8681.4     369.6    8,394.7    7,095.9       976.8       99.6       914.8    1,992.4         8I1
IWTOTAL           80,416.0    8,099.6   26,484.2   61,991.8    61199.9       6s8.0    7,66.5   16,700.4           S11        1S$
_A TOTAL CW         182,248.0   20,425.1   64,087.4  266,706.5   49,096.4    5,802.4   17,251.5   71,60.8            321        661
Equipaent& Stevi gee
Puma A Controls            1,686.2        0.0   14.996.9   16,662.1       448.0        0.0    4,089.6    4,4e8.7          90s
11ator,                    1,6M2.7        0.0   17,064.0   18.920.7       89.e9        0.0    4,5661.9    6,09.6          90s
Fittings, Valves A Crines   1,0161.       0.0    4,068.8    8,061.6       270.8        0.0    1,098.2    1,369.0          e0s
4,575.2        0.0   36,o09.2   40,670.4    1,232.5         0.0    9,73.9   10,986.8 
Utl,.rde                   2,567.7        0.0   Is.229.6   23,677.8       697.1        0.0    6,274.1    6,971.6          90s
TranalaIon linee             607.0        0.0    5.468.0    6,070.0       168.5        0.0    1,471.7    1,686.2          901
H4easet"a & Other,           617.9        0.0    5,561.6    6.179.5       164.5        0.0    1,496.8    1,66e4.7         90e
8,612.7       0.0   34,814.1   se,126.8    1,027.1          0.0    9,244.1   10,271.2          9os
Conetruction Equip.          747.0        0.0    6, 7M.6    7,469.6       201.2        0.0    1,611.1    2,012.8          901S
Office a Design              264.8        0.0    2,300.6    2,648.0        71.8        0.0       641.3      712.6         901
Vehicles.                    643.4        0.0    0,091.0    8,484.4        92.5        0.0       662.7      925.2         903
1,864.9       0.0   12, 194.1   '3.8549.0      868.0        0.0   30,2615.0    .8,60.1         901
Comunicatlons                800.0        0.0    2,700.0    8,000.0        50.6        0.0       727.4      606.2         903
cools" Services            5,000.0        0.0        0.0    8,000.0    1,647.0         0.0         0.0    1,647.0          ON
Inv"tipatine A Rre%ea3h    I ,8s.8        0.0        0.0    1,268.5      3s7.9         0.0         0.0      367.9         0o
Training                   1, 6.e6        0.0    2.997.7    4,84.2        265.8        0.0      807.6    1,178.0          691
6,022.1        0.0    5.697.7   I6,719.m    2,161.1         0.0    1,584.9    8,696.1          421
SUSTOMAL           17,764.9       0.0   8s,301.1   1060.61.0    4.785.0         0.0   28,766.0   26,.578.          631        261
Overhead.
hnge.             st 838.4                0.0        0.0    S ,S8.4       e02.9        0.0         0s. 902.9               01          11
Land Acqulsition             21.0         0.o0       0.0   0,216 .0       409.                     o.0    6,409.8          os         61
Sa CwT           264,n76.2   20.423.1  182386.6  407,641.9  68,194.6    6,502.4   41,069.8  109,706.8              421       1901
UIY3ICAL COMT1019CIES    11,726.9    1,021.3    7,610.9   20. 67.1    8,159.7       275.1    2,082.0    8,466.6         421          a
PRICE C4TISCIUS        J7,7o0.6    1,669.7   11,468.6 5sso0,0.6   10,17.9          414.6    8.098.6   18,6 N.0         261         1n
TOTAL COT          264067.6    2296.0   171489.1   47t82.6    76882.2         6192.3    40168.1   12609.6           411       1171



- 59  -                               ANNEX  2
Table 5
CHSNA
SMUMAMIaWTURAL IW1LM PM=E
D1ir BDim Wete Swply Smmmy Coat Eatat"                  (000's Yuan)
ItD            units    NOS6  lht   Total. r1            Fore4is      Total     L1cal     Forelig     Total   FX X2 
RATE                   IndLrect Direct                  Ix.Lrect Direct            Bas
Pselminarias                                     ---O---Y  000's-                  ---- --000's-----
Light R&UwaY             Ia        12.3  18.0   220.7    132.4    88.3      0.0   220.7    35.7    23.8   0.0    59.5  40X  0X
Bridges                   m       500.0   1.1   560.0    364.0   196.0      0.0   560.0    98.1    52.8   0.0   150.9  351  1X
Road                     100      600.0   1.5   901.0    675.0   225.0      0.0   900.0   181.8    60.6   0.0   242.5  25X  1X
CA,S                    sqo 000    25.6  45.0  1152.0    806.4   345.6      0.0  1152.0   217.2    93.1   0.0   310.3  30X  1S
Vent,LtaLn shaft         Inn       11.0  62.0   682.0    409.2   272-8      0.0   682.0   110.2    73.5   0.0   183.7  401  1X
Wells                    noa       40.0   4.0   160.0    104.0    56.0      0.0   160.0    28.0    15.1   0.0    43.1  351  01
-worne Tarts             nOs      100.0   1.6   160.0    120.0    40.0      0.0   160.0    32.3    10.8   0.0    43.1  25X  0X
Poer lirus               aD        90.0  25.7  2313.0   1156.5  1156.5      0.0  2313.0   311.6   311.6   0.0   623.1  50X  22
Canumcatim               IQn       90.0   2.0   180.0      90.0    90.0     0.0   180.0    24.2    24.2   0.0    48.5  50X  02
Sg4TOTAL                                6327.7   3857.5  2470.2      0.0  6327.7  1039.2   665.5   0.0  1704.7  39X  6X
EAtwdu
_______________________
Carals                   I1        76.5  20.0  1530.0   1132.2   397.8      0.0  1530.0   305.0   107.2   0.0   412.2  261  12
O-faun Wks              1000 ml    69.1  44.7  3088.8   2841.7   247.1      0.0  3088.8   765.5    66.6   0.0   832.1   81  31
Pipe EAVatin           cun OOO3 1500.0   2.2  3300.0   2805.0   495.0      0.0  3300.0   755.7   133.4   0.0   889.0  152  32
Cisterns               Nos 000's   60.0 100.0  6000.0   5100.0   900.0      0.0  6000.0  1373.9   242.5   0.0  1616.4  15X  62
Resea1rs                 NOS      193.0   6.0  1158.0    984.3   173.7      0.0  1158.0   265.2    46.8   0.0   312.0  151  11
Taiuiorery Road         kIn       120.0   5.0   600.0    510.0    90.0      0.0   600).0   137.4    24.2   0.0   161.6  15X  1X
SUBIOIL                                15676.8  13373.2  2303.6      0.0  15676.8  3602.7   620.6   0.0  4223.3  15X  152
Clvili Works & Structures
I.Major Strctures
TuJmls                  Nos.        3.0 1960.0  5880.0   3116.4  2763.6     0.0  5880.0   839.5   744.5   0.0  1584.1  471  6X
Aqtduts                 N0s.        3.0 297.0   891.0    472.2   418.8      0.0   891.0   127.2   112.8   0.0   240.0  471  12
Pnp Statins             Nos.       31.0  80.6  2498.6   1324.3  1174.3      0.0  2498.6   356.8   316.4   0.0   673.1  471  22
Puip Installation       Nos.      242.0   0.3    79.9      39.9    39.9     0.0    79.9    10.8    10.8   0.0    21.5  502  0X
Electrical Installation   Nos.    217.0  12.7  2755.9   1240.2  1515.7      0.0  2755.9   334.1   408.3   0.0   742.4  552  32
Buildings                sqn    7700.0   0.3  1963.5   1570.8   392.7       0.0  1963.5   423.2   105.8   0.0   529.0  201  22
Sub-total                              14068.9   7763.8  6305.1      0.0  14068.9  2091.5  1698.6   0.0  3790.1  451 141
II.PLPe Installaati
C                        bnret.  Ia  68.9 500.0  34450.0  22392.5 12057.5   0.0 34450.0  6032.5  3248.2   0.0  9280.7  35X 331
Cast Iron                bn       341.8  23.0  7861.4   4874.1  2987.3      0.0  7861.4  1313.1   804.8   0.0  2117.8  381  82
Plastic                  klm       43.6  11.2   488.3    317.4   170.9      0.0   488.3    85.5    46.0   0.0   131.6  35S  02
Sub-total                              42799.7  27584.0  15215.7     0.0 42799.7  7431.0  4099.1   0.0  11530.1  36Z 41S
SUJBTML S'1EWSIRE                           56868.6  35347.7 21520.8     0.0 56868.6  9522.6  5797.6   0.0 15320.2  381 551
_ &  terials_
Puis &  notms            zDs       81.0  18.6  1506.6    226.0   415.0   865.6  1506.6    60.9   111.8 233.2   405.9  852  1S
Electric EL4.            nos       81.0  13.0  1215.0    121.5   442.7   650.8  1215.0    32.7   119.3 175.3   327.3  901  1S
Booster Puips            nm       120.0   3.8   456.0    114.0   342.0      0.0   456.0    30.7    92.1   0.0   122.8  752  0S
Cnstructio Mach.         ms         3.0 463.3  1390.0       0.0     0.0  1390.0  1390.0      0.0     0.0 374.5   374.5 100X  11
Vehicles                 rm        27.0  40.0  1080.0    486.0   279.6   314.4  1080.0   130.9    75.3  84.7   290.9  55S  11
MKertals                 tas   33557.0   0.4 13993.3   2099.0  2154.7  9739.6 13993.3   565.5   580.5 2623.8  3769.7  851 142
Sub-total                              19640.9   3046.5  3634.0 12960.4  19640.9   820.7   979.0 3491.5  5291.2  842 19X
Technlcam Asslst. L Resear
Desipm                   an       550.0   5.0  2750.0   2486.5      0.0   263.5  2750.0   669.9      0.0  71.0   740.8  102  32
Trainig                  an       150.0   4.0   600.0    399.6      0.0   200.4   600.0   107.7      0.0  54.0   161.6  332  11
StLy Tours                         50.0  20.0  1000.0    465.5      0.0   534.5  1000.0   125.4      0.0 144.0   269.4  532  1X
Sub-total                               4350.0   3351.6      0.0   998.4  4350.0   902.9      0.0  269.0  1171.9  23S  41
----- - --- -  - ---------------- -----                          --- -  -   --------- - - --- --------
SUB-TDTAL B       fJ TA                      23990.9   6398.1  3633.9 13958.8 23990.9  1723.6   979.0 3760.5  6463.1  732 23Z
ld
ld                       anu     1550.0   0.2   310.0    310.0      0.0     0.0   310.0    83.5      0.0   0.0    83.5   02  02
Sub-total                                310.0    310.0      0.0     0.0   310.0    83.5      0.0   0.0    83.5   0S  01
____________ - --------------------------------------_-- ----J- I'(-- ------ - - -----
SUB-TOTAL LU                                310.0    310.0     0.6      0.0   310.0    83.5      0.0   0.0    83.5   0S  0S
BASE TOTAL                             103173.9  59286.5 29928.5 13958.8 203;73.9 15971.6  8062.6 3760.5 27794.7  43X 1001
PHYSICAL IMNfl             52                 5158.7   2964.3  1496.4   697.9  51S8.7   798.6   403.1 188.0  1389.7  43S  51
FRIMCE ON    C                             11611.2   8802.2  2429.0   380.0 11611.2  2371.3   654.4  102.4  3128.0  241 11l
TOIAL FM OfTlNE                            119943.8  71053.0 33853.9 15036.8 119943.8 19141.4  9120.1 4050.9 32312.4  411 1161



- 60 -                                        ANNEX 2
CHINA                                               Table  6
SHAANXI AORICULTURAL DEVELOPMIET PROJECT                             Page  1
AQUACULTURE COMPOOINT, 5MIARY OF INV\ESTMENT COSTS (Y '000)
TOTAL                      TOTAL
SWUMARY COSTS BY CATECORY     Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total Foreign    Base
(Direct)                   (Direct)               #        S
---------Y 000'  ------------------I 000'  ---------
CIVIL WORS                     3,119    1,696    4,815      840       457    1,297       35         5
POWI DEVELOPENI7WIILDINOS   61,819    5,911   67,730   16,654    1,592   18,246           9        75
ACHI"Y  A EQUIP NT            3,684    3,434    7,118       992      925    1,917       48         8
VB4ICLES                      2.087    1,311    3,399       542       353      916       39         4
SEVICES                        4,105    2,216    6,321    1,106       597    1,703       35         7
OVEfEAD OF 0OVEW%-e              389        0      389       105        0      105        0         0
LAND                             963        0      963      259         0      259        0         1
be. Coot                      76,166   14,568   90,734   20,519    3,925   24,443        16       100
Ptyelcal Contingency          3,891       731    4,622    1,048       197    1,245       16         5
Prle.o Increaese              9,344    4,038   13,383    2,517    1,088    3,605         30        15
TOTAL                        89,401   19,337  108,738   24,084    5,209   29,2S4         18       120
TBEC  TR. CETRE, BAOJI, SU
TOTAL                      TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    TotAl Foreign    Bese
(DirOct)                   (Direct)               I        I
--------- Y 000'  ------------------I DOG'  ---------
CIVIL WORKS                       10        0       10        3         0        3        0         2
WUILDINOS                        200        0      200       54         0       54        0        47
lRA01NERY A EQUIPMENT             75        0       75        20        0       20        0        18
VEHICLES                          19       13       32        5         3        9       40         8
SERVICES                          76        0       76       20         0       20        0        18
OVEAD OF  OVERNMT                  0        0        0        0         0        0                  0
32        0       32        9         0        9        0         7
Bae Cost                         412       13      425       III        3      114        3       100
Physical Contingency              41        1       43        11        0       11        3        10
TOTAL                            453       14      468       122        4      126        3       t1O
eeeeeee.eeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeees@*e*e-e-eeeaee e.eeeeeeeve*e*eeee
TECH. TR. CBETRE, WEINAN, S
TOTAL                      TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foriign    Total Foreign    game
(Direct)                   (Direct)               I        I
-        V------- 000'8 - ----    000 * ---------
CIVIL WORKS                       10        0       10         3        0        3        0         2
UJILDINOS                        200        0      200        54        0       54        0        47
PACHILNEY A EQUIPMENT             75        0       75        20        0       20        0        18
VtICLES                           19       13       32         5        3        9                  8
SRVICES                           76        0       76        20        0       20        0        18
OVERAD OF OOVERNMENT               0        0        0         0        0        0                  0
LAND                              32        0       32         9        0        9        0         7
b* Coet                          412       13      425       111        3      114        3       too
Physieal Contingency              41        1       43        11        0       11        3        10
TOTAL                            453       14      468       122        4      126        3       110
Xe*eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee e.eee_e _     e.._w-e.eeee..e e-eeee eeee.-
TBC. TR. C9fTRE, XIAN, SUM
T-OTAL                     TOTAL
Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Total Foreign    B8ae
(Direct)                   (Direct)               S        S
---------Y OOO'e  ------------------3 000's  ---------
CIVIL WORKS                       16        0       16         4        0        4        0         2
UILDINGS                         394        0      394       106        0      106        0        46
INMAONRY & EQUIPMENT             100        0      100        27        0       27        0        12
VEHICLES                          30       20       50         8        5       13                  6
5ERVICES                         120        0      120        32        0       32        0        14
OVEReHADOF GOVsERMT                0        0        0         0        0        0                  0
LAND                             175        0      175        47        0       47        0        20
ease Cet                         835       20      8W5       225        5      230        2       100
Physical Contingency              83        2       85        22        1       23        2        10
TOTAL                            918       22      940      247         6      253        2       11O
*eeeee.eeeeeeeee.eeeee*e*ea***eeeeeeeee.aeeeaeea******^*****ea



- 61-                                           ANNEX 2
Table 6
Page 2
CHINA
SHAANI ARICA,LTURAL OEVElOPHET PROJECT
AUACULTURE COH-INE'NO  WSt44URY OF INVESTIeJT COSTS (Y '000)
HATC4ERY 300 mu, SUMMARY OF
TOYAL                      TOTAL
Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Total Foreign   Beas
(Dir et)                   (Oirct.)              s        I
--- Y 000 *                           000' -- -
CIVIL WORKS                      301       24      32        e Si       7 I      8        7        19
POW  MEVLOPMENTIaUILDINOS    1,030          0    1,030      278         0      273        0        59
MACHINERY A EQUL'404T             62       62      123        17       17       33       SO         7
VEHICLES                         120        0      120       32         0       32        0         7
SEWICES                           38       38       75        10       10       20       SO         4
OVERHEAD OF OOVERNMET              0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0
LAND                              60        0       60        16        0       16        0         3
Base Cost                      1,611      123   1,734       434        33      4B7        7       iOO
Phyascal Contingency             81         6       87       22         2       23        7        5
TOTAL                          1.691      130    1.,21      456        3S      490        7       103
HATCHERY 50 mu, SUMMARY OF
TOTA'                      TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total Foreign    earn.
(Iiir ct)                  (Di rct)               #        1
---  000' -                             000 -
CIVIL WORKS                       12        7       19        3         2        a       36         6
PO"  DEVELOPHEWT/8UILDINOS       114        0      114       31         0       31        0        39
MACHINERY & EQUIPMBe              53       53      105        14       14       28       SO        36
VEHICLES                          20       14       34        5         4        9       40        12
SEVICES                            4        4        8         1        1        2       SO         8
OVERHEAD OF GOVEY44HENT            0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0
LAND                              10        0       10        3         0        a        0         3
Use Cost                         213       77      290       57        21       78       26       100
Physical Contingency              11        4       15        S         1        4       26        10
TOTAL                            224       81      305        60       22       82       26       110
C.aea*eeae*aCFF*eeeeaaeaeeeeee*aeeeaaeeeeeae***eeeeeaa.eeea*
AQUATIC SUPPLY AN) MARKETIN
TOTAL                      TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total Foreign    8l oe
(Direct)                   (Direct)               S        I
--------- Y 000 * ------------------ I 000'------
CIVIL WORI(S                       0        0        0         0        0        0                  0
9JILDINOS                      1,715        0    1,71S      462         0      462        0        36
MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT            575      575    1,149       155      185      310       sO        24
VEHICLES                         728      464    1,210       196      130      326                 26
SERVICES                          69        0       89       24         0       24        0         2
OV80RHEA  OF  OVERNMT              0        0        0        0         0        0                  0
LAW                              SSO        0      S50       148        0      148        0        12
Bgoe Coot                     3,655    1,059    4,713       985       285    1,270       22       100
PhYa*iCl Contingency             183       53      238       49        14       63       22         a
TOTAL                          3,838    1,111    4,949    1,034       299    1,S33       22       103
e) includes- 1 provincial I
1 prefecture I
4 county level
3 FISH PELLET FEED MILLS, S
TOTAL                      TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total Foreign    Bane
(Direct)                   (Direct)               I        I
----  Y 000 *  ---           --   I 000*'    -
CIVIL  ORS                       900        0      900      242         0      242        0        24
BUILDINOS                        S60        0      360       97         0       97        0        10
MACHINERY A EQUIPMH3T          1,073    1,073    2,145       299      289      578       50        57
VEHICLES                           0        0        0        0         0        0                  0
SERVICES                         240        0      240        65        0       65        0         6
OVERHEAO  OF OOVERNflENT           0        0        0        0         0        0                  0
LAD                              105        0      105       28         0       28        0         3
Base Cost                      2,678    1,073    3,750      721       289    1,010       29       100
Physical Contingency             134       54      188       36        14       51       29         5
TOTAL                          2,811    1,126    3,938       757      303    1,061       29       105
eeeaaeneeeeee.aaeeeeeaaaae.eaaaee.a.ea..e.aaaa.a..a.aa.aee*



- 62 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 6
CBINA                                             Page  3
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMefT PROJECT
AQUACULTLRE COPONENT, SUMMARY OF INVESTMEJr COSTS (Y '000)
6,000 mu OF CONCRETE LINED
-                  ~~~~~~TOTAL                 TOTAL
SumUry of _ots               Local  Foreign    Total    Local Foreign    Total Foreign    ease
by Category                      (Direct)                    (Direct)              S        S
-----  Y000*o-----------5000's-----
CIVIL WORI(S                    221      183      404       60        49      109       45        2
POND DEVELOPIETY J UILDINGS   13,035    2,276   18,311    3,512      613    4.125       15      aS
M4ACHINERY A EQUI NEr           847      S47      694       93        93      167       50        4
VEHICLES                        216      144      360       S8       39        97       40        2
SSBVICES                        793      514    1,306      214       138      352       39        7
OVERHEAD OF 0OVERNBf4T           42        0       42        11       0        11        0        0
LAND                              0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Bse Cost                     14,554    3,463   18.117    3.948      933    4.-61        19      100
Physical Contingency            733      173      906      197       47       244       19        5
TOTAL                        15,387    ,636   19,023    4,145      98"    5,125       1    1T0
eeaeaeaeaaeaeeaeeaaeseeeeeeeseeeeeaaeeeeeeeaeeeaeeeaee..ee*.eee
26.000 mu OF UNLINED PONDS,
TOTAL                      TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total Foreign    Baos
(Direct)                   (Direct)              S        S
----Y 000 --                          000' -
CIVIL WORKS                   1,648    1,482    3,130      444       399      643       47        S
POND DEVELOPMENT/BUILDIN0S   44,770    3,035   48,405   12,061       979   13,040        8       SO
M4ACHINERY  EQUIPMENT        1,326    1,326    2,652      357       357      714       SO        4
VE4ICLES                        936      624    1,S50      252       le      420       40        3
setvIces                      2,670    1,660    4,330      719       447    1,167       38        7
OVEREAD OF GOVERN4ENT           347        0      347       93        0        93        0        1
LAND                              0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
ones Cost                    51.697    8,728   6p,A25   13,927    2,351   16,278        14      100
Physiceal Contingency         2,585      436    3,021      696       1le      814       14        5
TOTAL                        54,282    9,164   63,446   14,623    2,469   17,092        14      105
AWJACULTURE COMPONENT SUWA
TOTAL                      TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local Foreign    Total Foreign    Baa.
(Direct)                   (Dir-ct)              S        S
---------Y 000 * -- ------------5 000'          ------
Tech. Tr. C. Booji              412       13      425       111        3      114        3        0
Tech. Tr. C.Weinan              412       13      425       111        3      114        8        0
Tech. Tr. C. Xian                35       20      855      225        5       230        2        1
Supply & marketing centres    3,655    1,059    4,713      985      285    1,270        22        5
Fish pallet sill              2,678    1,073    3,7b0      721      289    1,010        29        4
Hatchery 300 mu               1,611      123    1,734      434       33       467        7        2
Hatchery 5o u                   213       77      290       57       21        78       26        0
6,000 mu concrete lined pon  14,654    3,463   1S ii7   3,948       983    4,881        19       20
26,000 mu unlined ponds      51,697    8,72-   60,425   13,927    2,351   16,278        14       67
base Coat                    76,1l6   14,568   90,734   20,51V    3,925   24,443        16      100
Physlcal Contingency          '.d91      731    4,622    1,048       197    1,245       16        5
Price Inereasoc               9,344    4,038   13,383    2,517    1,088    3,605        30      s1
TOTAL                        99,401   19,337  108,738   24,084    5,209   29,294        18      120



- 63-                                                    ANNEX 2
111I ArICUL r         9Vin.P"1T ,tO.T                               Table  7
-----------------------------------                                  Page  1
P%LNY        a r    _1V    GP 2V3fl6 COT  SV ay13  (Y '000)
TOTAL                       TOT4AL               
SUi6Y ClOS   Sy CATOW          Local  fte.r1      rotal    Local  Foreig      Total      S       a..
-.--........ - Om's  --^---@-------------  00>0  ---------_
CIVIL L 0hS                    9416          0    9,476    2an           0      nU          Os       io
JUILO1I                       21,4W      2,6n   24.812       8790      765      an         12       2i
"AC1D'tH     A                IS 1.26   26.81    "',179      8890     715      10748       67%       413
VSICLIUS                       1          ,790  J.825         414      4S2       69        842        OS
o1vica                   U              S 6         86U4       18      142       1a?        W0        1s
V0 0W OF  IovsT                   0         0        0         0        0         0        on       o0
LAW                           19.14          0   1i,80      6Om          0      am           ON     2No
oleo Coot                     6 .169   3l.710   96,6"       17t82      82    26104        S        1003
Ptyalcal Conaltw'y             6,51i9    8.171    9,690      1756      U64      2610       88S       IOn
Prlcg  Inc..                    8406      1172     *S7S       917      843      12         273        so
TMTAL                         78,111   U. 18   111.264    20268       9789    2"76         828      1182
wtvO4 hIL7 P1rT A Co"
TOTAL                       TOTAL                         3 s
Locsl  foraign    Total    Local  Foeign    Total         *      sam
-_-----  v OOOIS  ------------------ I hOO'S  ---------
CIVIL VOP(                      iI.S         0     ,.698      487         0      48          0       10
WULDOII                        8.706       120    3,62        6"         82     1060         8       24
0.CH4IKW' A uIPWT               1.979    4.112    6,091       8JS      1106     1641        a        87
vStICL&U                         265       448      730        ??       120      197        61        4
OMPAS                              IS       U         79        4        17       21        SO        0
0vo"A)P0F0ova6Uo                   0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0
LJ0  ,                         3.625         0    S.611       O 100       0     1020         0       24
lca Cost                     I1,806    4,740   15,24         309       1277     4876        29      100
Ptyaeil c-sti^e.cy             1.181      474    1,6         8O        12       4"8        29       10
TOTAL                         12UA       5,214   I7.6S0      840       1406     4S14        26      1O
V W66(AJO ILUR   P F PM
TOTAL                       TOTAL              Px         I
L1ol teraln    Total    Lecol  Foreign    Totai           I      ba
---------Y 0iO's  ------------------ poo.S  ---------
CIVILW S                          404        0       404      10t '       0      10'         0        10
GJILD1I                           710        0       710      191         0      191         0        1i
M4hI" A 66IIIIIT                  440    1.160    1.600       11U       818        I       78       40
ViICLs                            s0        98      18        16        26       42        61        4
11vicaS5                           0        70        70        0        19       19       100        2
oW   O oPvov                       0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0
LAND1,066                                    0    1,088       2i4         0      2iU         0       26
eg. Cost                       2.,$6    1,828    8.99         719       387     1076        33       100
Phyalcal Contfinga               267       188       899       72        36      tOi        33        10
TOTAL                          2.91S     1,48     4,3n        791       893     1163        38       110
*aaaaaaaaaa.aa..a.aaaa.aaaaaaa.a--aaaa...a....... *.-....  -@
SM66WA) FARM FARt (Y '0
TOTAL                       TOTAL              xx         I
Lecal  Fora; n    Total    Local  Foreign    Total        I      tons
____.. ,_    ool   .................. I- OZO 5  ---------
CIVIL Wm8                         958        0       988      257         0      287         0        13
UiLODI                         1,898       12    1,607       480         3      438         1        22
A0O4D4W  A WjIPEt 1,162    1,448    2,607                     318       S29       702      58         36
VU4ICL           -                200      180       330       S4        38        69       89         4
5 VCes                             40        0        40        11        0        11        0         1
ovA0mOF 0Bvo6eT                     0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
L,AW                            1,00         0    1,600       468         0       468        0        28
toes Cost                       5,711    1,8S7    7,886      1849       42i      197        22       100
htyolncl Continacy                878      i8U       714      IS1        43       196       22
TOTAL                           6.326    1,744    S,072      1704       470     2178        22
a.a.aaaaa.aa_aa_.aa_



- 64 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 2
LAYER PARENT FARMS Projects
CHINA
SHAANXI A0RWCULTU'AL DEVELOPM9EW PROJECT
POULTRY CWPONEBT  - SUIARY OF INVESTMIET COST BY ITEM (Y '000)
Suiaary of ' ost                       TOTAL                       TOTAL             FX        S
by Category                 Local  Foreign    Total    Locrl  Foreign    Total      I      Bass
---------Y 030'S  -------S---------- I     S  --------
CIVIL WOKS                     6,394        0    6,394      1722        0     1722        0         9
JUILDINOS                     18,199    2,882   17,881     4095       723     4817        IS      26
MACHINEY A EQUIPI94T           9,648   19,121   28,769     2599      5181     7780       66        42
VEHICLES                         990    1,040    2,080      267       280      547      s5          3
SERVICES                           0      316      816        0        8s       85      100         0
OVEHEAD OF aOVRNT                  0        0        0        0         0        0       RR         0
LAN                           12,600        0   12,600     8394         0     3894        0        19
Base Cost                     44,831   23.160   67,990    12077      6239    18316       34       100
Physical Contingency           4,483    2,316    8,799      1208      624     1832       34        10
TOTAL                         49,314   25,476   74,789    18288      s680    20148       34       110
eaeeeeeaaeeeeaeeee****^ea*^*eeeaaeeaaaaeee*eeeaeeeee*-*****eee
YANaLDM LAYER GAw  PARi?T
TOTAL                      TOTAL              FX        S
Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Total               eaa.
-------Y OCOOS --030 S  ---------
CIVIL WOUCKS                      28        0       28        8         0        8        0         2
BUILDINOS                        284       25      309        77        7       83        8        23
MA04INERY A EQUIPiMENT            98      714      812        26      192      219       88        61
VUIICLES                           0       SO       80        0        22       22       100        8
SERVICES                           0       79       79        0        21       21       100        6
OVEAD OF GOVERNT                   0        0        0        0         0        0                  0RR 
LANJ                              24        0       24         6        0        6        0         2
ease Coat                        434      898    1,332       117      242      859       67       100
Physlcal Contingency              43       90     13         12       24       36        67       10
T3TAL                            478      988    1,4S6       129      266      398       67       110
Ceeo*9e.aeaeaaa@eeaaeeeaeeaae@*ew@eaa9e*eaeae9eee.eeaeeeeeaee
POULTIRY SECTOR CO4PONENT StU
TOTAL                      TOTAL              FX        S
POULTRY SUBPROJECTS            Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total      I       Baas
---------Y 000S  ------------------s I o's  ---------
Wolnan Broiler Parent A Coan   1,088        0    1,058       284        0      284         01
Sauankou (project no 2)        2,668    1,325    3,998       719      357     1078       831        41
Saaenkau (project no 2A)       8,751    1,887    7,338      1549      428     1977        225      8s
Projecte nos 3.4.5 A 6 S        ,831   23,160   67,990    12077      6239    18316       341       701
Yangling (project no 7)          434      898    1,832       117      242      389       6e7        1S
sees Coat                     68,189   31.710   96.898    17562      8542    28104        S3S     1001S
Physical Contingency           6,819    3.171    9,690      1786      884     2610        33S      101
Pries Increases                 3403     1272     4676       917      343     1260        271       53
TiTAL                         78,111   38,153  111,264    20235      9789    29974        32h     1181



- 65 -                                      AM2NEX2
Table 8
Page 1
CHINA
SNAANXI AORICILTURAL OEVELOPM4ET PROJECT
ACROPROCESSINO SUAY COST ESTIFATES
Summary of ~Osts               oa  TO3TAL                         OTAL
by Category                 Lc         ForT gn    Totaal   For:ign    Total  Foreign   Base
cout exhange      cost     coat *xchonge      cost      S        A
--------- Y ODO' --------------- I 000's ---------
CIVIL WOWS                       616        0       616      166         0      166         0        2
eWJILOINCS                     8,127      320    8,447      2189        86     2276         4       31
MACHlIERY A EQUIPMENT            787   12 782   13.569       212      3443     3655        94       49
VEHICLES                         164    1.330    1.494        44       358      402        89        S
SERVICES                         710      350    1.060        191       94      286        33        4
OVElWD OF COVR1NT                  0        0         0        0         0        0                  t
LAN                            2,460        0    2,460       663         0      663         0        9
=2a- Coat                     12,864   14.782   27.64S      3465      3982     7448        S3      100
Physical Contingency           1,286    1,478    2,765       347       398      745        53       10
Price Incremem                  2013      866      2879      542       233      776        30       10
TOTAL                         16,163   17.126   33,289    4,3S4    4,614    8,968          51      120
e***@e**e*aSaa**aS*aactaaacgcat**Ce*C**@*a
ONE'f BEE PROOUCTS PROCESSI
TOTAL                       TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Foreign  Bas
cost 9.change     cost      cost sxchange      cost     S        S
-_       -- Y 000's ----                000' -
CIVIL WORKS                        0         0        0         0        0        0         OS       OS
BUILDINGS                      1,814      320    2.134       489        86      575        151      30S
4ACHIhERY & EIUIPMENT             S4    2,026    2.080         15      546      560        971      38S
VEH1CLES                           0       190      190         0       51       51       100%       31
SERVICES                         130         0      130       35         0       35         OS       21
OVERWAD OF COVERNM3T               0         0        0        0         0        0         01       OS
LAND                             960         0      960      259         0      259         01      17S
Base Cost                      2,958    2,536    5,404        797      683     1480        46S     100S
Physical Contingency             296       254      549       80        68       148       461      101
TOTAL                          3.254    2,790    6.043       877       752     1628         tS      lo0
FROST PLANT, S.W4ARY OF INV
TOTAL                       TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Foreign   Oes.
coat *.change     cost      coat exchange      coat     S         S
-- _  Y 000'             -- --------
CIVIL WORKS                        0         0        0         0        0        0
BUILDINGS                        655         0      655       178        0       176        0       21
MACHINERY A EQUIPMe4T             20    1.858    1,878          5      501      506        99       6O
VE4ICLES                           0       160      160         0       43       43       100        S
SERVICES                         130       120      250        35       32       67        48        8
OVERHEAD OF GOVERNMT               0         0        0         0        0        0                  0
LAWD                             10          0      180        48        0       48         0        6
Bacs Cost                        985    2,138    3,123       265       576      841        66      100
Physical Contingency              99       214      312        27       58       84        S8       10
TOTAL                          1,084    2.352    3.436        292      634      926        68        10
COLD STOhE, SURY OF INVE
TOTAL                       TOTAL
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Foreign   8am.
coat exchange     coat      cost exchange      coat     S         I
--_  ----- Y 000' ------------------              000'  ---------
CIVIL WORKS
BUILDINOS                      2,830         0    2,830       762        0       762        0       60
MA04INERY & E'UIPMEWT            110       809      919        30      218       248       88        19
VEHICLES                           0       360      360         0       97        97      100        8
SERVICES                         240        80      320        S5       22       8S        25        7
OVERHEAD OF GOVE4S4ENT             0         0        0         0        0         0                 0
LAND                             320         0      320        86        0       86         0        7
ease Cost                      3,500    1.249    4.749        943      336      1279       26       100
Physical Contingency             350       125      475        94       34       128       26        10
TOTAL                          3.850    1.374    5,224       1037      370      1407       26        10



-66                                         ANNEX 2
Table 8
Page 2
O4INA
SWNXI Aa3PICULTUIAL DEVELOP9ET PROJECT
AtPROCI551N0 SJHA    COST BSTIMATES
FRUIT JUtCE PWOCESSTN. s'-
TOTAL                      'TTAL
Sumawy of :oto                Loeol  PoPOigl    Total    Local Poe., go    total  Forrn   8cco
by Cateory                   cost * ch'a.       coat      Jiat *aeanga      coat     *         s
         I-------  ------_- _ U 000_ a ---------
CIVtL VMSt
bSLDI60S                        98                 950      258         0      281        0        i6
MACHINtER  A EJIP'4T              20    4.393    4.413         5      1183     1l01       100       75
VB4ICLES                           0      120       120        0        32       32       too 1
sEVICE                           ISO        0       160       43         0       43         0        3
OVEAoau  OVE .4W                   0        0         0        0         0        0
LAND                             200        0       200       54         0       54         0        3
1Usa Cost                      :33t    4 513    5.a49        360      1216      1576       n       ITW~
P%yaCql CoAti oncy               134       481      Su        36       122      1IS        77        to
TOTAL                            470    4.964    a           396      1337      1733       77        to
0.0 0.0 4   r>*0-*.6*eee**. .................. 0000*---
JUP   PEAT PACK A0 .tN  StR
TOTAL                       TOTAL
Local  For.g'n    Total    Loeel  Do.a.gn    Total  Foreign   as"
coot *.Cheng.      coat     cost *echang.      cost      I        I
----  v OW0'  ------------------ I 000 @ ---------
CtVIL Wt(S                       616         0      61s       166        0       16s        0         7
bUILDlWN                       1,672         0    1.o72       504        0       504        0        22
MA04tP4Y A SaUIP'ET              503    3.696    4.278        157      996      1153 83              51
VSIICLSI                         164       So0      664        44       1ls      179       ?5         a
SWVtCU                            5C       150      200        13       40        54       75         2
OVEaWAq  OF00VGREI                 0         0        0         0        0         0
LA.                              am00        0      600       216        0       216        0         9
Bad. Coot                      4,068    4.346    8.430       1too      1171     2271       52       100
Ph.yaieC   Contingancy             N       4385     64S       110       117      221        52       10
T'ML                           4,^493    4.7S0    9.273      12t0     1226      2498        52      110
SUlifANV OF rNVVSTMS# OST
TOTAL                       TOTAL
AaONODsTRIAL. S1-PtOJECTS   Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Foreig    som
cost anchanga      coat     Coat emehang.      coat      I 
.........    . . . ..a.........- 000     *  '     
NOP  8Ee PRODUCTS PCOC.    2.981    2.536    5,494 7-97                  63     14M8        46       20
OSoT PUNT                        985    2.138    3.123        265       576      641
COLD STOR                      3 500    1.249    4.749        943       336     1279        26        17
FRUIT PROCEs8tIN               1 336    4,813    58649        360      1216     1876        77       21
;IPS4O MEAT PLNT               4.08S      .346    6.48 0     1100      1171     2271        52       30
a8a. Coat                     12.864   14.782   27.646       3465      3982     7448        53       100
Phya cal Cotgt'RCy             1t.266    1.476    2.765       347       3e8      745        53        10
Pt  cea Inclaara.               2013       666     2679       S42       233      77s        30        10
OTAL                          1,163   17,126   33,269        4354      4814     8968        51       120



67-                                                 ANNEX 2
-----                                                  Table  9
mSUlioa IaLnmAL IP91ffN PUIiET
SEMS P E4i08 AND PRISSn; U
Unit  Prioe   NO   ICB   LB   Other Tol   IAl    FoPsnlp   Totl  Ll    Foe    Total  FX  Base
(Y 000')                                             r    Dct                  Ind2r.Dlret         X   S
------ Y 000'a ------     --------Y GW---------      -------S 00---------
1. Building:
TrwUs  Buldin                                4           790            790    790.0 0.0    0.0  790.0  212.8 0.0   0.0  212.8   0S
Ptoress   8ulld1z~                             4          3536          3536   3536.0 0.0    0.0  3536.0  952.6  0.0   0.0 952.6   0S
Ex       ROM                                   4           700           700    700.0 0.0    0.0  700.0  188.6 0.0   0 0 188 6   0X
Office                          -              4           231           231    231.0 0.0    0.0  231.0   62.2 0.0   0.0  62.2   0X
Residenoe                                      4          1073           1073   1073.0 0.0    0.0  1073.0  289.1 0.0   0.0  289.1   01
Bld. md e= nent                                4           574           574    574.0 0.0    0.0  574.0  154.6 0.0   0.0  154.6   02
5zdm Gra                                       4           602           602    602.0 0.0    0.0  602.0  lc2.2  0.0   0.0  162.2  0O
1   Pur e elahor                               4          2292          2292   2292.0 0.0    0.0  2292.0   17.5 0.0   0.0  617.5   02
Sub,-total                                          0   9798      0   9798   9798.0 0.0    0.0  9798.0 2639.5 0.0   0.0 2639.5   0X  47X
2 Equnt.
Electrcnlc scaN.                     10.0  12 120.0                   120.0      0.0       120.0  120.0    0.0  0.0  32.3  32.3 100S
Gen1nit1rg bo                          3.0  10  30.0                   30.0      0.0        30.0   30.0    0.0  0.0   8.1   8.1 1002
Refrigerator                          2.0  10  20.0                    20.0      0.0        20.0   20.0    0.0  0.0   5 4   5.4 1002
Electrotmefi calor3tat                1.5  12  18.0                    18.0      0.0        18.0   18.0    0.0 0.0   4.8   4.8  1002
Aro aoft X-ray mwhlne                 3.5   0   0.0                     0.0      0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0 0.0   0.0   0.0
Electcuftc moisura metar              1.0   0   0.0                     0.0      0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0
Sifting vibrator                      1.0  10  10.0                   10.0       0.0        10.0   10.0    0.0  0.0   2.7   2.7  100S
Microsoopa                            3.0  10  30.0                    30.0      0.0        30.0   30.0    0.0  0.0   8.1   8.1  1002
Tele                                  1.5  20  30.0                   30.0       0.0        30.0   30.0    0.0 0.0   8.1   8.1 1002
COnera                                2.0  10  20.0                    20.0      0.0        20.0   20.0    0.0 0.0   5.4   5.4 100%
Sectxphota ter                        4.0  10  40.0                   40.0       0.0 0.0   40.0   40.0    0.0 0.0  10.8  10.8 100S
Elctrmn  courteAr amter            1.5  10  15.0                   15.0      0.0  0.0   15.0   15.0    0.0  0.0   4.0   4.0  1002
Electra0resis imter                   3.5  12  42.0                    42.0      0.0  0.0   42.0   42.0    0.0  0.0  11.3  11.3 1002
Air-o     tr                           3.5  10  35.0                   35.0      0.0  0.0   35.0   35.0    0.0 0.0   9.4   9.4  100X
Electric saple sorter                 0.3  20   5.0                     5.0      0.0  0.0    5.0    5.0    0.0  0.0   1.3   1.3 1002
Other LastrumntS                      0.3   0   0.0                     0.0      0.0 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 0.0   0.0   0.0
Exain,ing table                       0.8  20           15.0           15.0     15.0 0.0    0.0   15.0    4.0  0.0   0.0   4.0   02
S5le cabinet                         1.0  20           20.0           20.0     20.0  0.0    0.0   20.0    5.4  0.0   0.0   5.4   02
MLd cicr cabinet                       1.0  10           10.0          10.0     10.0 0.0    0.0   10.0    2.7 0.0   0.0   2.7  0O
Utenall cabInet                       1.0  20           20.0           20.0     20.0  0.0    0.0   20.0    5.4  0.0   0.0   5.4  0O
Cooler                                20.0   1           20.0          20.0     20.0  0.0    0.0   20.0    5.4  0.0   0.0   5.4  0O
Chomicls                    Tons       6.0   0           0.0            0.0      0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0
Other aterlals                         0.1   0           0.0            0.0      0.0 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 0.0   0.0   0.0
Sub-total                               415.0   85.0   0.0  500.0       85.0 0.0  415.0  500.0   22.9 0.0 111.8 134.7  832   2X
Seed Proes3in& EcUInMtE
Cwbired seed selctor                 154.0   9 1386.0                1386.0      0.0  0.0  1386.0 1386.0    0.0  0.0  373.4  373.4 1OOX
Packirn cnA d u1ti  mckem             73.0   4 292.0                  292.0      0.0  0.0  292.0  292.0    0.0  0.0  78.7  78.7  1002
QhnicA1s agitator                     16.0   3  48.0                   48.0      0.0 0.0   48.0   48.0    0.0 0.0  12.9  12.9 1002
Gravity refiner                       55.4    1  55.4                  55.4      0.0  0.0   55.4   55.4    0.0  0.0  14.9  14.9 10O2
B.ffi%  nehi.                       200.0   1 200.0                   200.0      0.0  0.0  200.0  200.0    0.0  0.0  53.9  53.9  1002
Eazder                              17.8   1  17.8                   17.8      0.0  0.0   17.8   17.8    0.0  0.0   4.8   4.8  1002
Dryer                                 43.1   2  86.2                   86.2      0.0 0.0   86.2   86.2    0.0 0.0  23.2  23.2  1002
Gravity counter                       50.0   1  50.0                   50.0      0.0 0.0   50.0   50.0    0.0  0.0  13.5  13.5  1002
Bucket eleeator                       12.0   3  36.0                   36.0      0.0  0.0   36.0   36.0    0.0  0.0   9.7   9.7 1OOS
Sifting plate 5 ilnent cylinder                 128.6                 128.6      0.0  0.0  128.6  128.6    0.0 0.0  34.6  34.6 1002
utoatic u.igh scale                   25.0   5 125-0                  125.0      0.0 0.0  125.0  125.0    0.0  0.0  33.7  33.7  100l
D!ustLxt  e t'.                      15.0   9 135.0                   135.0      0.0  0.0  135.0  135.0    0.0  0.0  36.4  36.4  1002
ClIl   equnt                          34.0   9 306.0                  306.0      0.0  0.0  306.0  306.0    0.0 0.0  82.4  82.4  1002
cam  -t                               3.8   9  34.0                    34.0      0.0 0.0   34.0   34.0    0.0  0.0   9.2   9.2 1002
Sub-total                              2900.0    0.0   0.0  2900.0       0.0  0.0 2900.0  2900.0    0.0 0.0  781.3  781.3 100l  14X
TrHa9,.",1tir.m..x  .3               24.4    3  73.2                   73.2      0.0  0.0   73.2   73.2    0.0 0.0  19.7  19.7  1002
'mwchnmtic Xero #5                    8.5   6  51.0                    51.0      0.0  0.0   51.0   51.0    0.0  0.0  13.7  13.7  1002
m and camenra                        15.0   9 135.0                   135.0      0.0 0.0  135.0  135.0    0.0 0.0  36.4  36.4 1002
Kicro ocapater                        12.0   9 108.0                  108.0      0.0  0.0  108.0  108.0    0.0  0.0  29.1  29.1 100
Video carera system                  143.8   1 143.8                  143.8      0.0  0.0  143.8  143.8    0.0  0.0  38.7  38.7 1002
Sub-total                               511.0    0.0   0.0  511.0        0.0  0.0  511.0  511.0    0.0 0.0  137.7  137.7  1002   21
3. Vehicleas
Truck  6 t                              40   5 200.0                   200.0      0.0  0.0  200.0  200.0    0.0  0.0  53.9  53.9  1002
1.25 PLck up Trucka 4 Pass              27   3  81.0                   81.0       0.0  0.0   81.0   81.0    0.0  0.0  21.8  21.8 1002
Passaer car (12-15 pass.)               70.0   5 350.0                  350.0      0.0 0.0  350.0  350.0    0.0 0.0  94.3  94.3 lOOS
JeeD a parsw 's                        46.3   6 277.8    0.0            277.8      0.0  0.0  277.8  277.8    0.0 0.0  74.8  74.8  1002
Pikup 3/4 to, 4 pass.                  27.0  10 270.0                   270.0      0.0  0.0  270.0  270.0    0.0  0.0  72.7  72.7  1002
Sub-total                              1178.8    0.0   0.0  1178.8       0.0  0.0  1178.8  1178.8    0.0  0.0  317.6 317.6  1002   62
4 Materials
Pesticides
Furadan                       Ton       37.2   5 186.0                  186.0      0.0  0.0  186.0  186.0    0.0  0.0  50.1  50.1  1002
Meotrin                       Ton       37.2   5 167.4                  167.4      0.0  0.0  167.4  167.4    0.0  0.0  45.1  45.1  1002
Canite                        TC       26.8   3  80.4                    80.4      0.0  0.0   80.4   80.4    0.0  0.0  21.6  21.6 1002
Sidlex                        Tn       40.9   4 163.7                   163.7      0.0 0.0  163.7  163.7    0.0  0.0  44.1  44.1  1002
Lasso                         Ton      16.7   4  70.3                    70.3      0.0  0.0   70.3   70.3    0 0 0.0  18.9  18.9 1OO2
Pesticldes total                                                         0.0       0.0 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0
FertilLzers - DAP             TM        1.0 1550 1472.5                1472.5      0.0  0.0  1472.5  1472.5    0.0  0.0  396.7 396.7  1002
Fertilizers - Urea            Tcn       0.7 1440  1008                 1008.0      0.0  0.0  1008.0  1008.0    0.0  0.0  271.6 271.6  1002
Steel                         Ton       1.0   0                   0.0    0.0       0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0
Tuiner                        m2        0.5   0                   0.0    0.0       0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0
Plastic film                  Ton       4.8  277  1331            0.0  1331.0      0.0  0.0  1331.0  1331.0    0.0  0.0  358.6  358.6 1OOX
Sub-total                              4479.2    0.0   0.0  4479.e       0.0  0.0  4479.2  4479.2    0.0  0.0 1206.7 1206.7  1002  222
S. Tra :
. rl                                                            266.0  266.0       0.0  0.0  266.0  266.0    0.0  0.0  71.7  71.7  JOO0
Abrood                                                          150.0  150.0       0.0 0.0  150.0  150.0    0.0  0.0  40.4  40.4  1002
Seed Research                                                   936.0  936.0       0.0 0.0  936.0  936.0    0.0 0.0  252.2 252.2  1002
Sub-total                                 0.0    0.0 1352.0 1352.0       0.0  0.0  1352.0  1352.0    0.0  0.0  364.2  364.2 1002   72
6 CnsuuLtatLan fees                                                 10.0   10.0       0.0  0.0   10.0   10.0    0.0  0.0   2.7   2.7  100l   02
Bas en .                                         9484.1 9883.0 1362.0 20729.1   9883.0 0.0 10846.1 20729.1 2662.4  0.0 2921.9 5584.3  52% 1002
Physical oami Iymcy                               474.2  494.2  68.1  1036.5    494.2 0.0  542.3 1036.5  133.1 0.0  146.1  279.2  522   52
Price escal.ation                                                                710.6 0.0  311.3  1021.9  191.4 0.0  83.9 275.3  302
Total 1rsn     costa                                9958.3 10377.2 1430.1 21765.5  11087.7 0.0 11699.7 22787.4  2987.0 0.0 3151.9 6138.8  512



- 68 -
A'NEX 2
Table 10
SiAMl AGRICULTURAL OEViPONT PtOJECT
LOAN ALIIJATION
ITEi               PROJET                 iCe         LCS        OTHE         TOTAL        ICS         US         OTHR        TOTAL
______----- Y 000's  -------------               -----------  I 000'a  -------------
1.  EARflY       Dofiglel Irrigation                   0.0         0.0   176,658.2   176,t65.2          0.0         0.0   47,56 6.   47,589.6
(59.910.2)  (59.910.2)                          (16.139.6)  (6196
Dingebin Votr Supily                  0.0         0.0  920596.5   20,953.5             0 0         0.0   (156t44)   (1,6,4) 
Aqumculture                           0.0         o.                                    . 0        o.o    17,954.6   17,954.6
(19,6au.6)  (19,635.6)                           (5,269.6)   (.269.6)
Agroerocea.i.g              ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~~         ~~~0.0  0.0  00  0.0  0.00.0000
Poultry, Pige A Rabbit&               0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Seeds Procoaeing                      0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
St-TOTAL-00                                       00-----------  o. o.o  264, 254.   2e4,234.3  0.0  0.0   71,189.2   71,169.2
(86t481. 5)  (56,481.5)                          (23,297.6)  (28,297.6)
II. CIVILV Wl     onglel Irrigation                    0.0   65,697.0      6,573.4    74,471.2          0.0    17,752.7     2,309.6   20,062.8
STRiCITuS                                                (10,384.2)              (10,384.2)                (2,797.5)               (2,797.5)
Dingtion Weter Supply                 0.0   45,570.5   27,902.1   75,480.7             0.0    12,278.7      7,516.7    19,795.4
(27,. st9)              (27,638.9)               (7,445.3)                (7,44S.0)
Aquaculture                           0.0     S 770.4        240.2     6,010.6         0.0     1,534.5         64.7     1,619.2
(5,300.7)               (5,300.7)               (1,426.0)                (1,426.0)
Ageoproceaeing                        0.0     7,657.3      4,i65.6   12,742.9          0.0     2,116.7      1,316.2    3,432.9
Poultry, Pigs A Rabbit*               0.0    30,202.8    11,748.3    41,947.6          0 0     8.136.4      3,164.1   11,300.5
(12,295.6)              (12,295.6)               (3,312.4)                (3,312.4)
Seed. Procae.ing                      0.0     7,56.5           0.0     7, 39.5         0.0     2,044.8          0.0    2.044.6
(14,165.6)               (4,163.6)               (I1,12.6)(112.6
SUB-TOTAL --------------------        0.0   12,896.0   53,340.7  216242.6              0.0    43, U.       14,371.4    6.12 50
(59,603.1)              (59,803.1)              (16,-110.6)              (16,110.6)
1II. MATERIALS   Dongli Irrigation                40,396.6   20,091.4   12,407.3   60,697.3    18,038.*         5,412.6      8,342.5   21,793.5
(48,398.6)  (13,059.4)       (0.0)  (6l1458.0)  (13,038.4)   (3,51.82)        (0.0)  (1t,558.6)
Dlongbin Weter Supply            11,694.0     2,099.0          0.0   13,993.0      3,204.2       565.5          0.0    3.769.7
(11,694.4)   (1,364.4)              (13,256.7)   (3,204.3)      (387.6)               (3,571.9)
Aquaculture                      11,550.0         0.0          0.0    11,50O.0     3,111.5         0.0          0.0     3,111.5
(11.550.0)                          (11,550.0)   (3,111.5)         0.0         0.0   (3,111.5)
Agroproceelng                         0 0         0.0      1,626.0     1,628.0         0.0         0.0        491.9       491.9
.0          0       55             0 .        (0.0)       (0.0)
Poultry, Pigs A Rabbit.           2,072.0         0.0         74.0    2,1e.0         S6S.2         o..0        19.9       576.1
(2,072.0)        0.0       (74.0)   (2.146.0)     (55S.2)        0.0        (19.9)     (578.1)
Seasi Proceaing                   4,479.0         0.0          0.0     4,479.0     1,206.6         0.0          0.0     1,206.8
S4 47W9.)                           (4.79.0)   )1,208.6)                  35            20e.e)
SU8-TOTAL --------------------   7s'se3.0    22.190.4   14.S07.S   114t,91.3                   5,14,61.8  578.0 31,119.0  5,976.0
(78 394.0)  (14 423.8)      (74.0)  (92 691.7)  (21,119.1)   (3,685.7)       (19.9)  (25,024.7)
Iv. ErUIP,Ers Danglel Irrigation                  53U14.      38,269.1    3,692.1   93,345.7    14,327.7        9, 770.8     1,048.5   25,147.0
VEHOICLWSt                                   (53,184.5)  (16.6-                  (7       )  (14,327.7)   (5,043.3)               (19,371.0)
Dingblon Weter Supply             4,700.0        947.0         0.0     e97.0       1,266.2       255.1        121.2     1,642.5
(4,700.0)     (615.6)        0.0   (5,018.6)   (1,266.2)       (165.6)               (1,432.0)
Aquaculture                       4,921.4     6,709.0    3,705.0   15,335.4        1,325.8      1,807.4       996.1    4,131.3
(4,921.4)   (4.360.9)        0.0   (9,262.3)   (1,325.6)   (1,174.8)                 (2,500.6)
Agroprocessing                   12,766.6      1,607.6        64.8   14,478.5    3,444.7         433.1         22.7    3,900.4
(12I.:66.)   (1,044.9)              (13,831.5)   (3.444.7)        10.0)               (3.7283.2)
Poultry, Pigs A Rob4its          28 s29.8     1 Is:s.2     7.113.3   49,e2e.3      7 wgi.8     3. e8e.2                1 e  s3e3e 2
(28,529.8)   (8,694.1)   (2 214.2)  (39.636.1)   (7,665.6)   (2,396.0)               (10 67e.4)
Seeds Procaesing                  4,776.4        65.0      1,176.6     6,040.2     1,2658.7       22.9        317.6     1,627.2
SW-TOTAL1l~~~~~~~~.76.4)6  59 003    16,723.5                       )    1,266.7)       (14.9)               (1,301.6
SUB-TOTAL --------------------     1.898.    se 39 o e)  16,723.5   1 4,9e23.0    9.338.9    15,975.5       4, 505.3   49,617.
(106,698.6)  (36,691.3)   (2,214.2) (144,804.1)  (29,336.9)   (9,076.3)      (596.5)  (39,009.7)
V.  Te#ICAL   Donglal Irrigation                       0.0          0.0    12,560.2    12,560.2         0.0         0.0      3,589.1    3,389.1
ASSISTANCE                                                            (8,517.9)   (3,517.9)                              (947.7)     (947.7)
SUtVICE     Dingbien Weter Supply                 0.0          0.0     5,057.0     5,057.0         0.0          0 0     1,362.4     1,302.4
(2,532. 9)   (2,552.9)                             (662.4)     (682.4)
Aquaculture                           0.0         0.0      7,575.3     7,575 .3        0.0         0.0      2,040.7     2,040.7
(1,110.0)   (1,110.0)                             (299.0)      (299.0)
Agroproc.amang                        0.0         0.0      1,276.4     1,276.4         0.0         0.0        343.6       34.8.
(1,276.4)   (1 276.4)                              (343.9)     (3483.9
Poultry, Pigo A Robbit.                0.0        0.0      1,129.3     1 129.3         0.          0        304.2       04.2)
(672.0)     (672.0)                             (161 0)      (161.0)
Sonds Proceeoing                      0 0         0.0      1,496.6     1,496.8         0.0         0.0        403.2       403.2
(9796.2)     (796.2)                              (215.0)     (215.0)
SW8-TOTAL --------------------        0.0         0.0    2114.9   29,114.9             0.0         0.0      7,643.5     7,843.5
90e7.4)    9,907.4)                            (2,56se.)   (2,809.)
VI. LAW          Donge;i Irrigation                     0.0         0.0     o          1:1S66.s          0.0         0.0     2,6928.0   (2 ,66.0
a OTHER     Dingbien Water Supply                 0.0          0.0       360.4       380.4         0.0         0o0         97.1        97.1
Aquaculture                           0.0         0.0      1,620.3     1,620.3         0.0         0.0        436.5       436.5
Agropiroceoino                        0.0         0.0      2,962.1     2,962.1         0.0         0.0        795.0       796.0
Poultry, Pigs A Rabbit.               0.0          0.0    23,596.0    23,596.0         0.0         0.0      6,356.7     6.356.7
Seod. Proceaing                       0.0         0.0      3,160.0     3,160.3         0.0         0 0        656.6       658.8
SUW-TOTAL ---- ---------------        o.o         0.0    72,265.1   72,265.1           0.0          0 0    19,473.4    19,473.4
TOTAL. LOAi.)OgIi.:. i.t n          .- '.... 1.,910.0iii i   iiis8 i ...    .....
(101.563.1)  (42,164.2)  (65,428.1) (207,175.8)  (27,366 1)  ( 11,35.9)  (17,057.3)  (55,812.3)
Oingbien Voter Supply            16,594.0    43,624.5    54,728.0   119,941.6    4,470.4    13,099.3   14,742.2   32,311 6
(16,594.4)  (29,616.)   (9,458.5)  (56,679.7)   (4,470.5)   (7,976.7)   (2,550.8)  (14 999.9)
Aquaculture                      16471.4    12 479.4    79,788.4   100,739.2       4 %37.3     3,361.9   21,494.7   29,294.0
(18,471.4)   (9,661.8)  (20,745.6)  (46,6786.)   (4,437.3)   (2.602.6)   (S5.8 6)  (12,628.9)
Agrodro.a.ing                    12,766.6      9,464.9     9,206.4    36,265.9     3,444.7     2,549.6      2,480.7    0,967.1
(12'7U0.8)     '         (2Fs.4)  (15,107.9)   (3'444.7)        '            34s-9)  h44070.0)
Poultry/Livetock                 30.501.8   43e8s.s    4:95e7.e   1 18."S.2    8:244.0   11,22.6    11 842.1    I: 9e.07
(30.601.8)  (21,169.9)   (2,960.2)  (34,751.9)   (6,244.0)   (8,706.5)      (797.5)  (14,750 0)
Seeds Proeassing                  9,258.4      7,674.5    5,655.6   220765.7       2,493.4      2,067.5     1,577.5    6,136.4
J9,25.4)   (4,240.6)      (798.2)  (14,294.4)   (2,493.4)   (1,142.5)      (215.0)    3.850.9)
TOTAL                           1 7M2.2   244,387.2   448,205. 9661,711.4   50,455.9   6S5S37.1  120,745.1  237,530.0
(167,292.8) (106,673.2)  (98,677.1) (398,887.6)  (50,458.0)  (26,791.3)  (26,583.3) (106,112.0)



-  5    -                                   ANNEX  3
Table 1
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS PROCUREMENT SUMMARY\a
(000's Yuan)
PROJECT                    ITEM                     ICB           LCB          OT8ER          TOTAL
I. DONGLEI      1. PUMPS                                10,042.2         140.0           0.0        10,182.1
PROJECT II  2. CONTROLS                              6,480.0            0.0           0.0        6,480.0
3. ELECTRIC MOTORS                     18,926.7         250.8            0.0       19,177.5
4. TRANSFORMERS                         2,719.0         470.4            0.0        3,189.4
5. SWITCHYARDSITRANSMISSION LINES            0.0     31,947.3            0.0       31,947.3
6. CRANES & VALVES                      2,004.4       3,083.1            0.0        5,087.5
7. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT               8,202.4            0.0           0.0        8,202.4
8. VEHICLES                                                         3,434.4         3,434.4
9. OFFICE,DESIGN & COMMUNICATION        4,809.8         377.5         457.7         5,645.0
10. MATERIALS                          48,398.6      20,091.4      12,407.3        80,897.3
SUB-TOTAL                             101,583.1      56,360.5      16,299.4       174,243.0
II. DINGBIAN   1. PUMPS                                    115.2         161.8           0.0           277.0
WATER       2. MOTORS                                  750.4         120.4           0.0          870.8
SUPPLY     3. CRANES                                     0.0        234.0           0.0           234.0
4. VALVES & FITTINGS                       310.0        276.0            0.0           586.0
S. ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT                    650.8        571.2            0.0        1,222.0
6. MATERIALS                           11,389.6       2,940.0            0.0       14,329.6
7. CONSTRUCTION MACHINES                1,390.0            0.0           0.0        1,390.0
8. INSTRUMENTS & EQUIPMENT                 550.0          20.0          46.6           616.6
9. VEHICLES                                135.6           0.0        314.4            450.0
SUB-TOTAL                              15,291.6       4,323.4         361.0        19,976.0
III.AQUACULTURE 1. PARM EQUIPMENT                        1,756.0       3,429.0           0.0         5,185.0
2. VEHICLES                            2,548.2            0.0      1,156.8         3,705.0
3. MATERIALS                          11,550.0            0.0      9,922.8        21,472.8
4. RESEARCH & TRAINING EQUIPMENT         617.2            0.0        105.0            722.2
SUB-TOTAL                              16,471.4       3,429.0      11,184.6        31,085.0
IV. LIVESTOCK  1. EQUIPMENT                            26,024.8      13,683.2       2,792.6        42,500.6
2. VEHICLES                             2,505.0            0.0        965.0         3,470.0
3. MATERIALS                            2,072.0            0.0          74.0        2,146.0
SUB-TOTAL                              30,601.8      13,683.2       3,831.6        48,116.6
V. AGRO-        1. FUFENG MEAT PACKING PLANT             3,179.4       1,011.1         750.0         4,940.4
PROCESSING  2. BEE PRODUCT PROCESSING PLANT           1,809.3          54.0         190.0        2,053.3
3. COLD STORAGE                            650.1          90.0         310.0        1,050.1
4. FREEZING UNIT                         1,402.2           0.0         160.0         1,562.2
5. FRUIT PROCESSING UNIT                 3,820.5           0.0         120.0         3,940.5
SUB-TOTAL                              10,861.5       1,155.1       1,530.0        13,546.5
VI. SEEDS       1. EXAMINING EQUIPMENT                     415.0          85.0           0.0           500.0
PROCESSING 2. SEED PROCESSING EQUIPMENT             2,900.1            0.0           0.0        2,900.1
3. TRAINING EQUIPMENT                      511.0           0.0           0.0           511.0
4. VEHICLES                                                0.0      1,178.8          1,178.8
5. MATERIALS                             4,479.2           0.0           0.0         4,479.2
SUB-TOTAL                               8,305.3           85.0      1,178.8          9.569.1
TOTAL                              183,114.6      79,036.1      34,385.4       296,536.2
TOTAL in US dollar                  49,330.4      21,292.1       9,263.3        79,885.8
%a Contingencies have not been included



- 70 -
C8INA                                   AtINEX  3
S8AAHXI AMCIULTURAL D LOPMNT PROJEC                        Table  2
----------------------------------------                   Page  I of 2
PROCURZNT LIST: I. DONGLZI PROJECT II
----------------------------------------                   000(   Yuan)
ITEKS                   EQUIPMCNT TYPE       NOS.   PRIC5       ICB          LCB       OTHER      TOTAL
1. PUMPeS
Junction                         169L-50(6.9)                 7    260.0    1,820.00                            1,820.00
402LB-85(2.3)                2    150.0      300.00                              300.00
Beginn                           48I-15(S.78)               12    260.0    3,120.00                            3,120.00
Xiazhai                          481-151(3.56)                8    260.0    2,080.00                            2,080.00
245R-9(1.0)                  2     37.8        75.60                              75.60
Small XiazhaL                    26E3-40(1.044)               3     37.8       113.40                             113.40
XinBjia                          24S8-19(0.851)               9     22.2       199.80                             199.80
Dongwanc                         24S9-19(0.738)               8     19.5       156.00                             156.00
TaiLi                            24S8-28(0.634)               8     21.8       174.40                             174.40
Donajia                          14SH-19A(.3)                 2      9.0                   17.96                   17.96
High Dongjia                     20SH-19(.423)                4     19.5        78.00                              78.00
XiYaO                            20SH-19(.485)                2     19.5        39.00                              39.00
Yinjia                           205S-19A(.428)               2     19.5        39.00                              39.00
Bijiayuan                       14SB-19A(.31)                1      9.0                     8.98                   8.98
Miaopo                           24SH-13(.837)                6     37.9       227.10                             227.10
Waguo                            24SH-19(.963)                2     22.2        44.40                              44.40
DuLl                             20SH-19(.543)                2     19.5        39.00                              39.00
Caocun                           145H-19A(.31)                2      9.0                   17.96                   17.96
Potou                            12SH-28A(.258)               1      4.7                    4.71                    4.71
Changjia                         20SH-13(.414)                4     23.4        93.60                              93.60
Liangjiayuan                     145B-19A(.262)               2      9.0                   17.96                   17.96
Changhe                          125-28(.18)                 1      4.7                    4.72                    4.72
Jicun                            24Sh-19(.851)                3     19.5        58.50                              58.50
32SH-19(1.404)               1     86.0       86.00                               86.00
Liangcun                         24SH-19(.855)                3     19.5        58.50                              58.50
Wanjia                           24SH-19(.86)                 2     19.5        39.00                              39.00
Dufuyiang                        24SH-19A(.621)               2     45.6        91.14                              91.14
Lijia                            10SH-13(.124)                3      4.2                   12.60                   12.60
Sanh*                            32SH-19(1.377)               6     86.0       516.00                             516.00
Nansuo                           g4SH-19(.884)                7     19.5       136.50                             136.50
Liuqu                            20SH-19A(.468)               5     19.5        97.30                              97.30
Kangjialou                       20S3-13(.504)                3     23.4        70.20                               70.20
Huashu                           203S-13(.387)                2     23.4        46.80                              46.80
Wangliao                         14SH-19A(.275)               3      9.0                   26.94                   26.94
Nonyang                          20SH-19(.504)                4     19.5        78.00                              78.00
XinLjiJ                          12SH-19(.225)                2      4.8                     9.56                    9.56
Zhuwang                          12S3-13(.23)                 1      7.1                    7.09                    7.09
U.uji                            1OSH-19A(.13)                2      4.1                    8.10                    8.10
DuanjLayuan                      205S-9(.45)                  3     27.3        82.41                              82.41
Duanjiayuan                      20SH-9(.468)                 3     27.5        w2.5C                              82.50
Songjiapo                        14S9-9A(.256)                2      1.7                    3.%0                    3.40
Subtotal                                                 147             10,042.15     13^.98        0.00   10,182.13
2. ELECTRIC MOTORS
Junction                         TL-800-24/2150: 800kw        7    228.0    1,596.00                            1,596.00
Beglan                           TSL-1510-12: 280kw           2     64.5       129.00                             129.00
XL&zhia                          TL3550-12: 3,550kv          12    652.5    7,830.00                            7,830.00
Xiazhni                 ~~~~~~TL35S0-12: 3,550kv      8    652.5    5,220.00                            5,220.00
Y500-6: 1,000kv              2     81.0      162.00                              162.00
Small Xiazhai                    Y500-12: 1i5kw               3     22.8        68.40                              68.40
Xingjia                          Y400-6i 355kv                9     45.0       405.00                             405.00
Dongwanng                        Y400-6i 280kv                a     45.0       360.00                             3605.00
TalL                             Y3SSM-6: 185kv               8     22.8       182.40                             10.400
Oongjia                          Y280M-4: 90kv                2     15.0                    30.00                   30.00
HughDon8jLa                      Y355M-6: 185kv               4     22.8        91.20                               41.20
Xiyao                            Y355N-6: 185kv               2     22.5        45.00                               45.00
Yinjla                           Y35SM-6: 132kw               2     20.7        41.40                              41.40
BaiLjayuan                       Y280M-4: 90kv                1     15.0                    15.00                   15.00
Miaopo                           TD116/29-6i 560kv            6     54.0       324.00                              324.00
Iaguo                            Y400-6: 355kv                2     45.0        90.00                               90.00
DuLi                             Y355M-6: 160kw               2     22.8        45.60                               45.60
Caocun                           Y280M-4z 90kw                2     15.0                    30.00                   30.00
Potou                            Y200L-&: 30kv                1       6.0                    6.00                    6.00
Chaajia,                         Y400-6' 230kv                4     45.0       180.00                              180.00
LLanajiayuan                     Y28OM-4: 90kv                2     15.0                    30.00                   30.00
Chansvh                          Y225-4: 37kv                 1       9.5                    9.45                    9.45
Jicun                            TD400-6s 400kv               3     52.5       157.50                             157.50
LLan8Sun                         Y500-8: 710kv                1      75.0       75.00                                  00
Lianacuyn                        TD-400-6: 400kv              3     52.5       157.50                             15.00
Hanjin                           TD-400-6: 400kv              2     52.5       105.00                             150
Dufuyiann,                       Y400-6t 280kv                2     45.0        90.00                             105.00
Lijia                            Y225M-4s 45kv                3       9.5                  28.35                   28.35
Sanho                            Y500-8: 710kv                6     75.0       450.00                             450.00
Nan8uo                           TD116129-6: 560kv            7     54.0       378.00                             378.00
LLuqu                            Y335M-6i 132kv               5     20.7       103.50                             103.50
RAnnjLalou                       Y400-6: 250kv                3     27.0        81.00                              81.00
Huaahu                           Y400-6s 250kv                2     27.0        54.00                              54.00
iInnlLao                         Y280-4: 90kv                 3      15.0                   45.00                   45.00
Nanyann                          Y355M-6: 185kv               4     22.8        91.20                              91.20
Xinjia                           Y280S-4: 75kv                2      15.0                   30.00                   30.00
ZhuLazuj                         Y3155-4: llOkv               1     15.0                   15.00                   15.00
Liuji                            Y18OL-4: 22kv                2      6.0                    12.00                   12.00
DuanjLayuan                      Y450-6: 450kv                6     54.0       324.00                              324.00
So uboapo                        Y355-4i 280kv                2     45.0        90.00                              90.00
Subtotal                                                147             18,926.70     250.80        0.00   19,177.50



-71 -                                                ANNEX 3
Table 2
*O~U63mtL26?sZ.   0O81zIflOJCU                               Page  2  of  2
_______________ ________________          000s Yuan)
IT3S5                    ZqUIMN  T"           S08.  mC        IC8         LCB        OTHIR      TOTAL
3. Tranforzmrs
SPU7-315001110                  35110kW                     2   425.00      650.00                             85C.00
SL7-5000                       S556.3                       1    U.56       .88.56                              88.56
Sl.7-1000                       1563r7                      5    77.76 7     6.0 326680
81.731056.V                                                 a               16.4  SS92                         13.2
SL7-2000                        35/6 .1:                    1   *6.30        46.30                              *8 .3l
SL7-1600                        316.K I                     2    43.35       *6.70                              66.70
1.7-1250                        35/6. 3KV                   1    32. 40       2. 40                             32.40
87-1000                         3516.3KV                    2   26.95        57.90                              57.90
SL7-1^0                         55/0.4KV                    3   26.95        66.85                              86.65
SL7-U0                          51/0.4KV                    3   26.50        79.50                              79.50
SL7-S00                         1010.4KV                    1   22.46        22.46                              22.46
SZL                            3151100KV                   2  421.81       643.62                             843.62
SL7-650                         3550.4KV                    4   20.10                   80.40                   80.40
SL7-400                         3I0.4V                      2        15.35              30.70                   30.70
81.7-400                        10/0.47V                    1    12.95                  12.93                   12.93
SL7-500                         10/0.,6KV                   4    13 .6                  54.72                   54.72
SL17-315                        10/0.4KV                    2     9.27                   18.54                  18.54
SL7-250                        3510.4KV                     2    10.60                  21.60                   21.60
SL7-230                         610.4KV                     4     9.00                  16.00                   16.00
S_7-200                         3510.4KV                    2     9.30                   18.60                  18.60
SL7-200                         6/0.4KV                     3     7.74                   25.22                  23.22
S_7-160                         35/0.4KV                    1     7.8                     7.80                   7.80
SL7-160                         610.4KV                     1     7.?74                   7.74                   7.74
SL7-125                         6/0.4KV                     1     5.58                   5.56                    5.58
SL7-100                         3510.4KV                    1     5.85                   5.85                    5.85
81,7-100                        1010.4KV                    1     4.66                    4.86                   4.86
S1.7-100                        610.41V                     1     4.86                    4.86                   4.86
SL7-0                           10/0.4KV                    1     4.32                    4.32                   4.32
1,7-S0                          610.4KV                     1     4*.12                  4.32                    4. 32
SL7-61                          1010.4KV                    1     5.75                    376                    3.78
8L7-61                          610.4KV                     1     5.80                    3.80                   3.60
17-50                           3510.4KV                    9     3.90                  35.10                   35.10
SL -U                           1010.4KV                   20     3.24                   64.80                  64  0
bL.7-30                         1010.4KV                    a     2.61                   20.86                  20.88
Sub-total                                       96             2.719.01     470.40        0.00    3.189.41
4. Crans
Gantry Cranes L-13.Sm           30/5c011S                   2   115.60                  231.20                 231.20
Gantry Cranes L-10.5m           15/lcWS                     I    74.90                   74.90                  74.90
Gantry Cranis L-9.Om            30150/5                     1   406.80                  406.80                 406.80
Gantry Cranes L-2.Sm            2*15501U                    1   107.40                  107.40                  17.40
M:vable-CrnaQppyrII             2*50*8                      8   107.40                  859.20                 859.20
Mayabla-Cr&neQppyII             50-8                        2    44.00                   68.00                  88.00
:_vable-CranQppyII              10-8                       56   25.60                   849.60                 849.60
Sub-totai                                       51                 0.00    2617.10       0.00      2617.10
S. Valves
Butterfly Valve 4941x-2.5       180Cm                      20    65.10    1,302.00                           1,302.00
ButterfLy Valve D941x-2.5       Boom                        2    12.20       24.40                              24. 40
Other valvesHD4IX-10           14001                      20    12.60      652.00                             652.00
Other valves KD741X-10          B00m                        2    15.00       26.00                              26.00
Other vwlvesUD741X-10           500_1                             6.00                   48.00                  48.00
Other valve*HD?41X-6            50_m                       12     5.40                   64.80                  64.80
Other valvesED741X-6            600_                       29     9.00                  261.00                 261.00
Other valvesBD741X-10           80sm                        S    11.30                   90.40                  90.40
Other valvessHD7UX-10           40011                             0.60                    1.80                   1.80
Sub-total                                      104             2,004.40     466.00       0.00    2.470.40
6. Corstruction Squ4pants
Trator Crawler                  5753f                       2   892.80    1,785.60                           1,7a3.60
Loader (980C)                   4.0CUM                      2   446.40      892.80                             892.80
Loadr (Shovel 973)              2.8CW                       2   616.40    1,636.80                           1,616.80
Zxcavator                       .8-am                       2   166.00      372.00                             372.00
Conerete Mier (vehicle)         6 cum                       4   286.40    1,145.60                           1,145.60
Concrete Mimer (veh. & Pum.)   90 msl/ee                    1  595.20       595.20                             595.20
Concrete Mixer (veh. 1 Pue.)   90 .515cc                    1   463.60      483.60                             483.60
Concrete mimr batch pit.         15 MSseoe                  1  558.00       558.00                             558.00
Excavator 240 BP                240 UP                      1  732.80       732.80                             732.80
Sub-total                                       16             8,202.40       0.00        0.00    8.202.40
7. Vehicles
Micro bus                       26 pass.                    1   100.00                             100.00      100.00
Van                             12-15 seat                  4    70.00                             280.00      280.00
Passenger bus                   40-50 seat                  2   146.80                             297.60      297.60
Jeep (Long MB)                  8 seater                    a    44.60                             356.80      356.80
motor cycles/jeep&              125-150 cc/4 seater       120     1.00       120.00                420.00      540.00
Truck                           5 tone                     50    37.20    1,860.00                           1.860.00
Sub-total                                      165                                    3.434.40    1434.410
8. Offies L Desin SquLpnent
Blue prlnt machine                                          I  400.00        400.00                            400.00
Color Copier                                                4   24.40                               97.60       97.60
Regular copIer                                             10     8.50                   85.00                  85.00
M1n1-Camputer ^                                             1   249.00       249.00                            249.00
Mier-comuter *                                             20     5.00       100.00                            100.00
CAD working stn. with Plotter *                             1  279.00        279.00                            279.00
MInL-CAD drawine machLne *                                  1    74.40        74.40                             74.40
Video Syate. (trainlna)-                                    1   140.00       140.00                            140.00
VLdeo player recordr                                       2     3.60                               7.60        7.60
Camara-1351m                                                2    16.00                              32.00       32.00
Camora lenses                                               A     5.00                              20.00       20.00
Vldeo edltWs system                                         2   80.00        160.00                            160.00
AcesaorLes & Small Cqulp.                                    1  585.00                  292.50     292.50      585.00
DlOtmet PI 3000                                             1   18U.60       18.60                            188.60
DLaotmt Regular D12000                                      1   169.70       189.70                            189.70
Automaice L1,L                                               3    9.70        29.10                             29.10
Chinese Ingllsh Typw.                                       2      4.00                              8.00        0.00
icrowave Connication                                        1 3,000.00    5,000.00                          3,000.00
Sub-total                                       58             4,809.80      377.50     457.70    5.645.00
9.Controla                                                                 6,460.00                          6.480.00
10.Svltchboarda/TranalesLon Llnes                                                    31,947.30              31,947.30
11. materials                                                            468,98.60  20,091.40  12,407.30   80,897.30
TOTAL                                                                    101,583.06  62,840.48  16,299.40  174.242.94



-  72 -                                          ANNEX  3
Table 3
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
----------------------------------------
PROCUREMENT LIST II: Dingbian Water Supply
------------------------------------------
(000's Yuan)
Item                  Nos.    Price          ICB        LCB        Other      Total
1. PUMPS
Horiz. Centrif. 24sh-9                   4     8.30          33.20                               33.20
Horiz. Centrif. 24sh-9a                  4     8.30          33.20                               33.20
Boriz. Centrif. 24sh-19                  2     6.40          12.80                               12.80
Horis. Centrtf. 24sh-19a                 2     6.40          12.80                               12.80
Boriz. Centrif. 24sh-13a                 4     5.80          23.20                               23.20
Other pumps 3da 8*6-7                   58     2.79                     161.80                  161.80
Sub-total                          74                   115.20     161.80        0.00       277.00
2. MOTORS
El. Motor 710kw*6kv                      4    65.90         263.60                              263.60
El. Motor 450kw*6kv                      4    55.00         220.00                              220.00
El. Motor 355kw*6kv                      2    38.40          76.80                               76.80
El. Motor 280kw*6kv                      2    35.00          70.00                               70.00
El. Motor 220kw*6kv                      4    30.00         120.00                              120.00
Other Motors                            58     2.08                     120.40                  120.40
Sub-total                          74                   750.40     120.40        0.00      870.80
3. CRANES, VALVES & FITTINGS
Gantry Cranes 5T                         5    46.80                     234.00                  234.00
Valves 500-800mm                        32     8.63                     276.00                  276.00
Butterfly valves 500-1600               16    19.38         310.00                              310.00
Sub-total                          53                   310.00     510.00        0.00       820.00
4. ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT
High Voltage Switch Gear                24    12.50         300.00                              300.00
Low Voltage Switch Gear                 70     5.01         350.80                              350.80
Distribution boards                     30     7.47                     224.00                  224.00
Transformers                            24     5.70                     136.70                  136.70
Misc                                                                    210.50                  210.50
Sub-total                                               650.80     571.20        0.00    1,222.00
5. MATERIALS
Cement   (tons)                      21000     0.14                  2,940.00                 2,940.00
HS Steel Wire (tons)                  2000     1.50       3,000.00                            3,000.00
Steel Bars (Tons)                     1000     1.00       1,000.00                            1,000.00
Steel Sheets  (tons)                  1000     1.10       1,100.00                            1,100.00
TLmber  (cum)                         7000     0.30       2,100.00                            2,100.00
Fertilizer  (Tons)                    2200     0.75       1,650.00                            1,650.00
Polyvinyl (tons)                       657     2.80       1,839.60                            1,839.60
Al. Wires                              100     7.00         700.00                              700.00
Sub-total                                           11,389.60   2,940.00         0.00   14,329.60
6. CONSTRUCTION MACHINES
Backhoe Loader (.Scum)                   1   186.00         186.00                              186.00
Track Loader (2.8 cum)                   1   818.40         818.40                              818.40
Truck Mixer                              1   286.40         286.40                              286.40
Excavator                                1    99.20          99.20                               99.20
Sub-total                            4               1,390.00        0.00        0.00    1,390.00
7. INSTRUMENT & EQUIPMENT
Micro-Computers                          4     5.00                      20.00                   20.00
Micro-IBM                                2    25.0..         50.00                               50.00
Copiers                                  2    17.00                                 34.00        34.00
Cameras                                  2     1.50                                  3.00         3.00
Typewriters                              2     4.00                                  8.00         8.00
Video Recorders                          2     0.80                                  1.60         1.60
Communications Equipment                 1   500.00         500.00                              500.00
Sub-total                           11                  550.00      20.00       46.60       616.60
8. VEHICLES
Micro-bus                                1   100.00                                100.00       100.00
Jeep 4 WD                                4    44.60                                178.40       178.40
Pickup                                   2    18.00                                 36.00        36.00
Trucks 5T                                3    37.20         111.60                              111.60
Motorcycles                              6     4.00          24.00                               24.00
Sub-total                           16                  135.60       0.00      314.40       764.40
TOTAL                                     15,291.60   4,323.40      361.00   19,976.00



-73                        .ANNEX 3
Table 4
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
----------------------------------------
PROCUREMENT LIST III- AQUACULTURE
--------------- ------ ------                         oots   n
(000's Y,za)
ITEM                     NOS.    Price       ICB        LCB      OsER        TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-----------------------------
1. Farm Equipment & Construction Materials
Fry Nets                                   128      0.6       76.8                               76.8
Flngerling Nets                            128      2.3      294.4                              294.4
Market-sized Fish Nets                     128      2.1      268.8                              268.8
Aerators ( 3 KW )                         2560      0.8               2,048.0                 2,048.0
2.2 KW Pumps                               260      1.2                 312.0                   312.0
7.5KW Pumps                                215      1.4                 301.0                   301.0
Transformers                                64      7.0                 448.0                   448.0
Telephone Equipment                         80      4.0                 320.0                   320.0
Feed Processing & Pellet Machines            3   372.0   1,116.0                              1,116.0
Sub-total                                                  1,756.0   3,429.0        0.0       5,185.0
2. Vehicles
Truck ( 5 T )                               64    37.2   2,380.8                              2,380.8
Freezer Truck ( 2.5 T )                      3    55.8       167.4                              167.4
Jeeps ( 8 seats )                            8    44.6                            356.8         356.8
Minibuses ( 12-15 seats )                   10    70.0                             700.0        700.0
Vehicle Spare Parts                          1   100.0                            100.0         100.0
Sub-total                                                  2,548.2       0.0   1,156.8        3,705.0
3. Materials
Fish Meal ( T )                           1800      4.0   7,200.0                             7,200.0
Steel C T )                               1600      1.4                         2,240.0       2,240.0
Timber ( cu. m )                          2526      0.8                         2,020.8       2,020.8
Plastic Liner ( 000's sq. m )             4350      1.0   4,350.0                             4,350.0
Cement ( T )                             20443      0.1                         2 862.0       2,862.0
Low Voltage Power Ltne ( km )              128    15.0                          1,920.0       1,920.0
High Voltage Power Line ( km )             110      8.0                           880.0         880.0
Sub-total                                                 11,550.0       0.0   9,922.8       21,472.8
4. Research & Training Equipment
Copy Machine                                 6      8.5                            51.0          51.0
Video Players                                6      3.8       22.8                               22.8
Slide Projector                              3      1.3                             4.0           4.0
Computers                                    6    20.0       120.0                              120.0
Two Person Microscope                        1    18.3        18.3                               18.3
Binoculax Microscope                         6      4.5       26.8                               26.8
Monocular Microscope                        50      0.8                            40.0          40.0
Dissection Microscope                       20      0.5                            10.0          10.0
Water Chemistry Equipment                    1      2.0        2.0                                2.0
NutrLtion Analysis Instrument                1    47.8        47.8                               47.8
Water Analysis Equipment                     5    32.7       163.7                              163.7
PH, DO, Temperature Meters                  20      8 0      160.0                              160.0
Spectrophotometer                            1    55.8        55.8                               55.8
Sub-total                                                    617.2       0.0      105.0         722.2
TOTAL                                             16,471.4   3,429.0  11,184.6       31,085.0



- 74 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT LIST: IV. LIVESTOCK
( 000's Yuan )
Item                ICB         LCB         Other    TOTAL
1. EQUIPMENT
Hatchery                  3,600.0        175.0                    3,775.0
Ventilation               5,159.0                                 5,159.0
Feeding                     814.0        878.2       312.8        2,005.0
Drinking                    446.0        614.0       129.0        1,189.0
Heating                     335.2        422.8         13.0         771.0
Electrical Instal.          616.8      3,298.6        96.6        4,012.0
Floor Net                   344.0        146.0                      490.0
Nest                      1,468.8        247.2                    1,716.0
Rearing Cage              2,835.0                                 2,835.0
Breed Cage                   50.0         55.0                      105.0
Layer Cage                6,424.0      2,752.0                    9,176.0
Rabbit Hutches                            24.0        24.0           48.0
Feed Mill                   841.0      2,715.0       228.0        3,784.0
Vet. Clinic                 117.0        331.5        331.5         780.0
Standby Generator           168.0        840.0        17.0        1,025.0
Maint. Equip.                16.0        238.0        41.0          295.0
Slaughtering                666.0         10.0                      676.0
Cold Storage                100.0                     99.0          199.0
Office Facil.                                         87.0           87.0
Misc.                       348.0        885.9       712.1        1,946.0
Breeding Stock            1,347.0                    497.0        1,844.0
Fish meal/amino/lysin       329.0                    204.6          533.6
Transport                                 50.0                       50.0
Sub-Total                26,024.8    13,683.2      2,792.6       42,500.6
2. VEHICLES
Day-old Chick Truck         700.0                      0.0          700.0
Long-size Truck           1,415.0                      0.0        1,415.0
Common Truck                                         330.0          330.0
Van                                                  629.0          629.0
Feed Truck                  390.0                      0.0          390.0
Trucker                                                 6.0           6.0
Sub Total                 2,505.0                    965.0        3,470.0
3. MATERIALS
Steel                     2,072.0                     29.0        2,101.0
Timber                                                45.0           45.0
Sub-Total                 2,072.0          0.0        74.0        2,146.0
TOTAL                  30,601.8    13,683.2      3,831.6       48,116.6



-CB-                                  ANNEX  3
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                  Table  6
PROCURHENT LIST V: AGROPROCESSING
(000's Yuan)
Item              Unit    NO        Price         ICB          LCB       Other         Total
1. rufeng Meat Packing Plant
Rabbit Slaughter                set         1      800.00       800.00                                 800.00
Cattle Slaughter                set         1      800.00       800.00                                 800.00
Condensors                      set         1      110.00       110.00                                 110.00
Compressor (350kg)              set         1    1,280.00    1,280.00                                1,280.00
Evaporators                     aet         1      120.00       120.00                                 120.00
Lab/Inspection                  :st         1       20.00        20.00                                  20.00
Stainless Steel                 ton                                                        70.00        70.00
Meat/Bone Meal                  set         1      320.00                    320.00                    320.00
UtilitLes                       set         1      430.00                    430.00                    430.00
Waste Water Treatment           set         1      230.00                    230.00                    230.00
Miscellaneous                   set         1       60.00        49.00        11.00                     60.00
Installation                     X         10%       4.17         0.36         0.06                      0.42
Trasport to Site                net         1       20.00         0.00        20.00                     20.00
Refrig.Trucks (5 ton)           each        1      285.00                                 285.00       285.00
Refrig.Trucks (1.7ton)          each        1      140.00                                 140.00       140.00
Truck (6 ton)                   each        3       60.00                                 180.00       180.00
Folklift                        each        1       75.00                                  75.00        75.00
Subtotal                                                     3,179.36    1,011.06        750.00    4,940.42
2. Bee Product ProcessLng Plant
Extraction System               set         1      384.00       384.00                                 384.00
Pollen/Honey Product.           net         1      324.00       324.00                                 324.00
Condensors'  Freezing Drying  set           1      757.00       757.00                                 757.00
Laborstory/Office               set         1      140.00       140.00                                 140.00
Refrie.Equipment                set         1      120.00       120.00                                 120.00
Stainless Steel                 set         1       24.00        24.00                                  24.00
Tools                           set         1       20.00        20.00                                  20.00
Radiators                       set         1       40.00        40.00                                  40.00
Installation                    fee         7S       1.81         0.13                                   0.13
Spare Parts                     set         5X       1.81         0.09                                   0.09
Transport to Site              pot.         31       1.81         0.05        54.00                     54.05
Truck/Pick-up                   each        3       50.00                                 150.00       150.00
Minibus                         each        1       40.00                                  40.00        40.00
Subtotal                                                     1,809.27        54.00       190.00    2,053.27
3. Cold Storage
Compressors                      kv       310        1.00       310.00                                 310.00
Evaporators                     set         1      110.00       110.00                                 110.00
Condensors                      set         1       90.00        90.00                                  90.00
Scale                           set         1       30.00        30.00                                  30.00
Racks                           set         1      100.00       100.00                                 100.00
Laborat.Equipment               set         1       10.00        10.00                                  10.00
Miscellaneous                   set         1       80.00                     80.00                     80.00
Tools                           set         1       10.00                     10.00                     10.00
Spare Parts                      X          1X       1.05         0.01                                   0.01
Installation                     X         102       1.05         0.11                                   0.11
Truck (5 ton)                   no.         2       50.00                                 100.00       100.00
Folklift                        no.         2       70.00                                 140.00       140.00
Elec.Vechicle                   no.         1       20.00                                  20.00        20.00
Minibus                         no.         1       50.00                                  50.00        50.00
Subtotal                                                       650.11        90.00       310.00    1,050.11
4. Freezing Unit
Vegetable/FruLt Prep.           set         1      150.00       150.00                                 150.00
Vegetable Blanching             no.         1       30.00        30.00                                  30.00
Conveyors                       no.         5        8.00        40.00                                  40.00
IQF Freezer/Rack                set         1      860.00       860.00                                 860.00
Scales                          no.         6        3.00        18.00                                  18.00
Compressors                      kv       260        0.85       220.00                                 220.00
Add. Condensors                 set         1       60.00        60.00                                  60.00
Stainless Steel                 ton         2       12.00        24.00                                  24.00
Spareparts                      1000        5X       1.38         0.07                                   0.07
Installation                    1000       102       1.38         0.14                                   0.14
Refrigerated Truck              no.         1      100.00                                 100.00       100.00
Pick-up                         no.         1       60.00                                  60.00        60.00
Subtotal                                                     1,402.21         0.00       160.00    1,562.21
5. Fruit Processing Unit
Fruit Treatment                 set         1       80.00        80.00                                  80.00
Pre-Enzymation                  set         1      100.00       100.00                                 100.00
Extzaction                     sgt          1      800.00       800.00                                 sofn.00
Depectinization                 set         1      110.00       110.00                                 110.00
Fllter                          set         1       40.00        40.00                                  40.00
Aroma Recovery                  set         1      510.00       510.00                                 510.00
Concentration                   set         1    1,380.00    1,380.00                                1,380.00
Process Tanka/Pipes             set         1      150.00       150.00                                 150.00
Stainless Steel                 ton        50       12.00       600.00                                 600.00
Cleaning                        set         1       50.00        50.00                                  50.00
Spareparts                      1000        5X       3.34         0.17                                   0.17
Installation                    1000       10X       3.34         0.33                                   0.33
Truck (5 ton)                   no.         2       50.00                                 100.00       100.00
Folklift                        no.         1       20.00                                  20.00        20.00
Subtotal                                                     3,820.50         0.00       120.00    3,940.50
TOTAL                                                     10,861.45    1,155.06    1,530.00   13,546.51



- 76 -                                    MANEX 3
Table 7
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAOCUREMENT LIST VI: SEEDS PRODUCTION & PROCESSING
--------------------------------------------------
(000's Yuan)
Unit   Nos     Price        ICB         LCB         Other        Total
1. Examining Equipment
Electronic scale                                12      10.0       120.0                                   120.0
Germinating box                                 10       3.0        30.0                                    30.0
Refrigerator                                    10       2.0        20.0                                    20.0
Electrothermic calorstat                        12       1.5        18.0                                    18.0
Agro soft X-ray machine                          0       3.5                                                 0.0
Electronic moiscure meter                        0       1.0                                                 0.0
Sifting vibrator                                10       1.0        10.0                                    10.0
MLcroscope                                      10       3.0        30.0                                    30.0
Telescope                                       20       1.5        30.0                                    30.0
Camera                                          10       2.0        20.0                                    20.0
Spectrophotometer                               10       4.0        40.0                                    40.0
Electronic counter meter                        10       1.5        15.0                                    15.0
Electrophoresis meter                           12       3.5        42.0                                    42.0
Air-conditioner                                 10       3.5         35.0                                   35.0
Electric sample sorter                          20       0.3          5.0                                    5.0
Other instruments                                0       0.3                                                 0.0
Examining table                                 20       0.8                     15.0                       15.0
Sample cabinet                                  20       1.0                     20.0                       20.0
Medicine cabinet                                10       1.0                     10.0                       10.0
Utensil cabinet                                 20       1.0                     20.0                       20.J
Cooler                                           1      20.0                     20.0                       20.0
Chemicals                           Ton          0       6.0                                                 0.0
Sub-total                                                             415.0         85.0          0.C         500.0
2. Seed Processing Equipment
Combined seed selector                           9     154.0     1,386.0                                 1,386.0
Packing and counting machine                     4      73.0       292.0                                   292.0
Chemicals agitator                               3      16.0        48.0                                    48.0
Gravity refiner                                  1      55.4        55.4                                    55.4
Bagging machine                                  1     200.0       230.0                                   200.0
Debearder                                        1      17.8        17.8                                    17.8
Dryer                                            2      43.1        86.2                                    86.2
Gravity counter                                  1      50.0        50.0                                    50.0
Bucket elevator                                  3      12.0        36.0                                    36.0
Sifting plate & indent cylinder                                    128.6                                   128.6
Automatic weigh scale                            5      25.0       125.0                                   125.0
Dusting equipment                                9      15.0       135.0                                   135.0
Controlling equipment                            9      34.0       306.0                                   306.0
Components                                       9       3.8        34.0                                    34.0
Sub-total                                                          2,900.0          0.0          0.0       2,900.0
3. Training Equipment
Monochromatic Xerox #3                           3      24.4         73.2                                   73.2
Monochromatic Xerox #5                           6       8.5        51.0                                    51.0
VCR and components                               9      15.0       135.0                                   135.0
Micro computer                                   9      12.0        108.0                                  108.0
Video camera system                              1     143.8        143.8                                  143.8
Sub-tots.l                                                           511.0          0.0          0.0         511.0
4. Vehicles
Truck  (6t)                                       5      40.0                                 200.0         200.0
1.25 Pick up Trucks 4 Pass                        3      27.0                                 81.0           81.0
Passenger car (12-15 pass.)                       5      70.0                                 350.0         350.0
Jeep 8 passengers                                 6      46.3                                 277.8         277.8
Pick up 314 ton, 4 pass.                         10      27.0                                 270.0         270.0
Sub-total                                                               0.0         0.0     1,178.8        1,178.8
5. Materials
Pesticides
Puradan                             Ton          5      37.2       186.0                                   186.0
Meotrin                             Ton          5      37.2       167.4                                   167.4
Comite                              Ton          3      26.8        80.4                                    80.4
Sumilex                             Ton          4      40.9       163.7                                   163.7
Lasso                               Ton          4      16.7         70.3                                   70.3
Fertillzers - DAP                   Ton       1550       1.0     1,472.5                                 1,472.5
Fertillzers - Urea                  Ton       1440       0.7     1,008.3                                 1,008.0
Steel                               Ton          0       1.0                                                 0.0
Timber                              m3           0       0.5                                                 0.0
Plastic film                        Ton        277       4.8     1,331.0                                 1,331.0
Sub-total                                                          4,479.2          0.0          0.0       4,479.2
TOTAL                                                8,305.3        85.0      1,178.8        9,569.1



ca
mull hGCUL?UAL 8Y31? PROJBC
Dole-l 113 Civil Work Cntract 8s. & BLdding Procurement
Bldding Price        Structures
No.       I e                    Deacriptan                      Scale                                   meI   USs  PS CB TB VB  TU FL SY ES VW  Total
mIllion
1 TaIlLwan Junctlon        5.6 km away from              9 intake gates (4.5. wide)                     6.352  1.711  1  1  1                         3
Donglel Lift 1               1 pump station (9 unlts,-6,160 kw each)
2 Beigan Lift 2            In Dali County                Pumping lift:  -60m, Q-40 =31s                  7.270  1.958  1  1  1                        3
10 units: tot-l otor power U-35,SOOkw
3 Xiazhai Lift 3           Two *tationa                  l:Puping lift H-61m, (-36E3Is, 10 unLits,       6.567  1.769  1  1  1                        3
at the end of main eanal    1-35,500kw; 2 Pumping llft 3-11.5.
4 Main ranal (Upper)       Between Ta-livan & Beiga      Canal: length'3.5 bh                            9.582  2.581     2  1   3           1   1   8
Structures
5 Main Cnal (Medium, Ist) Frm Belgan lJft 2              Canal: length-23.7 km                          18.001  4.849     2 10  48     7  2     54  123
to Hanchum tunnel            Structures
6 Main Canal (.dium, 2nd) From Hanchun to YTLhn          Canal: length.4 km                              3.501  0.943     1  2  10     2        10   25
Structures
7 Main Canal (Down)        Frm Y4Jln to Xiaubai          Canal: lengtih22.35 km                        17.940  4.833      4 10  43     9  2     52  120
Structures
8 Turnl                    Two tunnels, one in Sanecun  Section: 5.6*5.m;g Hancham tunnsl L-1.95 km    2.469  0.665                 2                 2
the other In L ojunzhzI Leojuin  s tunnel L-.507 km
9 Louhe Flume                                           L-1.29 km;                                       7.524  2.027                  1              1
Section: 3.4*5 m
10 Eseap lVasteway          3 projects                   Hanchun: Flow-28.3Isi PuahLi: Flow-42D3s        5.948  1.602                         3        3
ZhimLoan: Flov-49. 1W3s
TOTAL                                                                                                85.154 22.940  3 12 26 104  2 19  4  4 117  291
--------------------..-----------------------------------------------__------__--------------------------------------------------------------------__---
Note    1. PS! Pump Station, CB: Check, TS: Trafflc Bridge, VB: Vlllage Bridge, TU: Tunnel. FL: Flums, SY: Syphone, ES: Escape, WW: Vazteway
2. For items 5,6,7 and 8 t the main canal ). numbers of escapes and vasteways are jointly put into WW column.
3. The contract types for all proj-ets are LCB.
El0



SaAE1KI WAXCULTUrAL DNVWAMUT PROJECT
Cost Summry Of DongLel II
Unit: RMO million
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Canal                Structures             1'ping Station         TOTAL          Civll Work
No. Items                      Project                        Length (km) Cost   Materials 9     Coat   Materis l      Cost   Materiala   Cost  Materiala    Cost
1 Junction  Headgates & Taili pump station                                                      4.2836  0.9367   1  4.6875  1.6823    8.9711  2.6190         6.3521
2 Piap lift Belgan Pump Station ( lift 2 )                                                                        1 10.3784  3.1085   10.3784  3.1085         7.2699
3 Pump Llft XLazhai Pump Station t Lift 3 )                                                                       2 10 1970  3.6297   10.1970  3.6297         6.5673
4 canal     Upper: Jiazl Offtake Cate -- Beigan                    3.50  9.9761  0.5703    7  0.3182  0.1418                            10.2943  0.7121       9.5822
S Canal     Medium 1: Beigan -- Hanchun Tunnel                    23.70  13.4434  1.2252  123  7.1600  1.3773                           20.6034   2.6025    18.0009
6 Canal     MedIum 2:  ancehun Tunnal -- Yijin Offtska Gate        4.00  2.4403  0.2200   25  1.5707  0.2905                             4.0110  0.5105       3.5005
7 Canal     Down: Ytjin Offtake Gate -- Xiazhai Pump Lift 3       22.35 12.5062  1.1274  120  8.0500  1.4888                            20.5'62  2.6162    17.9400
8 Tunnal    Hanchun Tunnal L Laojun-hsi Tunnel                                              2  5.2526  2.7840                            5.2526  2.7840       2.4686
9 Flume     Luohe Flume                                                                     1 11.3106  3.7864                           11.3106  3.7864      7.5242
10 Escape    HanchLn, Zhimavan & Pushi Escapes                                               3  7.7061  1.7581                            7.7061  1.7581      5.9480
11 Canal     Xiazhai Lift 3 -- Snnhe Lift 4                       61.49 12.3563  1.6232  244  8.9400  2.2066                             21.2963   3.8298    17.4665 
12 System    Sunahen System                                       111.30  5.8971  1.8582  333  2.1500  0.4949   7  3.1342  0.6002   11.1813  2.9533           8.2280
13 System    Puchan System                                        97.40  4.0742  1.3922  239  1.6100  0.4234   8  2.3606  0.5222    8.0448  2.3378            5.7070
14 System    Xinzhan System                                       93.67  4.8318  1.6156  232  1.1400  0.4790   5  2.0371  0.5072    8.0089  2.6018            5.4071
15 System    Liuqu System                                        111.40  6.6026  2.0832  214  1.4100  0.5756   6  4.2169  0.7047   12.2295  3.3635            8.8660
16 System    LIuJI System                                         42.94  1.7200  0.6066  130  0.8800  0.2376   4  0.4587  0.0931    3.0587  0.9373            2.1214
17 System    Duanjalji System                                     10.50  1.5123  0.4694    e  0.1782  0.1183   3  0.5896  0.2161    2.2801  0.8038            1.4763
18 CanaL     South Canal                                          15.79  2.8504  0.4557                                                   2.8504  0.4557      2.3947
Total                                               598.04  78.2107  13.2470 1681 61.9600  17.0990  37 38.0600  11.0640  178.2307  41.4100   136.8207
----------------------------------------------------------_,-_----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note:    Cost for materials is a part of the project cost.
fD  .T
voW



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
----------------------------------------
DINGBIAN WATER SUPPLY
Unit: Y 000's
CANAL                   STRUCTURE                 PUMP STATION                TOTAL
ITEMS                         DESCRIPTION                       ----------------------------  -------------------  ---------------------  ----------------------------
LENGTB (km) COST MATERUALS NOS COST MATERIALS NOS COST MATERIALS COST KATERIALS CONSTRUCTIN
I.  SRndlmTIiQP
1. PUMP STATIONS Lim1ng,Duyaosou,Songjlabo*. Wa) iangctbn  Stations                                                              4    9,820    4,480    9,820       4,480        5,340
2. TUNNEL         Thre- tunnels of 14. 2, & 3#                                                          3   10,740    4,860                            10.740      4,860       5,880
3. FLUM          Erdaogou, LLmng & Diuyaogou Flumes                                                      3    1,320       430                            2,320        430          890
II.  UPPER PIPES   From LimiLg to WangiLachang                                19.83   10,930        70                                                    10,930         70       10,860      -4
III. MEIUM PIPES  From WsagjiLchang to Erzhaqu                                25.25   13,920        90                                                    13,920         90       13,830
Iv.  DOWN PIPSS    Yrom Erzhiqu to Dingbian Water Water Plant                 23.82   13,140        80                                                    13,140         80       13.060
V.  CANALS
1. CANALS         30 canals for irrisatlon                                  76.50    2,290       760                                                     2,290        760        1,530
2. PIPE NET       Ironlpkastic pipe not for vater distribution             385.00    9,040       690                                                     9,040        690        8,350
3. PUMP STATION  27 smnal pumping stations                                                                                      27      480       460      480        460           20
TOTAL                                                                   530.40   49,320    1,690    6   12,060    5,290   31   10,300    4,940   71,680    11,920           59,760
------------------------------_ --_------------_------_____----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- 80 -                              ANNEX 4
Table I
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
----------------------------------______
FARM GATE PRICES FOR TRADED INPUTS AND OUTPUTS /a
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____-___ ____ ____ ____ ___- ---_ ---_ ____ ____
Rape-                       Rock
Wheat  Barley Maize  SoybeanCotton Seed  PeanutsApple  Urea  Phospha DAP
/b     /c    /d    te    /f    /S    /h    /i    Ij    /k    /1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__------------------------------------
Net Trade Status                        4     M       X      X      X      X     X      X      M      M      M
-------------------------------------------------------------------------..--__-------------------------------------
1988 Prices
EPD price /m                 S/ton    109       63    61   170  1130   196  N/A   N/A           93    24  NIA
Import price /n              $/ton    153       63    85   238  1582   274   375  N/A          130    34  NIA
Quality discount               X         1       1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1     1  N/A
Ocean Freight                $/ton      22      22      0    -22   -22   -22   -22  N/A         22    22  N/A
CIF Shanghai $               S/ton    175       85    93   216  1560   252   353   547   152    56   250
CIF Shanghai Yuan            Y/ton    648    316   345   801  5788   934  1308  L.330   565   206    928
Port charges & margin        Y/ton      32      16   -17   -40  -289   -47   -65  -101    28    10    46
Rail trans. to project       Y/ton      15      15   -15   -15   -15   -15   -15   -15    15    15    15
Road trans. to farm          Y;ton      -3      -3    -3    -3    -3    -3    -3    -3           -3    -3    -3
Price ex-mill                Y/ton    693    344   311   744  5481   870  1225  1911   605   229   986
Processing adjustment          X         1       1      1      1      1      1      1      1     1      1      1
Milling cost less by-product  Y/ton    693    344   311   744  5481   870  1225  1911   605   229   986
Economic Price               Y/ton    693    344   311   744  5481   870  1225   955   605   229   986
Financial Price              Y/ton    563    507   408   861  3798  1122  1238   950   592   196   768
Procurement               Y/ton    479    376   354   738  3775  1002  1220   950   578   193   749
Free Market               Y/ton    666    578   454   939  4227   1288  1241   950   856   257  1124
2000 Prices
EPD price                    $/ton    138       89    97   200  1530   230  N/A   N/A          175    37  N/A
Import price                 S/ton    193       89   136   280  2142   322   375  N/A    245    52  N/A
Quality discount               X         1       1      1      1      1      1      1     1      1      1  N/A
Ocean Freight                $/ton      22      22      0   -22   -22   -22   -22  N/A          22    22  N/A
CIF Shanghai $               S/ton    215    111   148   258  2120   300   353   547   267    74   386
CIF Shanghai Yuan            Y/ton    798    410   549   957  7865  1113  1308  2030    991   274   1432
Port charges & margin        Y/ton      40      21   -27   -48  -393   -56   -65  -101    50    14    72
Rail trans. to project       Y/ton      15      15   -15   -15   -15   -15   -15   -15    15    15    15
Road trans. to farm          Y/ton      -3      -3    -3    -3    -3    -3    -3    -3    -3    -3    -3
Price ex-mill                Y/ton    851    443   504   892  7454   1040  1225  1911   1053   300  1516
Processing adjustment          X         1       1      1      1      1      1      1     1      1      1      1
Milling cost less by-product  Y/ton    851    443   504   892  7454  1040  1225  1911   1053   300  1516
Economic Price               Y/ton    851    443   504   892  7454  1040  1225   955   1053   300  1516
Financial Prices             Y/ton    851    443   504   892  7454  1040  1225   955  1053    Sao  1516
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__------------------------------------
/a World Bank EPD projection for 1987 and 2000 in 1985 constant prices. Chinese import and export prices from
1987 Chinese Customs Statistics, Beijing. Prices not covered in EPD projection are obtained from Commodity
prlces, International Financial Statistics, by IMF, Washington D.C. 1987
/b FOB canada, No. 1 Western Red Spring, St.Lawrence.
/c FAO 1987 Barley price($59/ton), FOB Canada which was then converted to 1988 price.
/d FOB US Gulf, No.2 Yellow.
/e CIF Rotterdam.
if CIF Europe, Cotton Outlook "A" index.
/8 CIF Rotterdam Soybean price adjusted by 1.15 (ratio of Rapeseed/Soybean price trends, FAO)
/h CIF Europe, FAO, groundnut Prices assumed.
/i Actural FOB Chinese price in 1987 converted to 1988 level. Chinese Customs Statistics, 1987.
/j FOB northern Europe, Bagged.
/k FOB Morocco, 70X TPL contract.
/1 FOB US Gulf, bulk
/m EDP price in 1985.
/n EPD price in 1988.



-81-                           ANNEX 4
Table 2
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP!1ENT PROJECT
----------------------------------------
DINGBIAN SUB-COPONENT
______________________
SELECTED FARM-GATE PRICES FOR TRADED OUTPUTS
-----------------------------------------------
-----------------------------__------------------------------------------
Greasy     Cashemer-
Lamb    Wool
x       M           X
*/      b/
1988 Prices c/
________________
Import Price                   1849       3103       80000
Ocean Freight                  -22          22         -22
FOB or CIF Shangal S           1627       8125       79978
FOB or CIF Shangal Yuan       6778       11594      298718
Port charges and margin        -339        680      -14886
Rail trans. to project          -16         15         -16
Road trans. to farm            -2.6       -2.6        -2.6
Price ex-mill                  6422      12186      281885
Processing adjustment          1.00       1.00        0.80
Milling coat less by-product   6422      12186      226492
Economic Price                6422       12186      226492
Financial Price               6000       12000      200000
2000 Prices
________________
Import Price                   1849       8103       80000
Ocean Freight                   -22         22         -22
FOP or CIF Shungai 8           1827       8126       79978
FOB or CIF Shenga) Yuan      6878        11694      298718
Port charges and margin        -489        580      -14836
Rail trans. to project          -16         15         -16
Road trans. to form            -2.6       -2.6        -2.6
Price ox-mill                  6422      12186      281865
Processing adjustment          1.00       1.00        0.80
Mlilling cost less by-product   6422     12186      226492
Economic Price                6422       12186      226492
Financial Price                6OOO      12000      200000
*/ New Zealand, frozen carcass, CIF, Saudi Arabia.
b/ CIF Europe.
c/ Constant 1988 prices.
For additional footnotes see previous page.



- 32 -              ~~~~ANNEX 4
-382 -                       Table 3
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs
Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factor /a                          0.67
Unskilled labor /b                                     0.70
Electricity /c                                         5.00
Fuels(diesel)                                          2.70
Fuels(gasoline)                                        1.40
Transportation /d                                      1.00
Construction /e                                        0.95
Equipment/Machinery /f                                 1.40
Consumption Conversion Factor /g                       1.40
/a SCF -(Shadow Exchange rate)/(Official exchange rate)   5.5/3.71
/b Based on 50% of market wage(Y2.0/day) times the consumption
conversion factor
/c Based on the long marginal cost of electricity of F20.00/kwh
as estimated by AS3TE, 1988.
/d Based on economic transportation cost of Y 0.025/ton/km.
/e Based on unskilled 'Labor, cement, steel and other construction
materials valued at border prices equivalent for imported materials.
and adjusted by 0.7, 1.4, 2.4 and 0.8 for local materials.
/f Conversion factor of 1.0 for imports under ICB and 1.4 for
locally made equipment and machinery.
/g Weighted average of ratios of 1988 economic to financial
prices of wheat, corn and other grains plus beef, pork ard
other animal products with .he weights based on 1986 Shaanxi
per capita consumption.



cHINA
SBJAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financlal Crop Budget at Full Development                                         New Area (Dry Land)
wheat      Barley        Maize       Millet    Sweet Potato  Soybean    Cotton /b   Rapeseeds    Peanuts    Vegetables    Melons
Unit Prlce  Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amh   Jalue  Amt. Value  Aht. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value
Without Project
Yield                  t            1.5         0.60         1.13        0.62         1.62         0.38         0.21         0.75        0.72          8.1        11.85
Prlce                 Y/t                 851          443          504          502          416         892         7454         1040         1225          268         214
Product Vclue          Y                 1276          266          570          311          675          339        1565          780          882        2167         2536
By-Product Value la   Y                     80          48           36           34           30           14          93           35           31
Total Value            Y                 1356          314          606          345          705         353         1658          815          913        2167         2536
Input Costs
Seeds                kg   0.40    85    34   125    63    27    24    33    13   450   225    4'    32   102    51           6    45    75   120       4   120      3   120
Fert.N               kg   0.59    60    35    45    27    53    31    46    27    57    34          0     0    68    40    54    32       0      0    75    44    72    42
Fert.P               kg   0.20    75    15       0     0    60    12       0     0     0      0    59    12    90    18   120    24    54    11    75    15         0     0
Orsanic              t    1.00    20    20    18    18    24    24    12    12    15    15    14    14    18    18    15    15    23    23    27    27    29    29
PestieLde                 5.71   0.7      4      0     3   0.9      5     0      S     0      0     0     a      2    11     0      0     0      0     0     9   0.7      4
Draft AnSmls               n/a      0    31      0    29      0    14     0    12      0    13      0    12      0    26     0    38      0    15      0    40      0    38
Machinery                  n/a      0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0
IrrLgation           M3   0.03      0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0
Other                      n/a           48      0    45      0    47     0    38      0    40      0    41      0    51     0    47      0    45      0    53      0    52        1
Subtotal                                  187          184          158          105          327         111          216          201          214         308          285        0
Net Value                                1169          130          448          240          378         242         1443          614          699        1859         2250
Labor Requlred       ma-days        160           41           90           38          97           40          215         189           80          208          179
With Project
YLeld                  t            3.8            3            5            3         4.5            2          0.9           2          2.4           20         25.5
Price                 YJt                 851          443          504          502          416         892         7454         1040        1225          268          214
Product Value          Y                 3233         1330         2521         1506        1874         1784         6709        2080         2940         5350         545;
By-Product Value la   Y                   200          170          144          156           83          84          298          105         103
Total Value            Y                 3433         1500         2665         1662        1957         1868         7007        2185         3043         5350         5457
Input Costs
Seeds                kg   0.80   135   108   125    63    30    60    30   120   450   225    90    72   112    56           6    45   113   181       3    90      4   160
Fert.N               kg   0.59   250   148   200   118   300   177   150    89   300   177          0     0   225   133   150    89       0     0   300   177   270   159
Fe-t.P               kg   .77   200   154   150   1).   200   154   105    81   250    50   300   231   450    90   300    60   300   231   300    60   375    75
OrganLc              t    l.00    30    30       0     0    22    22    15    15    45    45        0     0    30    30    22    22    37    37    45    45    48    48
Pestiside                 5.71   0.7      4      0     3     0      9     0      4     0     0      0     0     0    26      0     9      0     0      0    12   0.7      4
Draft Animals              n/a      0    82      0    57     0    67      0    71      0    63      0    59     0    89      0    78      0    57      0    71      0    72
Machinery                  n/a      0    39      0     0     0    27      0      0     0     0      0     0     0    23      0    27      0     0      0     0     0      0
Irrigation           13   0.06  5010   286  5100   291  3105   177  2955   168  2925   167  3015   172  5790   330  3855   220  3705   211  5295   302  4755   271
Plastlcs             Kg   4.00      0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0    75   300    75   300
Other                      n/a      0    54      0    52     0    49      0    39      0    40      0    42     0    45      0    46      0    44      0    56     0    55
Subtotal                                  904          699          742         587          767          576         822          595          761         1113         1144
Net Value                                2529          801         1923        1075         1191         1292         6185        1589         2282         4237         4313
Labor Required       man-days       240          120         210          120          120          105         300          270          120          360         330              " "
Inc-Net Value                            1360          671         1475         835          812         1050        4742          975         1583         2379        2062        4
la Byproducts include hay for all crops and hay and seeds for cotton.
lb Ginned Cotton



CHINA
SBHANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
----------------------------------------
Fln-nciel Crop Budget at Full Development                         Esisting Land (PartiallY IriLgated)
------------------------------------------------------__-------_-------------__----------_-------------------------_--_-----_-------__-__------------------__---------
Wheat      Barley       Maize      Millet   Sweet Potato  Soybean   Cotton lb  Rapeseeds   Peanuts   Vegetables    Melons
Unit ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------  ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
Unit Price Amt. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value Aht. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------__---------
Without Project
Yield                 t           2.7        1.90         3.8         0.8       2.418         1.5         0.5         1.5         1.5        15.2        19.2
Price                Ylt                851         443         504         502         416         892        7454        1040        1225         268         214
Product Value         y                2297         842        1916         402        1007        1338        3727        1560        1837        4066        4109
By-Prodtuct Value la  Y                 200         150         140          34          83          80         260          90          50
Total Value           y                2497         992        2056         436        3.090       1418        3987        1650        1887        4066        4109
Input Costs
Seeds               kg   0.40   100   40   125   63    31    28    30   12  450   225    75   60  110   55            6    45   81  130       3   90      3  120
Pert.N              kg   u.59    77    45   67    40    66    39   58    34   62   37         0     0   67   40   67   40         0    0   84   50    76   45
Fert.P              kg   0.20    83    17     0     0   83    17      0    0   290    58   58    12  183   37  117   23   62   12  117   23               0     0
Organic             t    1.00    20    20    15    15    14    14   14   14   30   30   10   10   20   20   18   18   25   25   30   30    29    29
PestLaide                5.71     0     4     0     3     0     5     0     3    0      4    0      0     0     4    0      0    0    0    0    10  0.7         4
Draft Animls              n/a     0    30     0    32     0   20      0    37     0    38     0    13     0   28      0    38     0   18      0    43     0    38
Machinery                 nla     0     0    0      0     0     0     0    0      0     0    0      0    0    0       0     0    0    0       0     0     0     0
Irrigation          M3   0.03  1930   58  1574   47   877    26   964    29  1333   40  877    26  2280    68  1052    32  965   29 2368    71  1526    46
Other                     n/a     0   45      0   47      0    48     0    38     0   45      0    30     0   45      0    44     0   40      0    48     0    48
- Subtotal                                 259         246         197         167         477         151         297         239         254         365         330       1
Net Value                              2238         746        1859         268         614        1267        3691        1410        1633        3701        3779      .1
Labor Required      man-days      190          57         123          55         138          55         281         210         107         280         200             1
With Project
YLeld                 t           3.8           3           5           3         4.5           2         0.9           2         2.4          20        25.5
Price                Y/t                851         443         504         502         416         892        7454        1040        1225         268         214
Product Value         Y                3233        1330        2521        1506        1874        1784        6709        2080        2940        5350        5457
By-Product Value Is   Y                 200         170         144         156          83          84         298         105         103
Total Value           y                3433        1500        2665        1662        1957        1866        7007        2185        3043        5350        5457
Input Costs
Seeds              kg   0.80   135   108   125   63   30   60    30  120  450   225   90   72  112    56              6    45  113  181       3    90     4   160
Fert.N              kg   0.59   250   148  200   118   300   177   150   89   300   177       0     0   225   133  150    89      0    0   300   177   270   159
Fe-t.P              kg   0.77   200   154  150   116   200   154   105   81  250    50  300  231   450    90  300    60  300  231   300   60   375    75
Organic             t    1.00    30   30      0     0    22   22   15   15   45   45          0     0    30   30   22   22   37   37   45   45    48   48
Pestiside                5.71   0.7     4    0      3     0     9     0    4      0     0     0     0     0   26      0     9    0      0    0    12  0.7       4
Draft Animals             n/a     0   82      0    57     0    67     0    71     0   63      0   59      0   89      0    78    0   57       0    71     0    72       Fi
Mpchinery                 n/a     0   39      0     0     0   27      0    0      0     0    0      0     0   23      0   27      0    0      0     0     0     0       2 
It-igation         M3   0.06  5010   286  5100   291  3105   177  2955   168  2925   167  3015   172  5790   330  3855   220  3705  211  5295   302  4755  271
PlastIcs           RK   4.00      0    0    0       0     0     0    0      0     0    0      0     0     0     0    0    0    0        0    75  300    75  300
Other                     n/a     0   5'    0    52       0    49     0   39      0   40      0    42     0    45     0    46     0    44     0    56     0    55
Subtotal                                904         699         742         587         767         576         822         595         761        1113        1144
Net Value                              2529         801        1923        1075        1191        1292        6185        1589        2282        4237        4313
Labor Requ. ed      man-days      240         120         210         120         120         105         300         270         120         360         330
Inc.Net Value                           291         55           64         807         577          25        2495         179         648         536         533
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__----------------------------______________--------------------------__------__---------
/a Byproducts Lncludo huay for all crops and hay and seeds for cotton.
/b Ginned cotton



m - ma
Alfalfa Crap sud.t
' V'inancl )
Without Project (Dry Land)                                   Wfth Project (Irrigated Land)
Yer I         Year 2         Year 3                   Year I        Yar 2          Year 3        Year 4         Year 5
Unlt    ------------ -                                unit    -            -      -      -              ------------   ------- -----
Item               Unit  Price   Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value  Aht.  Value          Price  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value
Yield              ?iha                                                        I
Alfalfa a*         TIha    428.0    1.5  642.0    2.5 1070.0    1.5  642.0        428.0    2.5 1070.0    5.0 2140.0    5.0 2140.0    5.0 2140.0    3.0 1284.0
Seeds bl           Tiha   3000.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1  300.0    3000.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2  600.0
Value            Yuaniha                    642           1070            942                    1070           2140          2140           2140          1884             1
Seeds               Ka       3.00   15.0   45.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  |  3.00   15.0  45.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Fet.N               Kg       0.59    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  |  0.59   50.0   29.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Fet.?               K        0.20  100.0   20.0  100.0   20.0  100.0   20.0  |  0.20  150.0   30.0  200.0   40.0  200.0   40.0  200.0   40.0  100.0   20.0
Organic            Ton       1.00   10.0   10.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  |  1.00   15.0   15.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Pesti.ides 5     Kgliter   5.71    0.0    0.0    0.7    4.0    0.7    4.0          5.71    1.4    8.0    1.4    8.0    1.4    8.0    1.4    8.0    1.4    8.0
Draft AnLimls                        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Machinery                            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  |             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Irrigatlon )13    Cubic 1    0.06    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  |  0.06 4800.0  273.6 5000.0  285.0 5000.0  285.0 5000.0  283.0 4500.0  256.5
Subtotal       YTu aha                      75             24            24                      401            333           333            333           284
Net Value       Yuan/ba                    567           1046           918                      669           1807          1807           1807          1600
Labor(Wk days)                        60             45            45          |            60             75            75            75             60
aI Yheld in dry weight. Prlce of dry hay is assumed to be 10 times of the wet hay.
bi ALfalfa seeds are required in every 3 years without the 1-aject end i, every 5 years vith the project.



ANNEX 4
- 86 -                      Table 7
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Apple Nursery Budget
(Financial)                         Yuan/ha
Year 1              Year 2
Unit  Total                 Unit    Total
Item                Unit    Qt.      Cost  Cost         Qt.       Cost     Cost
Inputs
Seeds              Kg        30    1.00        30
Urea               Kg        100    0.59       59        100      0.6      59
DAP                Kg       150    0.77       116        150      0.8     116
Organic           Tons        15    1.00       15         15      1.0      15
Pesticides         Kg          3   10.00       30          5    10.0       50
Irrigation         M3      9000    0.06      513        9000      0.1     513
Buds               no     80000    0.05    4000            0      0.1       0
Graft.Mat.                     0   10.00        0          0    10.0        0
Plastics                     75    4.00      300          75    4.00      300
Subtotal.                                    5063                         1053
Labor(Mandays)
Soil Prep.                   90                           90
Seed Bed Prep.               30
Seeding                       6
Seed Bed Irr.                40
Field Irrigation             30
Pest/Fert.Appln              15                           15
Grafting                      80
Pruning                      10                           15
Trnspl.Seedling               20                          15
Digging Seedling              20                          15
Subtotal                   341                           15
/a Crop Budget for 4,200 ha of apple orchard and 84 ha of apple nurseries.
(1 mu of niursery for each 50 mu of orchard)
/b Rootstock seeds will be seeded in spring in seedbeds, transplanted in
autumn and grafted with scions,transplanted in spring of year 2 and dug
out in autumn.
/c Buds will be obtained from healthy budwood mother trees in the area.
/d Assuming about 95% success in grafting about 75,000 seedlings are
produced/ha at Y 1/seedling.



SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPYENT PROJECT
Apple Orchard Investment and Operating Costs
(Financial)                                                                 (Yuaniha)
Unit    Year 1       Year 2      Year 3     Year 4    Year 5      Year 6      Year 7     Year 8      Year  9   Year 10    rear  11    Year 12    Year 1312
Item           Unit Price  Amt.  VYlue  Amt. Value Amt. Value Aat. Value hAt. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value  Amt. Value
------------------------------------------------------------------__  ---------__ -----------------------------------------__ ------------------------------------------------------
Tleld(Tons)          955        0     0     0    0     0          2 1910      4 3820     8 7640    10 9550    15 14325    17 16235    20 19100    25 23875    25 23875    25 23575
Interoropping
Xyleld                         1            1          1          1
Peanuts           1225       2  1470      2 1176     2 1029     1 882
melons             214      26  2729    20 2183    18 1910    15 1637
Value                              4198       3359       2939       4429        3820       7640       9550        14325       16235       19100       23875        23875       23875
Inputs             (Yuon)
Seedlng        so. 1.00    1650  1650
Urea            Kg 0.59      100    59   100   59   100   59   150   89   200  118   200  118   250  148   250   148   250   148   250   148   250   148   250   148   250   148
DAP             Kg  0.77     150   116   150  116   100   77   100   77   150  116   150  116   150  116   200   154   200   14S  200   154   200   154   200   154   200   15.
Organic        Tons 1.0      15    15    15   15    20   20    30   30    35   35    40   40    40   40    40             40   40    40    40    40    40    40    40    40    40
Stakes         No. 0.01    1650    17            0          0          0           0          0          0           0            0           0           0            0           0
Pestied         kg  5.71       1      6     1    6     1    7     1   8      2    9      2   10     2   11     3    17      4    23     5    29     5    29     5    29      5    29
Irri4tn         13  0.06    1200    68  1200   68  1500   86  1800  103  1800  103  2100  120  2100  120  2100   120  2100   120  2100   120  2100   120  2100   120  2100   120
Cost of
Lntercroppin                      1905        1524       1334       1143                                                                                                           OD
Cost of Nursery                   4948         771
Subtotal                         8784        2559       1582       1449        380         403        434         47B         484          490         490         490          49u
NQt Value                        -4585         800       1357       2980       3440        7237       9116       13847       15751        18610       23385       23385        23385
Labor Requirement        (mandays)
Soil Prep.                    90
DlggIng                        15
Transplntg                    15
Fert.Pesc.appln               15           20         25         30         40          45         50         50          50           50          50          50           50
IrrgLatLon                    20           20         20         20         25         25          25         30          30          30           30          30          30
weeding                        5            5          5         10         15          15         20         20          20          20           20          20           20
TreeTraining                                3          3          5         10          15         20         30          35           35          35          35           35
and pruning                                                       5         20          30         40         60          60           70          65          75           75
Harvesting
Subtotal                   160           48         53         70        110        13C         155        190         195         205          200         210         210
la 110 trees/rm  (1650 trees/ha) on dwarfing rootstock (3x2 m spcnigL) Nltrogen IS the nutrient moat needed by apples.Phosphorus fertilLatlon depends on soLl 0 leaf anlysis.
lb For 3-4 years with peanuts and melons.   Net Value per ha of peanuts and melons from nev land without project is assumed.
lc Weeding is less in early years due to intercropping and plant coverage of bare xpots (until yr.4).



CHINA
SHAAEX! AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
----------------------------------------
Livestock Budget At Present Without Project
(Yuan)
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__-----------------------------------------_---------------------------__--
Cattle                    Pig                       Meat-Goat                 Milk-Goat                 Neat Chicken              Egg Chicken
Production                 --------------------- --------------------   --
Unit   Price        Amt.  Value  Price   Amt.  Value  Price   Amt.  Value  Price   Amt.  Value  Price    Amt.  Value  Price    At.  Value
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__------------------------__---------------_----_________----------__------
Meat                     kg          4       185      740     3.4       56      190        4      15       60                                  4     2.5       10
Mile                     kg                                                                                      0.44      279      123
Eggs                    kg                                                                                                                                             2.8     5.5       15
Skin                   No.          50         1       50                                 15        1      IS
Manure                 ton           1        20       20        1      19       19     1.5         6       9      1.5        6       9       10     0.1        1       10     0.1         1
Subtotal                                          810                       209                        84                       132                        11                        16
Costs
Baby Animals                       400         1     400       23        1       23       25        1      25       25        1      25      0.5        1       1      0.5        1        1
Fine Fodder              kg      0.40        425     170    0.40       200       80    0.40       35       14    0.40       47       19    0.30        18        5   0.30        35      11
Forage                  kg       0.05      1800        90    0.05      800       40    0.05       75        4   0.05       100        5   0.05         17       1    0.05        17        1
Fodder Processing                0.01      2500        20    0.01    1250        10    0.01      110        1   0.01       152        1
Vet .Costs                                                                        2                                                                             0                          0
Subtotal           Yuan                           680                       155                        44                        50                          7                       12                   OD
--------                            ~~~---                     ---                         -----                                                                          -co
Net Value              Yuan                          130                         54                        40                        82                         4                          4
Labor Requirement  Mday                       56                        28                        30                        35                          1                         1



CEIA
S8AMa ACULTURAL DEL0PNU PRJECT
LiVGstock Bnduet at Full Dew-lopu nt Mltb Project
(Yuan)
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__------_-_-------_--------------------__-----__---____----------------__
Cattle                     P1s                     Meat-Goat                    Milk-Goat          Meat Chicken               Eg"  ChIcken
Production                  ------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------  -------------------
Unit  Price       mt. Value  Prlce          Amt. Value  Price         *At. Value  Price         Aat. Value  Price        Amt. Value  Prlce          Amt. Value
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-----------------------------------------------------------------__----
meat                     kg          5    185      925    3.62        56     203  4.685         15       73                              6.52      2.5       16
Milk                     kg                                                                                   0.775      279      216
Eggs                    ug                                                                                                                                        3.457    5S5         19
Skin                   NO.       81.5        1      82                               24.5        1      25
Manure                 ton           1     20       20        1       19       19     1.5        6        9     1.5        6        9      10      0.1        1      10      0.1        1
Subtotal                                      1027                       222                        107                       225                        17                        20
Costs
Bo7y AnLmle                        652       1     652    37.5         1      38       40        1       40      40        1       40     0.8        1        1     0.8        1        1
PLne Fodder             kg       0.40    425       170   0.40       200       80    0.40        35       14    0.40       i7       19    C.30       18        5   0.30        35       11
Porago                  kg       0.05  1800         90   0.05    1440         72   0.05         75        4   0.05       100        5   0. O        17        1   0.05        17        1
Fodder Processing                0.01  2500         20   0.01    1250         10    0.01       110        1   0.01       152        1
Vet.Costs                                            8                          2                         2                         2                      0.2                       0.2
Subtotal                                       940                       202                         61                        67                         7                        12
Dot Value              Yuan                         87                        20                        46                       158                        10                          8
Labor RequLrmX ut  Mday                    56                        28                         30                        35                         1                         1
----------------------_--------------------------------------------------__--__-------------------------------------------------------------------.---



90  -                       ~~~~ANNEX  4
-  90  -                                   Table  11
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DINOBIAN SUB-COMPOMENT
Animal Budget at Full Developmnt
(1988Y/vdult animal)
-------------------------------------------------------__-------------------_ _--_-----_______----
Dairy
Unit            Goat                   Sheep                Cattle
Unit       Pricos    Qty          Value      Qty        Value       Qty        Value
---------------------.---------------------------------------------__--------__---------..----------------
UNIT COSTS
Feed
Concentrat                 kg              0.86          46       16.8          45       16.8       1826      688.8
Hey                        kg               0.26        166       41.8         l65       41.8         880       96.0
Silage a/                  kg               0.26           0       1' 0          0        0.0       2000      500.0
Grazin  a/                 kg              0.00         882        0.0         882        0.0           0        0.0
VYterinarin services           Y                                       0.8                    0.8                  12.0
Sub-total                                                             67.0                   67.0                1288.8
Labor roquirements             wkdays                         4                      4                     58
OUTPUT VALUE
Mutton                         kg              6.00        14.9       89.4       15.9        96.4
wool                           kg             12.00            2      24.0         0.8        8.6
COshmre                        kg            200.00           0        0.0         0.8       60.0
Skins                          unit           66.00            1      66.0           1       66.0
Milk                           kg              0.64           0        0.0           0        0.0       4860    2784.0
Manure                         ton              1.00       1.37        1.4        1.87        1.4           6        6.0
Sub-total                                                            169.8                  216.4                2789.0
NET VALUE                                                            112.8                  168.4                1666.8
_________________________________________________________________________.._______________________________
n/ Expressed as hay equivalent.



ANNEX 4
Table  12
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forestry Budget without Project
_-----___----------------------                (At Present)
Establishment    Maintenance        Harvesting
Econ.    Unit      Year 1          Year 2-9         Year 10
Unit   Coeff.   Price Amount  Value   Amoant  Value   Amount  Value
Product on                      ( .an)
Logs            M3          1     600                       9.4    5640      150   90000
Poles           M3          1     400                       3.1    1240       50   20000
Fuelwood        Kg          1     0.1                       380      38   30000    3000
Subtotal                                                          6918           113000
Costs
Seedling        No.          1     1.5    1200    1800
Fertilizer      KX      1.022    0.59    1200    '724        900     543      600      362
Pesticides       Kg          1     5.7       53     300       53     300    1053    6000
Other                        1                      150              150             3000
Subtotal                                         2974              993             9362
Net Value                                         -2974             5925           103638
Labor          Mdays                         90               60              270
/a Types of trees:Pawlonia(40X at Y300/M3), Popular(54.8X at Y800/M3) and
others(5.2X at an average price of Y8OO/M3).
/b Trees are planted with project in 1993.
/c Thinning years are in every 5 years.
/d Harvest year is the 10th year.
/e Plant about 80 trees/mu in the beginning and thin out 50X in every 5 years.
/f Revenues are realized only in the thinning and harvest years.



-  92 -                                    ANNEX  4
Table 13
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
----------------------------------------
Forestry Budget withk . Project
-------------------------------        (At Full Development)
Establishment  Maintenance   Harvesting
Econ.    Unit    Year 1        Year 2-9       Year 10
Unit  Coeff.   Price Amount Value  Amount Value  Amount Value
Production                     (Yuan)
Logs           M3         1     600                   11.3   6780    180 108000
Poles          M3         1     400                    3.8   1520     60  24000
Fuelwood       Kg         1     0.1                    750     75  36000   3600
Subtctal                                                    8375        135600
Costs
Seedling       No.         1     1.5   1200   1800
Fertilizer      Kg    1.022    0.59   2400   1447   1800   1035   1200    724
Pesticides      Kg         1     5.7      5'i   300      53    300   1053   6000
Other                      1                    150            150           3000
subtotal                                     3697           1535          9723
Net Value                                     -3697           6840         125877
Labor         Mdays                       90             60           270
/a Types of trees:Pavlonia(40X at Y300/M3), Popular(54.8Z at Y8001m3) and
others(5.2X at an average price of Y800/M3).
/b Trees are planted with project in 1993.
/c Thinning years are in every 5 years.
Id Harvest year is the 10th year.
/e Plant about 80 trees/iu in the beginning end thin out 50X in every 5 years.
/f Revenues are realized only in the thinning and harvest years.



B,  - 93 -                                ANNEX 4
Table 1 4
88AUA(%[RfLOM1IAL DNM4R? PFAWT
DONGLEI II-FMHM
Poject Year                    1988  1969  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 2000/12
Model A; la
G;;;_ Value of Produotio
Field C=rps                   728   728   728   728   728  1159  1282  1426  1613  181?  1913  1992   2036
0     0     0     0      a     0     0     0      0     0     0     0       0
b.nn~hdahry        439   487   540   598   66?   735   814   903  1000  1109  1229  1362   1509
Subtotal                  1168  1215  1268  1327  1391  1894  2096  2329  2613  2925  3141  3354   3546
Field Ora"s                   292   292   292   292   292   369   391   417   450   487   504   519    527
FieldCrops                      0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     a     0      0     0      0
=n Zhisgr                     287   318   353   391   434   481   533   590   654   725   804   891    987
Subtotal                   579   610   645   683   725   850   924  1007  1105  1212  1308  1409   1514
Net Fann Iros                  589   605   623   644   666  1044  1172  1321  1509  1713  1833  1945   2032
Side lIcncs                    200   200   260   200   200   210   221   232   243   255   268   281    295
Total Househuld Incanes        789   805   823   844   866  1254  1393  1553  1752  1968  2101  2226   2328
LaboraRquiremt                 162   162   162   162   162   176   180   185   191   198   201   204    205
Model B: lb
Gross Value of Podwticn
Field Crops                  1093  1093  1093  1093  1093  1738  1923  2139  2420  2725  2869  2988   3055
0     0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0     0       0
kdnfffsbundary                439   487   540   598   663   735   814   903  1000  1109  1229  1362   1509
Subtotal                  1532  1580  1632  1691  1756  2473  2737  3042  3420  3834  4098  4350   4564
ProdctiLm Expndtumts
Field Crops         r         438   438   438   438   438   553   587   625   676   731   756   778    790
TseedCrops                      0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0          0      0
=a     bsu.daxy               287   318   353   391   434   481   533   590   654   725   804   891    987
Subtotal                   725   756   790   829   871  1034  1119  1216  1330  1456  1560  1668   1777
Net Famn I=    3s              807   824   842   862   884  1439  1618  1826  2090  2378  2537  2681   2787
Side Jncous                    200   200   200   200   200   210   221  232   243   255   268   281    295
Total Household Ircms         1007  1024  1042  1062  1084  1649  1838  2058  2333  2633  2806  2963   3082
Labor Requ yrem               243   243   243   243   243   265   271   278   287   297   302   306    308
Model C: tc
Gross_Value_of production
Field Crops                  1093  1093  1093  1093  1093  1738  1923  2139  2420  2725  2869  2988   3055
0     0     0     0      0 448   358   313   647   407   815  1019   1528
1    Hiundry                  439   487   540   598   663   735   814   903  1000  1109  1229  1362   1509
Subtotal                  1532  1580  1632  1691  1756  2921  3095  3355  4067  4241  4912  5368   6092
Pxiuetion Eq3dtu
Field Crops                   438   4r8   438   438   438   553   587   625   676   731   756   778    790
TFi eCop-s                      0     0      0     0     0 933   269   162   146    33    34    37         43
Arinil H;hbundary             287   318   353   391   434   481   533   590   654   725   804   891   957
Subtotal                   725   756   790   829   871  1967  1388  1378  1476  1489  1594  0706   1820
Net Fa   Innohs                807   824   842   862   884   954  1707  1977  2591  2752  3318  3663   4.72
Side Inms                      200   200   200   200   200   210   221   232   243   255   268   281    295
Total Household Irnxms        1007  1024  1042  1062  1084  1164  1927  2209  2834  3007  3586  3944   4567
Labor Reqairemnt               243   243   243   243   243   282   276   283   294   309   316   322   328
Model D: /d
Gross Value of Production
Field Crps                   1530  1530  1530  1530  1530  2434  2692  2995  3387  3815  4016  4183   4276
0     0     0     0      05878  4702  4114 8493  5348 10696 13370  20055
= M bundary             0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0
Subtotal                  1530  1530  1530  1530  1530  8311  7394  7110 11880  9163 14712 17553  24431
ian EpriCp                   613   613   613   613   613   775   821   876   946  1023  1059  1089   1106
Treldcraps                      0     0     0      0     012249  3535 2128  1919   438   446   491    568
free~~rLsbUIlISZY       0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0      0
Subtotal                   613   613   613   613   613 13024  4356  3003  2865  1460  1505  1580   1674
Net Fazm Incomes               917   917   917   917   917 -4713  3038  4106  9015  7703 13207 15974  22658
Side LCAs                      200   200   200   200   200   210  221    32   243 255   268   281    295
Total Husehold  Iomes         1117  1117  1117  1117  1117 -4503  3259  4338  9258  7958 13475 16255  22953
Labor RPqirmnt                 206   206   206   206   206   224    67    74    98   154  182   217    266
 ~ ~ ~     -----------------------------
/a S persasx household with 10 mu (0.67 ha.) of land, no orcard and an average holding of livestock.
AM aveage livestock holdirs includes 0.82 cattle, 0. 69                               h 08  goats and 4.11   ickens per household
habse figi..s are based en total livestock ad husehol WtZserS provided by trh  provinc  rovenent.
/b 5 persas hosebold wIth 1&u (1 ha. ) of land, mn  orchard ard an aVera e            holidin  of livestoc.
(c hpersais I~sehold  15 mu crop laid, 1.65 nu of orchard shae  per f           vly  ithn village, and an average
holdimg of live2)onr.
Id 5 persai.s household with 21 ma (1.4 ha.) of lard used fOr crop Productian until 1993 thai for orcard
tidreafter.



S4AMI AUICLLi.3M MELMRWW PRWJWT
DI~1*    39IOE I JT
Fare ldUla
(Yuenjl_he.o I d)
_ _ _ _OT  YEAR
1989      1990       1991      1992       1993       2994      1995      1996       1997       1998      19"9       2000 2001/2013
Nodal A I/ -
Cron. Valw of Product.on
Field Crops                    264       264        268       273       2729       3235      3760      4209       4654       4632       4610      4589      4589
Animjl t4w.andry               494       494        494       494        494        430       582       813        813        813        813       813       813
Sub-total                      758       758        762       767       3224       3866      4342      5022       5467       5445       5423      5402      5402
Production e*pend i ture
Field crops                     81        81         81        81        936        936       936       936        936        936        936       936       936
Animl Mwebandry                235       235        235       235        235        282       330       377        3T7        377        3T?       37?       377
Sub-total                      316       316        316       316        1172      1219        66       1313      1313       1313       1313      1313      1313
Net Agricwltur*l Incom_           442       442        446       451       2052       2447      3076       3709      4154       4132       4110      4089      4069
Off-fare Income 2/                 72        72         72        72           0         0         0          0         0          0          0         0         0
Government subsidie                60        so        O8         80
Totel Nat Incom                   54        614        518      s5         2052       2447      3076       3709      4154       4:32       4110      4089      4089
Income per capita                 103       0OS        104       105        410        489       615       742        831        826        822       818       818
Labor requirements                 69        59         59        59         193       195       199        203       201        201        203       203       203
MoDal 8: 3/
Cros Value of Production
Field Crops                    422       422        429       436          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0         0
Anial Hu sbandry              6478      c478       6478      6478       6478       64S7      7607      8B46      12430      12347      12347     12347     12347
Sub-tota l                    6900      6900       6907      6914       6478       6457      7607      6846      12430      12347      12347     22347     12347
Production  xpeinditure
Foder crops                    129        29          9       129        857       2509      2509      2509       2133        857       2509      2509      2509
AnimI Habandry                5923      5923       5923      5923       4110       3573      4173      4358       4e65       5084       4135      4135      4135
Sub-tota l                    6082      6052       6052      60M2       4967       6082      668       686         998       S41        8644      6644      6644
Net Agricultural Income           84        848        865       662        151        3.        925       196D      5433       6406       s73       5703      5703
Off-form Incom  2/                 72        72         72        72          0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0         0
Government  iubsidies              so        so         60        so
Total Not Income                  920       920        927       934       1511        375.      925       19o       5433       6406       5703      5703      5703
Income per capita                184        184        185       167        302         75       185       396       1087       1281      1141       1141      1141
Labor rqi reinta                  458       45s        458       458        586        604       648       705        714        714       732        732       732
I/ The averae hou- hold b-. S f-aily members. form  1 he  in a year. h-a  S   _ee  and  oots before the project,
increasing to 8 animla at full developmnt.
21 Aeeumms that farmers would cue-- to work off-farm as a rulCI of the incresoed on-fare labor rqir_monta.
D >J



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS FOR LINED NURSERY POND REVENU)E &OPERATINGCOSTS PER MU
ITEM                   YEAR I       YEAR          2          YEAR          3          YEAR         4-
Quantity (kg)  COST (Y)  Ouantity (kg)  COST (Y)  Quandtiy (kg)  COST (Y)
REVENUE
Fingerlings (YS.56/kg) (See Table 5)     -120                        667     160              890    200             1,112
COSTS
Fry (Y80'10.000)                         -         2,400              19   3,360               27   4,200               34
Pellet Feed (YO.90/kg)                  -           256              230    324               292    420              -378
Grass  (YO.04Ikg)                        -          200                8    240                1 0    285              1I1
Manure (YlOIt)                          -.768                          8     972               10    1,260              13
Disease Control Chemicals I/            -                             10                       10                       10         L
Water Fee 2/                                                          30                       30                       30 
Electricity (YO. 08/kwh)                                               4                        4                        4
Transport  (YO.20/t-km)                 -                             10                       10                       I
Tools (See Table 34)                    -                              6                        6                        6
Maintenance 31 /                                                      20                       20                       20
Annualized Machine Cost (See Table 35)  --5                                                     5                        5
Management (Y20/mu)                     --20                                                   20                       20
Contract                                                             100                      175                      250
Other                                                                  8                        8                        8
Total Costs                               -                         4 78                     6 25                     7 98
Not  Prof It                            --1 90                                               2 64                     3 14
Profit Per 10 Mu Pond Area              -                         1,895                    2,6 44                   3,1 40       .
I/ This represents an average annual cosVmu of chemicals used for disease control.
21 The water fee is based on a cost of about Y0.03lcubic meter.
31 The maintenance fee is based on approximately 1% of the value of farm equipment as specified in Shaanxi.



- 96                                   ANNEX  4
Ya8bl.mT7
ChINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM  BUDGETS  FOR LINED  PRODUCTION  POtD  REVENUE & OPERATING  COSTS PER  MU
lEMU                VERt        YEAR         2          YEAR         3         YEAR         4         YEAR         5.-
OUANtITY (kg   (Y)    OUANTITY (kg)   (Y)   2UANTITV (kg    (Y    OUANTiTY (kg   (Y)
REAVENLU
Fis (Y4.38Ag) (S"t    51            . .        200           676           250      1.095         300      1.314         315      1,643
COSTS
Fkog~   (YS569Ai) (SG TaM 5\                  30             167      40             222      S0            2tO      50            276
Pe4M fod Fe"  9YOA )                           267            240     321             20      363            344     456            439
O"a  (Y004&q)                                  534             21      642             26     765             31     975             39
m:we (VIM                           . O601                      6      96              10    1.148      1t             1,463         15
.hem,  Feditae (Y 4O6AQ)                       6.9              4      t1               5      13              6      1s              7
-i ass C.r1d Chemi i1               ..                         10                      10                     S0                     10
W. o ol V                                                      45                      46                     45                     45
EI.cliacit (VOOGAW"                 .-                          S                       5                     10
Tvenup I(YOIO*km)                   ..                         12                      12                     12                     12
Tech (SW Table 34)                                              6                       6                       6                     6
M_W*KuM  W                                                     26                      26                     26                     26
Amudied Ua*  Cost (S" Taft 3                                    6                        6                      5                      5
Uanaem" 0Y20tu!                                                20                      20                     20                     20
ConEraet                            .-                        100                      ISO                   200                    250
0t1er                               .0                                                  10                     10                    10
Total CoO                                                    642                                             696                  1.256
Net Profit                                                    16                      253 2316                                      361
Profit Po 10 UV Pond                                        1.PS0                   2.53S                  3.164                  3,697
1 This refoolNO an overag ennui eDtMU of Clelat uSd ic dO   cerri
ii The wair lee is baod on a co  of  a" YO.O3ft%Af  ma-.
3d The msaienAfee es bae on lPoazols 1$  GO ft Wvb  d tuM eqPPMM as spetied hi ShineS.



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS FOR UNLINED NURSERY POND REVENUE & OPER.ATING COSTS PER MU
IREM                   YEAR 1       YER            2          YEAR          3         YEAR         4,>
QUANTITY (kg)    (Y)      QUANTITY (kg)   1Y)    OUANTITY (kg)   (Y)
REVENUE
Fingedings (Y5.S6ikg)                     -         120               667      160            a90      200           1,112
Cwin (s5% atea -. YO.327hkg)            --          128                 17     170              31     213              45
Wheal (85% area -- YO.456Ahg)            -          128                23      170              42     213              62
Total                                                                 7C7                     962                   1218
COSTS
FTy (Y8WtO,000)                           -        2.400               19    3,360              27    4,250             34
Pellet Feed (O90/lg)                     -.         192               173      228            205      300             273
Grass Seed & Ferilzer (See Table 14) 21  --                              4                       4                       4
Manure (Y/IO)                            -          1.280               13    1.523             15    2.000             20
Disease Co'nI,ol Chemicals 3/                                           10                      10                      10
Water Fee 4/                                                            30                      30                      30
Electricity (YO.OShkwh)                  .                               4                       4                       4
Transport  (YO.20/.km)                                                  10                      10                      10
Tools (See Table 34)                     --                              6                       6                       6
Corn Cost (See Table 14) 1/              --                             23                      23                      23
Wheat Cost (See Table 14) 1/                                            36                      36                      36
Maintenance 5/                           -                              20                      20                      20
Annmuazed Madilne Cost (See Table 3S)    -                               5                       5                       5
Management (Y20/mu)                      --                             20                      20                      20
Contract                                                              100                      200                     300
Other                                                                    8                       a                       8
Total Costs                                                           481                     623                     802
Net Profit Per Mu                        --                           226                     339                     416
Profit Per 10 Mu Pond Area               --                         2.260                   3,394                   4.1 58
1 Maize and wheat are double cropped on 85% of Ihe dike area.
21 Grass as totage bfr lish would be grown on 15% ot the dike area with an annual oulput capacity ot 3750 kg/mu at full development.
3J This represents an aveFage annual cosVmu ot chenicals used for disease control.
4/ The water lee is based on a cost ol about YO.03cubic meter.                                                                              D
5/ The ruaintenance feo is based on approximately 1% of fe value od farm equipmeri as spedieid in Shaanxl.



98  -                            ~~~~~~ANNEX  4
_  98  -                                         TNNable  19
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPM'ENT PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS FOR UNLINED NURSERY POND REVENUJ & OPERATING COSTS PER MU
nA                      YEARI      YMA          2        YEAR        3        YEAR         4        YEA        1.3.
OuameI (kg)          OuanlN  (kg)         O njidiY (k)          OuWUN1 (kg)
FsW (Y4.J (ee 7*15 5)                      *         200            676       250      1.003        300      1,314       375      1.643
cFrs (6%3m) (So.eeT g)                                g 0o           20       120         39        ISO        49        t50         49
Whom (60%  MAY0.456g) I                     *         g 90           41        120        Ss        150        66        ISO         66
ttal                                        -                      646                 1,166                1.431                 1.7s0
Pkg..ingp (YS.50\)                          *.            30        167        40        222         s0       278         50        276
l Pead (Vo.eo)                                           176        160       202        162        254        229       325        292
G,r a.ed.a usIhzu]SeeTWO14)                              601         1 I       09         II        114         1 1     1.460        I
maware *y                                   **         1.513         I5      1.717        17      2,159         22      2.762        26
c-!mic.4 FPeritW  (Y0.406*)                                9          4         10         5         13          6        I6          7
0aseC.lIrCtt5it  V 31                                                10                   10                    to                   to
Watu Fee -4                                                          4 5                  46                    45                   45
Eloetddly (YO.OSkbrh)                       .                                              3                    to                   10
-. sut  (YO.20-k)                           *                        12                   12                    12                   It
Toed (Se Ta1f34)                   .           *                                6                                6
Com Coa (STat 14)1/                        *                         1                    10                    16                   16
VA  Cad (Sos T*1 14)1                      -                         26                   26                    26                   26
mgima eS*                                                            26                   26                    26                   28
Aruwedbsd MIAS Coo (... TIM  36)                                      6                     5                    S                     S
_      tagme  (Y20*u)                                                20                   20                    20                   20
Contrat                                                             100                   200                  250                  300
Otbhe                                                                10                    10                   10                   10
T4a116%                                                             -.                    -                                          It
Total OeIe                                                          63. .19                                    $66                1,161
It Profit P  me                                                    307                   370                  440                    6
Preflt Pe 10 Kg Pond                                              3 073                3,700                 4,42 6'3"
II Mtze   d w a   dmo cropped on 60%  Uof  ddie dvt
2/ Gras -   mp lot fosa hwoai be grown an 40% al the dke 1an  with m  annud output capacty a 3710 kWmu a fugl dsvslapfmeIt.
31 This f.posWU  a averae afMid cosWmu of ch        ud for dises codL
4V The wa tfe is based an a cost of abot Y0.03/1cblo maw.
51 The mmenuace foo is ts -  n -   a       1d 1%   nd the vae  lMm iOpmOf  as spoiWed h Shawail.



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTUPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DONGLEI II
CROP AREAS. YIELDS AND PRODUCTI0 1_a
Present ( without project )                                    At full development ( with project
lvew Area C Rainfed )  Existing (partially 1rrl4gtcd)           New Area ( Rainfed )     ESisting (partially Irrigated)   Cbange in Output
............................................................. .............................................. ...............................   .................................................    ..............................  ..................
Ares   I of    Yield  Output Area   2 of    Yield  Output   Area    S Of    Yield  Output   Area   I of    Yield Output          low      EaistLag
CROP               (ha)   cropped (Tlha)   (T)   (ha)   cropped (T/ba)   CT)   (ha)   cropped CT/ha)   (T)    (ha)   cropped (CTha)  (T)            Area      Area
area                           area                             area                           area                          --7  -
Annual Crops
Wheat                        42,819   51.60   1.50 64.229  33,302    49.0   2.68  89.249   43,239    46.5   3.80 164,308  36,367    46.5  3.80  138,195    100,080   48,945
Barley                       6,058    7.30   0.60  3,635   3,058       4.5   1.94   5,933    3,627      3.9   3.00  10,881   3,050      3.9  3.00    9,150      7,246    3,217
Maize                         8.298   10.00   1.13  9,377   7,816    11.5   3.81  29,779   15,994    17.2   5.00  79,970  13,452    17.2  5.00   67,260        70,593   37,A4'
Millet                        5,892    7.10   0.62  3,C53   4.350      6.4   0.84   3,654       837     0.9   3.00   2,511     704      0.9  3.00    2,112     (1.142)  (1~.542)
Sweet Potato                  4,564    5.50   5.00 22,820   2,719      4.0  10.00  27, 190    1,581     1.7  20.00  31,e20   1,330      1.7 20.00   26,600      8.800      (590)
Soybean                       4,315    5.20   0.38  1,640   4,214      6.2   1.50   6,321   10,043    10.8   2.00  20,086   8,446    10.8  2.00   16,892       18,446   10,571       uD
Cotton ( ginned )             8,630   10.40   0.21  1,812   4,825      7.1   0.49   2,364    5,579      6.0   0.90   5,021   4,692      6.0  0.90    4,223      3,209    1,359       'D
Cotton Seeds /I b8,630   10.40   0.35  3,021   4,825                   7.1   0.83   4,005    5,579      6.0   1.50   8,369   4,692     6.0  1.50    7,038       5,348    3,033
Rapeseeds                     1,245    1.50   0.75    934   3,262      4.8   1.50   4,893    5,393      5.8   2.00  10,786   4,536     5.8  2.00    9,072       9,852    4,179
Peanuts ( un-belled )           166    0.20   0.72    120   2,854      4.2   1.9"   5,679    4,742      5.1   2.40  11,381   3,989     5.1  2.40    9,574      11,261    3,894
Vegetables I c                  581    0.70   8.10  4,706      884     1.3  15.22  13,454    1,116      1.2  20.00  22,320     938      1.2 22.00   20,636     17.614    7,182
Melong                          415    0.50  11.85  4,918      680     1.0  19.21  13,063       837     0.9  25.50  21,344     704     0.9 25.50   17,952      16,426    4,889
SUB-TOTAL                   82,983  100.00                 67,964   100.0                   92,988   100.0                  76,208   100.0
Perennial, Crops ( new area )
-__-------------------------
Alfalfa Hay (dry welght)/_d    913            2.50  2,283                                    4,973            5.00  24,865                                     22,583
Alfalfa Seed I_e                913           0.20    183                                    4,973            0.60   2,984                                      2,801
Apple l_f                                                                                    4,200           25.00 105,000                                    105.000
SUB-TOTAL                       913                                                          9,173
Total Cropped Area          83,896                         67.964                          102,161                          78,208
Total Land Area              71,000                        52,000                           71,000                          52,000
Cropping IntenasLty   2 )       118                            131                             144                             150
1_- Numbers may not add up due to rounding                I_b The delinting ratio of Chinese cotton is 1:1.7
I c Mainly Chinese cabbage                                I_d Dry weight for 7ear 2 without project *nd year 4 with project
Ie* Year 3 without project and year 5 with project        Itf PulL development for apples In year 11 and year 6 for annul crops
CPi 



-  100 -                                          ANNEX 4
Tabe-2t
CHINA
SHAANXI ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DINOIAN COMPONENT
Tablo 2: CROP AREAS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Preoznt                                 At full Dovelopmont
-------------------------------------__ _   -------------------- --- ----  ------  Chango
Dingbixn             Area     X cropped Yield    Output      Area     U cropped Yield    Output       in Output
Project Area         (he)     areo      (tWho)   (t)         (ha)      roe       (t/h)   (t)          (t)
Annual Crops
Wheat                 1313     30.00     0.37      467           -                                     -467
Maize                  230      6.00     0.76      173          87     14.60      6.30     3607       a884
millet                1848     40.00     0.46      829           -                                     -029
Soybean                416      9.00     0.33      137           -                                     -137
Repesoe                737     16.00     0.23      166           -                                     -1"
Veetables */                                                   134       2.90    30.00     4001        4006
Melons                                                         134       2.90    26.30     3507        3507
Sub-total             4606    100.00                           934      20.30
Perennial Crops
Alfalfa hay b/                                                3140      68.00     6.20    1966        196
Alfalfa Geed c/                                                                             628         02
Apple                                                          134       2.90    25.00     3850         3W
Medical herbe                                                  267       6.00     1.30      341         341
Sedlings                                                       134       2.90
Sub-total                                                     3675      79.90
Total cropped area    4603    100.00                          4606    100.00
Anim l Husbandry
Sheep (000)                                      23023                                   115797
Goats (000)                                      13620                                    947'.3
Dairy covs (000)                                     0                                     6000
Cashmere (tons)                                    3.4                                     28.4        25.0
Wool (tons)                                       49.5                                      260       210.5
Skins (thousands)                                   14                                    120.4       114.4
Mutton (tons)                                      202                                     1633      1131.0
Cow milk (tons)                                                                           14790     14790.0
M/ Mainly Chines cobbage.
b/ Yield expreecd a  hay equivalent year 4 with the project.
c/ Year 6 with the project.



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVEL0P6MUT PROJECT
ECONOMIC AAALYSIS MLD-L0     I CIUNOUU'T
_________________                                                       ( 000's Yuan
__-.__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Fconomic Analysis          1988    1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007 2008112
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__-------------------------------------------------------____----__---------_-__--__-___-----_--
Net Revenue With Project
FLeld Crop               112542  114628 116758 124757 133302 176212 198232 223577 243173 26j638 274474 283674 289863 289863 289863 289863 289863 289863 289863 289863 289863
Cash Crop                 37927   39277  40677  43269  46055  68150  774bl  88237  96904 105940 109847 112857 114255 114255 114255 114255 114255 114255 114255 114255 114255
ALfalfa                     438     894    531    438    894   2669   6263   7185  8220   5904   4449  10274  10274  10274   6451  4582  10274  10274  10274   6451   5088
Orchard                       0       0      0      0      0 -17494  -7764  -6752      96  12510  28699  37571  57157  65123  77066  97162  97093  97093  97093  97093  97093
Forestry                  -9133   -3173  -3173  -3173  17212  -7772  -6626  -7758  -8607 329148  -9173  -9173  -9173  -9173 478772  -9344  -9173  -9173  -9173 329148  -9173
AnLmal Husbandry           1230    1241   1253   1264   1276   1288   2042   2321   2639   3000   3411   3878   4409   4346   4346   4346   4346   4346   434S   4346   4346
Total (1)                143004  152868 156046 166556 198740 223052 269628 306810 342425 720141 4!1707 439081 466786 474689 970754 500865 506658 506658 506638 841157 501472
Net Revenue W/O Project
Field Crop               112542  114628 116758 124757 133302 142434 152197 162637 167228 171949 176803 181795 186929 186929 186929 186929 186929 186929 186929 186929 186929
Cash Crop                 37927   39277  40677  43269  46055  49050  52271  55736  56592  57461  58344  59240  60151  60151  60151  60151  60151  60151  60151  60151  60151
Alfalfa                     438     894    531    438    894    531    438    894    531    438   894    531    438    894    531    438   894    531    438    894    531
Orchard                       0       0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0
Foresty                   -9133   -3173  -3173  -3173  17212  -3173  -3173  -3173  -3173 3X1.273  -3173  -3173  -3173  -3173  17212  -3173  -3173  -3173  -3173 304273  -3173    1
Animal Busbandry           1230    1241   1253   1264   1276   1288   1300   1312   1324   1336   1348   1361   1374   1386   1386   1386   1386   1386   1386   1386   1386    .
Total (2)                143004  152868 156046 166556 198740 190130 203033 217406 222502 535457 234217 239755 245719 246188 266210 245731 246188 245825 245731 553634 245825   0
Incremental Benefit
Field Crop                    0       0      0      0      0  33778  46035  60940  75945  91689  97671 101879 102934 102934 102934 102934 102934 102934 102934 102934 102934
Cash Crop                     0       0      0      0      0  19100  25211  32501  40313  48479  51504  53617  54105  54105  54105  54105  54105  54105  54105  54105  54105
Alfalfa                       0       0      0      0      0   2138   5825   6291   7689   5466   3554   9743   9836   9380   5920   9836   9380   9743   6013   4194   -531
Orchard                       0       0      0      0      0 -17494  -7764  -6752      96  12510  28699  37571  57157  65123  77066  97162  97093  97093  97093  97093  97093
Foresty                       0       0      0      0      0  -4600  -3454  -4586  -5435 24875  -6001  -6001  -6001  -6001 461559  -6171  -6001  -6001  -6001  24875  -60D1
Animal Husbandry              0       0      0      0      0      0    742   1010   1315   1664   2063   2517   3035   2960   2960   2960   2960   2960   2960   2960   2960
Total (3)-(1)-(2)             0       0      0      0      0  32922  66595  89404 119923 184684 177490 199327 221067 228501 704544 260827 260471 260834 257104 286161 250560
Costs
Investment Cost: la
Subtotal (4)         10000  116200  86100  80700  64900  34600
Operatine Cost: lb
Subtotal (5)             0       0      0      0      0  30700  33900  37800  43800  49700  52400  54200  54200  54200  542C0  54200  54200  542no  54200  54200  54200
Total Costs               10000  116200 86100  80700  64900  65300  33900  37800  43800  49700  52400  54200  54200  54200  54200  54200  54200  54200  54200  54200  54200
(6)-(4)+(5)
Net benefit              -10000 -116200 -86100 -80700 -64900 -31673  33467  52401  76908 135668 125519 145243 166628 174061 647145 203427 203071 203435 199705 228761 193160
(7)-(3)-(6)
NPV (OOOYuan)            261513
EHF                       19.571
al Details of investment and O04 costs in Annex.
b/ Electricity valued at Y0.2lkwh and labor shadow valued at Y1.41day.
CD 



O4Dt
SWHNX  AMCUaLTURAL  EaxPmwr PRPJET
Eeonomic Cost and Benefits - Dingbi.n Compoent 1/
PROJECT   YEAR
1969    1990    199      1992    1993    1994    1998    1998    197    1998    1999    2000 2001/2013 2/
WATE SPPLY COI6NENT
WATER SWPLY  WC3ETAL BENETS
Labor Savinga                          0       0      1.2     3.1      6.0     6.S      7.0     7.5      8.0     8.8      9.0      9.5       10.0
Tariff Revenue                       0.0     0.0      0.7     1.8      2.3     2.3      2.3     2.3      2.3     2.3      2.3     2.3         2.3
Medical Coost Saving.                0.0     0.0      0.0     0.3      0.8     1.8      1.8      1.8     1.9      1.9     1.9      1.9        1.9
Sub-total                            0.0     0.0      1.9     4.9      9.0    10.3    11.1    11.6    12.1    12.6    23.1    13.7           14.2
DIVESTT  COSTS                      26.0    30.0    24.0    10.0
OPEATIC COSTS                        0.0     0.0      1.2     2.2      3.3     3.3      3.3     3.3      3.3     3.3      S.3      3.3        3.4
NEr DICEMNAL BEFTS                 -26.0   -30.0   -23.3    -7.2       8.7     7.0      7.8     8.3      8.8     9.3      9.8    10.3        10.7
ERR                                    86
-21.8
IRRIATIW  COPONEr
ECMC  INCREMETAL BENbTS 
Annual Crops                           0       0        0       0        0      1.8     2.5     3.1      3.8     4.4      4.4     4.4         4.4                            0
Apple Orchard                          0       0        0       0    -1.8      0.3      0.4     0.6      0.5      1.0     1.3      1.9        2.2
Livestock                           -0.8    -0.4      0.1     0.7      1.2     2.5      6.2    13.1    17.3    19.8    19.8    19.8          19.8
Foretry                                0       0        0       0    -0.3    -0.2    -0.2    -0.2    -0.2    -0.2         0.5    -0.2        -0.2
Sub-total                           -0.5    -0.4      0.1     0.7    -0.9      4.5      8.9    16.8    21.4    25.0    26.0    26.0          26.3
INVESTD T COSTS                      6.0     7.2      5.2     5.6      7.1
OPEiATD10 COSTS                       0        0    -0.1    -0.2       7.3     7.3      7.3     7.3      7.3     7.3      7.3     7.3         7.3
NEr DTfE^AL 8ENES                  -6.3    -7.6    -8.0    -4.6   -i t       -2.8      1.5     9.4    14.,    17.7    18.6    18.6          18.9
3ERR                                 20S
NPV (125 discount rate)               32
CWWPNBT TITAL
COMONET ICMTAL  fflTS               -0.S    -0.4      2.0     5.7      8.1    14.8    20.0    28.3    33.5    37.7    39.1    39.6           40.4
COMPNENT DMV5TII  COSTS             32.0    37.2    29.1    15.6       7.1
CMPNEr OPEATDJ COSTS                                  1.1     1.9    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.S    10.5    1O.S    10.5    10.5            11.0
C3MPOET  NEr 1  NFTAL BENFITS  -32.5   -37.6   -28.2   -11.9    -9.4           4.3      9.4    17.8    22.9    27.1    28.6    29.1          29.5                         lb
ERR                        ~~~~~~~~~131                                                                                                                          '-
NPV (12S diac",nt rate)               10                                                                                                                                  (D
1/ The method used to allocate joint cost is *eparabla cot-rm_inig benefits, the iin purpose of the project is water supply.                                              L
2/The scanc ic benefits from apple orchard increae to Y 2.2 oillion in yoar 2002 end to Y 3.2 million in year 2003, rmining constant thereafter.
The livestock benefits for the terminal yeur include the value of the herd and are estimated at Y 80.7 million.
Foretry befit occur in year 2012, reaching Y 13.8 million. The labor sovings increas  by Y 0.5 million annually.



CHITNA
SHUAMXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN1T PPSOJECT
AJAWLUE CWU         - F-ICIAL CASH kW  (V '000, consteat 199 Priem)
with Project
Project   Yer 1        2        a       4       5        a       7       3        9      10      11      12      1i
lE3UME (1)                                  9,263   20,767  44,162  U3.482   .,22$  61,902  61,902  61,902  61,902  61,902  61,902  61,902
COST                                                                                                           '
Ivevstmest cost                  55,381 4,7"1   24,741         0-      0        0       0       0   3,659        0   6,427       0        0
Operati9 cost                            5,420   17,2    24,14  20,MU1  32,3U1   J87 n       JU 33,78  3 ,733  33,73   *8,    38,7    33,788
you         5                              464    1,489   2,206   2,6n    2,901   3,006   8,095   3,O0f   3,095   3,096   5,095   8,09
TO".. cost (2)                 86,83   40,0U6   43,616  20,02  32,062  35,292  51,.29  3,32   40,487  36,128  43,256    #,m   36,3"2
MET CASH FLOW, ftrne;ls (1-2)     (356,) (31,3S)  (13,73) 17,561  n1,0  23,032  26.074  2s,074  21,415  25,074  13,647  25,074  25,074
MET CASH FLOW, esecemic           (20,142) (24,462)  (6,764) 20,784  25,214  26,1U2  29,488  29,433  23,447  29,43   24,138  29,483  20,4U
FINAMCDO
Onores' f1usd                      12,149  11,790    8,387 
Prow)"c   sulbsidy                  5,261   8,165    2,251
AK la                               4,940   4,799    S,434
Vorld _se  loe                     15,432  16,024   12,068
workim, cpitel                         a   1,0O6    2,372   1,421       03      590
Total                            36,638  55,66    27,113   1,421      T7    690         0       0        0       0       0        0       0
DMS SESCE
I    _peym   of loem                   0        0    1,613   1,741   4,6M2   6,064   5,464   5,399    6,862   4,115   4,440   4,790   5.169
leret o loom                           0        0    1,187   1,010   6,064   4,6911   4,213   8,361   8,39    2,391   2.566   2,21    1,387
Istret   sr WorkIng Capital            0       54      119      71       5O      s0      14       0       0        0       0       0        0
Totel                                        54    2,369   2,622   9,907    ,3    9,771   9,757   0.77   7,006   7,006   7,006   7,006
CAS  FULII AFlI 90T SEMCE              0   4,423   10,512  16,160  12,C71  14,786  I,303  15,317  11,68   18,063  11,641  13,088  13,06
FORft         215
Elill   29I



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Poultry Component - Financial Economic Cash Flow (Y '000, constant prices)
With Project
Yer 1           2         a         4        6         a         7         6         9       10        11        12
RErENuE (1)                                             0          0   87,286   61,807   61,807   61,80?   61,807   61,307   61,307   61,307   61,807   61,807
COST
Investmnt cost                                   67,080    89,6t9          0         0        0         0         0         0    3,68s         0         0         0
Operating cost                                        0          0   28,196   84,894   34,694   84,894   84,8s9    84,8s4   84,894   84,894   34,M4   34,8941
Teax           S                                      0          0    1,86a    8,065    8,066    8,06         8,o066    8,065    3,065    3,o06    8,0o6    8,068
Totel Cost (2)                                07,080    89,569   25,068   87,960   87,960   87,960   87,960   37,960   41,617   37,960   87,960   87,960
NET CASH FLOW, finmncial (1-2)                    (67,080)  (39,669)  12,207   28,347   28,847   28,847   23,847   28,847   19,669   23,847   23,847   23,847                       4s
NET CASH FLOW, economic                           (57,016)  (85,886)  17,476   81,768   81,756   81,768    1,7W5   81,768   28,262   31,768   81,756   31,758
PINA4CDNG
Owners' funds                                      22,120    18,064
Provincel subsidies                                   184         79
ABC loan                                           12,400      7,818
World Bank loan                                    82,876    19,107
Working capital                                                          6,968    3,610          0
Totel                                             7,080    89,669          0
DEBT SERVICE
Reaywmet of loans                                                   0    5,621    6,072    6,581    7,088    7,658    8,274    9,939    5,803    5,722    6,174
Interet on loans                                                   0    6,490    6,089    5,550    5,023    4,488    8,687    3,172    2,458    2,084    1,582
Inteewt on Working Capital                                         0       461       227         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0
Total                                                            0   12,6e2   12,336   12,111   12,111   12,111   12,111   12,111    7,75    7,756    7,756
CASH FLOW AFTER DEBT SERVICE                            (0)        0      (384)  11,009   11,238   11,286   11,236   11,23          7,578   15,591   16,891   15,591
FRR             151
ERR             265
tD X



cEI
SEA   ' ACUSaLTUUL DEVXVHUUT PROJECT
CANl FLOW - ZIAWYAlC PIC PARM (constant 1988prices. T in '000)
Itemwithouat                                                WOtO. romjct
Plrojct Year 1          2       3        4       5        6       7                 9      10       11       12      13       14      1i
REVEtE (1)                             0         0   2.50C   4,499   4,999   4.999   4,999   4.99    4,99    4,9    4.99    4,999   4.999   4,999   4,999    4.99
COSi5
1nv 5tmsnt tAwtm
Civil Work*                                  429       0                        0        0       0       .0        0       0        0        0       0               1)
Fars I;ildings                             2.954       0                        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0 782)
ltachinory & t;ouipm.nt                    1,266     S12                        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
Vehicles                                     197      31                        0        0       0        0      228       0        0        0       0        0      (28)
Serv,ces                                     370      62                        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Overhdee a0ovt                                 2       0                        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Land                                 0    1.100        0                        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0
Subtotl (2)                              5,319     604       0       0        0        0       0        0      228       0        0       0        0        0     (912)
Operating Casts
Livestot purcasws                             0       35      35      35       35       35      35       a5       35      35       35      35       S5       35      a5
Feed                                          0    1.7S6  2.604   2.893   2,093   2.893   2.99t   2.895   2.893   2,895   2.893   2.89S   2,19S   2.893   2.893
Labor                                         0      101    151       l68     18       168     168      168      168     1S6    l6        1S 1O8           168      1SO
Other wurimblo                                0       6S    127       141     141      141     141      141      141     141      141      141     141      141      141
Fiwed coot                                     0     202    202      202      202      202     202      202      202     202      202      202     202      202      202
Total Operating Costs (3)          0         0   2.11S   3.119   3.439   3.4S9   3.439   3.439   3.439   3.439   3.4S9   3.439   3.439   3.439   3,439   3,4S9
Tnos (4)              5S                        0      125    225      250      250      250     250      280      250     260      250      250     250      2S0     250
TO.tL CS   (S) (2.3.4)             0    5,319   2.887  3,344   3.689   3.689   3.669   3.69   3.689   3.917   3.689   3.6S9   3.689   3.689   3.609   2.707
Not Revenue (1-S)                  0   (5,519)   (388) 1.1 S      1,310   1.310   1.310   -,830    1.310    1,002   1,310   1,310   1.310   1,310   1.310   2,292               1
WR11TAL RESVSE                         0   (S.319)   (388) 1.155   1,310   1.310   1,310   1,310   1,S10   1,082   1,310   1.310   1.310   1.310   1.310   2.292
FIWUJCDC                                                                                                                                                                           ,
Enterprics financing                        1806      205       0       0        0
Provincial subsidies                            11       1       0       0        0                                                                                                1
ABC loon                                     1.657    18        0       0        0
World Oank loon                              1.846     210       0       0        0
Working cPietal:                                0    1.447    211       4                                                                                           (1.720)
Totel                                    5,319   2.050       2      46                                                                                          (1.720)
OT SERV1CE
RePsYment of long term loens                  0        0    369      398      429      463     500      540      St2     216      253     252      272      293       (0)
Interet n long term lens                      0        0       0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
lnterest Vorking CapitaI                      0      145      21       5        2       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
Tot I                                        0     145    390       408     431      463     50       540              216      2S3      252     272      293       (0)
NUT REWSEE AFIR OM  SBVICE                      0    1.518    788      954      879      847     61o      770      50    1.094    1.077   1,056   1.08    1.017       672
O1ATVE RIALT                                    0   1,518  2.286   3.240   4.119   4,965   5.775   6,s46   7r06   6.140    9.218  10.275  l1.313  12.330   12.902
FMR                   17%
ERR                   275
1,.rc,



c3h3A
SHAA58  AGZCULTU3AL OKV.OtIIUUT   CJCT
CASH FLOW - COWCIHUA RABBIT FAIN (constant 198-prices, I in '000)
With; projet
Item                             Withlout
poject Yer 1              2       3        4        5        6        7        a        9       10       11       12       13       14       15
CAPACITY  rILUATION (T)
Breeding eabbits                                        383n    100x     1o00     1003     1003    100o      1003     1005    1003    100L       1003    1003      1006     IOW
Feed                                                     7ODS  lODZ         10"    10053    1003    1003  1003  1003    1006    1005  1005    1003  L0os  105  1005  1005   1005
ReSE  (1)                                0         0      416     555      585      555      as5      55s      555      55       555      555      S55      555      555      5SS
Iawvests.nt Costs
Civil Works                                    852        0                         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0     (14
Fe Du'ildi                                     392        0                         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0 ( 1   M
Plai_ry *  qip_nl                              199        0                         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Vehicl_7                                       165        0                         0        0        0        0      115        0        0        0        0        0      (21)
Services                                        43        0                         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Ov-rthd o  Go't                                  O        O                         O        O        O                                                                        1
La1                                    0       110        0                         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0     (110) 
Subtatsl (2)                               1,261        0       0        0        0        0        0        0      165        0        0        0        0        0     (421)       
Operating Costs
ared"in  stock                                           80 30            30       30       80       30       80       30       s0       30       80       30       80       30
Fee 1d                                                                            162      162      162      152      162      162      162      162       S       162      162
Labor                                                    48      43       48       43       43       48       43       48       48       43       43       43       43       43
Fixed coat                                               49      49       49       49       49       49       49       49       49       49       49       49       49       49
Total Operating Costs, (3)           0                314    284       284      284      284      284      284      284      284      284      284      284      284      284
Taes (4)                Ss                                 21      28       28       28       28       28       28       28       28       28       28       28       28       28
TOTAL COST  (5) (2*3.4)              0     1.261      334     312      312      312      312      812      812      477      312      812      312      312      312      (116)
"at Revenue (1-5)                    0    (1.261)      82    243       248      248      248      248      243       78      248      243      243      243      243      671
D_rTAL   EVBSE                           0    (1.261)      62     243      248      243      248      248      248       78      243      243      243      243      243      671
FDWCDU
interprice financing                             890        0       0        0
Provincial mabsidis                                0        0       0        0
AKC lon                                            0        0       0        0
World banb loan                                  871        0       0        0
Working capital:                                   0      157       0                                                                                                        (I17)
Totsl                                      1.261      157       0        0                                                                                               (157)
DEfr SRVICE
Repeym_nt of l1o  tare lone                      0        0      23       25       27       29       31       84       86       39       42       48       49       53        0
Interest on long tsrm loans                     0        0      84       3J       31       28       28       24       21        18       15       12        8        4        o) 
Interest Working Capital                        0        16       0          0     0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0                       lb
Tos I                                          0       26      73      116 5   5 8        5s        8        s       Be       as       S8       Ss6      S8       5         (0)
hEr llVE    AFt  0Er SERVICE                       0      228    170       1.21     1i6      186      I86    16         21      186      185      186      186      1IS       5
C.s.sTE 1 EOLLT                                    0      223    839       521      707      693    1.079    1.264    1.285    1.471    1.i57    1.842    2.02,    2.214    2.728      %4
FM                     15
OR                     245



CHDI
SMAMtI AGWCLLTJAL DEVELOPIIENT PROJECT
ADon3USTty  c  om_   - FIACIL  Cffc clA  PLW .1 '000. contant 1988 PriceS)
Via Prmojct
'YourI        a       a                         *        7       a        I       10      1        12  -   la-' 14 
IE   tl)                                0         0  21,74  34.004  41,46   41.,0  41,4   41.,0  41.,4  41,64   41,14   41.5,  41.,  41.,4  41.,4
Ia,s"got                         17,211   1on           0        0       0        0       0        0   1 "1         0        0       0        0       0   (7.07I
rXlbing ,,*0                                 0  2D.311  21.JU    J2,U4  J21.24  22124   82.124   5.1214  22.36  85.124  8524IN   82.142.12 4  852.124,
ye.                                   0        0    1,.M     1. 705   2.062   2.062   2.062   2 .02   2.062   2.,06    2.062    .062   2.002   2.062   2.062 
yowl Clio (2)                   17.21111  18.65  21.687  26.560  842127  54.217  34.217  542127  85.57    54.217  34.217  34.217  54.217  34.217  27.1&42
o  CA4N RA  (8) (1-2)              (171,5)  (18.1U5)  3,62    5,544   7,5       7."5    7.51   7."51    5,970   7,651   7.51   7.51   7.631   7.551   14.701
84.... fi,d                         4.229    3.513        0
Pr,e _iiel su                        1.5      1.242       0
Me  to5.068    2.875                                    0
world Ilawk Imn                     5.205    5.455        0
Tot1l                             17.062   1.1151       0
ppiuMet oOf lme                                   0              IS"    a 485    1.55 11 lO      1,       1,9 o5   1 .12   1.58    1.761   1.6o    2.050   4o5o
late eat=  I   fems t lamasc                      o     m        ZM    1,755    1.62    1.466   I:5       1.215   1.05        415    514    6as       50       56
Interest    =;Norim  Capital                      0     557      la       186       0   1.071        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
Total                                           0   1.SM       M09   572   5.15    4,15    8.16         5 8.16   2.575   2.55   2.57   2.575   2.575   4.961
CAU RJIW WIU  W  VI~~~~  (180)    (815)  2.88   5.055   4.956   4.445   5.54   44    2.54 5.5    5055   5.056   5.05    5.055    9.74
GASSATI  Cm"                          10) (M            2.014   7.04    11.:  15.75   J19.IV   25.72  968        51.411    .467  41.M    46.579   165   61.879
-         ~50
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  



CHI"
SHAANXI AWKCUL1DAL DEVELOPMENT IPROJECT
CASN   OW - PUFENG MEAT PACKIN PLANT (consteant price.. Y in '000)
With projet
project Y-r 1          2        3        4       5        6       7        a        9      10       11       12      10       14      li
CAPACrT UrILUATION (t)                                 eS      606     a0      100      1006s   1006    106s   106s   1006    100          100 60   1006    1006    1006
IE9JE  (1)                             0        0       0   9.96   13.314   16.643   16.643   16.643  16.643  16.643   16.43  16.643   16.64S   16.643  16.64   16.64S
Investment Cost.
C;.;; works                                 262     486        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0     (299)
Plant contruction                           684   1.S75        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0      f93
NAinery A quip_nt                         1,669   3.100        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Vehicles                                    262     466        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0     (94)
Services                                     77      143       0        0       0        0       0        0      748       0        0       0        0        0       0
Lad                                         MD        0        0       0        0        a       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0     (660)
Total Investment Costs (2)         0   3.998   S.791         0        0       0        0       0        0      748       0        0        0       0        0   (2.242)
berating Costs
Rs mtsrial                                            0   7.344   9.792  12.240  12.240   12.240  12.240  12.240   12.240  12,240  12.240   12,240   12.240  12.240
Labor (incl. benefits)                                0      1S0      240     300      SOD      300     800      800     300      800      300     300      300     30
Other variable                                        0      813    1,063    1,SS4    1.34    1,354   1.354   1.814   1.8i4    1.384   1.354    1.354   1.Zs5    1.354
Fi wd cost                                            0      857      476     898SO 695                          O59S   S8       8W5      S95       S      595  5e 5
Total O"rating Costs (3)           0                 0   8.,    11.891  14,489   14.409  14,469   14.489  14,469  14.489  14.469   14,409  14.489   14.409  14,489
Taxes (4)              oe                               0      49       666     a32      832     a32      632      6S      632       o2               3 am2   62       ON2
TOTAL COSTS (5) (2.3.4)            e   3.996   5.791   9,193  12.257  15,321   15.321  1521   18.=21   16.069   1S.321   18.321  15,321  1.321   1S.321  13.079
"at Revenue (1-5)                  0   (3.996)  (S.791)    793   1,057   1.3w    1,S22   1.=    1.aw           574   1.322   1.322   1,322   12.22   ;,822   3.564
DIRtAL  REVAAE                         0   (3 998)  (S.791)    793    1.ST7  1.322   1.3       1,322   I.=        874    1.322   1.=    1,322   1,322   1.322   3.864
(3.991)  (5.791)  1.292    1.728   2.154   2.184    2,134   2.184    1.406    2.154   2.154    2.184    2,154   2.1S4    4.396
Enterprice financing                      1,0.2    1.494       0        0       0
Provincial absidis.                         332     481        0       0        0
ABC loan                                    712   1.081        0       0        0
World 1onk loan                           1.923   2.7U8        0        0       0
Working capitol                               0       0   2.669       956     956                                                                                 (4.781)
Tatal                                   3.998   S,791   2,869       956     956                                                                                 (4.721)
DOT SiViCE
Repaynmnt ABC Loan                            0       0      218      2S6     254      274      296     319      S45       0        0       0        0        0        0
Repayment World Bank Loan                     0       0      260      302     326      352      379     409      442      476     814      558     59       64S"
Interest AKC Loan                      -      0       0      184s    137      11e       96      76       53       27       (0)     (0)      (0)     (0)      (0)  ~ o
Interest World Bank Loan                      0       0      417      395     871      348     318      2S6      255              163      142 942           (1
Interst Wrking Capital                        0       0      267       96      96        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
Toal                                       0       0   1.56    1.165   1.165    1.069    1,069   1,069    1.069        697     697      697      697     697       (0)
Wr ItVE AF0i DEBT SWVICE                        0       0   2.306       649   1.114      253     23       26      (495)    6        6m       62      6        625  (1.217)
CI6A1TTVE    L7                                 0       0   2.3106   3.158   4.269   4.112   4,"S   5.020   4.          S.16T   5.I782   6.407   7.032   7. S7   6.440
FM                     as                                                                                                      
-W                    21                                                                                                                                                           Z
N1.
2'0



_       -                                                         ANNEX 4
Table 30
CHINA
SHAANXI AZGICILTAAI DVELOPWET PROJECT
COST BENEFIT STRM  FOR SHAANXI SEED SUCOM'ONEr                             (low   a
...__---- .....--.- .....-. ----------- .................^-- --------__
PIJT  vvI
1         a 8      4         afi       *        7         a         9        10    11-14        1
P?odat"ioo  glel. o~. (to..)            1       3         am        "ai1  wlo          .        111111   111        u         ASa      la        im         m
bee good                                         160       160        73 6ISn          1031      1145      1148      1148     114       1148      1148      1148
Wet                                              us6       078      St6      416       Sad14    7U41      g0m        m       gm        642       67        670
Cam                                             48        440       1163     S 18761             181    MM         On         M0       81801    30948       11699
be. aod                                         111      11.21     360       UUM      678       76ou      7676      7400     7U17        W         87      601
I  products                                                          670      on       IUS      1U40       10       140       "W0       140       l40       1860
Tfol Revenue                                    6421      6         "0l1 .   29770    doom    47U87    60182    409          41173    48176    474"        466
C-ta
b.ld.ag                                     67       29-30
q.i Cam                                   27        117-
Tr=arUllief                       .                  81314                                                                699                         -562
ob   jriol al1i                                    1i44
Training                                    94       4"
Ot1er                                         7       8
Total iOvOt                                    1sm        6m           0        0         0         0         a         0      69          0         0    -4162
6opratimg COOta
cost of 5oa,1114,                                   612      I 11        118    1 86OD6    8604     ST7767    87204    86687    81126    88611    68111
&or.                                         12        12       29        41        U2        3        6         a         W         U         so        W
LabOr                                        S7        67      III       186       U.0                m         22        im        223       22       223
liSbiaf_oage                                1W        1oo       111      19        2"0       37       27         W7       37        2?       27        2f
Paking                                      1i        1s       440       616       7Yu        6       m         6         so        6        m         m
IOOicaI tratmost                              0         0      43        5"        771       a"        m        a           6         5      am   U5
yalsioa                                      0       809       766      1072      183U      1531     1UI       1181       NSU      1U1       18I      II
Transportation *A  atrago                   149       140      348       4" 6      6         661      6o1       691        411       91      61 6Sl     "
Welfare                                      12        12   U 4           46        62        6        6         69        6o        6o        69       69
Othoro                                       97       *7       25        31        424      471       471       471       471       471      471       471
Total oerating coat                             6001      6I1      106    SW          8822    40962    4277        4310    4166        41132    40617    40117
NT 1111   6   W IPTJ.                         -14821    -8941       1i9      8         WV        6m        70        7M       6511      7044       M       10
C-L!  M!T6     111 111.T Ur.W                    6         as   UJ             73       794       671       9U       Wm        so        887       so0      41J
iiTM^L lNT   mm                               .180274    -60        e4       2716      428       5714     6609      64        5417      6177      04      10075
FJWCII AM DOT USYICE
btargrioo fuadiag                               906       149"
AMC losm                                        L11011     772
World lbo   Ih9                                           40m
Woftiag coetal1                                                     am6      2466      2994
Toa1                                           1ui        TaM      am        2SW       2694
tot or vito World bob loon                       7        1078   UO 1601               18I       181       LO        101      1601      101       1601      1601 
ODbt osjie oAC go,                               142       2U.       701      701       701       ?01       701       701      701         0         0         0
1nte_  a toarhe-*k cap. 1                          0         0       14       248       an        68       SU        au                  81        au        au
Tnol                                             "6       12l       264      2747      11111   5 1          911     25        2US       2114      2154      2UU
E4T lVME   APOU oW mvIC                            0         0      2#0      S17       466      S3         470      4527       46 4WS    0        4721      68
* (1n  diocams rose)                            6o1
in
U ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                    -     -       -------------     -



- 110 -                              ANNEX 4
Table 31
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
Project Area
Project   ------------------------
Donglei       Dingbian
Base Case
Economic Value of Investment (Y mln)            549        428              121
Economic Rate of Return (*%                               19.6               13
Economic Net Present Value at 12% (Y mln)       271        260               11
Variatior.s from Base Case
Economic Rate of Return (%)
- Prices Down by 20%           /a                       16.3               11
- Crop Yields Down by 20%                               16.3               13
- Production Delay by 2 Yrs.  /b                        16.2               11
- Investment Cost Up by 20%                             17.4               11
- Shadow Wages Up by 50%       /c                       19.4               14
- Investment Cost Up by 10% and                         16.7               12
Full Dev.Output Down by 10% /d
/a For Donglei II changes in crop prices only.
For Dingbian, price changes include crops and livestock prices.
/b With the Project incremental benefits starting in 1995.
/c An increase from Yl.4/day to Y2.1/day.
/d Reduction in production of all crops and livestocks.



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AQUACULTURE: COMPONENT FINANCIL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS RESULTS BY SUB-PROJECT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSES BY SUB-PROJECT
3 Feed hills                   Hatchery 125 mu                Hatchery 50 mu                  6.000 ma                       26.000 mu
lined ponds                   unlined ponds
Switching                      Switching                      Switching                       Switching                      Switching
values                         values                         values                         values                          values
Variation                          FRR       ERR (1 change)        FRR       ERR (2 change)       FRR       ERR (X change)       FRR       ERR (X change)        FRR       ERR (S change)
Base Case                            28X    49X                     20%       25%                  15%       21                    18X    22%                     28%       34%
Investment costs
uP       25%                  222       36X   230%            16%       21%      1OO     I  11%        17%        80        141       18%        72%       20     28         1851
Low capacity utilization
less        25X                 212       341       10%                                        10%       15%        44%       132       161        40%       191       26%       60%
Revenue
down        10%                 21%       29         18         15%       20         22X    112          17X        28%       14%       18%        22%        20X    28            32%
Operating costs
up     l1X                    15%       33%        251        17 X   22%           40X    13%          20       66          162       20%        42X       22%       312         64X
Pellet Feed costs
up        25X                                                                                11%       161       121%        1611     20%        951       221       311       1I0
Revenue down IOX
Operating cost up IO                                                                                                               12%       152                  17X    24%
het Present Value
(V  000. at 12% discount)                  7.507                           1.275                            124                          9.321                          64,279
H.D



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POULTRY:  COMPONENT FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS BY SUB-PROJECT
Weinan Brioler Parent         Sammenkau Broiler Grand       Samuenkau Broiler             Poultry Layer Farms         Yangling Layer Grand
I Commercial Farm (P 1)       Parent Farm (P 2)             Parent Farm  (P ZA)           (P 3, 4, 5 & 6)             Parent Farm (P 7)
Switching                     Switching                     Switching                     Switching                   Switching
vatues                        vatues                        values                      vaLues                       values
Variation                         FRR       ERR (X change)      FRR       ERR (X change)      FRR       ERR CX change)      FRR       ERR (X change      FRR      ERR (X change
Base Case                          17%       21%                 18%       26%                  19%      22%                 15%       27%                15%       23%
Investment costs
UP       25%                 13%      17%        60%       15%      21%       111%       14%       17%       65%       11%      22%      106%       11%      18%       73%
Feed costs
UP       25%                 16    X 20%        120%       12%      24%       250%       17%      20%       125%      8%        21%       60%       13%      21%      145%
Revenue
do1    lOX                     14%       18%       24%       12%       21%       26%       14%      18%        23%        9%       21%      23%        9%      18%       19%
Operating costs
UP        X10%               16%      20%        60%       12%      24%        62%       17%      20%       60         11%      24%       43%       11%      20%       33%
Net Present Value
(Y '000, at 12% discount)                9,141                          3,179                         4,245                       56,312                           871
ii



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A'GROPROCESSING COMPONENT - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS BY SUB-PP.OJECT
See Products                  Cold Store                     Frost Plant                   Fruit Juice                   Fufeng Cattle * Rabbit
Processing Plant              Plant                                                        Processing Plant              Neat Packing Plant
Switching                     Switching                      Switching                     Switchirg                     Switching
values                        values                         values                        values                        values
Variation                          FRR      ERR (X change)       FRR       ERR (X change)       FRR       ERR (X change)      FRR       ERR (2 change)       FRR      ERR (X change)
Base Case                           202       282                  19X      262                  26X       38%                 22%       26X                   82       21X
Investment costs
up       25X                 16X       23X       135X       15X       21X       110%      202       31X       180%       172      212       1002        5%       172        60X
Low capacity utilization
less       252                 102       172        35%       112       18%       43X       192       292        662       142       172       352        42       162        39%
Revernue
do.a        102                 9X       172        142       132       20%        212       102      242        182       162       202        202     - 182       52         62
Operating costs
up       o10                 112       202        19X       152       222       342        142      282        22X       18X       222       34%      -152        3%         7%
Operating costs up 10l
Revernue d in 10                   -3X        82                   82       132                -112       122                  11X      162                 -762      -242
Net Present VaLue
(Y '00  at 122 discount)                 6,589                          4,233                         5,825                          5,368                         4,810
'UF



- 114-                              ANNEX 4
Table 35
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRIZULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
........................................
RENT AND COST RECOVERY
(000's Yuan)
Donglei      Dingbian     Project
180379 ha.    4600 ha.    184979 ha.
.....................................................~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..  . ....... . . . .
At Full Development /a
Incremental Net Income /b              220828         26600         247428
Less incremental:
Family labor (imputed value) /c        4235          1696           5931
Management services(imputed) /d       11041          1330          12371
Return to own capital (imputed) /d   11041           1330          12371
Subtotal                              26318          4356          30674
Equals:
Project Rent                         194510         22244         216754
Incremental Project Charges:
Water charges /e                      40948           5440         46388
Subtotal                              40948          5440          46388
Rent Recovery Index (%) /f                  21.1%         .24.5%         22.8%
Over Project's Life /g
Project Rent                            625396         74572         699968
Incremental Project Charges
Water charges                        135429          27240        162669
Subtotal                             135429         27240         162669
Rent Recovery Index (%)                     21.7%          36.5%         29.1%
Project Cost /h                           364928         105063        469991
Cost Recovery Index (%) /i                  37.1%          26.0%         31.6%
/a Year 2000 incremental income expressed in 1988 prices.
/b Before water charges.
/c Family labor valued at Y2.0/day.
/d Five percent of incremental income.
/e Water charge at YO.057/cubic meter
/f Water charges as percent of project rent.
/g Expressed as present values discounted at 12% over 25 years project life.
/h NPV of total investment and O&M costs.
/i Project charges as percent of project costs.



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRO-PROCESSING COMPONENT - FINANCIAL RATIOS BY SUB-PROJECT
Bee Products                 Cold Store                    Frost Plant                  Fruit Juice                 Fufeng Cattle 4 Rabbit
Processing Plant             Plant                                                     Processing Plant             Neat Packing Plant
Ratio         Year         4        5        10          4        5        10         4        5        10        4         5        10        4         5        10
Efficiency ratio              Efficiency ratio             Efficiency ratio            Efficiency ratio             Efficiency ratio
Operating ratio (pct) =
Operating expenses
85.4X  78.1K    78.1X         76.1X 68.0X 68.0X  81.6X  80.3X   80.3X   67.8X    65.6X    65.6X    91.2X                      90.4X    90.4X
Revenue
Income ratios                 Income ratios                Income ratios               Income ratios                Income ratios
Return on saIe; (pct)
Net income
...--....                         3.5X    12.5X    15.7X        4.7X    20.1K    24.6X       5.2K    11.7K    13.7X    18.9X    22.7X    26.5X    -0.9X         1.1l      3.5S
Revenue
Return on fixed assets (pct)
Operating income
------------------               24.1X  48.2K    62.5K         19.9K    37.1K    49.8K    34.7K    57.4X  109.6K    35.8          44.4K    74.7K    2i.2K   28.4K    40.2K
Met fixed assets
Creditworthiness              Creditworthiness             Creditworthiness             Creditworthiness            Creditvorthiness
Debt Service Coverage Ratio =
Net income * degreciation
*interest paid
Interest paid * repaVment        1.24     2.43      2.91       1.19      2.27     2.41      1.48     2.88      3.16      2.22     2.61      3.76     0.91      1.14      1.33          4
of long term loans



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AOUACUh.TURY  FINA'-CIAL RATIOS  BY  SUB-PROJECT
3 Feed Mills                 Hatchery 125 mu             Hatchery 50 mu            6.000 mu lined ponds      26.ODO mu unlined ponds
Ratio         Year        4         5        10        4         5        10        4         5       10         4         5       10        4         5        10
Efficiency ratio            Efficiency ratio             Efficiency ratio             Efficiency ratio             Efficiency ratio
Operating ratio (pct) -
Operating expenses
------------------               80.9X  80.32    13.7X 61.9X  61.92    49.22   63.9X    59.9X    59.92    55.4X    53.92    53.42    54.5X  53.82    53.5X
Revenue
Income ratios               Income ratios                Income ratios                Income ratios                Incom  ratios
Return on sales (pct)
Net income
---------                         8.22    11.32    13.72    29.82    26.32    30.72    19.12    24.0X   27.02    24.22    29.92    37.62    29.82    33.42    38.62
Revenue
Return on fixed assets (pet)
Operating income
------------------               47.1    60.42    97.6X 31.1X  32.02    40.82    19.12   27.52    35.92    16.9X  21.3Z    27.52    24.22    30.1                      39.3X
get fixed assets
Creditworthiness            Creditworthiness             Creditworthiness             Creditworthiness             Creditworthiness
Debt Service Coverage Ratti =
Net income * depreciation
+interest paid
2.25     2.83      4.80
Interest paid + repayment        4.05     3.09      4.04      1.12     2.35      3.50      1.87     1.83      2.21      1.03     1.33      2.66
of long term loans
urn



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POULTRY COMPONENT-FINANCIAL RATIOS
Weiran Brioter Parent       Sammenkau Broiler Grand      Samnenkau Broiler          Pouttry Layer Farms        Yangling Layer Grend
& Commercial Farm (P 1)    Parent Farm (P 2)             Parent Farm (P 2A)         (P 3, 4, 5 & 6)            Parent Farm (P 7)
Ratio                 Year        3         5         9        3        5         9        3         5       9         3        5        9        3        5        9
Efficiency ratio            Efficiency ratio             Efficiency ratio           Efficiency ratio           Efficiency ratio
Operating ratio (pct):
Operating expenses
-----        - -               bi.1%    52.5%      52.5S    58.2X    58.2S     58.21    57.91    50.4X    50.41    80.01    68.5X    68.5X    89.1X    70.6    70.6S
Revenue
Income ratio                Income ratio                 Income ratio               Income ratio                Income ratio
Return on sales (pet):                                                                                                                                                          -
Wet incone
--------=-                      6.51    31.31      38.41    23.5X    26.41     33.01    17.1X    33.4X    40.5X    -2.4X    18.11    23.4X   -12.31    16.11    21.3S
Revernue
Return on fixed assets (pet):
Operaring irnome
---------------        = t     10.4X    26.61      34.0X    24.0 X 26.7S       34.4X    15.4$    29.4X    37.81      8.01    23.91    31.01     4.5X    24.01    35.9S
met fixed assets
Creditworthiness            Creditworthiness             Creditworthiness           Creditworthiness           Creditworthiress
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (pet):
Wet income+depreciation                                                                                                                                                       1--
*interest paid                                                                                                                                                                  I
--------------------- , =    1.08     2.12       2.21     1.91     2.00      2.10              2.20     2.29               1.86     1.95              1.90     *.99         Ol
interest paid 4 repayment
of long term loans



ANNEX 5
- 118 -                          Page 1 of 5
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dingbian Water Supply Component Health Benefits Analysis
1.0        More than two thirds of the population of Dingbian county
and a significant portion of its livestock suffer from diseases
related to excessive fluoride intake. The cause of endemic fluorosis
is the high fluoride content of most of the area's water sources.
Approximately 156,300 people reside in areas with fluoride levels
above 1 mg. per liter. The Dingbian water supply component would
provide safe and adequate water to 84,000 people currently consuming
water with excessive fluoride. The project has been designed to
include those areas where the fluoride problem is most acute, thus, it
would provide safe water to 76% of the population currently supplied
with water with fluoride levels abovre 5 mg per liter. In parallel to
this project component, the World Bank Rural Water Supply Project
(Credit Cha-1578) will provide safe water to a further 32,000 people
in the excess fluoride area. Thus, upon completion of both projects,
75% of the population exposed to fluoride levels over 1 mg/l would
have access to safe water.
Table 1. Fluoride levels in Water.
Dingbian County          Project Area
Fluoride    No. of    Population    No. of    Population % of
Content     Villages                  Villages              Total
mg/l                                                        Pop.
0  -  1        107         91,443           51      46,600   51
1.1-  2         71         48,700           30      20,380   42
2.1-  5       103          70,800           53      36,240   51
5.1- 10        46          31,650           34      23,740   75
10.1-20          6          3,930            5       3,140   80
20+              2          1,200            2       1,100   92
Total          335        247,723          175    131,200   53
Source: Water Conservancy Bureau, Shaanxi Province, China.
2.0       The provision of safe water would virtually eradicate
fluorosis from the project area. By the year 2000 as a result of the
project, the labor gained through reduced disability is estimated at
24,000 person years per year. The present discounted value of the
labor gained over the life of the project (25 years) is estimated at Y
47 million. A brief description of the diseases related to fluorosis,
of the fluorosis situation in Dingbian county and in the project area,



- 119 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
and the methodology emplyed to estimate the labor gains from the
project are presented below.
Dental and-skeletal fluorosis.
3.0        The intake of water with excess fluoride causes dental and
skeletal fluorosis. The severity ot the effects of excessive fluoride
intake are related to the nutritional habits and to the age of a
person.
4.0       Dental fluorosis ranges from mild and moderate, consisting
of stains on the teeth, to severe, with teeth becoming pitted, brittle
and susceptible to fracture, increasing the risk of tooth loss.
Skeletal fluorosis is a disease caused by the accumulation of
excessive fluoride on bones. Ingestion of 2 to 5 mg per day causes
early clinical stages of skeletal fluorosis and the ingestion of 20 mg
a day for 20 years or more can cause crippling skeletal fluorosis.
Contamination levels of 5 mg/l would cause skeletal fluorosis
considering that on average a person drinks 2 liters of water per day
and ingests another 2 liters through food and other sources. The
symptoms of the early stages of skeletal fluorosis include pains in
the bones and joints; sensations of burning, prickling, and tingling
in the limbs; muscle weakness; chronic fatigue; and gastrointestinal
disorders and reduced appetite. In more advanced stages, pains in the
bones become constant and some ligaments begin to calcify. In advanced
skeletal fluorosis, called crippling fluorosis, the extremities become
weak and moving the joints is difficult. The patient becomes crippled
as the vertebrae partially fuse. Animals ingesting excessive fluoride
are also subject to diseases similar to those found in humans.
5.0       Research in China and in other countries suffering from
endemic fluorosis, such as India, shows that skeletal fluorosis is
reversible. When patients are provided with safe water and adequate
nutrition, they tend to regain their health. A study in India showed
that after one year of administering adequate water and nutritional
supplements to patients suffering from skeletal fluorosis all the
clinical symptoms had disappeared.
Effects of Fluorosis in Dingbian county.
6.0       Records of the Epidemic station of Dingbian County show that
approximately 175,000 people or 70% of the population suffer from
fluorosis. Of these, 83,500 suffer from symptoms that diminish their
ability to work. It is estimated that annual labor losses for the
county due to skeletal fluorosis amount to almost 41,000 person years.
The actual age of onset and the progression of the disease are
directly related to the fluoride content of the water. For the county,
the average age of onset is 12, by age of 29 a person has lost 50% of
his/her ability to work and by age of 35 the disability reaches 75%.
The average age of death of a person suffering from skeletal fluorosis
is between 45 and 50 years.



ANNEX 5
- 120 -                         Page 3 of 5
7.0       Based on clinical records, the Epidemic station of Dingbian
county has classified all patients 15 years and older according to
their disability to work. Their estimates for 1988 are presented
below:
Table 2      Fluorosis in Dingbian County (1988)
(Number of people)
Age group           15 - 45        46 - 65         65+     Total
Percentage disability
0%              70,860        16,008         4,442    91,310
25%              24,137         5,451         1,507    31,095
50%              18,621         4,205         1,164    23,990
75%              15,862          3,582          991    20,435
100%               6,209          1,402           385     7,996
Total             135,689         30,648         8,489   174,826
Source: Health Bureau, Dingbian County, Shaanxi Province, China.
8.0       The health authorities in Dingbian county affirm that with
the provision of safe water, patients with 50% disability fluorosis
would regain on average 80% of the ability of a healthy person, after
six months. Patients with 75% disability would recover on average 60%
ability after one year, and patents wLth 100% disability would not
recover their ability to work but would be able to perform basic
functions.
9.0       In addition to labor gains the project would entail savings
in health care expenditures. The health bureau gives priority
treatment to severe skeletal fluorosis patients, thus, all patients
with 100% disability receive medical care but only about one fourth of
the less severe cases are attended. The annual cost per patient
ranges between Y 96 to Y 140 depending on the severity of the disease.
In 1988 total treatment expenditures were estimated at Y 1.8 million.
The present value of health cost savings over the life of the project
is estimated at Y 7.8 million.
10.0      It is estimated that approximately 50,000 animals are
affected by fluorosis. Although the effects on animals have not been
quantified it is certain that their productivity is adversely
affected.
Methodology to assess the labor gains.
11.0       The labor gains were estimated by projecting the prevalence
of fluorosis without and with project. The estimates of labor losses
without project were based on projections of total population by age
groups provided by the Chinese authorities, an incidence rate of 15.8
per theusand and a mortality rate of 9 per thousand. The labor force
is defined as population between 15 and 65 years of age. The labor
losses with the project were estimated based on disability rates with



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
the project of 10% for those patients with current disability of 25%,
of 20% for those with disability of 50%, of 40% for those with
disability of 75%, and no recovery for those with 100% disability. The
labor gains for patients with 25 and 50% disability would occur 6
months after receiving safe water and for those with 75% disability
recovery would take place 1 year after receiving safe water. The
estimation period was 25 years.
12.0           It  is  estimated  that  the project  would  cover  66%  of  the
population currently suffering from skeletal fluorosis. The labor
gains were valued at a shadow wage rate of Y 1.4 per day which
corresponds to the shadow rate in the Province. We assumed a labor
year of 280 days. Table 3 shows the projections of the prevalence of
fluorosis and Table 4 shows the value of labor days loss with and
without the project:
Table 3:  F2xnosis ad Labr 1n
1938   19   19         199     2993  19A   1995  1996  2997  1993  1999  200
R1mL 25i1arm 1S    2'37M  298            S#156  2L734  M4613  267491 2V369 2719 276MD 2799  2EiS   2571
lar      1/       177816        103 6    19i63  1M7  i9g5D 2aM%4    57  232746 217035 7     225614  2103
W8znc du POject
Ela1 pp2atim 21  2114  8M939   90        V   9921290  193  105   I=   1121362 115719 11MS3148  12589
525% dLiLUy       32D0   33    3447  35679  37  38    3932         E  41831  430   44337  4560  46870
5D1 dLsiltry    24716  262  M7   275w  244   293    38  3229    49   33Z3   348   351.5  36133
751 dIsbiity     21089  218    272   23469  24271  2M%   26   2699  276  2M3   292    2           3)0
=l dJsbLULz        8251   &5W9   M70          9496   9O    127  1'6  10765  Uii   11410  U735  L262
l'n y    l1a arT   44441  46104  47776  49457  51146  5B3  54549   'M   57s5  59717  614S9  63209  64%9
PWqje=t Am 3/
ti Y    lam        29331  306N29  31532  342  33756  34876  360M2  3733  3iM7   39423  40563  41718  4X79
Wit Pom,e 41
M   yaws lcst      29331   0429  31.52  279  25722  19557  19374  19257  19142  197   28913  18799  1Si7
ny c li               0      0      0   29    8515 32  16M2   17876  19128  26  21650  22919  24193
I/ Pqi1miaci pjem,j~ic piwided to the Massum by the Chimse azlhorities. 7hm 2aWr
A= is defIZ  as th p1at1m Ixabem 15 ard 65 y    old.
21 PjeinmW a.  an in 1rm nmt af 15.8 per dord and a nmuLity  e of 9 pr tdumil.
3/ It Is estit  tht 66X cf otk fl -is pqxii  resids in tim pmjer t.
4/ Amn m in   e  r   f zc         aferafe maw is pwrA  ard th it AaJ
wd ri ft2Ind dIW  in diity vas f- fl} a     i*e plaft  p-jm hiImzarIal
du pwjo    after ri pzDjm
251
51           20X
7!l          40X
lDO =



- 122 -                         ANINEX 5
Page 5 of 5
Table 4. Estimation of Labor Gains - Project Area
(million Yuan)
Year       Labor loss          Labor loss          Labor gained
Without project    With project
1991          12.8               11.6                  1.2
1992          13.2               10.1                  3.1
1993          13.7                7.7                  6.0
1994          14.1                7.6                  6.5
1995          14.6                7.5                  7.0
1996          15.0                7.5                  7.5
1997          15.5                7.5                  8.0
1998          i5.9                7.4                  8.5
1999          16.4                7.4                  9.0
2000          16.8                7.3                  9.5
Source: Mission estimates.



-123-                                          ANNEX  6
Table 1
redui"l  Assistan  for A     lrtouturl Ct Wtl
Total  Toul   Cot PhaaIM of nmi-t1h by fLscal yer                                 TSlca1 Sibjts
1 _ 
D      uarptim     Izbe  Y'000 USD'O. O    1989   1990   1991   1992   im
A.Sty TOM
l.Aqjadtum              5  120.6   32.5        5                               Fsbh fainz, fir  tools, fod ptoessaft
2.SPaLtty               0    0.0    0.0
9.pj P4 ad1a            1   31.5    8.5               1                        Bredi atoab aelectin, pig hmb.d
4.Rabblt Beizt          1   31.'    8.5        1
S.Avzpzocassi__
6.Sed Pfo&,ctlcn        4   55.0   14.8        4                               S-d posaa aud c td-I1
9ibtotel         11  238.6   64.3       10       1      0       0      0
B.Intl Tha1nlzn
I.AbylAtur             22  653.4  176.1        5      9       8                Flah ffe, praAatl-,fad tach,special vwe     amltu
2.Pftitxy              16  504.0   68.0        8      8                        GP fam         d rt;diaeaa cfrol ad  pmaltqzy habuvizy
3.P4 Br-dLzW            1   31.5    8.5               1                         n aisb 1bz      ataff for pltry babwidzy, dLasama,  w1m
4.RbbLt BE_ding         1   31.5    8.5                                        PI  .uticLse, dia.esea mrltLci. smch f-uJ
5.A_opromaLa           36  360.0   97.0       16      20
6.Swd Pzvutm           18  333.9   90.0               18                        tt p-iar4g, hXIY pC-arkG, Old StOr@ & frtut paddV.
Sed poaa     11_smrn
Subtotal         93 1914.3 44.1         29      56      a       0      0
C.CM~agt1z Sexylca
I.Aqatcolwz             3  150.0   40.4        0      1       2                FLah fams e, clasad-syatm fiab altue
2.P*az1ty               8  400.0  107.8                4      4              0 P wA C far staff fa luibwA, dismee  stol
'.P4 Bx_din             1   47.3   12.7                       1                FAS =_           p4ig aemL.I, mt1zU
4.ebbt hdiv             1   47.5   12.8               1
5.A_rpzs    i           3  150.0   40.4        3                p*t pm*IvZ, h-e   p-ua, cold stare S 6uLt p...aus
6.Smd Promttot          O
&*coeaL           16  794.8  214.1       3       6       7      0       0
D.L-caL omalta.         0
I.Aawlam                3   17.2    4.6        1      1       1                Dimaeea     o eorol, suutl,  fud farn1-i.r, O . pw&ct,uw
2.luaLUy                0
3.Plg 5tediz            0    4.8    1.3
4.RgAbbt beewhs         2   30.0    8.1        1      1                        Fam deaiw, bmdU* and ru1oa, fedi., fam
S.Awmoeaeiz
6. .ed Pzo&wt1s
&ktotaL            5   52.0   14.0       2       2      1       0       0
D.Eq'1pt
1.AWa.Um
2.PuLttry                   295.0   79.5                                       Eamsim aie, oinml dlauustto Lab ov
3.PIg ndlow                  45.6   12.3                                       Pig Yal4at  and ax m      for bfdr nud _m
4.JAbi Bteadhrm
5.oAvmaaIi"lg
6.Seed Pto _ita
&htoeai               340.6   91.8
B.LOoel balolr
I.Ahledtum           4815  481.5  129.8   1605   1605   1605                   In-arvis trazlzv, figerl1 pz ah., *_ tAtig
2.Pzltzy                    400.0  107.8              8
3.Pig keedum
cambbit 1tedio4
5.Ac_maln             410  205.0   55.3    174    236                          Nut prowsiv4. bm^   pmetgz, -Id stor0 & fnut peaba
6.Sud Pdtim           252   25.2    6.8    101    101        50                XdLcal pzoe,z. taca1 lzlpeaUm  wl prO&Ctim
&al                  5477 1111.7  299.7   I         1950   1655       0      0
Su* TMrs               11 1341.9  361.8   2155   227   1705           0      0
htl STinus             93 1914.3  448.1       29      56      8       0      0
Ceirlti SezI           16  794.8  214.1        3       6      7       0      0
Iqaleiz                 0  340.6   91.8        0       0      0       0      0
Kneel Treiahm        547  1111.7  299.7   1880   1950   1655          0      0
TSa                  5613 5503.3 1415.5   4067   4299   3375          0      0



- 124 -
aaN,                                                        ANNEX 6
SRAN  A azItM    oVuMWr DEE1                                               Table  2
2RADIA M TIEIIC=L ASSISTC
Total   TUa    TotW
Proposed    am                       locatlxn       srMr       mn    Cost       1989    1990   1991    1992    1993
$'000
OVESAS TRAllZK
1. Water resouces Mngamt 6 Irr. Str.  US/Japa'/Frwe             6        6  45,000                 3        3
2. Design    n 8 maagmet of pulp irr. sys     US/Japan          8        8  60,000                 8
3. Cptimal desipi no oper. of pump stn.       US/Japan          6        6  45,000                 6
4. Maint.eance and management of puip & mot    US/Japan         4        4  30,000                          4
5. Planning, inplemanatin of om-fann uk.      US/Japan          8        8  60.000                                   4       4
6. Agrmm, soil research arn crp prod         US/Cyumit          6        6  45,000                          6
Sub-Total                                      38       38 285,000        0       17      13        4        4
B. Avu,oed Training Cburse/b
1. Systn irrLgatimi rmugt                 US/JapVn/Fre          5       20  60,000                          8       12
2. Crm  produmtio anagent                     US/Japan          3        9  27,000                          9
3. Water resources dew. mr utilizatLm         USI/Japi          3        9  27,000                                   9
4. Optical design of mod. & large pmp sm. US/Japmn/Prum         6       30  90,000                15       15
5. Water resaew pluaing ad mwAgaKt US/Jqpan/FEa                 3        3   9,000                                   9
Sub-Total                                      20       71 213,000        0       15       32      30        0
C. Cnulting Services/c
1. Pump mterlals for erosion resbitam          Cdn                       2  25,500        2
2. Operatimu ad awagem2t -pump & untors        Cina                      2  25,500                 2
3. Water Resaouces Muaam1t           _     t      na                     4  51,000                          2        2
4. Project M/E                                  dnm                      6  82,500        2        2        2
7. Optimal vter rescure  utilizatim           a0m                        5  75,000                 i        2                0
8. Pluing of Study To.W                       0dm                       3  45,000        2                 1        0
Sub-Total                                               22 304,500        6        6        7       2        0
D. Local Training                                             500      500  5V,00O               200      100      100      100
mL                                          558      631 852,500        6      238      152     136      104



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SUN A=aL=KA 0LVUIII M=J
TM'OAL     1169              1990              1991              1992              :9
PRW=T rm           (Y 000-     1 121  ITI '  1l i' 2               1 I 2- 3-   A .    .I i 2    3I     Iii2!
-----             ---------------------------------------------------                                                                      I
38,037  201           20202 uwnmi                         252 %              0         
& Services                               -                             3012     8 5  252252   -i            52x
L.m~~~~~ ~31,216    - 70 21im)
RAE 006T                  ~~~~~~~~1.07.34.2  -  3i12 ...  -1222         1
II. 0Im4  AM  SUPPLYJI
Ptluj wij                             6,330         602 .IIUI..mm,102    >J
Ef      ack                             15,6g0    - 202  i n              02- i            25                202   -      -      
Major Smum.~.es                      14.071  in    52           in102                           n10 
P Ip *ta1J,atLm                   4.2.800  in 25                    252 in     i       5!5 02-                      n     lS   n
Equ    r&Mtras19 61.0    -                           352 %            302 %             202 %-    S -                I
Tcmca., AssLst. &. Research       1-:350  I      202in ,i    202           n'        302 %             202 -     1-    :o10 -
Lmfd                                    310 jin 0OO   mmIIII > 
fl  EA~~~~~~ ~~~T               10~~i3.1iii      24. i             282      i        232    n          162    '     n     92i) 
I :I. AC$lAJLTWE                                    
Tech. Tr. C. B.uwi                     '625-00             n
lech. Tr. C. Wesoi                      1.5 Iil O
.echi. Tr. C. Xi.am                    855    -1OOl -mm
SL 6. maicAtLIW  Cuter            '.713-00            n
00ml ls  ML1                    3750      - 50       -      - 50->'
Hatczwry   00 au           '.734,        lo 
tcuy50 mu        ~                 290  -100     in
6t'S.00   au C vote L2.gud Pcn       18,117         35001        -   1.02   -   i       302 
.26,000 au UkLLizmd Pwd               60.1.25  in 302                  1.2i      i n 302  n
BASE OOST    ~90.731.i                     372 in            372               26-%1
Wv. A          sWN cU
IBw  ee Pro*t.s Pxucmstz           5.1491        652               352
Frost P1st                            3,123          602   4n- 102 %
Cold Store.                 ~~~~~~4,74.9  in 652 i       n 351 -                                           I
Mzut Pro        mst                   5,849  in 601    n          n 10
F'ufri Huat P1sft                     8 1430    -    102O%            602 -iiiiiIIe
BASF OW                              27.64.5    - 562                  44 112                      t
WgLgwm Erller Panwt 6 Omr    16.21.5    -            652               352-
SaIwk1a.   Pro4et No. 2 )             3.993    - 602                  4  1.02  -
Sanwihc   (Project No. 2 A )          7.338  in 702 i                 302 %
Project Nos. 3, 1., 5. & 6           6799. "I        602              4  102 
YuJ.i.g ( Project No. 7 )             1,332          45152i       -   552 -
BASE cm     ~96.899   -n                    lZ61             32 
VI. Pigs &RbbitsI
4,                             +~~~
BASE CWT                              6950                              4% .2-
I V."  Si   FKcrn          & PRCssI)c
9.716   -502-%                  50O
Linviumg  E4p-m'                       50         002   n
I  Proces~ ~Equ.~imit             2.900  i10           
I'     i~~~~~u.LpIwt ~ ~~~1          510  -        502             502 
~~'ek'u.cles    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1179  inlOOIn
MAterzLs                     4,4~~2079208-~                   0
ME~~~~~~~~~~~~1.5                         10                  0
jI'm&  mAE CmT                             75.3.069 I -      72  - I -   282  -         ~        72               .2 -%                    '
I PWYS:CAL  TCRrNCY                        4 13.8  I-1.2                     302  -i            252         -    :c                 5~   >
I 'X~~~ a2erD~~c':   ,~~ 81.. 612  I-  102   -       -   ~~~~251    ~        5       i 25       2 ZS-    2.51
mcz alr5mc.                  -~~~~~~~:!'2~.i 74.' 
I     .6TMiI                              8811.499  in  35   mmml- 28 -               i n   18..-lk               13  in    - 



-126-                                        ANNEX   7
Page 2
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TENTATIVE
ICB PACKAGES BIDDING SCHEDULES
(DONGLEI II)
I   P a a k a 8 g                 I General Proc.    I    Bidding
No.   I       Name                      I Advertisement    I    Period
--------------------------------------------------------------_-----__-------__----
IFB-1   I Pumps and motors for 4 pumping  ! January 31 to     I April 16 to
I stations, capacLty 800KW to     I March 16, 1989    1 July 16, 1989
1 3,550KW (large pumps & motors)  I
I                                 I 
IFB-2   I Pumps and motors for 25 pump-   I Same as above    I April 16 to
I ing stations capacity 90KW to   I                   I July 16, 1J89
I 800KW (small pumps and motors)  I
IFB-3   I Controls for all 29 pumping     I Same as above    I April 16 to
I stationr                        I                   ! July 16, 1989
IFB-4   I Transformers for 12 installa-   I Same as above    I April 16 to
I tions, 315KV to 100KV and       I                   I July 16, 1989
1 35KV to 63KV                    I                   I
I                                 I                   t
SFB-5   I Valves for 29 pumping stations  I Same as above    I April 16 to
I (800 - 1800mm diameter)         I                   I July 16, 1989
I                                 I                   I
IFB-6   I Construction equipment          I Same as above    I April 16 to
I (loaders, excavations, crawler  I                   I July 16, 1989
I tractors, cement mixer trucks)  I                   I
IFB-7   I Office equipment (computers,    I Same as above    I April 16 to
I copiers, CAD software)          I                   I July 16, 1989
IFB-S   I Communications equlpment for    I Same as above    I July 16 to
I pump stations                   t                   I Oct. 16, 1990
I                                 I                   1
1r1-9   I Construction materials (steel,  I Same as above    I April 16 to
I lumber)                         I                   I July 19, 1989
11B-10  I FertLliLer (20,000 tons)        I Same as above    I June 16 to
I  I                1 Sept. 16,1991
t                                 I                   I
IFB-ll  I Vehicles                        I Same sa above    I Aprll 16 to
I                                 I                   I July 16,1989
----------------------------------------_-----------------------__-----------__-
Note: For all other SCB procurement vill follow implementation schedules
(see Annex 7 Chart)



-127-
ANNEX 8
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.     General Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
A.1   Extract of Shaanxi Agricultural Statistics, 1986.
A.2   China:  Shaanxi's Economy, 1986, and 1985 Communique of
Provincial Statistical Bureau (1988, 1987, 1986)
A.3   Li Rongxia, "Afforestations Greens the Loess Plateau", Beiiing
Review, (Dec. 14 - 20, 1987).
A.4   Li Rongxia, "Irrigating System in Central Shaanxi", Beiiing
Review, (Dec. 14 - 20, 1987).
B.     Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   "Water Supply and Flouride Survey Shaanxi Water Conservancy",
(1983), Beijing Review, (Dec. 14 - 20, 1987).
B.2   S.W.C.B. Feasibility Report:  Donalei Irrigation Phase II, (Nov.
1987); (6 Annexes and Environment Report in Chinese).
B.3   S.W.C.B. Feasibility Report:  Ding Bian Water Supply_,
June 1988; (Six Annexes in Chinese).
B.4   S.W.C.B. Feasibility Report:  Aguaculture DeveloRment.
(June 1988).
B.5   A.A.H.D. Feasibility Report: Livestock, (March 1988).
B.6   A.I.T.C. Feasibility Report:  Agroprocessing Report,
(June 1988).
B.7   Seeds Company of Shaanxi Province. Feasibility Report:  Seeds
Proiect, (March 1988).
C.     Consultant Reports
C.1   B. Brarndenburg, A. Maters, Y. Hald, and B. Larsen. Livestock
Annex, (June 1988).
C.2   Cronberg, Christer.  Agroprocessing Annex, (June 1988).
C.3   Zweig, Ronald.                      Aquaculture Annex,
(April 10, 1988).



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
LEADING GROUP
11 t' AR (IAJC             '"''             PROVMCIAI BUREAUs
|   "  ', "  :             ~~--FOANCE
* (4EPI.ST' ('FEC TO16-$p
FINANCE. ARULITUf               '      -      --WATER COHSERVANC
* fATEFR (*t-kEANCY                          --AGRICULTURE & AN
*GAO. LPJ a YA3)
EPUTY PO HANAGER
* S(NK Wp EIEER WATEP C
mAU4A(L           IIA| AbE       |     NA(R 
WAlER c OItUll(E                    F INCANCE    l
I~~~~~~~~~
Pho Al PREFECTURE                           PREFECTURE BUREAUS
--FICE
--PPc
--VAVER COS. & ETC
COUNTY BUREAUS
RaFS    I Loftl  KE A7-SITE                F--fANCE & ETC.



-129-
CHART 2
Planning Commission
Watr  onservancy Bur.
.        ~~Finance Bureau
;   {    lMateriaL Bureaul
Bureau of Urban and
- 3                        Rural Construction
_  i2                      and Environmental
Protection
. GainBureau
AgricuLturaL Bank
of China
Construction Bank



-130-
CILAT 3
CH1INA
SHAWJI AGRICULTURAL DEVELORTff  PROJECT
-- ORGANIZATIONAL PLAN FOR AQUACULTURE COMPONENT --
PROJECT DESIGN/IMPLEMENTATION                  Sha axi Province                   BUSINESS MANAGEMENT,
AND                        Bureau of Wator Consorvancy         MATERIAL SUPPLY, MARKETING
PAYBACK Or LOAN                                                               AND TRAI Nl MG
fShaanxi Provinoe                                                          Shaanxi Province 
Fishery Project      eAquatic Products Companyh
Municipal or Proftetural                          Provincial
Bureau of Water Conservany |chnical Srvic C
'Municipal or Prefectural             rMunicipal or Prefectural              Municipal or Prefectural
_lProject Offe               isheries D                        quat ic Produots Companj
County                             (Municipal or Prefo tural
Burpau of Water Conservanoe            H      Tachne al Scrvic CM nter
* < Countu ) ~~~~County]
7--FFisher Fios Feartmen                     Countyto
F    -Sh"  ProjeO                                                   Aquato ProduAts Comnpinuy
fTownshLp or    P.a9                                 o ,Y  ou ntyba
Command Heaquarters                                 Fis TohFlarm                                rv10eConttrJ
Speoialired Household         |Hathohries & Food Mill
Fish Fwrt Contraotors               
Administration
Loan Paqbadg



SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fund Flow/Repaynent for Project
world Bank (WB)
UThePlofhi*pd                                                                           M     ofsy o_
commitNtee of China                      hRnudncero-p-o-Rn-rc
(PPC)      I                       thePP                                            (MOF)                                 1
_  lhe Pman Ccir iar                        T _     lhe project dNoffice of j             rovincial Budeau 
flTe 910n)d Provnce                          the pioe (PMO)                                o a d Rnanoe s
111111*  --- -- -  ----IfILI'Z 
Ir                       lee buhreaus  I1   w t .
Prefecture       .                                 O       lhe ag0icufura           The bureau of
cm Pwmn*v             _                !  lh      d      ie d bsnk aOW ccratucn   Ilixme doJh
CoffniWian                                 ~~~bardt d the pxvwe      Pmce
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
P    CIlilP                            UIni                                           The bueaut d          E        
d t~he                       - ultI Po i                                                                     R Jhe  Iw  ocdtb y  I
Bueas           Crautn Urt                               d tt po  unt               xrmadec
*   County  ii       county                    I           I  cauntyOrCity~~~~~~~~~~~~ogrrsontbuio
L______K  l >----Fno
L  __                        ___ -_ - - -                                         . -              __ _--                      _            ---
- 0 Fund Plnnin                 -     _- RIpayrt r  dWB loan
- - - - R. dist rbutton o-n    i.bocontracts and
-   Fursd Repa                         payment in kind                                                       Wond Bank-42691



-132-
CHART 5
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of Shaanxl Branch of the ABC
Shoanxd Branch of the ABC
r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al 8ak 6
Cenftol 
Sujb-4Brhore at theI
e c h n~~~peecual Level
|SubXaceo   
4 I ~~~the CountyLevel  I1
l Savlngs       credit
offce       Coorpaa
(343)       tions
W-od Bank-42692



-133-
C!1ART 6
SKANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Donglel/Dlngblan oea
Vllage Water Supply System
MiIge RaWwolr
Watr lecflon     (Inbt 
Fit
J         I 
Filter/Relief                                       C)                              1d
.~~~- E,    _                                                        
Q~~~~~~~~~ V  T1y                                              sbrTCe. 
Supply Channel                                                               C) _itighOl WotsCella
Cenh  Mooo                                                                           CownW WbrS pply Pont
Di,,Cement Mortar   Cellar Size/No. of People pehold                                 f
Pe!  |   FWople | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 |,                         Pipe for Wer
Votume in M3  7 3 11.01 14. 118.3 1219125.6129.2 32.9 36.5
WatdMr cl                                                                                                      Would B*42693
Water Celar



SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENGINEERING DRAWING OF TYPICAL 500 MU (32.33 HA) FISH FARM (LINED)
Prodcljcion Ponds (i orm Each)                                   N
water
SuppE  A)E-_  _ _                   z ~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~Power Lires\X
C ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       0
5muEach1 
t~~~-                  -  -   -   -   -1  - - -   -  - --     - -   - - -
kWtb  Fa3



CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Engineering Drawing of Sample Unlined 500 MU (33.33ha) Fish Farm
Producion o10nmuoach)                         (5          )
. _ _  _ _ _,/ _ __ \___ _ __ .N__ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___    ___          __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____ _ I:
r~~~~~~~~~~ -                   . -   -   - r-   - X -   -   -                                                    
L      11                                  11       _   F          1l                           _      I .~~~~_ _  I 
150 x 50                                 100 x 40
ksrhv4218a



MAP SECTION



105'                       lOti-                     107-                     10S                     l0d                    1ro-                                 112
CHINA                                                                                                                    /
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                       /
PROJECT COMPONENT LOCATIONS
Proposed Projects:                                   ---   Rivers                                   To Onotoc
=|   Aqu-cuIure Componen                                            River Rosin Boundori-s                                    \rs
Dongi6 11 (126.5 n 10' .)                       -        N.tianol Rends
Dimgbio- Water S.pply Areo                               Secondry Roods                                           *
s-   Fure Projecgsc                                     -i---I  Roilronds                                                                        rogo .                                 t
Y.me-oc- P-mping Irrigotio- (Ph-ose 111)                 AiP         cdi/                                                                   4
L7 -g-en Resercoir (Ph.o  IV)                                                                                '5P,e.ct.   B.-d-im
Yineou Nigh Coc-I (Phox V)                               Province Boc.doiis 
---     Sho-nni B-vvdary
Pojct Completed in 1987:                          ---Itero tio-ol Boundories
Donglei 1(97.5 n 1;)4
C    GP ond P Layer -nd BroRer Forms                                                                                   ec-n
z,   Agroprocessing, Pig ond Robbit Breeding
-a      Seed Forms end Centers
F., deits x  iBR  21112
t 0 ;;        _                    ~          ~         ~~             ~      ~~~~~Shl._ 
-37-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
p             )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0N
r
)Gr   ii { 2                                                                                                    To A N S U
SH~ ~ ~~~-
SW                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34*
xi.                                                      IHN    G   X I As  e                               X               Ta E   on A  N
I                                                                     AHUAN
fS , I                                  .C  H   U   A   N                                              -- f
o               0      5       5      C      3
o                  I5~~~~ILOMETERS                                                                                              .,e.nnsnei  c 
tar                        tsl .ar                                               -0h )



IBRD 21
NEI MONGOL                                                                                      A CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NINGXIA                 7/                                                             DONGLEI 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
~ f   r  4   >\    -  IProposed Project  A,0             EBisti.g Itngot,on Amos                 Built Up A.os!
yoeon\                         ~~~~~~~~~~Moe, Co-rol               .      Eisticg lr-igotion A-osR-
t .,         ^      XYSHANXI                     Se-ordory Conols                          DSuppletrenll Irrigotion)    -           Dikes
c    Purrptng stoti-ttW in   Microsn Stotior                                          -x.ntM-t)8.
/}. )Z1  Sluices            --- Communicothon Lines                                    Prefecture 30undories/-
A    Siphons             RoliroodsP
GANSU  Soot   Onmeomo~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~D    ip-                                                        1!1.d
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.P. Stww
Otron    ~    1t~uc  HNAN                               ~                                  Pu-rp  toons                                                     Pumpi
SICHUAN
KILOMETERS 
p.~~~~~~~Ae
r _ /\i'  i_   r___HUA                     G
Ji_ot  S To kotng rea    \                        \                                      jOTOBERArea
lo X,cn~~~~ccg                                                           I        j ~~~~~ Ip r,
OCTOBER 198B



IBRD 2111
107630                                                          )08 00                                                           l08 -3O
j8-00                                                                                                                                                    8D-
NEI MONGOL       ,                                                                                                           C H I N A
K<*-~ z .s              JSHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NINGXIA                   \DING3AN  WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
NEI MONGOL                                         FLOURIDE CONTENTS IN GROUNDWATER
r 4  X  ,J X          -    >                 ~NEI MONGOL                                                                    ForeCnee ghe
SHANX                                                                                                              Le .hon 1.0
%  ^    (   ) SHANX                                                                                  F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2. 4 0
-.   \,         2          < NINGXIA                                                                                          470
h1 nd obovc
GANS.                                                                                                                                            ~- Wnrer Supo v P peline
GANSU                                                                                                                                                R, HENAN J . X,on ICommutityl Boundory
X Prefect-e bitndB-e y
n.                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-mPo ce S.-d-r e
I           ~~~~~~~~~~2
\t    fJeiih       >                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K *O.E7ERS
p~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
OlaLr         / -   / a-_  ..j                                                                                                                         caEP
30                                                                                                                               Du-zg N-  G                  8IANNEI MONGOL 
NINGXIA  7N                                                                                                                                                                         . !  gb
D I N GBIAN B  A N
a0                                                                    /~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S  
L''LC0 |.^7.3t                                                                                                                '0323O                                          v                 s Cd  .'   |



