Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18127
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
'CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURLAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 1997-CN
June 29, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1989                  $1=Y 3.76
1990                  $1=Y 4.78
1991                  $1=Y 5.32
1992                  $1=Y 5.42
1993                  $1=Y 5.73
1994                  $1=Y 8.50
1995                  $1=Y 8.30
1996                  $1=Y 8.30
1997                  $1=Y 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
mu = 666.7 square meters (m2)
15 mu = 1 hectare (ha)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EASRD - Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office
EIRR   - Economic internal rate of return
FIRR   - Financial internal rate of return
FY     - Fiscal year
GPS    - Grandparent Stock
IBRD   - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
ICR    - Implementation Completion Report
IDA    - International Development Association
ITC    - International Tendering Company of China National Technology Import & Export Corporation
NCB    - National Competitive Bidding
O&M   - Operations and maintenance
OD     - Operational Directive (of the World Bank)
PMO   - Project Management Office
PPC    - Provincial Planning Commission
SAR    - Staff Appraisal Report
SDR    - Special Drawing Rights
Vice President    :Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director   :Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager    :Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Staff Member      :Daniel Gunaratnam, Principal Water Resources Specialist, EACCF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................................... 1
A. Project Objectives and Description .....................................................1l
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ....................................................1l
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................2
D. Project Sustainability .....................................................5
E. IDA Performance.6 ....................6
F. Borrower Performance ..................7
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................,.8
H. Future Operation ........................................                                                                 10
1. Key Lessons Leamed ........................................                                                               10
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .........................................                                                                 12
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ........................................                                                    12
Table 2:    Related Bank Group Loans and Credits ........................................                                    13
Table 3:  Project Timetable ........................................                                                         14
Table 4A: Loan/Credit Disbursement,: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ......................... 15
Table 4B: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual,
by Semester ..................................................                                               15
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................................   16
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operations ..................................................                         19
Table 7:    Studies included in Projecit ..................................................                                  21
Table 8a: Project Costs in Yuan ......................                                                                       22
Table 8b: Project Costs in US Dollar's ..........................                                                           22
Table 8c: Project Cost Increase ..................... 23
Table 8d: Project Financing .....................                                                                            23
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                                           24
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                                              25
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................................... 26
Table 12:  Bank Group Resources: Staff Inputs ......................................                                         26
Table 13:  Bank Group Resources: Missions ......................................                                             26
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ......................................                                                             27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTUR&L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 1997-CHA
'REFACE
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) describes the achievements of the
Shaanxi Agricultural Development Project in China, for which Credit 1997-CN in the
amount of SDR 78.8 million ($106 million in equivalent) was approved on September 19,
1989, and made effective on December 1:3, 1989. The credit was closed on June 30, 1997.
It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on September 5, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Daniel Gunaratnam (Principal Water Resources
Engineer), Wang Xiaolan (Financial Analyst), Zhang Chaohua (Socioeconomist), Jiang
Ping (Irrigation Institutional Specialisi:) and Hu Shunong (Construction Engineer-
Consultant), and was reviewed by Geoffrey Fox, Sector Manager, Rural Development
and Natural Resources Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (EASRD). The
Borrower was unable to provide comments on the final ICR, which are therefore not
included as an annex to this ICR..
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank Group's final supervision
mission in November 6-17, 1997, and an ICR mission visited Shaanxi Province also
during the same period. The ICR is based on materials in the project file and materials
provided to the ICR mission. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by
contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (see Annex A), preparing its
own evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the
draft ICR. Since the Borrower's ICR was too long to be included as an annex and a
summary was not provided, the Borrower's ICR has been deposited in the project files.






- v -
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 1997-CN
In accordance with Operational Policy 13.55 this Implementation Completion. Report was
prepared 12 months after Credit 1997-CN was closed on June 30, 1997. However, the
project's main components, Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply, will only be
completed by December 1999. This report is therefore an interim completion report. The
project will have to be revisited in December 1999 to determine if all the works are
completed and all the objectives of the project are met.
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The main objectives of this project were to boost farm production and incomes of
poor households and to provide clean water through a program of investments in
irrigation, rural water supply, and agricultural services. The main features of the project
were: (a) improving and expanding th[e Donglei Irrigation System in the Guangzhong
Plain and supplying water to rural areas; (b) providing potable water and irrigation in
Dingbian County where there has been a high incidence of fluorosis because of the high
fluoride content in the local water; (c) establishing 2,100 hectares (ha) of fish ponds; (d)
establishing eight breeding and five commercial poultry operations; (e) constructing
several seed processing and certification plants, and supplying fertilizers; (f) constructing
and equipping three agroprocessing pilot plants; and (g) providing local and international
training programs to staff involved in implementing the above subcomponents.
2.    The project objectives were well designed and were appropriate to the Shaanxi
government's strategy of reducing poverty by increasing agricultural production and
incomes for the region. They were also consistent with the central government's objective
to develop the interior provinces, reduce poverty, and fulfill the basic needs, such as clean
water, of some of the poorest people in China.
3.    Assessment of the project's ability to achieve the stated objectives must await the
expected completion in December 1999 of the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water
Supply Components. The project objectives for the other four components (aquaculture,
livestock, agroprocessing and seeds) have essentially been achieved. There are, however,
solid indications that the objectives of the irrigation and water supply components will be
achieved after completion of the unfinished works because most of the major construction
issues have been resolved and Shaanxi Government is committed to completing the
project.



- vi -
Results of Implementation
4.    Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply Components. Donglei
Irrigation Systems are 70 percent complete, though a small subsystem, the Duanjiayuan
Irrigation System (3,700 ha) commenced operation in 1996. Following the introduction of
irrigation on this system, wheat yields increased by 100 percent. For newly irrigated
areas, about 30 to 65 percent of the on-farm works and about 26 percent of the branch
canals are scheduled to be completed by December 1999. The farmers have indicated that
most of the on-farm works and water cisterns for domestic water supply will be
completed by that date, since the land has already been leveled and the canals can be
completed very rapidly if water is assured. Initial water testing of the main canal and
aqueducts has been carried out. Most of the delays in implementing this component were
attributed to disagreements between the Provincial Planning Commission and the
Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau over design details of the Luohe Flume. This led
to the failure to allocate adequate counterpart funds for this component up until 1995.
After a change of management in the Project Management Office (PMO) in 1995, the
required counterpart funds were made available, and implementation progressed much
more rapidly. On completion of all the works, this component is expected to meet the
objectives of providing irrigation and domestic water supply for some 130,000
households.
5.    The Dingbian Water Supply Component is about 75 percent complete. The final
distribution networks for water supply are expected to be completed during 1999. The
main pipeline, pumping, and treatment works have been completed and tested for
commissioning. Most of the irrigation works are also expected to be complete by
December 1999. Upon completion, this component is expected to meet the objectives of
providing safe drinking water for 140,000 people and water for irrigation in Dingbian.
6.    Aquaculture Component. The aquaculture ponds, aquatic products, and
-marketing and technical training centers were started in 1996. The per-hectare production
of fish has far exceeded the amounts indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and
has more than satisfied the objectives of the project. During the midterm review, the
PMO and the International Development Association (IDA) agreed to reduce the area of
ponds planned in the SAR. Land that became available as a result of this decision was
given back to farmers who had been resettled in the area from the Sanmenxia Dam. The
current per-hectare production of commercial fish is 46 percent higher than the SAR
estirnate, while the total production of fish is only 10 percent lower despite a 29 percent
reduction in total area. This subproject has provided more than 6,000 jobs, 40 percent of
which are held by women.
7.    Agroprocessing. The Agroprocessing Component essentially satisfied the
project's objectives, which were to create pilot processing facilities. The pilot facilities
werc to provide examples and guidance for upgrading processing facilities to meet market
demand standards and to provide technical assistance. The apple juice plant and the bee
products processing facility were extremely successful in showing that advanced



- vii -
processing facilities could be constructed and operated successfully. The model juice
plant constructed under the project encouraged the collective and private sector to build
similar plants using advanced equipment throughout the province. By 1997, about 25
percent of the products from this plant were sold to Japan and the United States. The beef
processing plant, however, was not successful. Operations were halted due to several
factors including the lack of working capital. The provincial government, however, has
assured IDA that credit lines will be guaranteed by the government to restart the
operations by end-1998.
8.    Livestock Component. This component introduced large-scale poultry farmning
and genetic improvements in swine and rabbit farming. All the livestock farms were
implemented, except for one commercial farm and one grandparent stock (GPS) farm.
One commercial broiler farm was not implemented because of lack of market viability
and the grandparent broiler farm was not implemented because of lack of funds. All the
poultry farms are operating well, although some are short of working capital because of
the financial restructuring of the farms and because of the separation of their operations
from government operations. The provincial government has assured IDA that credit lines
available to the farms will be guaranteed during the transition period (1996-99) until the
farms' production builds up to full capacity. The poultry operations developed under the
project stimulated the collective and private sector to build more advanced parent stock
and commercial farms along the lines of the IDA-assisted farms.
9.    Seed Production and Processing Component. This component demonstrated
seed multiplication techniques and promoted seed production in Shaanxi Province. The
province used the experience gained from this component to develop a seed
multiplication and supply program and to promote the use of high-yield seeds. It is
expected that the area of wheat cultivation under the project to be covered by this
program would reach 50 percent in 1998 and 80 percent in 2000.
Implementation Experiences
10.   With hindsight, the SAR's implementation schedule for the Donglei Irrigation and
Dingbian Water Supply Components was far too optimistic and failed to make adequate
allowances for the size and complexity of the schemes and the limited capability of
Shaanxi Province to rapidly implement this type of project. This resulted in delays in
project completion, which is now expected in December 1999. These delays were further
exacerbated by the frequent interference of the Provincial Planning Commission (PPC) in
design issues. The Livestock, Agroprocessing, Aquaculture and Seed Production and
Processing Components, however, were completed well within the SAR schedule.
11.   High inflation between 1992 and 1994 increased local counterpart requirements
by 160 percent (Y 830 million or $100 million). Local counterpart funds were already
short, and the high rate of inflation compounded the problem. The shortage of funds
caused serious delays in the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply Components.



- viii -
12.   The goods procured and the civil works implemented were generally of good
quality. Two of the high-head pumping stations, however, were supplied with pumps with
serious defects. After initial operation, the pumps needed extensive repairs, which caused
further delays in startup. However, the PMO is repairing or replacing most of the pumps.
Sumimary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Overall Findings. At this juncture, the project's overall outcome cannot be
considered satisfactory, since the major components, Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian
Water Supply, remain to be completed. The Aquaculture, Agroprocessing, Livestock, and
Seect Production and Processing Components have, however, been successfully
implemented, and their results are significant. The most significant accomplishment of
these components was the introduction of new technologies, which increased production
substantially. In addition, the Agroprocessing and Livestock Components spurred the
collective and private sectors to develop 16 additional technologically advanced
commercial poultry farms and 30 additional technologically advanced apple juice plants.
The Implementation Completion Report's (ICR) revised estimate of the economic rate of
return (ERR) is 16.7 percent for the livestock component, 29.1 percent for aquaculture,
24.5 percent for agroprocessing (excluding the beef processing) and 22 percent for seeds.
All the ERRs are close to those projected in the SAR except for the seeds component
where the SAR original estimate of 54 percent appears unrealistic. Revised ERRs
computed for Donglei (23 percent) and Dingbian (14 percent) assume completion of these
components by end-1999 and that appropriate arrangements for operations and
maintenance (O&M) will be in place. Despite the completion delays and cost increases,
the ERR calculated in the ICR for the irrigation component is in line with the SAR's
estimates, primarily because of a substantial increase of cash crops in the cropping
pattern. The overall ERR for the project is 20 percent compared to the SAR estimate of
23 percent.
-14.   Project Impacts. The project has already been successful in generating
employment opportunities-6,000 people in aquaculture, 500 in agroprocessing, and 900
in poultry-and in improving the living standards of about 15,000 households. The
construction of irrigation and water supply systems has provided opportunities to about
10,000 rural laborers to earn additional cash income by participating directly in the
project construction or by working with contractors. In addition, during the execution of
the project, vast numbers of people were trained, including some 5,800 women who
learned advanced agricultural techniques. Another 20,000 women were employed in fruit
orchard management, aquaculture, poultry breeding, and agroprocessing. Significant
environmental improvements were accomplished when the wastelands and swamplands
created by the backup of waters by the Sanmenxia Dam were converted to aquaculture
ponds. In 1995, these ponds began to attract many birds back to the area, some of which
are rare endangered species of birds, such as cranes and herons.
15.   Sustainability. The Shaanxi government is committed to ensuring the
sustainability of the project, which is an important element in the effort to increase



- ix-
foodgrain, aquaculture and livestock production and to reduce the incidence of poverty in
the province. The sustainability of the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply
schemes can only be judged when these two components are completed in 1999, the
O&M institutions are in place and water charges are agreed with the farmers. However,
the sustainability of these two components seems assured since: (a) most of the major
construction issues have been resolved and only minor works need to be completed; (b)
field interviews revealed that farmers are willing to complete all on-farm works as soon
as the main works are completed; and (c) farmers are also willing to pay higher charges
for water since they know the benefits of irrigated agriculture. In addition, a detailed
O&M plan has been developed and institutionalized to manage the irrigation and water
supply schemes. Fish production on the aquaculture farms exceeds the SAR estimates
despite lower prices for fish. The aquaculture farms, which have been operating for the
past three years, have proved their sustainability in terms of production of fish and loan
repayment. Sustainability of the poultry farms is also assured because the farms use up-
to-date technology, and production losses are low. Also, because most of the farms are
producing parent stock, they do not face the same competition as the commercial farms.
Failure to complete the remaining works on the Donglei and Dingbian schemes and to
introduce an efficient O&M system and collect adequate water charges to cover all the
cost could endanger the sustainability of these schemes. There do not seem to be any
major risks for the Aquaculture and SeedL Production and Processing Components. For the
Agroprocessing and Livestock Components, the risks are in obtaining credit for working
capital and capturing a sufficient share of the market. These are problems being faced by
all enterprises in China.
16.   Future Operations. To ensure the success of the project, the PMO will have to
supervise the completion of works on the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply
schemes. Successful O&M of these systems will require the Provincial Water
Conservancy Bureau to ensure a smooth transfer of main irrigation systems to operating
groups, such as the Weinan Prefecture Water Management Office, and the on-farm
facilities to farmers' groups. Guidelines outlining how these transfers are to take place
will have to be drawn up by the Water Conservancy Bureau. The PMO will also be
required to: (a) organize training courses for the managers and finance staff of the
Agroprocessing and Livestock Components to upgrade their operation and financial
skills; and (b) take all measures to guarantee the enterprises lines of credit for their cash
flow needs. IDA will continue to monitor the progress of the actions to be taken by the
PMO during supervision of other projects in the province.
17.   Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned from  the project include the
following:
(a)   The project structure was too complex and should have been simplified by
including only the Dornglei Irrigation, Dingbian Water Supply, and
Aquaculture Components. The Agroprocessing, Livestock, and Seed
Production and Processing Components should have been financed under



a separate loan. Their addition to the project resulted in complicated
coordination arrangements during implementation.
(b)   In retrospect, the project preparation should have focused more on project
organization and implementation arrangements. Also, the independence of
the PMO from the provincial government in project supervision should
have been stressed more clearly, and assurances to this end should have
been obtained from the government;
(c)   Although procurement procedures followed Bank Group Guidelines, there
were some serious deficiencies in the prequalification of pump and motor
suppliers. IDA should have insisted on much more stringent
prequalification criteria. Also, procurement of major civil works for the
Luohe Flume should have been tendered following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures because national contractors were
unable to execute this complex structure according to the original designs.
To accommodate the local contractors required drastic scaling-down of
designs and work standards.
(d)   More prompt attention should have been paid by IDA to ensure timely
allocation of counterpart funding. Aside from obtaining an assurance
during negotiations from provincial and local governments about funding
local costs, the estimated counterpart funds necessary each year and their
sources should have been identified and discussed at appraisal with the
Borrower, in order to ensure that proper attention was paid to the financing
of the project.



at
.6
*.
.AMxV 0.
N
0
0
0
* *** jA
0
* *r                                                                              00
V
;
g
5 
0    :? *-*  ':9.  *                                                                  Ce
t' *¾:.?x                                                                        'V
1YAt.:j? 4MA*
U         r.Af0Žtfl                                                                   Ce
at * .



....  .... .' . '.:: ' 0 .'t'.". ~~~~~~~~~..........i  . ii
~~~~~~~~~~..                                      ...     .     .....   .. .. ......     . . . . .  .    .            . ...
-: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:--. .... 4x..:--.9. .... ......   ..:.
Figure 3: Dingbian Water Treatment Plant



- I -
CHINA
SHAANXI AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1997-CN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The main objective of this project was to boost farm production and the incomes
of 130,000 households (520,000 people) and provide clean water for some 286,000
people through a program of investments in irrigation, other rural water supply and in
agricultural services. The specific objectives of the project were (a) improvement and
expansion of Donglei Irrigation System to serve 123,000 hectares (ha) with provision of
water supply in the Guangzhong Plain and supplying rural water supply for 156,000
people; (b) the supply of potable water for 140,000 people in Dingbian County where
about 35 percent of the people had been suffering from skeletal fluorosis; (c)
establishment of 2,100 ha of fish ponds; (d) establishment of eight breeding and five
commercial poultry facilities; (e) construction of several seed processing and certification
plants and supply of fertilizers; (f) construction and equipping of three agroprocessing
facilities; and (g) provision of institutiornal support in each of the components to train
staff through local and international training programs.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The achievement of the project objectives can only be fully judged when the
major components, Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply Components, are
completed in December 1999. The project objectives for the other four components
(aquaculture, livestock, agroprocessing and seeds) have essentially been achieved. There
are, however, good indications that objectives of the irrigation and water supply
components will be achieved after completion in 1999 because most of the major
construction issues have been resolved and Shaanxi Government is committed to
completing the project.
3.    The project objectives were generally well designed and articulated in the project
documentation and were supported by the Shaanxi government project staff and
recipients of the credit for the various components. The objectives also reflected the
provincial government's strategy and were consistent with both the Bank Group's
development strategy and the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the
time of preparation to help the interior provinces to develop.



- 2 -
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
4.    Donglei Irrigation Component. About 70 percent of the Donglei Irrigation
System has been completed. Although most of the pumping plants and main canals have
been completed, about 26 percent of the branch canals and about 30 to 65 percent of the
remaining on-farm works will only be completed by December 1999. Farmers have
indicated that most of the on-farm works will be completed in 1999, since the land has
already been leveled and the canals can be completed very rapidly if water supply is
assured. Initial water testing of the main canal and aqueducts has been carried out, and
delivery of water has been made to the newly irrigated area. The quality of the works
constructed is good in almost all cases. Most of the delays in implementing this
component were caused by management conflicts between the Planning Commission and
the Water Conservancy Bureau of the province and the lack of counterpart funding,
which have been resolved since 1996. In addition, the inadequate capacity of the local
construction companies to implement such a large and complex project, which involved
several large aqueducts, caused delays.
5.    Dingbian Water Supply Component. The four main pumping stations, tunnels,
main canals, main pipeline, water treatment plant and storage facilities and about 56
percent of all the terminal irrigation facilities have been constructed. Initial water testing
of all the pumping stations and main canals has been undertaken. All the terminal
facilities are expected to be completed by 1999. The quality of works in general is good.
6.    Aquaculture Component. All the works under this component were completed
or exceeded. Lined ponds comprising 466 ha (7,000 mu), unlined ponds comprising
1,033 ha (15,500 mu), hatcheries, pellet mills, four supply centers, three training centers,
etc. were all completed. The total number of farms, each one covering 33 ha (500 mu),
was reduced from 64 to 45. The total area of ponds planned in the SAR was 2,100 ha
(31,500 mu) but the area was reduced in agreement with the Bank Group during the
midterm review because land originally allocated for this purpose was given back to
farmers who were resettled from the Sanmenxia Dam. The total annual production of
commercial fish is about 8,655 tons. The per-hectare production of commercial fish in the
project area is 46 percent higher than the projected output in the SAR for the 2,100 ha,
and is only 10 percent less in projected overall production despite a 29 percent reduction
in total area. The average income for each farmer in the project area has reached Y 4,000
per year, compared with the average, income of less than Y 2,000 per year for nonproject
aquaculture farrners.
7.    Agroprocessing Component. The three agroprocessing pilot plants-consisting
of an apple juice plant, bee product plant, and a beef processing plant-were completed
under this project component. The physical construction and the equipment procurement
were very well executed. The physical construction of the Pucheng Slaughterhouse was
completed by December 1994 as scheduled. All of these plants were county-owned



- 3 -
enterprises. However, the provincial governrment introduced radical reforms to separate
these companies from the government and convert them to independent corporations. As
a result, the credit lines of these enterprises dried up, and the slaughterhouse had to be
closed for lack of working capital and for other reasons. The govermnent is now trying to
reactivate this plant by giving guarantees to the local banks that will finance the working
capital and to see what additional matters need to be resolved. However, both the fruit
processing plant and the bee product plant have been operating well and have sufficient
internal cash generation despite the credit crunch.
8.    Livestock Component. There were eight subcomponents under this component,
which included plans for implementing six poultry farms, one pig farm, and one rabbit
farm. Under each poultry farm there were several grandparent stock, parent stock, or
commercial farms, depending on the location. All the farms, except one commercial farm
and one grandparent stock farm, were implemented. The commercial farm was not
implemented because of the lack of market viability, and the grandparent stock farm was
not implemented for lack of funds. Construction of the Xianyang Pig Farm and Chunhua
Rabbit Farm was finished in December 1993, and operations started in 1994.
Construction of Grandparent Stock (GPS) Farm, Xianyang Farm, Heyang Farm, and
Baoji Layer Farm, Sanmenkou and Weinan Broiler Farm was completed in December
1994 and began operations in 1995. Essentially the quality of the civil works construction
was good. Most of the equipment for incubation, feeding, watering, and ventilation was
imported. In addition, the grandparent and parent stock for the poultry was either
imported or obtained in China from the advanced breeding stations.
9.    Seed Production and Processiing Component. The Seed Production and
Processing Component was completed by the end of 1993. The project completed four
seed processing plants and set up five seed production bases with seed processing
workshops and one provincial seed inspection center. The 10 seed companies completed
47,143 square meters (m2) of buildings, 108 percent of the appraised target. Equipment
and materials were procured as appraised, including nine sets of seed testing and
processing equipment, and fertilizer and pesticides. The seed-growing area was expanded
to 10,900 ha for the 10 seed companies. The actual processing capacity of all seed
companies has exceeded the design standards of 20,000 tons per seed company.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
10.  Implementation Schedule. The project was approved in June 1989 and
scheduled for closure June 30, 1994. The closing date was subsequently extended three
times, one year each, to June 30, 1997. Four of the six components (Aquaculture,
Agroprocessing, Livestock, and Seed Production and Processing) were implemented
within the scheduled dates or with slight delays. However, for the Donglei Irrigation and
Dingbian Water Supply Components, the original implementation schedule was overly
optimistic, and the implementation capacity of Shaanxi Province and the resources
available in the province to undertake projects of this size and complexity were
substantially underestimated. Completion of all works is now expected by end-1999.



- 4 -
11.   Changes in Project Management and Conflicts. During appraisal, a Project
Management Office (PMO) was set up, with the Provincial Planning Commission (PPC),
Finance Bureau and Water Conservancy Bureau taking leadership in the PMO. According
to the Credit Agreement, they appointed an executive director from the Water
Conservancy Bureau to undertake all day-to-day operations of project implementation.
The PMO was to act as an "independent engineer" and be the representative of the
government in supervising the contractor. This arrangement was relatively new to the
province, since in all previous implementations the government had dealt with the
contractor directly without a PMO in between.
12.   This arrangement seemed to work well for four of the components-Aquaculture,
Agroprocessing, Livestock, and Seed Production and Processing. However, for the
Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply Components, there were considerable
conflicts between the PMO and PPC, which was the government and which wanted to
supervise the project directly. Most of the conflicts seem to center around increases in the
cost; of works for these two components, which occurred during 1993-94 when inflation
in China was up to 25 percent a year. The conflicts delayed the construction of the key
structures by three years for the Donglei Irrigation Component. After 1995 though, there
were major changes in personnel in the PMO and the provincial government and these
changes enabled the work to proceed more smoothly.
13.  Inflation and Cost Overruns. The high inflation in China between 1992 and
1994, coupled with the depreciation of the yuan against the US dollar, led to substantial
price increases in construction materials (over 100 percent) and labor wages (over 200
percent). This resulted in higher contract prices for major contracts that were awarded
after 1992. Together with the change in designs for some key works, the inflation
contributed substantial cost increases to the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water
Supply Component of about 50 and 15 percent, respectively. Early implementation and
sorme design changes of the Aquaculture, Agroprocessing, and Livestock Components
actually decreased costs by 22, 25, and 17 percent, respectively. Overall costs increased
from $237 million to $300 million.
14.   Lack of Counterpart Funds. The counterpart fund requirement increased
dramatically from Y 533 million to Y 1,341 million due to local price increases coupled
with the currency devaluation. The additional burden caused by price increases and
devaluation further exacerbated the shortage of counterpart funds. This shortage seriously
affected the implementation progress of the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water
Supply Components, especially during 1993-95. Implementation of the Aquaculture,
Agroprocessing, Livestock, and Seed Production and Processing Components was not
affected by budgetary constraints because these components were completed before the
major price increases.
15.   Poor Supply of Pumps. Most goods were procured following international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures and, in general, the quality of goods supplied was
excellent. However, the supply of the main pumps for the high-head pump stations by a



-5-
local supplier had some serious flaws, which had to be rectified. The supplier was slow in
making the required changes and this caused further delays in the startup testing of the
main system for the Donglei Irrigation Component. Strict prequalification procedures
could have avoided this problem. The pumps for the low-head pump stations were
generally good, even though they were supplied locally.
16.   Engineering Complexity. Donglei Irrigation-with 37 pumping stations at five
different levels-presented a unique challenge in engineering and construction of such a
complex facility. The project appraisal failed, however, to make adequate allowances for
the complexity of site conditions. In addition, the Luohe Flume-at 1.29 km in length,
the longest flume in China or even in the world-went through several design revisions
because of high construction costs and because of the limited capacity of local contractors
to implement the flume. Consequently, some of the contracts could only be completed on
extended time.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   The Shaanxi government is committed to ensuring sustainability of the project,
which represents a key project to increase foodgrain, aquaculture, and livestock
production, and to reduce the incidence of poverty in the province. The project is also
part of Shaanxi's long-term plan to invest in agriculture and reduce poverty in the areas
away from the Guangzhong Plains, which form the key foodgrain production areas for the
poor in Shaanxi. Thus, continued support from the government to sustain the project is
assured.
18.   The sustainability of the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply schemes
can only be judged when these two components are completed in 1999, the operations and
maintenance (O&M) institutions are in place and water charges are agreed with the farmers.
However, the sustainability of these twvo components seems assured since: (a) most of the
major construction issues have been resolved and only minor works need to be completed;
(b) field interviews revealed that farmers are willing to complete all on-farm works as soon
as the main works are completed; and (c) farmers are also willing to pay higher charges for
water since they know the benefits of irrigated agriculture.
19.   Shaanxi Province is very advanced in reforming water institutions by
corporatizing and commercializing them. For both the Donglei Irrigation and the
Dingbian Water Supply Components the government formulated detailed O&M plans in
1994. These plans were subsequently revised in 1996. Under these plans, the Weinan
Prefecture Water Conservancy Management Office (a government-owned corporation)
will operate the main water conveyance systems. This corporation, which is currently
operating two other provincial irrigation systems, will sell water to downstream buyers-
usually corporations operating branch canals or lateral canals or water user associations.
The downstream buyers could be o:ne of three types of organizations-joint stock
companies of farmers and water operators, leasing companies who sell water to farmers,
or water user organizations. The price of the water has already been computed to be about



-6 -
Y 0.25 per cubic meter (m3) and will rise to Y 0.45 per m3 to recover all the costs,
including major repair, depreciation, and power costs.
20.   The aquaculture projects have all been completed, and production exceeds the
SAR's estimates. Sustainability does not seem to be a problem. Despite lower prices for
fish in 1996, there seems to be no reduction in production. The supporting services, such
as feed mills and marketing, serve as models for the establishment of commercial fish
farms in other parts of the province.
21.   Almost all the poultry farms are operational, although they have been corporatized
and are no longer part of the government. Sustainability of the poultry farms is assured,
because the farms use up-to-date technology and production losses are low. The farms are
currently facing difficulties, however, in obtaining credit lines to finance working capital
needs. The government is committed to taking specific measures to guarantee lines of
credit to these enterprises until such time as they attain full production. When these
components were formulated, there were no advanced commercial poultry farms in the
province. There are now some 16 private commercial poultry farms that have copied the
structure and modem technology developed under this project. Also, since most of the
farms are producing breeding stock, they do not have the same market competition as the
commercial farms. The construction of the rabbit farm and pig farm was finished in
December 1993, and the farrns began operations in 1994. The pig farm, especially,
imported advanced breeding pigs, which produce lean piglets, to sow. The lean piglets are
in great demand, and all are being sold.
22.   The 10 seed companies have all been completed and put into operation. All
exceeded the design production capacity and are continuing to expand their coverage to
supply of high-yield seed. The Seed Production and Processing Component has served as
a demonstration in seed multiplication and has promoted seed production in Shaanxi
Province.
23.   Two out of the three agroprocessing plants are fully operational, but the beef
slaughterhouse was closed down shortly after it was commissioned for lack of working
capital. The juice and bee product plants are fully operational. The juice plant has
invested in advanced technology and has clearly demonstrated that it is capable of
withstanding competition from other producers on the local market. It is now also
exporting products to Japan and the United States.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
24.   The various IDA missions involved in the project cycles leading to and including
appraisal, failed to make adequate allowances for the complexity of the project, the
limited implementation capacity of the province and the local contractors, coordination
complexities arising from the number of agencies involved in project implementation,
and the capacity of the province to provide the needed counterpart funding. Because of
these failures, IDA's performance must be rated as unsatisfactory. Most of the
engineering designs for the Donglei Irrigation and the Dingbian Water Supply



Components were prepared by the provincial government several years prior to IDA's
involvement. The other project comrponents were prepared by provincial experts with
assistance from several IDA preparation missions. IDA experts provided assistance to the
province in the fields of pumping stal:ion design, hydraulics, seed production, poultry and
other livestock, aquaculture, and agroprocessing. Overall, the performance of experts
provided by IDA during the preparation phase was appreciated by the provincial
government.
25.  IDA's performance during the implementation phase, on the other hand, was
satisfactory. Thirteen supervision missions were undertaken over nine years-an average
of one mission a year. The supervision missions made significant contributions to: (a)
improving construction methods; (b) resolving technical issues; (c) requiring adequate
provision of counterpart funding and working capital for project activities; (d) improving
the technical capacity and financial management of enterprises; and (e) educating PMO
and county staff on the need for more rigorous marketing of agroprocessing and livestock
produce. The advice in many cases had a positive influence on the project. Many project
agencies realized the importance of the supervision recommendations and translated into
Chinese the models and computation.s for the aquaculture component and used them as
teaching materials for their staff. The supervision missions were less successful in
helping the PMO and provincial government to resolve the management conflicts that
arose during the construction phase. Up until FY96, the provincial government did not
recognize the independence of the PMIO as the supervisor for the project on behalf of the
government, and many conflicts resulted.
F. BOREROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   The performance of the project implementation agencies during the preparation
phase was satisfactory. These agencies prepared several comprehensive feasibility studies
for the project, which covered many of the technical and institutional factors. They also
succeeded in preparing a satisfactory economic and financial analysis for the Donglei
Irrigation, Dingbian Water Supply and the Aquaculture and Seed Production and
Processing Components. The analysis produced by these agencies for the Agroprocessing
and Livestock Components was less rigorous. Performance of the different government
agencies during the implementation phase was mixed. The Aquaculture, Agroprocessing,
Livestock, and Seed Production ancl Processing Components were implemented in a
satisfactory manner. Implementation of the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water
Supply Components, however, was unsatisfactory and delayed completion by about five
years. The main cause of these delays was the interference in the design aspects of large
aqueducts by PPC. Similar interference also took place during awards of supply contracts
for the high-head pumping stations. In spite of these problems, the designs and works
implemented so far for the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply Components
are of high quality. Operating problemns were encountered subsequently, however, due to
the inadequate prequalification procedures used in the procurement of high-head sets of
pumping units.



-8 -
27.   Despite the interference by PPC into the workings of the PMO, project staff at all
levels of government and in the various technical departments exhibited full commitment
to the project.
28.   Project accounts were audited in a timely manner, and in general the audit reports
were received by IDA on time.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.   At this juncture, the project's overall outcome cannot be considered satisfactory
since the two major components, Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply, remain
unfinished. The four other components (Aquaculture, Agroprocessing, Livestock, and
Seed Production and Processing) were completed on schedule. The development
objectives of these components were essentially achieved and have therefore been rated
satisfactory. Revised economic rates of return (ERR) were computed by the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the livestock component (16.7 percent),
aquaculture (29.1 percent), agroprocessing (24.5 percent excluding the beef processing)
and the seed subcomponent (22 percent). All the ERRs are close to those anticipated in
the SAR, except for the seed subcomponent where the SAR-projected ERR (54 percent)
appears unrealistic. The ICR estimates an ERR of 22 percent for this component. Revised
ERRs computed for the Donglei (23 percent) and Dingbian (14 percent) components are
based on completion of the works by December 1999, and the introduction of O&M
institutions. Despite delays in completing these components and the cost overruns, the
revised ERR results are not materially different from those projected in the SAR. This is
largely attributed to expected increases in project benefits arising from the increase of the
areas devoted to cash crops. Such increases have already been recorded in areas under
irrigation. The revised overall ERR for the project is 20 percent compared with the SAR
estimate of 23 percent
30.   Upon completion at the end of 1999, the Donglei Irrigation Component will have
a significant impact on farm incomes. Farmers in the project area have been expecting the
delivery of irrigation for several years. Some have dug wells and have already started
irrigating small areas, since groundwater is so limited. Based on results under
groundwater irrigation, farm incomes are expected to increase substantially when
irrigation is completed. Using data obtained from areas under groundwater irrigation, the
ICR prepared several household income models. These models show that incomes of
farms producing grain will increase from Y 1,850 per household to Y 5,420 per
household after the sixth year of irrigation. For farms switching to such cash crops as
cotton, the incomes will increase from Y 2,090 per household to Y 6,620 per household;
for those switching to orchards incomes will increase from Y 2,330 per household to
Y 11,620 per household.
31.   The project's overall impact is quite significant. For the Aquaculture Component,
the total production of commercial fish in 1997 was about 8,655 tons. This production
level is only 10 percent below that projected in the SAR despite a 29 percent reduction in



9-
total area. The overall output value from this subcomponent is Y 81.23 million, which is
29.3 percent of the province's total output, compared with an estimated 18.0 percent in
the SAR. This subcomponent created more than 6,000 jobs, with women holding about
40 percent of these jobs. The average family income on fish-producing farms has reached
Y 4,000 per year, compared with the average income less than Y 2,000 per year for
nonproject aquaculture farmers.
32.   Results from the Agroprocessing and Livestock (primarily poultry) Components
encouraged the private and collective sectors to develop advanced agroprocessing plants
for apple juice production, and advanced parent and commercial broiler and layer farms.
When the project started in 1989, there were no apple juice plants or cold storage
facilities, and most poultry were bred as smallholder backyard farms in Shaanxi Province.
Production levels for poultry were very low, and mortality rates were high. Most apples
were stored in caves, and the spoilage rates were very high. By 1997 the province had 30
juice plants and 16 advance parent broiler and layer farms owned by private and
collective groups. The project's juice plant and cold storage were completed in 1995 and
by the end of 1997 they were producing 2,700 tons, of which 500 tons were sold in the
Japanese and US markets.
33.   Six out of the eight poultry farms constructed under the project are fully
operational and are producing chickens for broilers and layers. Mortality rates of chicken
in these farms are 2 to 4 percent lower, and hatching rates 6 to 8 percent higher than in
most of the other commercial farms. Most of the layer chicks and eggs are sold outside
the province-40 percent for the grandparent layer farm and 50 percent for the parent
layer farms.
34.   At present, the poultry and agroprocessing enterprises created under the project
are facing difficulties in obtaining lines of credit for working capital from banks. This is
the outcome of recent government reforms under which the status of these enterprises has
been changed from government ownership into a corporation. With the change in their
status the enterprises have no longer access to lines-of-credit guarantees from the
government. The Shaanxi government assured the ICR mission that they will continue to
provide credit guarantees until these enterprises reach full production.
35.   The completed Seed Component is playing a key role in demonstrating seed
multiplication techniques and assisting in the promotion of seed production in Shaanxi
Province. At present, the province has an active seed multiplication and supply program
to promote the use of high-yield seeds. It is expected that the area of wheat cultivation to
be covered under this program in the project area would reach 50 percent of the cultivated
area in 1998 and 80 percent in 2000. Seed demand in these years is projected to reach
90,000 tons and 144,000 tons, respectively. Coverage rate would be over 90 percent of
the supplied seeds after 2002.



- 1O-
H. FUTURE OPERATION
36.   The immediate task is to complete the remaining works over the next two years,
which consist of 137 km of branch canals and lateral and sublateral canals for the
remaining 49,000 ha of newly irrigated areas. In general, the fields are already leveled
and in some sections are already sparsely irrigated by groundwater wells. Barring any
unforeseen shortages of counterpart funding, these works should be completed as
scheduled.
37.   Future O&M of the project will require the assistance of the Provincial Water
Conservancy Bureau in ensuring a smooth transfer of the irrigation systems to the
operations groups. The operation plan is to transfer all O&M to Weinan Prefecture Water
Management Office. This office would essentially act as a financially autonomous
company responsible for the sale of water. This office will also coordinate with the
township and the county to provide clean water for people and livestock. The provincial
and prefecture bureaus would also play a role in ensuring the smooth transfer of lateral
and sublateral canals from government ownership to farmer groups through auctions,
leasing, management contracts or a combination of all three options. Guidelines will have
to be drawn up by the Water Conservancy Bureau to articulate the government's policies
pertaining to such issues as ownership of facilities, rehabilitation of facilities during
operation, water pricing levels, and water allocation for the lateral.
38.   Future operations of the Agroprocessing and Livestock Components will require
the PMO to organize more training courses for the managers and finance staff of these
enterprises to enhance their skills in operations and financial management. The Shaanxi
government would take specific measures to guarantee the enterprises' lines of credit
until they reach full production.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   The key lessons learned from the project are summarized below:
(a)   The project structure was too complex and should have been simplified by
limiting it to the following components: Donglei Irrigation, Dingbian
Water Supply, and Aquaculture. The inclusion in the project of the
Agroprocessing, Livestock, and Seed Production and Processing
Components added several additional implementing agencies. This
addition required complicated coordination arrangements that gave rise to
delays in project implementation. Financing of these components could
have best been handled under a separate loan.
(b)   In retrospect, the project preparation should have focused more on project
organization and implementation arrangements. The independence of the
PMO in project supervision should have been stressed more clearly, and
assurances to that effect should have been obtained from the government.



(c)   Although procuremenit was fairly carefully monitored and reviewed and
the Bank Group Guidelines were followed closely, there were some
serious deficiencies:
(i)   Prequalification procedures for pump and motor suppliers failed to
exclude bidders who were not genuine suppliers and who did not
have contractual arrangements with real suppliers. More stringe!i
prequalification criteria should have been used.
(ii)   Procurement of major civil works for the Luohe Flume should
have been tendered following ICB procedures because local
contractors did not have the capacity to undertake the work, and
because designs had had to be altered to fit the contractors'
capacity.
(d)   Timely allocation of counterpart funding is a prerequisite to smooth
implementation of a project. IDA should have paid closer attention to the
government's failure to allocate funds on time and in the required amount.
In addition to written assurances covering project funding that were
obtained during negotiations from provincial and local governments, the
estimated counterpart funds necessary each year and their sources should
have also been identified and discussed with the Borrower.



- 12-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Irrigation                                 Agriculture
A. Achievement of objectives  Substantial  Partial  Negligible    Not   Substantial  Partial  Negligible    Not
applicable                                  applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                         X                                           X
Sector policies                                                X                                           X
Financial objectives                      X                                 X
Institutional development                 X                                           X
Physical objectives                       X                                 X
Poverty reduction               X                                           X
Gender issues                             X                                           X
Other social objectives                   X                                           X
Environmental objectives                  X                                           X
Public sector management                                       X                                           X
Private sector development                                     X                                           X
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability   Likely       Unlikely       Uncertain         Likely      Unlikely      Uncertain
x                                            x
C. IDA performance        Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient    Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                   X                                            X
Preparation assistance                           X                                            X
Appraisal                                        X                                            X
Supervision                                      X                                            X
D. Borrower performance  Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient    Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                      X                                            X
Implementation                                               X                                X
Covenant compliance                              X                                             X
E. Assessment outcome       Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory      Highly unsatisfactory
Irrigation                                                                     X
Agriculture                                              X
Overall                                                                        X



- 13 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK GROUP LOANS AND CREDITS
Year of
Loan/credit title                   Purpose               approval     Status
Preceding Operations:
North China Plain Agriculture   Irrigation Development and Land     FY82      Completed
(Cr. 126 1-CHA)              Improvement
Pi-Shi-Hang Chaohu Area        Irrigation and Area Development      FY85      Completed
Development
(Cr. 1606/Ln.2579-CHA)
Northern Irrigation            Irrigation Development and           FY88      Completed
(Cr.1885-CHA)                Improvement, and Settlement
Gansu Provincial Development   Irrigation and Agriculture Development   FY88  Completed
(Cr. 1793/Ln.2812-CHA)
Following Operations:
Tarim Irrigation I (Cr.2294-CHA)   Irrigation and Agriculture Development   FY89    Closed 12/97
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification  Irrigation and Agriculture Development   FY91   Completed 12/97
(Ln.3337/Cr.2256-CHA)
Yangtze Basin Water Resources    Irrigation and Area Development    FY95   To be competed
(Cr.2710/Ln.2874-CHA)                                                        12/2001
Gansu Hexi Corridor            Irrigation and Land Development, and    FY96   To be completed
(Ln.4028/Cr.2870-CHA)        Settlernent                                     12/2006



- 14 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                  Date planned        Date actual
Identification                              10/87             10/87
Preappraisal                               03/88              03/88
Appraisal                                   06/88            06/16/88
Negotiations                                01/89            01/9/89
Board presentation                        03/28/89           03/28/89
Signing                                    09/89             09/14/89
Effectiveness                               12/89            12/13/89
Project completion                        12/31/93          12/31/99 /a
Loan closing                              06/30/94          06/30/97 /b
/a Full project completion is expected 12/99.
/b Three one-year extensions were applied.



- 15 -
TABLE 4A: LOAN/CREDIT DISBIJRSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate                    25.0    65.0    90.0   100.0   106.0
Actual                                         4.31   19.83   38.09   68.08   85.79  104.25   111.0  111.32
Actual as  percent of adjusted                  4.1    18.7    35.9    64.2    80.9    98.3   104.9   105.0
estimate
Date of fnal disbursement                                                                  September 22, 1997
TABLE 4B: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL,
BY SEMESTER
($ million)
IBRD/IDA                  At appraisal                                 Actual                  Actual project
Fiscal year        Disbursement         lProject             Disbursement           Project     cumulative,
semester    Semestral    Cumulative   curnulative      Semestral    Cumulative    cumulative    compared
($ million)          (%)                  ($ million)          (N)        with SAR (%)
1989
1 st         -              -           -              -              -            -               -
2nd                          -           -              -              -            -
1990
Ist       12.00         12.00        11.3           2.16           2.16          1.9             2.0
2nd       13.00          25.00        23.6           2.16           4.31          3.9             4.1
1991
Ist       17.00         42.00        39.6           7.76          12.07         10.8            11.4
2nd       23.00          65.00        61.3           7.76          19.83         17.8            18.7
1992
Ist       12.50         77.50        73.1            9.13         28.96         26.0            27.3
2nd       12.50          90.00        84.9           9.13          38.09         34.2            35.9
1993
Ist       5.00          95.00        89.6           15.00         53.09         47.7            50.1
2nd        5.00         100.00        94.3           15.00         68.08         61.2            64.2
1994
Ist       6.00         106.00       100.0            8.86         76.94         69.1            72.6
2nd                                                   8.86         85.79         77.1            80.9
1995
1 st                                                9.23          95.02         85.4            89.6
2nd                                                  9.23         104.25         93.7            98.3
1996
1st                                                  3.37        107.62         96.7           101.5
2nd                                                  3.37         111.00         99.7           104.7
1997
Ist                                                  0.16        111.16         99.9           104.9
2nd                                                   0.16        111.32        100.0           105.0
Total             106.00         106.00                     111.32         111.32



- 16-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated                    % of
Key irnplementation indicators                       Unit    At appraisal  Midterm    Actual  completion
adjustment
A. Donglei Irrigation Scheme
1.  Taili Junction               Intake Gates      unit/set          8/1         8/1       8/1        100
Sediment Gates    unit/set         3/1         3/1       3/1        100
2.  IPump Stations                                 unit/no.        147/37     147/37    112/37     76-100
Taili Lifting Station I      pump unit           set            9.00        9.00     9.00         100
Beigan Lifting Station 2     pump unit           set           12.00       12.00     2.00          17
Xiazhai Lifting Station 3    pump unit           set           10.00       10.00     2.00          20
Xiazhai Small Lifting Station  pump unit         set            3.00        3.00        -           0
Sunzhen System               pump station        no.            7.00        7.00     7.00         100
pump unit          set           36.00       36.00     36.00        100
]'ucheng System              pump station        no.            8.00        8.00     8.00         100
pump unit          set           20.00       20.00     20.00        100
Xingzhen System              pump station        no.            5.00        5.00     2.00          40
pump unit          set            14.00      14.00         -          0
Liuqu System                 pump station        no.            6.00        6.00     6.00         100
pump unit          set           26.00       26.00     26.00        100
Liuji System                 pump station        no.            4.00        4.00     4.00         100
pump unit          set            9.00        9.00      9.00        100
Duanjiayuan System           pump station        no.            3.00        3.00     3.00         100
pump unit          set             8.00       8.00      8.00        100
3.  Tunnel                        Hancun             km              1.92       5.12      5.12        100
Lojubzhai          km             0.51        0.05      0.05        100
4.  ILuohe Flume                  length             km              1.29        1.29     1.29        100
5.  Canal                        length              km            597.00     597.00    444.20         74
Main Canal                   length              km            53.50       53.50    53.50         100
North-Canal                  length              km            45.70       45.70    45.70         100
South Canal                  length              km            15.80       15.80        -           0
Submain Canal                length              km            80.00       80.00    80.00         100
Branch Canal                 length              km           402.00      402.00    265.00         66
6.  New Irrigation Area           area               mu         1,188,800              320,000        26.9
Sunzhen Scheme               area                mu          205,000              120,000        58.6
Pucheng Scheme               area                mu          163,000               80,000        49.1
Xingzhen Scheme              area                mu          181,800                    0           0
Liuqui Scheme                area                mu          240,000               80,000        33.3
Duanjiayuan                  area                mu           55,000               40,000        72.7
Beigan Gravity Scheme        area                mu          144,000                    0           0
Well Irrigation              area                mu          200,000                    0          0
7.  Existing Irrigation Area      area               mu           780,000              780,000        100
Luodong Scheme               area                mu          200,000              200,000         100
Luoxi Scheme                 area                mu          200,000              200,000         100
Jiaokou Scheme               area                mu          380,000              380,000         100
8. Civil Works
Taili Lifting Station I      building            m2           578.00      578.00    578.00        100
Beigan Lifting Station 2     building            m2          1,334.00    1,334.00  1,334.00       100
Xiazhai Lifting Station 3    building            m2          1,196.00    1,196.00  1,196.00       100
9. Structures
Along the Main Canal                             set          276.00      287.00    287.00        100
Along the North Canal                            set          244.00      244.00    126.00         52
10. Power Supply Lines
110 kV Substation            building           no.             9.00       9.00      9.00         100
35 kV Substation             building            no.           29.00       29.00    29.00         100
lO0kV Power Line            length              km             68.60      68.60     55.00         80
B. Dingibian Water Supply
1.  Pump Station                 pump station        set            4.00        4.00      4.00        100
pump unit          set            16.00      20.00     20.00        100
2.  Tunnel                        amount              set            2.00       1.00      1.00        100
length             km             7.30        5.95      5.95        100
3.  Structures along the Main Canal  tunnel          set             3.00
siphon             set                        5.00      5.00        100
water pond         set                        4.00      4.00        100
4.  Main Pipeline                 length             km             68.90      62.65     62.65         100
5.  Water Treatment Plant         capacity         tons/day       20,000      20,000    20,000        100
storage           tons          120,000    120,000   40,000          33



- 17-
Estimated                   %of
Key implementation indicators                       Unit    At appraisal  Midterm    Actual  completion
adjustment
6.  Canal                        common part        km                        14.00    14.00        100
irrigation         km            76.50      76.50     9.00          12
7.  Distribution Pipes           pipeline           no.           10.00       10.00     1.00         10
8.  Irrigation Canal             lateral canal      km            75.60       75.60    42.00         56
C. Aquaculture
l.  Lined Pond                                      mu         6,000.00    7,000.00  7,000.00       100
2.  Unlined Pond                                    mu           26,000      15,500    15,500       100
3.  Hatchery                                        mu           350.00      350.00   350.00        100
4.  Civil Works                  building           m2                    38,467.00 38,467.00       100
5.  Dali Pellet Mill             capacity         tons/day      3,000.00    3,000.00  3,000.00      100
Civil Works                 building            m2                     1,500.00  1,500.00       100
6.  Heyang Pellet Mill           capacity         tons/day      3,000.00    3,000.00  3.000.00      100
Civil Works                 building            m2                     1,350.00  1,350.00       100
7.  Dali Supply Center           building,          m2           900.00     900.00  1,123.00        125
8.  Heyang Supply Center         building           m2           900.00      900.00  1,020.00       113
9.  Xingping Supply Center       building           m2           900.00      900.00   900.00        too
10. Huayin Supply Center         building           m2           900.00     900.00   900.00         100
11. Provincial Training Center   building           m2         2,375.00    2,375.00  2,375.00       100
12. Baiji Training Center        building           m2           900.00     900.00   900.00         100
13. Weinan Training Center       building           m2           900.00     900.00  1,150.00        128
14. Provincial Supply Center     building           m2         3,900.00    3,900.00  3,900.00       100
D. Livestock
I.  Heyang Egg Poultry
Parent Farm                 productivity     10,000 set        2.00       2.00     2.00         100
Commercial Egg Farm         productivity     10,000 pcs       15.00      15.00    20.00         133
Feed Processing Plant       productivity    10,000 tons        1.20       1.20     2.00         167
Hatchery                    productivity     10,000 pcs      360.00     360.00   360.00         100
Civil Works                 building area       m2        25,000.00   25,000.00 23,322.00        93
2.  Xianyang Egg Poultry
Parent Farm                 productivity     10,000 set        2.00       2.00     2.00         100
Commercial Egg Farm          productivity    10,000 pcs       20.00      20.00    20.00         100
Feed Processing Plant       productivity    10,000 tons
Hatchery                    productivity     10,000 pcs      360.00     360.00   360.00         100
Civil Works                 building area       m2        26,000.00   26,000.00 27,500.00       106
3.  Baoji Egg Poultry
Parent Farm                 productivity     10,000 set        2.00       2.00     2.00         100
Commercial Egg Farm         productivity     10,000 pcs       20.00      20.00    20.00         100
Feed Processing Plant       productivity    10,000 tons
Hatchery                     productivity    10,000 pcs      360.00     360.00   360.00         100
Civil Works                 building area       m2        26,000.00   26,000.00 26,740.00       103
4.  Weinan Broiler Farm
Parent Farm                 productivity     10,000 set        2.40       2.40     2.70         113
Commercial Broiler Farm      productivity    10,000 pcs       25.00      25.00        -           0
Feed Processing Plant       productivity    10,000 tons        1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Hatchery                    productivity     10,000 pcs      300.00     300.00   350.00         117
Slaughter                   productivity     10,000 pcs      240.00     240.00   240.00         100
Cooling Storage             storage capacity   tons          200.00     200.00   200.00         100
Civil Works                  building area      m2        21,000.00   21,000.00 21,600.00       103
5.  Sanmenkou Broiler Poultry
Grandparent Broiler Farm     productivity    10,000 set        0.60       0.60      0.60        100
Parent Broiler Farm          productivity    10,000 set        1.60       1.60      1.60        100
Hatchery                     productivity    10,000 pcs      300.00     300.00   360.00         120
Civil Works                  building area      m2        10,500.00   10,500.00 10,500.00       100
6.  Provincial Grandparent Farm  productivity     set/year      3,500.00    3,500.00  6,500.00      186
Hatchery                    productivity     10,000 pcs       70.00      70.00    70.00         100
Civil Works                  building area      m2         4,500.00    4,500.00  4,587.00       102
7.  Xianyang Pig Breeding Farm
Basic Sow in Pigsty          productivity   capita/year      250.00     250.00   350.00         140
Commercial Pig Sold          productivity    capita/year   3,600.00    3,600.00  5,000.00       139
Civil Works                  building area      m2        12,200.00   12,200.00 15,038.00       123
8.  Rabbit Breeding              productivity    capita/year     500.00      500.00   500.00        100
Annual Production            productivity    capita/year   3,500.00    3,500.00  3,500.00       100
Civil Works                  building area      m2         2,080.00    2,080.00  2,080.00       100



- 18 -
Estimated                   % of
Key iimplementation indicators                      Unit    At appraisal  Midterm    Actual  completion
adjustment
E. Seed Processing Plant
Equipment                   productivity     tons/year    20,000.00   20,000.00 20,000.00       100
Civil Works                 buildingarea        m2        29,081.00   29,081.00 31,500.00       108
1.  Yangling Seed Processing Plant  productivity  tons/year     2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00      100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         3,200.00    3,200.00  3,500.00       109
2.  Baoji Seed Processing Plant  productivity    tons/year      2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00      100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         5,965.00    5,965.00  6,400.00       107
3.  Xi'an Seed Processing Plant  productivity    tons/year      2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00      100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         2,967.00    2,967.00  3,140.00       106
4.  Pucheng Seed Processing Plant   productivity  tons/year     2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00      100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         1,701.00    1,701.00  1,870.00       110
5.  Yongshou Seed Base           land area          mu         20,000.00   20,000.00 20,000.00      100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Productivity                productivity     tons/year     2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00       100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         2,341.00    2,341.00  2,950.00       126
6.  Longxian Seed Base           land area          mu         50,000.00   50,000.00 50,000.00       100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Productivity                productivity     tons/year     2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00       100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         5,005.00    5,005.00  5,460.00       109
7.  Heyang Seed Base             land area          mu         20,000.00   20,000.00 20,000.00      100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Productivity                productivity     tons/year     2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00       100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         3,139.00    3,139.00  3,337.00       106
8.  Yaoxian Seed Base           land area           mu         20,000.00   20,000.00 20,000.00      100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Productivity                productivity     tons/year     2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00       100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         1,530.00    1,530.00  1,530.00       100
9.  Luochuan Seed Base           land area          mu         20,000.00   20,000.00 20,000.00      100
Equipment                   set                 set            1.00       1.00      1.00        100
Productivity                productivity     tons/year     2,000.00    2,000.00  2,000.00       100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         2,133.00    2,133.00  2,325.00       109
10. Provincial Seed Inspection Center capacity                  1,000.00    1,000.00  1,000.00      100
Sampling                    no.                 no.
Civil Works                 building area       m2         1,100.00    1,100.00  1,000.00        91
F. Agroproduction Processing Plant
1.  Bee Product Processing Plant    productivity  tons/year      400.00      400.00   400.00        100
Tablet Products              productivity   1 million/year        -       1.00      1.00        100
Injection Products          productivity    10,000/year           -    2,000.00  2,000.00       100
Tincture Products            productivity    liters/year          -   12,000.00 12,000.00       100
Oral Taking Liquid Medicine  productivity   10,000boxes           -      80.00    80.00         100
Medicine, taking after mixing with productivity  10,000bottle     -      50.00    50.00         100
water
Capsule Products            productivity     10,00Opcs            -      42.00    42.00         100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         8,300.00    8,300.00  8,500.00       102
2.  Fruit Processing Plant       productivity    tons/year       400.00      400.00   400.00        100
Civil Works                 building area       m2        20,333.00   20,333.00 21,732.00       107
Cooling Storage             productivity       tons        2,100.00    2,100.00  2,100.00       100
3.  Cow Slaughter                productivity    capita/year    12,000.00   12,000.00 12,000.00     100
Cooling Storage             productivity       tons          120.00     120.00    120.00        100
Civil Works                 building area       m2         5,640.00    5,640.00  5,640.00       100



- 19-
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Key operation indicators in SAR or present report         Unit         SAR         ICR
estimate   estimates
Donglei Irrigation
Incremental cropping intensity (at full development), partially  %        20         32
irrigated and rain-fed area
Incremental irrigated area                             '000 ha        103.24      125.20
New area                                             '000 ha        93.00     113.00
Existing upgrading                                  '000 ha         10.24      12.20
Incremental production, at full developmznt
Grain                                              '000 tons     280.0.00     376.80
Cotton                                              '000 tons        5.00      15.00
Cash crops (vegetables, apples, rapseed, etc)      '000 tons       182,00     515.00
Incremental farm income, at full develop]ment
I household model (grain farmers) 5:5%               yuan          3,400       3,690
2 households model (Cotton farmers) 30%               yuan          4,600      4,730
3 households model (Cashcrop & Orchards) 15%         yuan           7,890      9,300
Dingbian Irrigation
Incremental cropping intensity                            %              0.0        32.4
Incremental irrigated area
For grain                                             ha             667        1007
For alfalfa                                            ha           3140        3140
For apple                                              ha            134         180
For herb                                               ha            267         367
Incremental production
Grain                                                tons           1,881      2,315
Alfalfa                                               kg           19,665     22,176
Incremental farm income, at full developmrnent
I household model (grain and livestock) 85%          yuan          8,090       3,750
2 household model(cashmere,herbs and some grain) 15%  yuan         10,764     10,550
Aquaculture                                                                       (Actual, 1997)
New ponds area                                            ha           2,100       1,500
Production ponds                                       ha           1,680      1,050
Nursery ponds                                          ha            420         450
Production of fish                                       tons          9,600       8,655
Yield per hectare                                        tons           4.57        5.77
Income of farms (average)                                yuan          2,110       4,000



- 20-
Key operation indicators in SAR or present report         Unit        SAR         ICR
estimate   estimates
Livestock                                                                           (Actual)
Layer chickens
Grandparent chickens                                gp.birds        245,        485
Commercial layer                                  million birds      6.0        2.3
Breeding eggs                                       million          0/a        7.3
Broiler chickens
Grandparent chickens                                gp.birds       6,000          0
Parent broiler                                       birds        40,000     26,000
Breeding chickens                                 million birds      6.0         1.2
Breeding eggs                                       million          0/a        2.0
Seed Production and Processing                                                   ICR estimates
Seed farm                                                ha           10,500     10,900
Seed companies                                           no.              9          9
Seed production in 1998                                 tons         22,950    55,000/a
Seed production in 2000                                 tons         22,950   115,000/
b
/a The number of eggs to be produced was estimated as breeding chickens instead of breeding eggs.
/b Additional seed growers are included.



- 21 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study          Purpose as defined at appraisal or  Status         Impact of study
redefined
Foundation  Bearing (a) To identify the foundation's bear-  Started in   The experiment provided the
Capability  of  the    ing capability of the junction.  March and  basis for the foundation design
Junction at Intake of (b) To check the capability of the completed in  of the pump station.
Donglei Pump Station   foundation on earthquake resis-  April 1991
tance.
The Maximum Capa- To verify the sediment delivery capa-   Started in   The experiment proved that 50
city  on   Sediment city of the water flow along the canal.  June 1992   percent of sand will be depos-
Delivery of the Canal  In order to deposit the coarse sand in  and  ited in the sediment pool or
the sediment pounds and transport the completed in  canal. The design is based on
fine sand to the field, the test was to   December  the following: (a) the maxi-
define (a) the maximnum sediment    1994      mum  sediment content in
content in pumped water and (b) the           pumped  water  shall  not
quantity of sand to be deposited in the       exceed 70 kg per m3 of water;
sediment canal.                              (b) the design sediment con-
tent along the canal is defined
as 10-20 kg per m3 of water;
and (c) totally, 4.34 million m3
of sand will be settled along
the canal at an annual water
discharge of 430 million mi3.
Model Test on Releas- (a) To define the releasing capacity of   Started in   The tests provided the basic
ing    Structures   at  the releasing structures, with a   July 1990   data for the design of the
Dangjiachuan     and   scale of 1:20.                      and     structures.
Hancun               (b) To define the diameter and capa- completed in
city of siphon, with a scale of 1:10.  December
(c) To verify the releasing capacity of  1990
Hancun Releasing Gate, with a
scale of 1:20.
To replace the tradi- To reduce the feed cost and increase  Completed  This method had been pro-
tional fish feed with  the benefit.                     in 1993    moted throughout the prov-
yeast                                                             ince. Annually, 400 tons of
fish feed (Y 800,000.00) can
be saved.



- 22 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS IN YUAN
(Yuan million)
Estimated at appraisal        Actual or latest estimate
No.        Project description         Local   Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
I.  Donglei Irrigation                 234.58    172.76   407.34      1,005.06    404.63  1,409.69
II.  Dingbian Water Supply               59.29     43.89   103.17      157.38     108.63    266.01
III. Aquaculture                         76.17     14.57    90.73       54.50      69.43    123.93
IV. Agroprocessing                       12.86     14.78    27.65       14.53      20.20     34.73
V.  Livestock                            71.10     32.33   103.43       68.78      82.11    150.89
VI. Seed Production and Processing        9.88     10.85    20.73       41.61      28.29     69.90
Base Cost                          463.87    289.18   753.05     1,341.86    713.28  2,055.14
Physical contingencies              27.47      16.82    44.29
Price contingencies                 62.05     22.32    84.37
Total Project Cost                 553.40    328.32   881.72     1,341.86     713.28  2,055.14
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS IN US DOLLARS
($ million)
Estimated at appraisal           Actual or latest estimate
No.        Project description          Local     Foreign      Total       Local    Foreign    Total
I.  Donglei Irrigation                    76.53       52.38     128.91      133.26     60.77    194.03
II.  Dingbian Water Supply                19.14       13.17      32.31       22.11     15.08     37.19
[II. Aquaculture                          24.08        5.21      29.29       10.32     12.38     22.70
IV. Agroprocessing                         4.35        4.61       8.97        3.14      3.56      6.70
V.  Livestock                             21.99        9.92      31.91       11.99     14.40     26.38
VI. Seed Production and Processing         2.99        3.15       6.14        7.88      5.13      13.01
Total Project Cost                   149.08       88.45    237.53       188.70    111.32    300.02



- 23 -
TABLE 8C: PROJECT COST INCREASE
(%)
Percentage of cost increase comparing with that at appraisal
At yuan account               At$ account
No.       Project description       Local  Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign    Total
1.   Donglei Irrigation                254       108      195         74       16        51
II.  DingbianWaterSupply                121      122      122         15       15        15
III.  Aquaculture                       -39      259       14        -57      138       -22
IV.  Agroprocessing                     -10       18       4         -28      -23       -25
V.  Livestock                           -16      123      27         -45       45       -17
VI.  Seed Production and Processing     275      142     207         164       63       112
Total project cost                142       117     133          27       26        26
TABLE 81D: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Estimated at appraisal      Actual or latest estimate
Project Description                  Local   Foreign   Total     Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                                    17.6      88.4  106.0        56.7     54.7    111.3
Central government                     18.0         -   18.0        15.9         -     15.9
Provincial government                  46.5         -   46.5       121.9         -    121.9
County, enterprises, etc.              61.7         -   61.7        32.5         -     32.5
Agriculture Bank of China               5.3         -    5.3        18.3         -     18.3
Total                         149.1      88.4  237.5       245.4      54.7    300.0



- 24 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Y million)
Appraisal estimate          Actual estimate
Entity                                  FIRR/a   NPV/b  EIRRIc   FIRR/a  NPV/b  EIRR/c
Livestock                               15.6               26.8     13.2              16.7
Sanmenkou GPS                        17.0       3.2    26.0      18.0    3.4    23.0
Broiler Chicken Farm                 17.0       9.1    22.0      15.0     4.4     18.0
ParentLayerFarm             ]        15.0      56.3    27.0      16.0    7.1      21.0
Commercial Layer Farm       ]                                     8.0   -7.6      10.0
Xiniyang Breed Pig Farm              19.0       5.7    33.0      16.0    3.1      21.0
Rabbit Farmn                         15.0       0.7    24.0       6.0   -0.3       7.0
Agroprocessing                                                      20.5             24.5
Fruitprocessingplant                 23.0      15.3    30.0      21.0   26.0    25.0
Honey product plant                  20.0       6.6    28.0      20.0   33.3    24.0
Meat processing plant                 9.0       4.8    21.0       0.0     0.0      0.0
Aquaculture                             20.0      83.9    32.0      25.3             29.1
Lined ponds (6,000 mu at appraisal,  18.0       9.3    22.0      26.0    14.8    35.0
increased to 6,920 mu)
Unlined ponds (26,000 mu at appraisal,   28.0  64.3    34.0      24.0   24.0    33.0
increased to 15,580 mu)
Feed mills                           28.0       7.5   49.0       29.0     1.1    40.0
Hatchery (125 mu)                    20.0       1.3   23.0       28.0    0.1      18.7
Hatchery (50 mu)                     15.0       0.1    23.0      19.5     0.6     18.6
Seed Production and Processing          16.0        6.1/d  54.0      17.0    13.3/d   22.0
Irrigation and Water Supply                                19.3                      19.5
Donglei Irrigation                                     20.0                       23.0
Dingbian Water Supply                                  13.0                       14.2
Overall EIRR                                               23.9                      20.0
/a FIRR = Financial internal rate of return.
/b NPV = Net present value discounted at 12 percent
/c EIRR = Economic internal rate of return.
/d The NPV doubles due doubling of net cash flow due to doubling of output prices and costs.



- 25 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment   fulfillment
Agreement    Section        type     status      date        date         Description of covenant      Comments
Project     2.05             05         C                              PMO to maintain sufficient    Complied with
-numbers of staff with         previously
qualifications satisfactory to
IDA. PMO is to be headed by
Leading Deputy Director from
the Water Conservancy Bureau
who is responsible for day-to-day
management of project activities.
3.02 (a)         02         C     01/01,11997             Water charges to be set and   They are in the
adjusted as necessary to cover   process of setting
full operations and maintenance the water charges
(O&M) and part of capital
costs, for schemes assisted
under the project.
3.02 (b)         02         C     12/31/1991    01/30/94   Water charge action plan to be   Complied with
fumished to IDA.
Schedule 2,      06         C                             Project activities to comply  Complied with for
Para.1 (a)                                                with environmental control    all aspects of the
standards acceptable to IDA.    projects
Schedule 2,      06         C     12/01/1993              Establish and maintain system    Complied with
Para.l (b)                                                to monitor effluents for project  essentially
agroprocessing activities.
Schedule 2,      06     Soon      12/0111993              Monitor water quality on canals Will be monitored
Para.1 (c)                                                and pipes of Donglei and      after canal flows
Dingbian, and fumish report to  are established
IDA by specified date.
Schedule 2,      13         C                             Ensure that adequate fertilizer is Complied with
Para.2 (a)                                                available to project farmers, and from the start of
provide to IDA an annual     the project
program for fertilizers by
December I of each year.
Schedule 2,      11         C                             Provide to IDA an annual      Complied with
Para.2 (b)                                                program for fertilizer supply by
December I of each year.
Schedule2,       10         C     12/01/1991              Ensure that poultry development Complied with
Para.3 (a)                                                program under the project is   after some
completed.                    adjustment based
on the market
situation
Schedule 2,      11        CD      12/01/1991             Consult with IDA about Phases   Complied with
Para.3 (b)                                                11 and III of poultry development after delay
program.
Covenant Class:                                                                  Status:
I= Accounts/audits                  8 = Indigenous people                       C   = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting      CD  = Complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not              CP  = Complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9
funds                          11 = Sectoral cr cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                  budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the            allocation
project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 =Other



- 26 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Group Operational
Manual Statement [Operational Directive (OD)].
TABLE 12: BANK GROUP RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                  Planned                       Revised                       Actual
project cycle           Weeks       $'000            Weeks        $'000           Weeks        $'000
Preparation to appraisal         n.a.        n.a.             n.a.         n.a.          106.475      187.869
Appraisal                        n.a.        n.a.             n.a.         n.a.          61.975       120.228
Negotiations to Board            n.a.        n.a.             n.a.         n.a.            7.3         15.898
Supervision                      n.a.        n.a.             50.5       173.990         162.275      430.242
Completion                       n.a.        n.a.             n.a.         n.a.            7.0          40.4
Total                n.a.        n.a.             50.5       173.990         345.025      794.637
n.a. = Not available.
TABLE 13: BANK GROUP RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of    Month/   Number   Days            Specialized            Performance rating           Types of
project cycle   year   of persons  in field  staff skills represented/a   Impl. status/b   Dev. objectives    problems/c
Identification   09/87       2         7           FTM, FA
Preparation      11/87       6        21    FTM, AE, AS, APS, PS
Appraisal        06/88       6        28    FTM, AE, AS, APS, PS
Supervision 1    10/89       2        12           FTM, LS                I              I               -
Supervision 2    04/90       3        15        FTM, PS, PMS              3              1               -
Supervision 3    10/90       4        15       FTM, LS, PS, AS            2              1               -
Supervision4     11/91       4        12           FTM,AE                 2              1               -
Supervision 5    04/92       4        11       FTM, IE, EO, PS           4               2
Supervision 6    10/92       6        24    TM, CE, AE, IE, PS, AS        2              2
Supervision 7    04/93       4        10        TM, CE, IE, AS           2               2.
Supervision8     11/93       2        10           TM,CE                 2               2
Supervision 9    04/94       3         9           TM, AS                 I              2
Supervision 10    05/95      3         7         TM, CE, AS              S               S
Supervision 11    01/96      5        10      TM, APS, IE, CE, LS         S              S               -
Supervision 12   09/96       3         6         TM, APS, CE             U               U               -
Supervision 13    03/97      2         7           TM, CE                HU              U               -
Completion       11/97       5        11      TM, EO, IE, PS, FA         U               U               -
/a   TM: Task Manager; FTM: Former Task Manager; LS: Livestock Specialist; PMS: Project Monitoring Specialist; AS:
Aquaculture Specialist; IE: Irrigation Engineer; AE: Agricultural Economist; EO: Economist; CE: Construction Engineer; APS:
Agroprocessing Specialist; ID: Institutional Development; PS: Procurement Specialist; FA: Financial Analyst.
lb  1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; HU: Highly unsatisfactory.
/c   Typical problems included: implementation delays and shortage of counterpart funds.



- 27-                          ANNEX A
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A mission consisting of Daniel Gunaratnam (Mission Leader), Jiang Ping
(Irrigation/Institutional Specialist), Hu Shunong (Procurement/Cost Engineer), Zhang
Chaohua (Socioeconomist/Resettlement Specialist), and Wang Xiaolan (Financial
Analyst) visited Xian (Shaanxi Province) and Dali, Heyang, Pucheng, Fupeng, and
Dingbian Project County areas November 6-18, 1997. The mission's main focus was to
review the completion of the above caption project. The mission would like to thank all
the concerned officials of the Shaanxi Government, Project Management Office, and
county officials for the courtesies offered to the mission during its stay in Shaanxi. The
mission's findings and recommendations are indicated below.
Status of Implementation, Project Changes, and Quality of Works
2.    Almost all the smaller components, such as the Aquaculture, Agroprocessing,
Livestock, and Seed Production and Processing, have been completed. However, Donglei
Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply Components have not been completed. Processing
of future operations to this province under the Rural Development and Natural Resources
Sector Unit of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (EASRD) of the World Bank
will be linked to the successful completion of this project.
3.    Donglei Irrigation Component. Thirty-six out of the 37 pumping stations have
been completed. The Beigan and Xiazhai stations are almost completed but the high head
pump casings are cracked and the impellers are chipped. The 20 high head pumps for the
two stations will have to be completely replaced as soon as possible even if the present
pumps perform for the time being. The performance bond of China Machinery
Corporation will have to be forfeited since they do not seem to act responsibly after
obtaining the contract.
4.    There are 444 km main and branch canals (73 percent) out of the 597 km of
canals completed. The entire canal systems should be completed before 1998. The
canals that need greatest attention are the South Canal (15.8 km) and the branch
canals (402 km, of which 265 km have been constructed).
5.    The Donglei Irrigation area is now composed of the following areas:
New Irrigation Area 11,065,000 inu (71,000 ha)]
(a)   Sunzhen           205,000 mu   (120,000 mu completed)
(b)   Pucheng           163,000 mu   (80,000 mu completed)
(c)   Xingzhen          181,800 mu   (none completed)
(d)   Luiqui            240,000 mu   (80,000 mu completed)
(e)   Duanjiayuan       55,000 mu    (40,000 mu completed)



- 28 -                         ANNEX A
(f)   Beigan Gravity    144,000 mu   (none completed)
(g)   Well Irrigation   200,000 mu   (none completed)
Total (new)       1,065,000 mu
Existing Irrigation Area (780,000 mu (53,000 ha))
(a)   Luodong           200,000 mu   (all works completed)
(b)   Luoxi             200,000 mu   (all works completed)
(c)   Jiaokou           380,000 mu   (all works completed)
Total (existing)  780,000 mu
6.    The on-farm works have been completed for 320,000 mu (30 percent). There
is an immediate need to complete all 1,065,000 mu of on-farm works. The PMO and
county governrnents have assured the mission that they will mobilize the farmers to
complete all the on-farm works by March 15, 1999.
7.    Funding for the Donglei Irrigation Component is about Y 300 million, which has
been allocated for FY 1998 to ensure that all works are completed. The Shaanxi
Government has reaffirmed that it is committed to completing all the works by FY
1998, and initial operation of 50 percent of the area will have to start by June 1998
for summer irrigation.
8.    Dingbian Water Supply. This component is also incomplete, although the
quality of works to date is satisfactory. Up until August 1997, 63,000 underground water
storage tanks had been constructed with a total storage capacity of 1.02 million m3.
Although the main pumping works and the main supply line have been completed, the 9
branch water supply lines, branch and lateral irrigation canals (67.5 km) for 69,000 mu
irrigated area and the clear water storage of an addition 80,000 m3 for drink water supply
are still incomplete. The mission strongly feels that the water storage tanks cannot be
delayed, since they are crucial for the operation of the water system for winter. The water
treatment plant for Dingbian town has been completed, but it needs to be commissioned.
9.    The following funds need to be allocated for construction of the works mentioned
above:
(a)   Water supply network 9 branch pipelines    Y 11 million
(b)   Irrigation pipes and canals                Y 5 million
(c)   Water Storage tanks 2 x 40,000 rn3   Y 31 million
Total allocation to complete the works is about Y 47 million, which is in the 1998 budget.
10.   The planning for agriculture and livestock development was not clear. With the
separation of the Animal Husbandry Bureau from the Agriculture Bureau, the Agriculture
Bureau has developed a cropping pattern that substantially reduces the alfalfa areas.
However, with the large animal population, a significant development area for alfalfa is
needed. Presently the cropped area is about 4,700 ha, mainly under grain crops (i.e.,
wheat 1,380 ha, millet 1,843). There is no area where alfalfa is grown presently. The plan



- 29 -                         ANNEX A
during the appraisal was for 667 ha maize; 268 ha under vegetables and melon; 3,140 ha
for alfalfa, 134 ha for apples; and 267 ha for medicinal herbs. This plan should be
maintained, since there is a large animal population, which needs fodder. For the other
areas, high-value crops (vegetables, melons, and medicinal plants) should be grown. The
PMO reaffirmed that it will essentially keep the cropping patterns as appraised.
11.   Aquaculture. The mission had discussions with the project officers in the
province and visited the fishery ponds. The mission wants to congratulate the project
officers on the job well done in their key role in managing 57 project farms. In the past
years, this subproject has made consistent progress in increasing production and
implementing the recommendations from the Bank Group's supervision missions.
12.   Some investment adjustments were made in October 1990 for the following
reasons: (a) The project area was reduced, since the Government had to allocate the land
to the 30,000 resettlers moving back from Sanmenxia reservoir. (b) With the rapidly
increased input price such as the agriculture raw material and the fingerlings, the
government wanted to be more conservative about the project scale. (c) The slow bidding
process for the construction delayed the progress of this project. As a result, the total
investment for this subproject was reduced from Y 108,738,000 to Y 96,190,000 while
the World Bank's loan still remained at $12,630,000.
13.   The project provides equipment for pond management, strengthens the support
facilities for production and marketing of fish, and serves as a model for the
establishment of commercial fish farms in other parts of the province.
14.   All procurement and civil works were completed by December 31, 1996. This
subproject has built up 45 fish farms, 1,500 ha of fishery ponds 2 provincial-level
hatcheries, 2 feed mills with a production capacity of 3,000 tons/year, 3 technical training
centers, and 7 market centers.
15.   Up to the end of 1996, the total investment for this subproject was Y 119,170,000,
which is 124 percent of the adjusted investment amount of 1990. The main reason for the
cost overruns is increases in the market prices of the construction materials used by the
government since 1990s. All the planned aquaculture facilities have been put into
operation. The total amount of commercial fish produced in the project area is 8,655 tons,
which is 11 percent higher than the projected output. The overall output value from this
subproject is Y 81.0 million, which is 29.3 percent of the total output of the province. The
aggregate profit since operations has reached Y 59.1 million.
16.   The government has performed well in terms of implementation of some
preferential policies and providing management and technical training to the staff
involved in this subproject. The Shaanxi Provincial Government put forth a decision to
postpone levying the Special Production Tax on the fish farmers in the project area to
motivate the farmers. The provincial project office has organized and published several
documents, including the "Construction Management Method" and "Fish Farm
Management Measurement." to help the fish farms standardize their management and



- 30-                          ANNEX A
operations. Fifteen staff selected from the project offices have been sent to Thailand to
study fishery operation management and technology advancement. The Project
Management Office has conducted 12 training sessions for the farm managers and
technical staff, and more than 500 staff have been received the related training. The
Provincial Project Office also conducted the market forecast, and the result shows that the
dernand for the fishery market toward the year 2000 will be 100,000-200,000 tons.
17.   This subproject has provided more than 6,000 job opportunities, 40 percent for
women. As a result, the average income for each farmer in the project area has reached
Y 4,000 per capita per year, compared with the average income in most aquaculture farms
of less than Y 2,000 per capita per year.
18.   During the discussion, the mission agreed with the PMO that the lack of timely
working capital is one of the major constraints to this subproject. The PMO
recommended that the working capital be included in the cost of the overall planning
process. The mission also agreed with the PMO that it would be much more beneficial,
for the sake of continuity, to keep the key on-site chief of the 57 farms on staff to achieve
the smooth implementation of the project.
Seed Production and Processing Component
19.   The component started implementation in 1990 and was completed by the end of
1993, two years later than scheduled in the appraisal. The project completed 4 seed
processing plants, set up 5 seed production bases with seed processing workshops, and 1
provincial seed inspection center. The ten seed companies completed 47,143 m2 of
buildings, 108 percent of the appraised target. Equipment and materials were procured as
appraised, including nine sets of seed testing and processing equipment, and fertilizer and
pesticides. The seed growing area was expanded to 10,900 ha under the ten seed
companies. The actual processing capacity of all seed companies has exceeded the design
standards of 20,000 tons per seed company. The completed investment is Y 33.16
million, about 145 percent of the appraised Y 22.83 million.
20.   The ten seed companies have all exceeded the designed production capacity. The
ten seed companies were put into operation in 1994. Seed-growing area was expanded to
157,000 mu (10,900 ha) including 30,000 mu for wheat seed, 1]20,000 mu for corn seeds
and 7,000 mu for vegetable seeds. Due to a heavy drought in 1994, the average annual
seed production per seed company was 9,000 tons, reaching only 45 percent of the
designed capacity. The year 1995 saw an increase in seed processing to 15,000 tons,
reaching 75 percent of the designed capacity and all companies have now reached or
exceeded the designed production capacity of 20,000 tons per seed company.
21.   The completed Seed Production and Processing Component has served as a
demonstration in seed multiplication and has promoted seed production in Shaanxi
Province. Shaanxi Province has developed seed multiplication and supply program to
proimote the use of high yielding seeds. It is expected that the wheat area to be covered
under this program would reach 50 percent within the project area in 1998 and 80 percent



- 31-                          ANNEX A
in 2000, when the seed supply demand reaches 90,000 tons and 144,000 tons,
respectively. The coating rate would be over 90 percent of the supplied seeds.
Livestock Development
22.   The mission had discussions with the provincial project officer and visited
Grandparent Stock (GPS) Farm and Sanmnenkou PS Chicken Farm. Overall, most of the
components under this subproject are performing well with full capacity operation in
1997. Especially with the advanced imported equipment and scientific design technology,
these farms have become the model for the livestock industry in the province. There are
eight subcomponents under this subproject. Construction of the Xianyang Pig Farm and
Chunhua Rabbit Farm was finished in December of 1993, and operations began in 1994.
Construction of GPS Farm; Xianyang, Heyang and Baoji Layer Farms; and Sanmenkou
and Weinan Broiler Farms were completed in December 1994 and operations began in
1995.
23.   The GPS Farm has been operating very successfully and, compared with that of
the average farm in Shaanxi Province, its mortality rate is 2 percent lower, while its
hatching rate is 6 percent higher. In 1997, it provided 438,000 pairs of parent layer
chickens, 360,000 layer egg chickens, and 18.1 tons of commercial eggs. The total sales
revenue was Y 5.863 million, and the net profit was Y 1,699 million for 1997. The chief
of this farm is very enterprising and has set up a series of management rules to be
implemented strictly. This GPS Farm has been adopting a very aggressive market
strategy since early 1996, and 40 percent of its sales are outside the province.
24.   The parent layer stock farm, including Xianyang, Heyang and Baoji Farms, are
performing well. The three farms produced 60,000 pairs of parent stock (PS) eggs this
year. Compared with that of the average market in the province, its mortality rate is 4
percent lower and the hatching rate is 8 percent higher. They sold 2.31 million breed
chickens, 7.28 million breed eggs, and 178 tons commercial eggs in 1997. The total sales
revenue was $4.75 million, and the net profit was Y 2.919 million. Fifty percent of its
product are sold to Xinjiang, Yunnan, and Hainan provinces, and its products have gained
quite a good reputation.
25.   Sanmenkou Broiler Farm was designed to have two subcomponents: 6,000 pairs
of GPS and 16,000 pairs of PS broiler chickens. Due to the lack of necessary technical
staff and the limited market of GPS in Shaanxi Province, Sanmenkou Farm decided to
support 26,000 pairs of PS broiler chickens. In 1997, it sold 1.12 million chickens, 2
million breeding eggs, and 53.9 tons of commercial eggs. Its total sales revenue was
Y 1.12 million and net profit was Y 99,00).
26.   The physical construction of Xianyang Pig Farm was completed at 1993. Two
thousand seven hundred and fifty breeding pigs and 2,890 fattening pigs were sold in
1997. The total sales revenue was Y 4.628 million, and the net profit was Y 1.01 million.
The Xianyang Pig Farm is a model breeding farm that uses advanced breeding
techniques, and its breeding pigs are in great demand.



- 32 -                          ANNEX A
27.   The mission was informed that various steps are being taken to liberalize the
ownership of these enterprises in order to meet the requirements of the market. The
mission suggested that the PMO organize more training courses for the managers
anid finance staff of these enterprises to enforce their operational and financial
management skills. The Mission was also assured that the Shaanxi Government
would take specific measures to guarantee the enterprises lines of credit to improve
their cash flow.
Agroprocessing Component
28.   There are three agroprocessing plants under this subproject. Both the Fruit
Processing Plant and the Bee Products Plant have been operating well. The physical
construction of the Pucheng Slaughterhouse was completed in December 1994. Because
of the lack of working capital, this plant has been shut since March 1995, although it tried
to reopen for a couple of months shortly thereafter.
29.   The Fruit Processing Plant has plenty of supply of apples, since apple production
in Shaanxi has been plentiful, despite the increasing local demand for fresh apples.
Meanwhile, the equipment purchased through ICB provides comparative advantages over
local plants. Up to the end of 1996, the accumulated profit from the cold storage was
Y 4.2 million. In 1996, the juice processing line produced 2,200 tons of juice. Sales
revenues reached Y 27 million and yielded a net profit of Y 7 million. The projected
production capacity for 1997 is 2,500 tons, and the sales revenues will be more than Y 28
million.
30.   This plant has been actively exploring joint venture opportunities and has
benefited from the close cooperation with the Hongkong Oriental Pacific Corporation.
Currently, plant is negotiating with Xi'an Haixing Group, the largest soft drink producer
in Shaanxi Province, to form a joint venture. It is predicted that with this joint venture,
the sales market will be dramatically increased for the Fruit Processing Plant.
31.   This plant is the first kind in Shaanxi Province, and it sets a good example for
other enterprises to follow. Since its operation, this plant has directly created an economic
benefit for the fruit farm of Y 150 million and for retail farmers Y 5 million. As a result,
the farmers have been motivated to plant better varieties of apples and increase their
income.
32.   The Bee Products Plant started operations in March of 1993. Up to now, the six
processing lines have met the design requirement, and some of its products have been
rewarded by the national level. In 1996, its sales revenue reached more than Y 10 million
and gained a net profit of more than Y 1.9 million. Currently, this plant is trying to solve
the problem of shortages of working capital by reducing its stored inventory, adjusting its
market strategy, and negotiating with two firms to inject more investment.
33.   The Pucheng Slaughterhouse ceased operation in March of 1995 because of the
lack of working capital. The mission has expressed its deep concern to the government.



- 33 -                           ANNEX A
The vice governor in charge of agriculture assured the IDA mission that the government
would look into this issue seriously and assured that adequate working capital would be
made available to resume the operation of the plant.
Project Costs and Comparison with SA]R Costs
34.   Costs. As a result of more than four years' delay of the project, the total project
costs went up to $300 million-$62.5 million or 26 percent higher than what was
estimated at appraisal (Table 1). The costs of some individual components even dropped
by 17 percent because the components were completed during the first two or three years
and the costs were shifted, agreed by the Bank Group at interim adjustment, from local to
foreign. Such increases in project costs were mainly caused by the following:
(a)   significant delays in the project due to the shortage and late allocation of
local counterpart funds, slow construction progress of major structures, as
the design changed, and slow procurement process of materials and
equipment; and
(b)   the project extended across a period of very high inflation, during which
inflation climbed to over 23 percent in 1993 and 1994, which made things
even worse.
TABLE 1: P?ROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal estimates        Actual costs
No.       Project component     Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total
I.  Donglei Irrigation            76.53    52.38 128.91    133.26   60.77  194.03
II.  Dingbian Water Supply        19.14    13.17 32.31    22.11   15.08   37.19
III. Aquaculture                  24.08     5.21 29.29     10.32   12.38   22.70
IV. Agroprocessing                 4.35     4.61  8.97     3.14    3.56    6.70
V.  Livestock                     21.99     9.92 31.91     11.99   14.40   26.38
VI. Seed Production and Processing    2.99  3.15  6.14      7.88    5.13   13.01
Total                       149.1)8   88.45 237.53    188.70  111.32  300.02
35.   Shifting the project costs forward to the later years resulted in an increase of about
Y 600 million (or $74 million in equivalent) in local currency and about $9.20 million in
foreign currency requirements, compared with revised estimated costs using (a) the
original estimated base cost at the appraisal, (b) 12.5 percent physical contingencies for
the Donglei Irrigation Component and 10 percent physical contingencies for other project
components, and (c) actual inflation rates during the project years.



- 34 -                         ANNEX A
36.   The actual costs for study tours, training, and consultants took only about 12
percent of those estimated at appraisal, while that for researches took about 45 percent,
since such components were not fully implemented. As happened in other small projects,
the implementation agency tended to expend more on the hardware rather than on the
software.
Procurement and Disbursements
37.  In spite of the delay of the overall project, the procurements of civil works and
equipment have been acceptable, except for the procurement of big pumps for Pump
Station Nos. 2 and 3 of Donglei Irrigation Scheme. The Bank Group Procurement
Guidelines were basically followed. The preparation of ICB bidding documents, bid
invitations, evaluation, and contract awarding were carried out, in cooperation with the
PMO, by International Tendering Company of China National Technology Import &
Export Corporation (ITC). Pump and motor units, processing plants, construction
equipment, and materials, under 67 contracts and with the value of about $56.0 million,
were procured through ICB procedures, while all civil works, such as pump stations,
water treatment plant, and tunnels, concrete pipes, and main structures along the canal,
were procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and the rest
through other procedures.
38.   Nevertheless, the procurement of big pumps for Pump Stations 2 and 3 should be
a good lesson. At the beginning, the Bank Group insisted on procuring the pumps through
ICB, since the local manufacturers lacked the expertise to fabricate such a big pump. The
government finally agreed to procure the pumps through ICB, but during the bid
evaluation, the implementation agent insisted on awarding the contract to a local trading
company that is the agent of Changsha Industrial Pump Works. In fact, Changsha
Industrial Pump Works is not a qualified manufacturer for pumps of such size, and it
sublets the works to other manufactures in different components: the motors to Shenyang
Dongfang Motor Works, the impellers to Shijiazhuang Machinery Works, and the casings
to a small factory in Changsha. Such subletting caused serious reductions in payment
made to the real suppliers, as did the lack of communication between the real buyer and
seller. Finally, when the pumps were delivered to the site, it was found that all the pumps
were in very poor condition and could not be operated. Two out of 24 pumps were
installed in Pump Station 2 and were found leaking seriously during the test run. These
impellers and pumps are being replaced and repaired.
39.   Through the discussions with PMO, it was found that the issues related to the
procurement were: (a) the PMO was somehow forced or misled to procure local goods
through trading companies that increased the costs by 5-8 percent; (b) for local suppliers,
the contracts were signed between the ITC and the local trading company, which acted as
the agent of the real supplier, and for such a contract the PMO was unable to retain the
performance bond from the suppliers when the goods failed to meet the technical
specifications; and (c) bidding documents were poorly prepared and did not meet



-35 -                          ANNEX A
international standards, as some of contracts did not have clear delivery, price, and
payment terms.
40.   Therefore, for the future NCB procurement, it is suggested that the project
implementation agencies be authorized, to procure the works and goods directly.
Furthermore, the local administrative organizations should not interfere with the
procedures of the procurement. For example, the design and procurement of Luohe Flume
were seriously delayed because of such interference.
41.   Quality. Basically, the quality of the civil works and goods procured umder the
project is acceptable, except for the quality of the pumps for second and third stage pump
stations. The mission visited the Donglei Irrigation and Dingbian Water Supply schemes.
In general, the civil works are up to standards, except that the concrete quality of some
main structures should be improved.
Disbursements
42.   Disbursements were very slow in the first few years because of the slow
implementation. The disbursement lag was about 80 percent. The disbursement lag was
reduced 27 percent by the forth year. The SAR forecast that the entire loan was to be
disbursed by 1994, five years from the start of the project; these forecasts were very
optimistic. About 80 percent of the loan was disbursed within five years and 98.5 percent
by the sixth year. Overall credit disbursement performance was not too bad.
Project Charges and Financial Arrangements for O&M
43.   The PMO had issued a documenl. in 1994 proposing an organizational structure
for operations and maintenance, a water distribution plan with rotation for low water
conditions, a water dispatch system, and. a proposal for water tariff and fee collection
systems. The organizational structure at the on-farm level would essentially be organized
as a corporation of farmers who would buy water from the main system irrigation
corporation. The farmers would take over not only the on-farm works, but the subbranch
as well. The 1994 proposal for on-farm water management has been superseded by new
developments, and the PMO informed the Bank Group Mission that there were several
options in managing the on-farm works. The most promising model of on-farm works
organization is to sell the assets of the on-farm works and subbranches to farmer groups
and for them to sign a concession-type contract with the Donglei Irrigation Corporation.
The PMO has already undertaken financial forecasts to determine water charges needed
to repay the Bank Group Credit, and pay for power costs, all minor and major repairs, and
depreciation. The PMO has assured the Mission that these charges will be discussed
with counties, townships, and villages to obtain agreement with all parties
concerned.



- 36 -                               ANNEX A
TABLE 2: INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC CASHFLOW, SAR VERSUS ESTIMATED
FOR DONGLEI
(%)
SAR Estimate /a                         ICR Estimate /b
Year       Incremental Incremental    Net         Incremental  Incremental  Net Cashflow
Cost     Benefits   Cashflow          Cost        Benefits
1988          22.4        0.0      -22.4           22.4                      -22.4
1989         260.0        0.0    -260.0             35.0                     -35.0
1990         192.6        0.0     -192.6           102.0                    -102.0
1991         181.0        0.0     -181.0           100.0                    -100.0
1992         144.7        0.0    -144.7            191.0                    -191.0
1993          77.4        0.0      -77.4           186.0                    -186.0
1994          68.7       88.3       19.6           110.0                    -110.0
1995          75.8      178.8      103.0           141.0                    -141.0
1996          84.6      240.7      156.1           108.0                    -108.0
1997          43.8      321.9      278.1           315.0         10.0       -305.0
1998          77.0      413.0      336.0            75.0       -200.0       -275.0
1999          77.0      397.1      320.1            90.0        500.0        410.0
2000          77.0      445.9      368.9            90.0        743.0        653.0
2001          77.0      494.6      417.6            90.0        850.0        760.0
2002          77.0      511.2      434.2            90.0       1252.0       1162.0
2003          77.0      537.2      460.2           110.0       1355.0       1245.0
2004          77.0      583.5      506.5           110.0       1435.0       1325.0
2005          77.0      582.6      505.6           125.0       1492.0        1367.0
2006          77.0      582.6      505.6           125.0       1492.0       1367.0
2007          77.0      582.6      505.6           125.0       1492.0       1367.0
2008          77.0      582.6      505.6           125.0       1492.0       1367.0
2009          77.0      582.6      505.6           125.0       1492.0       1367.0
2010          77.0      582.6      505.6           125.0       1492.0       1367.0
2011          77.0      582.6      505.6           125.0       1492.0       1367.0
2012          77.0      582.6      505.6           125.0       1492.0       1367.0
NPV /c       875.86    1,414.12    538.26          858.29     5,980.16      1,298.22
ERR (%) /d                          18                                        23
Notes
Incremental Benefits/e
SAR Estimates ICR Estimate
Field Crops                 57%           30%
Cash crops and orchards     42%           65%
Animal husbandry             1%            5%
/a Cost and benefits have been adjusted for devaluation of the Yuan from $ 1 =Y 3.71 to $ 1 =Y 8.30.
/b Costs and benefits are valued at end- 1997 yuan.
/c NPV is discounted at 12 percent.
/d SAR estimate is 19 percent compared to 18 percent after devaluation adjustments are made.
/e ICR estimates are based on actual cropping observed in irrigated areas in the project areas.



- 37-                                ANNEX A
TABLE 3: FINANCIAL DATA OF LIVESTOCK AND AGROPROCESSING ENTERPRISES
(1 994/95 - 1997)
(Y'OOO)
1994          1995           1996          1997
Broiler Farms
Revenues                                               567.6          843.2          854.0
Operating Costs Plus Tax                               371.8          460.1          469.2
Net Revenues after tax                                  195.8         383.1          384.8
Pig Farm
Revenues                                 125.7          175.7         267.0          462.8
Operating Costs+tax                      104.1          166.3         163.9          217.7
NetRevenuesaftertax                       21.6            9.4         103.1          245.1
Commercial Layers
Revenues                                              4,010.4        5,491.2       7,021.5
Operating Costs plus Tax                              3,503.0       4,693.6        5,963.0
Net revenues after tax                                  507.4         797.6        1,058.5
Parent Layer
Revenues                                              1,163.4        1,327.4       1,470.5
Operating Costs Plus Tax                               779.1          916.6          963.0
Net revenues after tax                                 384.3          410.8          507.5
Fruit Juice Plant
Revenues                                              2,356.6       2,744.6        2,744.6
Operating Costs Plus Tax                              1,445.0        1,659.4       1,570.8
Net Revenues after tax                                  911.6        1,085.2       1,173.8
Grandparent Stock (Layer)
Revenues                                               233.5          374.6          586.3
Operating Costs Plus Tax                                173.9         258.1          334.2
Net Revenues after tax                                   59.6         116.5          252.1
Honey Processing
Revenues                                                448.4        1,041.8       1,982.0
Operating Costs Plus Tax                                304.5         601.6        1,118.5
Net Revenues after tax                                  143.9         440.2          863.5
Layer Parent Farm
Revenues                                              1,163.4        1,327.4       1,470.5
Operating Costs Plus Tax                               794.5          916.6          963.0
Net Revenues after tax                                  368.9         410.8          507.5
Notes: (1) Revenue is function of sale volume x price.
(2) Operating costs include raw materials cost, wages, electricity, management costs, maintenance/
some replacement costs, packaging, and other indirect cost.
(3) Loan repayments for all local and foreign are not included. If these repayments are included
they will need working capital.



MAP SECTION



BSW                         *oS                                                                        S r *or                                                                   sir
C H I N A
SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENT LOCATIONS                                                                                                                  (
Propoed Projets.:                                       -                                             Ti.ers  T  Ba                                     I
lAq-ture Components                                       Ri-er BaDn Boundries-
Doglei 11 (126-5   IO' mu)                               Notionci Roads
Dingbi.. Woter Supply Area                               Seonedry Roadsl
F met.   o  Pu-j piny I4nigehRn (Phose Illj          4-     - Adrpoa                                0                                        -a
;lLong-e R..,.vi, (Ph-s IV)                                    Pref-ct...  Bonoe .. d l.hmu 
Yinlou Nigh C...I (Ph- V)                                 P--Shonai Boundary
P    ojt C-pleted ie 1987_                                  Inern-ti-al Boundaries 
D-gi 1 (97.5 a 10sn
GP -d P Lyer aod Broiler Fan-a
A          ronge-sig, Pig and Robbit Breeding
seeedFms -nd Censtrs
37-
no.                                                                                                                                                           K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.yi~.
ne )             -0.                   S H A N X I
N I N G X I A >6   
k                             -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S H A ANBEI     -
.)                               -)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~(NORTHERN REION)                           
3s-  )                      ),                                         \~~~~~~ YANioAN                         o                                                        3s
(   v      - .                 j                 f     \      FU XiH ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|T. |
ot                          , 20    00, 75   tOO                0       G
G A N 5 Si 
o 4-                1    LOMETECEeS                                                   R           N)
50B                tar               S'W,                         _2, Sl,   ,,,                                .H  E N  A  N
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HN SW CH 
A A-t-* tR A N
n   o  Ts  so 7s 100 _S_ t THEWPEql7
:x1                                                                                   _Sr             i   _ u4;,  j          "       _             _     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Ti   aOs                       07                         1|0s                       1Ts                           1l      =NKAN6



IBRDt 21112
/   NEI MONGOL                                                                          C H I N A
K                  7)) a' JSHAANXI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NINGXA                 7    ->                                                      DONGLEI 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
. 4   )-<~/-_/                                   Proposed Proic-t.                         Existing                                                                                                /   /
Do-glei 11 New Irriga.n. Area            Existing lrrigatior Areas               Bu t Up Areas                 i i                             .//
-'           YAe'Ar                             a!-a- Mn _d  Canals                            Eisting rigatian Areos              -l Rivr                  i.                             Dossgia 
,SHANXI-- s .9           klPumping St                              l             tLins                  S--- Xian (CminiegriryD Bkandaries -   -                 i-  g   Ds |
0   P-Pmg *u.fi-                                                                - J>5 />;8lsenSination  - - - Preere RoC-d-rias  / Bi u-i
ka \s-                                                      A   Flames p                                 Rands                                   Fran n    aarsi
GANSU     <)       #                       p-  HENAN                                                           i   Pampieg Stations                         Ta Panaena .HA      i iiG iii-
/t A O                   S ta n 0, .-( ~                                                                                                       ~   /> /i   n   4   4 < i L > i z   ~    -  w   u G   . ............................  /  *
inset              <       A:                                                -                                       I   t CH N6CHFNG.8-ACti;i i si .... is  6piDiX,|/ CHEN%CHENG >
0 SICHU~~~~AN .s-rg2r                                                                                                         a-                                    Doo>{> -tgli   jX                     j,;.  i  ,iiii,,,,,,, , i,j   /) 
I   c    1 ~ ~~ A -    neit',t_          ia K       X         '           00je1 -lm :l                      it  Ih                 ''                                       Irrigation,4 D,_  Ap      /   
| 5               a        Is       20                                                                   _.  -1                                                                          '                                   I5'i
K LOMETERS                                             .                                                                       W  Fssrcm4~                               i~?    ~ "   ;t:--J    JFFIAINAE
FUPfNG  -  I  Purc\HEI's$G          -                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Liolo  1rri~atson Area
!wrigtx Area       -f
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ss4  sahn
fli; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          i
12,~~~~~~~~~~~ 
K  /  --IL                                   //                                                                                      /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTRR19



1- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 21113
107-30'                                                           108°00'                                                            108 30'
NEI MONGOL                                                                                                                                A3800 -
NEI MONGOL  ,  I                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H I N A
N NGXIAv.itts  .-/QYfuliBn} J                                                                               SHAANXI AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
N NGXIA    + .    /JYULIN  >  (DINGBIAN  WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
FLOURIDE CONTENTS IN GROUNDWATER
NEI MONGOL
s~~~~~~~~~~    x. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Flourin   Coeet-f g/t e
SHANXI                                                                                                                    t Less m   1.0
'A                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.0- 2.0
NINGXIA                                                                                               47
Tanar aon ch[i N  A U;                                                                                                                  7.1 -nd above
Wale.     Supply  Pipeline
ASU                 Crass  HENAN                                                                                                               B  1t Up  A -
~~~~~~~Xia- (C--itun[y) Bovirdary
'f   nANiHONG       SHANGLU._                                                                                                                         Prefecture Boundaries
sicHU                                                                                                lsssgHssrn                                        KILOMF.TFRS
NEI MONGOL                                    -
DINGBIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.Jgi
so san; 0 0 ; 0 0 r u u \ , "0 0w, S n 0 i: E aj I I N G B I A Ng
To Wuqi                                                                                         i  .
/                         I                                   0700                                                             l080                                                  W    UL QI  OCQ    I
707°OOO f  ,     207g3D                                                            108O00'                    /                                     OCTOBER  981~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTBE  18



