Page  1
June 3, 1991
Mr. Wang Bingqian
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Re:
Development Credit No. 1997-CHA
(Shaanxi Agricultural Development Project) -
Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Minister Wang:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Shaanxi Agricultural Development 
Project) between the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association) dated September 14, 1989, and to the Project 
Agreement of even date between the Association and Shaanxi Province. We refer also to 
your telex of February 5, 1991, requesting: (i) a reallocation of proceeds under the 
Credit; (ii) adding Part F to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and (iii) certain modifications to be 
made to the Project description.
The Association is pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, it has 
agreed to the above request.  Therefore, the Association proposes to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement as
follows:
1.
Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 are 
amended to read as follows:
      Category                Amount of the Credit          % of
                              Allocated (Expressed          Expenditures
                              in SDR Equivalent             to be Financed
(1)   Civil works (other      13,750,000                    55%
      than in (2) below)
      for Parts A,B, C, D,
      E and F of the Project  15,720,000                    35%
2.
Paragraph 1 of Part C of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:
 
"1. Establishment of lined and unlined fish ponds in six counties and the 
provision of 
supporting facilities including hatcheries, feed mills, technical 
service centers and marketing 
centers."
 
3.
Paragraph 1 of Part D of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Construction of poultry farms \1aor poultry development."
4.
Paragraph 1 of Part F of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
"1. Construction of a slaughter and meat packing plant for rabbits and 
cattle, equipped 
with cooling and freezing facilities."
 
You will note that machine excavation is eligible for financing under Civil 
Works (Category 1).  Also we have revised the Project description to permit the 
flexibility you have requested.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing proposed amendments by signing 
and dating this letter in the space provided below.  This amendment may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
Page  2
return one fully executed original to us.  This amendment will be effective 
retroactively to and including April 9, 1991 upon receipt by the Association of one 
fully executed original of this amendment. 
Because of their interest in this matter a copy of this letter is being sent to 
the Shaanxi Provincial People's Government for their records.
Sincerely,
By /s/ David Pearce
Acting Director
China and Mongolia Department
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
15/7/91
 
cc: Mr. Luo Qing
    Director
    World Bank Department
    Ministry of Finance
    Beijing, China
    Shaanxi Provincial People's Government
    Xincheng, Xian, Shaanxi Province
    People's Republic of China
