Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1997 CHA
(Shaanxi Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SHAANXI PROVINCE
Dated September 14, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1997 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SHAANXI PROVINCE (the Province).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventy-eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 78,800,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Province agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association 
as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Province declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and rural development 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Province shall otherwise agree, the Province 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Province shall: (i) on-lend part of the proceeds of the Credit made available to 
it to prefectural, county
and township enterprises under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, 
including that applicable interest rates will be no less than ABC's prevailing 
interest rates for similar loans for
similar purposes; and (ii) make or cause to be made adequate and timely budgetary 
provisions for the implementation of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Province shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
The Province shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Province of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. In order to assist in coordinating and carrying out the Project, 
the  Province  shall maintain the Project Management Office with staffing, functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association to be headed by its Director from 
the Provincial Planning Commission assisted by its Leading Deputy Project Director 
from the Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau, who shall be responsible for the 
day-to-day management of the Project activities.
Section 2.06. The Province shall prepare and furnish to the Association for its 
review by December 15 of each year, a detailed work and financing plan for the 
implementation of the Project
during the following year.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Page  3
Section 3.01. (a) The Province shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
The Province shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof, as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Province shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.02. (a) The Province shall ensure that water charges be set and 
adjusted as necessary to cover no later than January 1, 1997: (i) full operation and 
maintenance costs; and (ii) a portion of capital cost at a level to be agreed from 
time to time between the Association and the Province, in respect of all irrigation 
and water supply schemes assisted under the Project.
(b)
The Province shall furnish to the Association, no later than December 31, 
1991, a plan of action to comply with the obligation specified in paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Province thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
Page  4
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Province of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Province:
Shaanxi Provincial People's Government
Xincheng, Xian, Shaanxi Province
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Province, 
may be taken or executed by
its Governor or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing, and he 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Page  5
Asia
SHAANXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Cement estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract and 
other construction material estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Earth works for pond, canal and drainage construction and on-farm works for 
irrigation shall be carried out by force account procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
Office, design and specialized equipments estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $50,000 per contract and breeding stock, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association. 
4.
Contracts for civil works for structures and building construction shall be 
awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or 
more the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two  conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
Page  6
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Province in carrying out the Project, the Province shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Province shall ensure that the Project activities will comply with 
environmental control standards acceptable to the Association.
(b)
The Province shall establish by December 1, 1993 and thereafter maintain 
a system to monitor effluents from agroprocessing facilities constructed under the 
Project.
(c)
The Province shall continuously monitor water quality in the canals and 
pipes for water supplies under Parts A and B of the Project and furnish to the 
Association, by December 1, 1993, a report of water quality assessment in form and 
content satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Province shall: (a) ensure that adequate chemical and other fertilizer 
nutrients will be made available to farmers assisted under the Project; and (b) to 
this end, furnish to the Association by December 1 of each year, an annual program for 
the provision of such nutrients.
3.
The Province shall by December 1, 1991: (a) ensure that poultry development 
program under Part D of the Project will be completed; and (b) consult with the 
Association regarding phases II and III of said development program.
