CREDIT NUMBER 1997 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Shaanxi Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                b   {        , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1997 CRA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         f e  \               , 1989, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Shaanxi Province
(hereinafter called the Province) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Province the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Province;
NOW THEPEFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Province of even date herewith, as the same


﻿- 2 -
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "ABC" means Agriculture Bank of China, a specialized
banking institution established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower;
(d) "km" means kilometer; and
(e) "ha" means hectare.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01, The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy,-eight million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 78,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in the name of the Province a special account in
a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withd,awn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association


﻿- 3 -
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to p-aragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing June 1, 1999 and ending December 1, 2023. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 1, 2008 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's


﻿economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Province to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the
Province therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Province
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Province in accordance with arrangements
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services


﻿-5-
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set 'orth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by the Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Province shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Province
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council has
approved this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 6 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Province, and is
legally binding upon the Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANMIN                         22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
ByA                   ka X
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    /A.Koco                                   (A.
Regional Vice President
;   Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR E2uivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works              11,970,000         55%
(other than in
(2) below) for
Parts A, B, C,
D and E of the
Project
(2) Earthworks for           17,320,000         35%
Parts A, B and
C of the Project
(3) Equipment                27,130,000         100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally


﻿- 9 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4) Special vehicles         1,860,000          100% of foreign
and trucks                                 expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(5) Materials:                                  100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a) for construc-      13,680,000          100% of local
tion                                  expenditures
(ex-factory
(b) fertilizer          3,650,000          cost) and 75%
of local ex-
(c) breeding stock        380,000          penditures for
other items pro-
(d) materials other       900,000          cured locally
than (a), (b)
and (c) above
(6) Consultants'             1,910,000          100%
services,
overseas
training and
study tours
TOTAL              78,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 5,200,000 under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (6) may be
made out of the proceeds of the Credit on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1989.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase farm production
and rural income through a program of investments in irrigation,
other rural infrastructure and in agricultural services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation
1.   Establishment of new irrigation systems covering about
71,000 ha in Donglei and Jiakou areas, and the upgrading of
existing irrigation facilities covering about 52,000 ha in Luo He
area, through:
(a) construction of about 37 pumping stations and about
597 km of main and branch canals;
(b) construction of branch, lateral, sub-lateral and on-farm
canals and associated structures;
(c) construction of drainage canals to remove excess surface
water;
(d) construction of about 36 sub-stations and about 188 km
of 100-35 kv lines;
(e) provision of about 20,000 tons of fertilizer and
pesticides; and
(f) provision of technical assistance in irrigation and
agriculture management.
2.   Establishment of a supplementary water system for about 67
villages in Donglei and Jiakou area.
Part B:   Water Supply
1.   Construction of potable water supply system for about 140
villages and an irrigation system covering about 4,600 ha in
Dingbian area.


﻿- 12 -
2.   Provision of 2,000 tons of fertilizer and other inputs.
Part C:   Aguaculture
1.   Establishment of about 2,100 ha of lined and unlined fish
ponds in six counties and the provision of supporting facilities
including hatcheries, feed mills, technical service centers and
marketing centers.
2.   Provision of equipment and vehicles for applied aquaculture
research.
Part D:   Animal Husbandry
1.   Construction of poultry farms for the poultry development
consisting of two grand-parent farms, one for layers and another
for broilers; two parent farms for broilers; four parent layer
farms; and commercial farms consisting of four for layers and one
for broilers.
2.   Construction of a pig breeding farm for the production of
lean meat breeding pigs.
3.   Construction of one rabbit breeding farm for the production
of improved breeding rabbits.
Part E:   Seed Production
1.   Establishment of nine seed processing facilities for hybrid
corn, hybrid rapeseed and wheat comprising of buildings, ware-
houses and seed testing laboratories.
2.   Provision of inputs, including 3,000 tons of fertilizer, for
seed production for about 10,500 ha of farms and technical
assistance for training on seed processing, certification and
testing.
Part F:   Agroprocessing
1.   Construction of a slaughter/meat packing plant at Fufeng for
rabbits and cattle, equipped with cooling and freezing facilities.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Construction of a cold storage with storage capacity of about
1,400 tons, a frost plant, and a fruit juice processing plant at
Jinyang.
3.   Construction of a bee and pollen processing plant in Xian for
the production of pollen, honey and jelly.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 15 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account;
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in


﻿- 16 -
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


