D--   />  /   l~
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  9847-GH   Type: (SAR)                       R     N   98
BEKURE, B./ X34497 / J-5149/ AF4AG                       eport o.   47-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 25, 1992
Western Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC QF GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICJLTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AESD                -      Agricultural Engineering Services Department
AGSAC               -      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
AHPD                -      Animal Health and Production Department
ASRP                -      Agricultural Servicet Rehabilitation Project
CIDA                -      Canadian International Development Agency
CIMMYT              -      Centro Interacional de Mejoramiento di Maiz y Trigo
(International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center)
COCOBOD             -      Cocoa Board
CSD                 -      Crop Services Department
CSIR                -      Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DAES                -      Department of Agricultural Extension Services
ERP                 -      Economic Recovery Program
FASCOM              -      Farmers Agricultural Services Company
FLS                 -      Front Line Staff
GCE                 -      General Certificate of Education
GOG                 -      Government of Ghana
GTZ                 -      German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IBRD                -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 -      International Competitive Bidding
ICRISAT             -      International Center for Research in the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA                 -      International Development Association of The World Bank
IFAD                -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA                -      International Institite of Tropical Agriculture
LCB                 -      Local Competitive Bidding
M&E                 -      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                 -      Management Information System
MOE                 -      Ministry of Education
MTADP               -      Medium Term Agricultural Development Program
NARC                -      National Agricultural Research Committee
NARP                -      National Agricultural Research Project
NGO                 -      Non-Governmental Organization
PCR                 -      Project Completion Report
PPMED               -      Policy Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation Department MOA
PMU                 -      Planning and Monitoring Unit
PTP                 -      Production Test Plot
RELC                -      Research-Extension Liaison Committee
RRS                 -      Regional Research Stations
SMS                 -      Subject Matter Specialist
T&V                 -      Training and Visit
UGFCC               -      The United Ghana Farmers' Cooperative Council
URADEP              -      Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
VORADEP             -      Volta Region Agricultural Development Project
WIAD                -      Women in Agricultural Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHA
NATIONAL AGRICrOMMJ, ETNSION PROJCT
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AnD ACRONYMS
AESD        -  Agricultural Engineering Services Department
AGSAC       -  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
AHPD        -  Animal Health and Production Department
ASRP        -  Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
CIDA        -  Canadian International Development Agency
CIMMYT   -  Centro tnteracional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
(International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center)
COCOBOD  -  Cocoa Board
CSD         -  Crop Services Department
CSIR        -  Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DA1BS       -  Department of Agricultural Extension Services
ERP         -  Econoniic Recovery Program
FASCOM    -  Farmers Agricultural Services Company
FLS         -  Front Line Staff
GCE         -  General Certificate of Education
GOG         -  Govermment of Ghana
GTZ         -  German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IBRD        -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
ICRISAT    -  International Center for Research in the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA         -  Intemational Development Association of The World Bank
IFAD        -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
ITA         -  International Institute ef Tropical Agriculture
LCB         -  Local Competitive Bidding
M&E         -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         -  Management Information System
MOA         -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOEC        -  Ministry of Education and Culture
MTADS       -  Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy
NARC        -  National Agricultural Research Committee
NARP        -  National Agricultural Research Project
NGO         -  Non-Governmental Organization
PCR         -  Project Completion Report
PPMED       -  Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department o! MOA
PMU         -  Planning and Monitoring Unit
PTP         -  Production Test Plot
RELC        -  Research-Extension Liaison Committee
RRS         -  Regional Research Stations
SMS         -  Subject Matter Specialist
T&V         -  Training and Visit
UGFCC       -  The United Ghana Farmers' Cooperative Council
URADEP   -  Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
VORADEP  -  Volta Region Agricultural Development Project
WIAD        -  Wotmen in Agricultural Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its coctents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paae No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                   ....................                               i-i
I.  INTRODUCTION    .........................................                                                      1
H. BACKGROUND .........................................    2
A. Economic Setting .            .....................................                                   2
B. The Agricultural Sector ..................................    2
II. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN GHANA  ......................   7
A. Background  .g........................................                                                7
B. Strategy and Organization of the Extension Service .................   12
C. The Role of Women in Agriculture   ..........................   15
D. Agricultural Technology   ............                       .....................   16
E. Researcn-Extension Linkages   .........                        .....................   20
F. Agricultural Training and Education  ..........................   20
G. Agricultural Producer Organizations  ..........................   22
H. Rural Marketing and Finance  .........                         .....................   23
IV.  THE  PROJECT  ..........................................   24
A. Project Rationale, Objectives and Strategy  ......................   24
B. Summary Description  .                ..................................   25
C. Detailed Features   .            ....................................   26
V.  PROJECT  COSTS AND  FINANCING                              ............            ...............   27
A. Cost Estimates  .           ......................................    27
B. Proposed Financing Plan   ...........                       ......................   28
C. Procurement ......................................... 29
D. Disbursement . .......................................    31
E. Auditing and Reporting . .................................. 32
Tis rtport Is based on the finding of a preapprsl mlssion which visted Ghau In Odober-November 1990, comprisng MessrsJMs. S. Belou
(MIbsion Lewder, Agriultural Economis4; V. Veukatesan (Extension Spedald, AFrAG); EShr Gazam (Women in Agrcultral Development
Speciaist, Reddent Mission, Lagos); A. WaktoIs (Agricultural Traling Spedlit Consultant); C. Hong (Agronoemt, Resident Mision, Acen); and R.
Kinah  (ians Analyst, AFrAG) and an appraba misson, which vsid Ghan in June 1991. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. S. Bekure
(Misson lemier), V. Venkates, K.N. Sreekantiah (Constant) and C.W. Hong. Mr. T. 8aie.Muh4m (Senior Agrictral Economit, Reddent
Mission, Ace'i) assisted with both missons. Ms. C. Hamann and Mr. A. Ptchad reviewed the desgn and tecbnological bass, the revance of the
components and the appropdatenes of the organizton and mangement proposed in the projecL. MN ML Ah-Kee assed In the preraton of the
coat tabes. Ms. A. Ahmed and Ms. E. Sundeaiand provided ecbrtauia support. Mesrs. J. Joyce and E. IJm ae the mang    Divsion Chief an#'
Depatment Director, repectively, for th  opetlon.



teggNo.
VI. PROJEC-T IMPLEMENTATION                ..............................  33
A. Introduction ................................... ..  33
B. Extension Approach and Methodology .........       ................  34
C. Organization and Management ..............        ................  40
D. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) ..........        .................  44
E. Consultancies .....................................    45
F. Mid-Term and Completion Reviews ..........         ................  46
G. Implementation Schedule and Supervision .......................  46
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ..................  47
A. Benefits and Ji,stification ..................   47
B. Sustainability  ..................   48
C. Project Risks ..................   48
D. Environmental Impact ...................................  49
Vm. ASSURANCES AN) RECOMMENDATION .49
ANNEXES
1 Ministerial Directive on Unified Agricultural Extension
2 Availability of Agricultural Technologies in Ghana
3 Summary Cost Tables
4 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
5 Subject Matter Specialist Centers Staff Requirement
6 In-Service Extension Training
7 Monitoring and Evaluation
8 Research/Extension Liaison Committees: Terms of Reference
9 Technical Assistance and Local Consultants
10 Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Consultants
11 Implementation Schedule
12 Project Supervision
13 Key Indicators
14 Incremental Production Estimates
15 Organizational Charts
16 Documents Available in Project File
MAP  IBRD 183951R2
IBRD 23340



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULT AL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJFCT SUMMARY
Borrower:               'ie Republic of Ghana
Beneflicar:             The Ministry of Agriculture
AmQunt:                 SDR 21.80 million (US$30.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard with 40 years maturity
Project Description:    The project would initiate and implement a unified agricultural
extension system with strong research linkages in order to
promote the widespread use of proven agricultural technologies
and farming practices that would increase farm output, improve
the efficiency of labor, conserve soil and water resources and
contribute to environmental protection. Emphasis would be given
to institutional and human resource development and reaching
more women farmers.
The project would be implemented over five years and include
three components: (i) strengthening the extension service in all
the ten regions through provision of infrastructure, transport,
equipment, consultancy services and incremental recurrent cost
support on a declining basis and forging a closer link between
extension and agricultural research services; (i;) strengthening the
technical departments of the Ministry of Agriculture to expand
sectoral capacity to test the relevance of technologies generated
by research institutes to farmers' conditions through provision of
transport, equipment, consultancies, and incremental recurrent
cost support to subject matter specialists and to project monitoring
and evaluation; and (iii) supporting human resource development
through improved facilities, provision of teaching materials, farm
and laboratory equipment, and transport support as well as policy
improvements, institutional reforms of agricultural colleges and
the provision of text books to the three faculties of agriculture.
Pre-service training would be strengthened through revised
curricula, provision of improved facilities, teaching materials,
farm and laboratory equipment and transport as well as upgrading
of teaching staff. In-service training would be designed to
upgrade the management and extension skills of staff to cater for
the new demands of a unified extension system.



- ii -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:
Component                                   Local        ForeignTta
(in US$ million equivaient)
Strengthening Agricultural Extension         12.01         14.97         26.98
Support to Other MOA Departments             0.84           2.87          3.71
Hluman Resource Development
In-service Training                      0.70           1.32          2.02
Agricultural Colleges                     1,14          124           4.38
Sub-total                                 MA4           4.56          §,_
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                         14.69         22.40         37.09
Physical Contingencies                       1.18           2.06          3.24
Price Contingewsies                          0.63           0.15          0.78
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          16.50         24.61         41.11
of which: Incremental Recurrent costs    (6.52)        (4.25)        (10.77)
Duties and Taxes               (4.30)         (0.00)        (4.30)
PROPOSED FNANCING PLAN:
L)cal       Foreign          Total
(in US$ million equivalenC)
IDA                                      5.79          24.61         30.40
Govern ment of Ghana                     10.71             -         10.71
Total                                    16.50         24.61         41.11
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS:
IDA Fiscal Year               FY93    FY94    FY95        FY96      FY97      FY98
(US$ million equivalent)
Annual                       3.4      9.2     10.0       6.0      1.6       0.2
Cumulative                   3.4    12.6      22.6      28.6     30.2      30.4



- Hi -
project Benefits:       The project would contribute significantly to increasing food
production and improving the nutrition, income and standard of
living of a large number of rural families, thus contributing to
,.nhanced food security and alleviating rural poverty. About half
a million farm households would he directly reached by improved
agricultural extension services. sVomen farmers would be
reached not only with improved production technology but also
with technologies for improving the home environment, for food
processing and preservation and for saving energy and labor in
their daily tasks. Nearly 300,000 farmers are expected to adopt
agricultural innovations at the end of the project resulting in
incremental production of about 330,000 ton of food crops per
year valued at US$40 million. Furthermore, the project would
build the institutional capacity of MOA in planning and
coordinating agricultural extension services that would permit
improved capacity and leadership of other agricultural services,
thereby creating a good opportunity to streamline and mobilize
internal and external resources.
Risks:                  Possible project risks include: (i) ineffective management and
training of extension personnel; (ii) low adoption rates of
technical recommendations by farmers and/or slow build-up of
technology by research; (iii) unfavorable input:output price ratios;
and (iv) inability of Government to sustain the long-term
commitment required to achieve durable improvements in the
effectiveness of agricultural support services. Improved
management of extension services is expected as a result of the
improved organization, training, monitoring and evaluation, and
technical assistance to be provided under the project. The station
and on-farm research support provided by the National
Agricultural Research Project and the strong research/extension
linkage in planning the research and extension program built in
the project should reduce the risk of low adoption rates and slow
build-up of technology. Liberalization of the trade regime,
improvements in infrastructure and rural institutions are expected
to lower the cost of agricultural production and provide a
favorable incentive framework. The annual review of work plans
and budgets, as well as the mid-term implementation review,
would provide good opportunities for program review and
enhancing long-term Government commitment.
Economic Rate of Return:  Not Applicable.
IBRD No. 18395R2
IBRD No. 23440



1. ITROMIr
1.1   Extension services in Ghana have generally suffered from lack of a critical miass of
qualifled people, weak research/extension links, dispersed responsibilities, and poor logistics.
About 45 percent of the nearly 3,000 staff of the Department of extension services have had little
or no formal agricultural training. A very small number have had university training. This has
led to staff filling positions for which they are inadequately trained. Arrangements to ensure that
extensi n and research staff collaborate ir. identifying farmers' problems and that research
programs are designed to address them are inadequate. Virtually all extension services are
hampered by a general lack of mobility. At least ten separate organizations are involved in
extension services. Support for extension from external organization has centered on selected
regions v- i/or through specific projects leading to the multiplicity of organizations involved in
agricultural extension services with differing strategies, contrasting approaches and conflicting
policies on input and credit provision and personnel management.
12    Recognizing these fundamental problems and the key role agricultural extension would
play in pursuing Government's ambitious plans to accelerate agricultural production elaborated in
the Medium Term Agricultural Development Plan (MTADP), the MOA constituted a team in
1990 to review the current situation and to recommend the agricultural extension strategy to be
pursued in the implementation of the MTADS. The team comprised senior officials from the
Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES), the Department of Agricultural
Extension, University of Ghana (Legon) and the agricultural staff of the World Bank's Resident
Mission in Accra. The team consulted with selected staff of all departments of the MOA and
related agricultural agencies as well as the donor community in Ghana. A workshop was held on
April 21-22, 1990 for the purpose of consulting a cross section of the staff of MOA on the future
direction and activities of agricultural extension in Ghana. On the basis of these consultations the
team prepared a document entitled "Agricultural Extension Strategy Under the Medium Term
National Agricultural Development Plan", which has been endorsed by Government.
1.3   This project is based on this document and subsequent consultations of a Bank mission
during October 24 to November 23, 1990 in Ghana. The principal features and the key issues
were discussed with a cross section of MOA headquarters and field staff and selected NGOs in a
workshop held in Accra on November 12, 1990. The project seeks to establish a unified
agricultural extension system responsible to the DAES through forging stronger research/extension
linkages and improving the quality of pre and in-service training, increasing the mobility of field
staff and improving living and work conditions in the field. The project would be innovative,
building upon the successes of past experience with different extension approaches. Working with
groups of farmers would be emphasized and they would be encouraged to learn and adopt new
technologies in a more participatory approaich of learning by doing. Project implementation
would be decentralized. National and regional agricultural policy coordinating committees would
be established to promote and facilitate the development of credit and input supply and the
processing and marketing of farm produce. The membership of the consultative groups would be
drawn from prominent people in agri-business, commerce and banking, local government
officials, NGOs, academics and leaders of the farming community.



-2 -
11. BACKGROUNP
A. Economic xStg
2.1 pastPerformance. Inappropriate macro-economic policies, compounded by weak overall
economic management and a series of adverse external nircumstances resulted in negligible
growth during the 1970s. Between 1980 and 1983, the situation worsened as real GDP declined
at an average annual rate of 5 percent. The Cedi was significantly overvalued, producer prices
were low and Govermment controls and participation in the economy excessive. Agriculture,
particularly smallholder production, was virtually neglected resulting in a steady decline in the
production of fod. Cocoa, the leading export crop, was subject to high net taxation and poor
producer incentives leading to a dramatic and steady decline in both production and export. The
unfavorable e!onemic siouation was exacerbated by drought and consequent bush fires in 1982-83.
The declining food production and exports widened the food supply gap and contributed to a
galloping inflation prompting the Government to launch sweeping policy reforms in the early
1980s.
2.2        nS a. The key policy reforms under the Economic Recovery Program (ERP)
included: devaluation of the Cedi, liberalization of internal and external trade, and reduction of
subsidies and price controls. In agriculture, farm gate prices of cocoa were increased, marketing
of inputs and outputs were selectively liberalized, supply of inputs, notably fertilizers, was
increased, and a serious effort was initiated to rationalize and rehabilitate agriculture support
service.
2.3   The performance of the economy has improved steadily since the introduction of the ERP.
Real GDP has grown at an annual average rate of 5.9 percent between 1983 and 1987, ano at
6.1 percent in 1989. The balance of payments has iniproved from a deficit of more than one
percent of GDP in 1980-83 to an estimated surplus of 2.2 percent in 1989, whilst inflation has
been reduced substantially. Production of food crops has increased consistently, with cereal
outputs exceeding peak productions in earlier years.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.4   Performance of the Sector. Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Ghanian economy,
contributing over half of the GDP and about three quarters of export earning; most of the
population live in rural areas and derive their incomes from agriculture; the nascent industrial
sector depends on agriculture as a source of raw materials; agriculture is an important source of
public revenues, and has direct and indirect influences on public savings (and investments) and on
private savings; and food prices account for significant component of household expenditures and
hence agriculture has substantial influence on the general level of prices (and indirectly on interest
rates). Thus, agriculture is key to overall macroeconomic performance. As with other sectors,
agriculture was severely hindered by the advers, wc-nomic policies of the 1970s and early 1980s.
Food and cash crop output declined, which combined with a rising population, resulted in a
decline in the per capita food production index from 100 in 1974-76 to 62 in 1983. The measures
adopted under the ERP have resulted in significant improvements: agricultural output as measured



- 3 -
by sectoral GDP has grown in real terms for five successive years and in 1988 achieved its
highest level since 1974. Nevertheless, since growth in other sectors has been more rapid,
agriculture's share of total GDP has fallen from 55 percent in 1982 to 47 percent in 1988. In the
past, cocoa contributed almost 30 nercent of agricultural GDP, but this has declined to about
15 percent ;n recent years. The gap has been filled by roots and tubers and by plantain. Cereals
have also shown a steady increase in output, with total production in 1988 reaching a twenty year
high. Increased production was a result of improvement in yield, particularly cereals, and an
increase in the area planted. Despite these achievements, there was a food grain deficit in 1987
of the equivalent of about 128,000 tons, or about 6 percent cf demand, which was met by
imports. This deficit is expected to increase to about 750,000 tons by the year 2000 unless the
rate of growth in annual production is improved.
2.5    Characteristics of the Sector. Ghana's agriculture is predominantly smallholder,
traditioaJ and rain-fed. Farming systems have dAveloped over time as adaptations to the six
major agro-ecological zones in the country. These zones are:
Rainfall         Area
ZoneM__                 (mm p.a.)       ('000 ha)
Rain Forest                   2,200             750
Deciduous Forest              1,500             740
Transition                    1,300           6,630
Guinea Savanna                1,100          14,790
Sudan Savanna                 1,000             190
Coastal Savanna                 800             S80
Total                                    23,680
Source: MOA/PAO PrOject GHA/84/003
2.6   In the two forest zones tree crops are significant with cocoa, oil palm, coffee and rubber
being of particular importance. The food crops in this area are mainly inter-cropped mixtures of
maize, plantair, cocoyam and cassava. The transition zone is characterized by mixed or sole
cropping of maize, legumes, cocoyam or yam, with tobacco and cotton being the predominant
cash crops. Cotton and tobacco are also important in the savanna zones, where the food crops are
mainly sorghum, maize, cowpeas and yam in the wetter areas, whilst sorghum, millet and
cowpeas predominate in the drier north. Rice is locally important in all zones, grown in
seasonally flooded valley bottoms.
2.7    Common factors in Ghanaian agriculture are the use of bush fallow to restore soil
fertility, mixed cropping to minimize risks and in the north of the country, the widespread
integration of livestock into the farming systems. Women play an important role in the sector,
and often make decisions about the type and area of crop to be planted, as well as having a key
role in weeding, harvesting and processing. There is little use of purchased inputs and land
preparation is manual in most areas, though oA ploughing is important in the north and
mechanization is used by some large enterprises. Average yields are low throughout the country.
Irrigated agriculture is not well developed. Only 9000 ha of land is being mostly surface
irrigated, representing iess than 10 percent of the 120,000 ha potential. Livestock are important
in all zones, though sniall ruminants and poultry predominate in the south, where tryp-nosomiasis



is a constraint to the keeping of cattle. Productivity in this sub-sector is low due to nutritional
and health constraints.
2.8     .elont ConstAiU. Gh(hna is a good example of how improvements in the policy
framework alone are not sufficient to accelerate growth in agriculture unless these improvements
are accompanied by Improvement of the management of agricultural services. Thus, despite the
recent improvements in the macroeeonomic and sector policy frameworks, the key remaining
constraints which impede agricultural development are institutional and technical, and these are
summarized below.
(a)   The Institutional constraints are:
(iN   Weak and poorly develoed agricultural extension system, with responsibility
for extension service thinly spread among many organizations and projects
supported by various donors. There is need for a coherent national
extension strategy regarding extension methodology and programming,
farmer-agent ratio, staff recruitment, training and compensation,
participatory technology development, i.e., involvement of farmers in the
development of relevant technology, and linkages with research, and other
agriculture service institutions.
(ii)  Weak research organization and management. Despite the availability of
some proven technologies for short and medium-term productivity
improvements for some crops, the present research management system
needs to be geared to respond to the needs of the farmers, and work closely
with the extension system, such that new technologies could be developed
which are suited and/or adapted to local conditions, and research could pay
greater attention to crops, such as roots and tubers, which form the staple
food of much of the rural population.
(iii)  Poor institutional framework for the delivery of agricultural credit, which is
exacerbated by severe shortages of funds in the banking system for
agricultural credit.
(iv)  Poor marketing infrastructure for commodities, which are primarily meant
for the internal market; as a result, despite the availability of demand for
these commodities, they could not reach the markets in time nor be stored
properly, leading to high post-harvest losses, and high marketing costs; for
export commodities which are the major source of future growth in
agriculture, the main problem is to increase Ghana's competitiveness in the
international markets by keeping costs down through better teclnology
adoption by farmers, which would be difficult to achieve in the present state
of agricultural service institutions.
(b)   The technical constraints, which should be taken into consideration, while
formulating technolo,-Ical recommendations to farmers are:



(i)   Soil degradatio. Due to low inherent fertility and the decline in fallow
periods, soil nutrient availability will be an important constraint on future
yield incretases.
(ii)   Vagari?s of weaite. Although the total annual rainfall is sufficient to
support reasonably good crop yields throughout the country except the
southern tip of Coastal Savannah, there are variations in on-setting and
cessation of rainy seasons. Concentrated rainfalls and varying lengths of dry
spells occur irregularly within a season. These vagaries of weather affect
crop performance adversely, particularly under traditional farming practices.
(iii) Prevalence of a wide range of cron pests and diseases. The ambient
temperature is favorable for pathogen and insect pests to thrive year round,
such as swollen shoot virus disease of cocoa, Cape St. Paul Wilt disease of
coconut, insect damages on certain varieties of cowpeas, streak virus and
stemborer attacks on maize, post-harvest losses of grains from insect attack,
tsetse fly attack on livestock, etc.
(iv)  Severe nutritional deficiency experienced by most animals especially during
the dry season. Few of the crop residues are utilized at present; but even if
all available crop residues and byproducts are fed to the livestock, there
would still be a deficiency. The lack of drinking water especially during the
dry season for animals is another constraint.
(v)   Limited availability of proven recommendations for some important crops
e.g., roots and tubers, and livestock and fisheries sub-sectors.
2.9    Government Objectives. Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector
include food security, higher employment and incomes in rural areas, regional balanced growth
and a greater contribution of the sector to GDP, foreign exchange earnings and government
revenue. To achieve these objectives, the Government has formulated a Medium Term
Agricultural Development Plan (MTADP) with the assistance of the World Bank. The strategy is
predicated on the premise that Ghanaian farmers will respond to suitable incentives to increase
production of both cash and food crops. It would focus on promoting those crops in which Ghana
has a clear comparative advantage.
2.10   The strategy for the promotion of growth of crops is based on increasing productivity,
using improved technology through the use of improved varieties and crop protection measures,
while maintaining soil fertility through fertilizer use and soil conserving cultural practices. The
irrigation strategy would focus on the development of small-scale and micro-scale schemes,
improved management of flood plains, and an optimum use of existing irrigation facilities.
Emphasis would be given to the implementation and management of the schemes by the farmers
themselves by establishing farmers' groups and training them in soil and water management and
in agronomic practices for irrigated crops. In the livestock sector, the strategy would be based on
improvement in productivity through improved animal health, nutrition and water supplies and, in
the long term, breed improvement. The focus of action under the strategy would be the livestock
owner. Cross breeding to improve the potential of local breeds has been undertaken by using
breeds from the sub-region. However, the program has so far benefitted a limited number of



-6-
farmers primarily due to lack of breeding stock and effective extension work to increase farmers'
awareness. Farmers would be trained in rearing improved breeds and the use of animal traction.
In the fisheries sector, emphasis would be on the development of inland fisheries, both on the
Volta Lake and in aquaculture; and on the rehabilitation of marine facilities in support of tuna
fishing. A comprehensive program for the development of aquaculture, including the
rehabilitation of hatcheries for the supply of fingerlings, would be undertaken.
2.11   The strategy would also emphasize the strengthening of agricultural support services
including research and extension, marketing and storage, fertilizer and seed, and intersectoral
links in processing, and feeder roads improvements. The process of determining research
priorities, would be improved by increasing the role of the Ministry of Agriculture in that process
as well as in the allocation of resources. In extension, the strategy will seek to rationalize and
streamline the organization of the service, upgrade its technical competence and forge much
stronger linkage with research.
2.12   Sustainable use of natural resources is also an important objective for Government and to
this end the Environmental Protection Council is preparing an Environmental Action Plan (EAP).
The EAP will be an important policy document affecting development in many sectors, including
agriculture. An important ingredient of the strategy in the sector is greater reliance on the private
sector for the provision of commercial services, like marketing of inputs, and production and
distribution of seeds. Public Services would concentrate on policy planning and guidanc.,
extension, research, and in other support services where Government has comparative advantage.
2.13   Bank/IDA Sector Assistance Strategy. Since the launching of Government's ERP, IDA's
strategy has been to continue supporting improvement of the policy environment at both the
macro-economic and sectoral levels. Structural adjustment credits and infusion of funds for the
rehabilitation of key sectors were the main instruments for implementing this strategy.
Agriculture, which is the dominant productive sector, has been an important beneficiary of this
strategy. A number of projects are being financed within the agricultural sector to overcome
particular constraints. These include the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project; the Second Oil Palm
Project; the Agricultural Services Support Project; the Rural Finance Project; the Agricultural
Diversification Project; the Forest Management Project and the National Agricultural Research
Project. An important element of all these projects has been the development of the role of the
private sector in production and input supply. The Bank also assisted the Government in
formulating a Medium Term Agricultural Development Plan (MTADP) in order to assess how
growth in the agricultural sector could be further increased and what policy and institutional
reforms are required to achieve this growth. The strategy proposes improvements in the incentive
framework and increasing carefully targeted public expenditures to improve sector management,
infrastructure and agricultural support services. Implementation of the strategy will be supported
through an IDA financed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, presently being processed, and a
number of specific projects, i.e., Rural Finance, Agricultural Diversification, National
Agricultural Research, National Agricultural Extension, Agricultural Marketing etc. projects.
2.14   Reform of the trade regime has aided in the emergence of new non-traditional exports.
The revitalization of agricultural support services, particularly extension, has been initiated. The
stage is now set for deepening and sharpening policy changes at the sectoral and sub-sectoral
levels, and to complement this with project financing. Agriculture would continue to be the lead
sector for the foreseeable future, and hence would have priority in the overall IDA assistance



- 7 -
strategy for Ghana. Strengthening agricultural support services, particularly research and
extension service, would be key components of that strategy.
III. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN GHANA
A. Background
3.1    Agricultural extension has been an active feature of agricultural development since the
early 1900s. Although the primary interest initially was in export crops (notably oil palrm, rubber
and cocoa) greater emphasis was given later to food crops and livestock. Agricultural extension
was part of the activities of church missionaries and foreign owned companies interested in the
production of export crops.
3.2   Since Independence, Ghana has experimented with various approaches of agricultural
extension under the cooperative movements, church related development schemes and several
donor assisted projects. The United Ghana Farmers' Cooperative Council (UGFCC) started to
provide extension services in the early 1960s. The Government initiated the pilot project, "Focus
and Concentrate" in the late 1960s. UGFCC was promoting the then Government's policy of
collectivized agriculture and therefore used a group approach, while the pilot project concentrated
its activities in the high potential areas for which, although limited, some technology was
available. In both approaches, extension agents gave advice and supplied inputs. Frequently, the
latter preoccupied the staff at the expense of delivering extension messages thus limiting coverage
of their services.
3.3   The more recent and prominent experiences are the extension programs initiated under:
(i) the World Bank assisted Upper Region Agricultural Development Project (URADEP) during
1976-84, Volta Region Agricultural Development Project (VORADEP) during 1982-88 and the
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project (ASRP), ongoing since 1987; (ii) the Global 2000,
which is supported by a Japanese Non-Governmental Organization since 1986; and (iii) the CIDA-
assisted Grains and Legumes Development Project, ongoing since 1981. Moreover, there have
been regional rural development projects which have a substantial extension component, e.g., the
UNDP/FAO assisted Integrated Agricultural Development Program at Mampong, in Ashanti
Region during 1986-1989, the GTZ assisted Ghanaian-German Agricultural Deveopment Project
(ongoing since the early 1970s) and the IFAD assisted Ghana, Smallholder Rehabilitation and
Development Program ongoing since 1988, both in the Northern Region.
3.4   The above initiatives were designed independently of each other and were not integrated
with the extension programs of the various departments of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
The most critical of the drawbacks of such extension initiatives, is that when the projects are
completed and the external funding ceases, MOA would be saddled with the problem of abzorbing
into its mainstream activities the extension programs initiated under the various projects. The
experiences under the completed projects mentioned above and other recent extension initiatives
are summarized in paras 3.5-3.27 below.



-8 -
ISRADEP wand YQRADEP
3.5   Project Components. One of the main components of these completed projects was
strengthening of the extension services through the introduction of the Training and Visit (T & V)
system. The level of salaries and other incentives provided to the extension staff under both
projects were 20 percent higher than those in comparable grade for other extension staff of MOA.
The projects provided good logistic support, though there was severe shortage of office and
residential accommodation in the field. The equipment support for fortnightly training included
writing boards, flip charts and mobile electronic audiovisuals. An FM radio station was also
provided under URADEP although it is now felt that it might have been unnecessary.
3.6   Extension Recommendations. The main extension recommendations under these projects
were: use of improved varieties of seeds, row planting, proper plant population, use of fertilizers
and pesticides, chemical weed control, improved harvesting and storage and proper preservation
and processing of food. Extension focussed mainly on cereals and legumes (maize, sorghum,
millet, groundnut and cowpea). Livestock and root crops did not get the attention they deserved,
although effort was made under VORADEP to introduce rapid yam multiplication technique
(mini-sets) and improved cultivars of cassava. A survey conducted by VORADEP at the end of
the project revealed that 67 percent of the farmers reached were using improved seeds and correct
pl inting dates. About 55 percent were using fertilizers.
3.7   Linkage with Research and Other Services. Both projects set up adaptive/farming systems
research units to test relevant technologies, which facilitated development of close research-
extension linkages. Farmers' agricultural services companies (FASCOMs) were established to
supply inputs, and the project management liaised with credit institutions to help the farmers in
obtaining institutional credit. The extension service was thus spared the task of providing other
services such as handling inputs, marketing of produce and lending and collection of loan
repayments.
3.8   Lessons Learnt. The extension service provided under these projects were appreciated by
the farmers, who benefitted from regular visits of extension staff. Many farmers could not,
however, adopt the extension recommendations as they did not have the needed resources to
purchase the inputs, particularly fertilizer, which was the key component. The fact that the
FASCOMs established many inputs selling points did not increase fertilizer usage.
3.9    URADEP and VORADEP succeeded in introducing the T&V system. Although T&V
was regarded by the project authorities as being a well organized management system, it was
generally considered to be expensive. This perception was partly due to the inclusion in the
project of high cost components, such as, radio stations (URADEP), which the Government found
difficult to service,foreign training of staff, very intensive farmer:agent ratios of 1:500, not
justified by the available technological options, and purchases of technologically advanced
equipment such as cinema vans, etc. This was partly due to failure to adapt the system to suit
local conditions, particularly the availability of technology, the level of supporting services and
farmers' resource endowments. The marginal benefit of intensive training of the extension staff
through the fortnightly training sessions was not considered to be worth the extra cost; it was felt
that these sessions could have been held once each month, thereby reducing the recurrent costs
considerably. Both projects have had problems of sustainability as shown by the lack of
maintenance of the physical infrastructure and the inability to gainfully use the human resources



-9-1
after project completion due to problems ol absorbing these projects into the mainstream extension
service of the MOA.
Global 20Q
3.10   Objectives. The objective of the Global 2000 project, which in its initial stages was
confined to cereals, is to demonstrate that substantial increase in food production can be attained
through disseminat:on of simple technologies and through effective provision of a range of
services to farmers, including inputs, credit and attractive producer prices. The main underlying
assumption of the project is that the key to technology transfer to farmers lies in their "learning
by doing' and providing them with the necessary inputs to adopt the technology. The farmers
selected for participating in the program, are required to set aside a one acre portion of their
fields, called the 'production test plot (PTP)", for demonstrating the technologies. This provides
a large enough area to permit meaningful comparison of crop yield with the rest of the farm in
which traditional farming practices are applied. Extension staff collaborated with community
leaders in the selection of farmers to be assisted, the choice of PTPs, and the types of
technological packages to be tested.
3.11   Global 2000 became very popular among farmers and extension agents within a short
period of time as farmers yields increased significantly. In most cases maize yields more than
doubled. The number of participating farmers increased rapidly from 40 in 1986 to 20,000 in
1988, when MOA decided to adopt the PTP approach in selected areas and increased the number
of districts and extension staff involved in the project. In 1989, the number of participating
farmers increased to 85,000. Most of the credit was provided by the banking system through the
intermediary of the extension service. Unfortunately, while credit repayment was very high
(90 percent) up to 1988, it dropped sharply to 40 percent in 1989 when the program was
expanded creating a problem for extension agents, who had to plead with and cajole farmers to
repay the loan. Consequently, the program for 1990 was rolled back to 20,000 farmers.
3.12   Another aspect of Global 2000 was that farmers were allowed to repay the credit at
harvest tOme and obtain inputs in kind for the next season. While this was manageable in the
early years of the project, it created a storage and marketing problem when farmer participation
increased to the tens of thousands. This, coupled with the problems associated with the recovery
of credit, and the involvement of extension staff in credit administration, raises the issue of
replicability of the approach on a national scale.
3.13   Lessgns Lnt. The Global 2000 project demonstrated that given the proper enabling
environment (a package of technical assistance, inputs, and markets for outputs), farmers are very
responsive to advice from the extension service. It has demonstrated that production technologies
exist for increasing output of some cereal and legume crops. Farmers learn more effectively by
doing than by just listening to extension advice and looking at demonstrations. Extension advice
should start with simple low-risk technologies, and progressively move to more complex ones
after farmers' confidence grows and after increased production from the applications of the simple
technologies have reached their limit.
3.14   The main drawbacks of Global 2000 are: (i) lack of attention to institution building, with
emphasis on only short-term gains in production, and (ii) the multiplicity of non-extension
functions assigned to extension staff (credit administration, input supply, and produce marketing),



- 10 -
which is not sustainable on a national scale and counterproductive to the institution of extension
service over the long-term.
TheGhana Grains and Legumes Development Project
3.15   The major focus of this ongoing project is research to develop maize and grain legume
technologies, with a small extension component. It combines on-station research with on-farm
research and extension. The extension staff of the MOA manage verification demonstration plots,
and the link between the research and extension staff helps to improve the programming of
research to focus on the practical problems of farmers. Another good feature of the project is the
annual Grains and Legumes Workshop that it organizes which provides a forum for exchange of
views among the scientists and farmers. There is also a research-extension liaison officer whose
duties include organizing in-service training for the extension staff on maize and cowpea.
3.16   By combining on-farm verification trials and farm surveys, the project has helped in the
strengthening of the linkage between research and extension. It has demonstrated the value of
formally linking research and extension services as a means of improving the quality and
relevance of research, and of improving the delivery of relevant technologies to farmers.
Pilot Extension under ASRP
3.17   So. The extension system in the pilot extension component of the ASRP, which
started in 1988 in ten selected districts, is identical to the extension programs under URADEP and
VORADEP, based as it is on the T&V system. But unlike the URADEP and VORADEP where
the extension components focussed on entire regions in the Upper East, Upper West, and Volta
Regions, the pilot extension under the ASRP covers two districts each in the Upper East
(Navrongo, Bawku) Upper West (Tumu and Wa), Northern (Tolon, Bole) and Brong-Ahafo
(Sunyani, Kintampo) regions. As in the case of VORADEP and URADEP, the pilot program
focuses on selected grain crops (maize, sorghu;m and pulses) and not much effort is being made
to widen the coverage to include other farm activities such as root crops and livestock.
3.18  In all the districts selected for implementing the pilot program, the Global 2000 Project is
also active, and the extension officers involved in the m   scheme are also involved in the
implementation of the T&V system under the ASRP, thus dovetailing the PTP concept with the
T&V system. Indeed the Extension Adoption Plot (EAP) concept adopted in most districts,
outside the Global 2000 area, is a synthesis between the T & V system and the PTP concept.
3.19   Experience in ASRP Pilot Project. Experience with the pilot extension component of
ASRP has convinced Government that the good features of the T&V system, such as, regularity
in training of staff, regularity and predictability of visits to farmers with useful messages,
supervision of staff at all levels, and continued and formal linkages with research should be
incorporated into the national agricultural extension system in Ghana.
3.20   Unlike VORADEP and URADEP, the pilot project does not include investments in
physical infrastructure and communication system which is regarded as too sophisticated. Rather,
the program provides only essential vehicles, motor cycles, and bicycles to improve mobility, and
field equipment for the field extension personnel.



- 11 -
3.21   Although it is too early to pass a final judgement on the pilot extension component of
ASRP, as it has been in full operation for only two cropping seasons, the pilot program enjoys the
same positive features of the T & V system under URADEP and VORADEP without the
drawback of heavy infrastructural investment associated with those projects. The perceived
weaknesses of the program are (a) inadequate provision of subject matter specialists and irregular
*           training of frontline staff; and (b) lack of formal linkages of the program with input supplies,
credit institutions and marketing agencies. Since under the Global 2000 program inputs are
provided to the farmers who participate in the program, there is a reluctance on the part of
*           farmers to try out the recommended technologies unless inputs are supplied.
3.22   Although farmers' interest in the pilot program is not as enthusiastic as expected, that has
rnot had adverse impact on the morale of the extension staff and on their determination to serve
the beneficiary farmers. This is due to the incentives provided in the form of logistic support
cited above, and training and field allowances given.
Other Extension Initiatives
3.23   The Cocoa Marketing Board (COCOBOD) provides a comprehensive package of services
ranging from the provision of planting materials and pest control services to marketing of cocoa.
Earlier, COCOBOD also used to give weeding, spraying, harvesting, lining and pegging services
to farmers against nominal fees. However, COCOBOD's extension service is presently confined
to cocoa and its extension agents are now concentrating on providing advisory services and inputs
rather than doing farm work for farmers. The COCOBOD has its own agricultural training
college at Bunso, where it trains its extension agents.
3.24   There are several other scattered extension initiatives, but these are not as prominent as
the ones listed above. Some are sponsored by commodity organizations such as the Ghana Cotton
Company, Bast Fiber Development Board, and several Tobacco Companies. The Ghana
Irrigation Development Authority also has its own extension service. The MOA has just launched
a rural development project in the Northern Region supported by International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) which has a major extension component. Apart from their
declared intent to increase production of the commodities they support, and their goal of
improving farm incomes and welfare of the beneficiary population, all these extension initiatives
are run independently from each other. They follow different extension techniques, differ in the
incentives given to the extension staff, and in the technological packages extended to farmers.
They do not offer much useful extension lesson from their experiences with extension and
extension workers.
3.25   There are a multitude of NGOs with agricultural extension programs, particularly in
Northern Region. Many of these programs began when MOA's services had become weak. In
most cases, these programs are at variance with MOA's national program. Some of them are
using inadequately trained staff to deliver messages to farmers and subsidizing fertilizer and other
inputs. Some have introduced inappropriate technology by donating tractors and subsidizing
tractor services. Some have introduced enclave projects serving very few districts with highly
intensive coverage that cannot be sustained by MOA at the end of the project.
3.26   There is a need for MOA to coordinate NGO and donor interventions in agricultural
extension and training. It would be beneficial if MOA and NGOs concentrate on their areas of
strength, rather than duplicate each other's efforts. From this point of view, NGOs could focus



- 12 -
on training and assisting farmers' associations in managing their business. NGOs would have a
better comparative advantage in providing such assistance than a government agency. This is in
line with the recommendation of the extension strategy paper to fully integrate all donor supported
extension initiatives with the national agricultural extension program.
3.27   Lessons Learnt from the Extension Initiatives. The key lessons learnt from the review of
experiences in agricultural extension in Ghana are:
(a)  avoidance of proliferation of independent and uncoordinated extension activities;
(b)  importance of emphasis on institution building for agricultural extension, rather
than on short term gains in production;
(c)  reinforcement of the lessons of the PTP's under Global 2000, particularly, the
farmer participation element, with the good features of the T&V system;
(d)  complementing extension with support services such as input delivery, credit, and
marketing of produce, and policy environment;
(e)   keeping the costs of extension service low, by avoiding excessive emphasis on
infrastructure;
(f)  training the extension staff not only in technical subjects, but also in extension
methodologies and behavioral sciences to understand farmers attitudes towards the
numerous variables which affect them in their economic development, so as to
enable them to perform their tasks confidently and effectively;
(g)  importance of better incentives to the extension staff, including provision of
accommodation in areas where rental housing is scarce, recognition of performance
in promotions and transparency of the rules for promotion, provision cf adequate
training facilities, equipment and good working environment.
B. Strategy and Organization of the Extension Service
3.28   Extension Strategy. In 1987, MOA established the Department of Agricultural Extension
Services (DAES) (MOA) to consolidate all non-cocoa public agricultural extension services, and
bring them under one umbrella. MOA's extension strategy embodies a unified extension system
whereby all extension messages would be channelled to the farmer through a single agent under
the administration of DAES. Livestock and crop extension services have already been unified.
Agro-forestry, irrigation and fisheries extension would follow suit. There would be no parallel
extension service for women farmers. The approach of extension services administered by the
Cocoa Board, the private sector and special projects would be harmonized with the approaches
and policies implemented by the DAES. The task of the extension service would be the transfer
of technologies to farmers, and to advise agricultural research and other agricultural support
services about farmer needs and constraints. The extension service would not be responsible for
other tasks such as credit intermediation and input and produce marketing.



- 13 -
3.29   The DAES organizational framework would be flexible enough to respond to the changing
needs of the agricultural sector. A cadre of professional staff would be developed at all levels
and personnel policies that would provide adequate incentives for attracting and retaining quality
staff would be instituted. Formal mechanisms would be established to link extension and research
activities in order to develop ielevant and appropriate technologies that could be adopted by
farmers and that solve problems faced by farmers. Farmers would be encouraged and assisted to
participate in setting the research agenda; in planning extension activities; in forming groups to
facilitate the availability of credit and input supply as well as for marketing output.
3.30   Qlganization. The DAES is headed by a Director who is assisted by three deputies. One
heads the Agricultural Extension Services Division, a second heads the Women Farmers
Extension Division and a third, the Training Division. The Agricultural Extension Division
comprises two sections, viz,, Field Services and Research/Extension Linkages. The Women
Farmers Extension Division consists of three Sections, viL, Program Planning, Subject Matter
Specialists, and Youth Programs. The ',raining Division is responsible for in-service staff
training, farmer training and mass media productions.
3.31   Programs are planned at headquarters in consultation with the Regional Extension officers
and executed at the field level by district, area and zonal extension officers. DAES staff currently
operate in all ten regions and 110 districts of the country.
3.32   Size of Extension Staff. The total number of extension staff in the DAES would appear to
be adequate over the medium term, and there would be no need to increase the total number of
staff significantly, except for filling authorized but vacant senior professional positions.
However, the distribution among the various categories of skills is heavily biased towards the sub-
technical category which consist of the frontline extensionists who are in direct contact with
farmers. A majority of the frontline staff, 1289 out of 3016 (43 percent), are poorly trained
products of the farm institutes, which were established with the objective of training people who
want to become farmers. Most of these staff were inherited from externally assisted projects
which have been completed such as URADEP and VORADEP. The level of education of many
of these staff is very low. Those that cannot be trained for the unified extension system envisaged
will have to be discontinued from the service and replaced with recruits from the colleges of
agriculture. There is need to also upgrade the quality of the remaining staff particularly at the
technical and sub-technical levels.
3.33   The present extension staff of MOA, and regional distribution of the front-line staff
relative to the farming populations are shown Tables 3.1-3.3.
3.34   In general, the staff of the DAES are not well equipped to discharge their responsibilities.
Many regional and district offices do not have suitable office accommodation, and basic office
equipment such as typewriters, duplicating machines, cabinets, and furnishings are lacking in all
districts. Residential accommodation for staff, particularly in remote areas is a serious problem.
Many staff waste a lot of time commuting from large villages due to lack of accommodation in
the small villages they are assigned to. The national, regional, and district offices do not have
facilities for periodic training of the extension staff, and meetings with farmers and other
agricultural support services personnel.
3.35   Significant gains have been made in the recent past to improve mobility of field staff with
support from the World Bank (under the ASRP) USAID, IFAD, and other donors. Similar



- 14 -
improvements have been made in the provision of field equipment such as notebooks, measuring
tapes, haversacks, cutlasses, boots, pocket calculators, spring balances, etc. However not all
extension staff and/or all parts of the country have benefitted from such improvements.
Therefore, the coverage would need to be extended and plans would need to be developed for
sustainable and orderly replacement of equipment and supplies.
Table 3, 1. MALE EXTENSION STAFF OF MOA
Sub-
HO/Rc2ion         Professional      Profession  I/       Technical a/ oital 
Hcadquaiters           7                 -                    2            9
Ashanti                9                11                  277          297
Brong-Ahafo            9                 9                  242          260
Central                7                 4                  201          212
Eastem                 9                11                  226          246
Grce-ter-Accra        10                 4                   174         188
Westem                10                 7                   125         142
Northern              12                17                  309          338
Upper East             6                 9                  316          331
Upper West             3                 9                  205          217
Volta                  1                38                  524          563
TOTAL                 83               119                 2,601       2,803
I/ Mainly supervisory staff.
2/ Front-line extension staff (55% technical and 45% sub-technical categories).
Table 3.2.  WOMEN EXTENSION (HOME ECONOMICS) STAFF OF MOA
HO/Region        Professional    Sub-Professional I/    Technical/     Total
Headquarters          3                 4                    -             7
Ashanti                -                3                  43             46
Brong-Ahafo            -                2                  20             22
Central                -                4                  50             54
Eastem                 -                5                  50             55
Greater-Accra          -                6                  51             57
Westem                 -                1                  15             16
Northem                1                1                  27             29
Upper East             -                3                  58             61
UpperWest              -                4                  24             28
Volta                  -                6                  77             83
TOTAL                 4                39                 415            458
1/ Supervisory staff.
ZJ Front-line extension staff (55% technical, and 45% sub-technical categories).



- 15 -
Tla-bj3.2.  REGIONAL DISInUBUrION OF FRONT-LINE GENERAL EXTENSION SFF OF MOA
Fanning          No. of                      No. of      Peent FLS:
ReIeion       PoDUlation        Ddisrictb                    -ELL        Fann0 r    Rat
Ashanti         690,000           Is            152           288           1:2396
Brong-Ahafo     398,178           13            105           243          1:1639
Central         376,970           12            83            205           1:1839
Eastern         554,693           15            97            237          1:2340
Greater Acomr    472,262          5             23            178           1:2653
WeCtem          382,075           11            100           131           1:2907
NoIthern       384,312            13            100           307          1:1252
Upper EaSt     239,166            6             57            325           1:736
Upper West      144,543           5             44            211           1:685
Volta           99929             12            87           162            1;71.2
GHANA         4,042,128          110            848          2,687          1:1504
C. The Role of Women in Agriculture
3.36   The role of women in the socio-economic life of rural Ghanaians cannot be over-
emphasized. Women play a prominent role in the economic development of the majority of the
population with low income. They constitute over half of the total population and about
47 percent of the labor force; they at,count for about 70 percent of the total food crop production;
they process and market nearly all the grains and starchy staple foods; and about 30 percent are
heads of households.
3.37   The 1970 and 1984 Agricultural Census showed that there is a consistent pattem of
increase in women going into farming. Between 1970 and 1984, the number of women farmers
increased by 102 percent (from 0.78 to 1.6 million) compared to 72 percent for men (from 1.01
to 1.6 million). By 1984 women farmers outnumbered men in Ashanti, Central, Eastern, Western
and Volta regions.1/
3.38   Besides performing all household chores women contribute immensely to the activities of
family farms. In most areas women participate in land preparation, sowing or planting, weeding,
harvesting, threshing, shelling, winnowing, cotton picking, cocoa processing and transportation of
farm produce (head portage). They also assist men in the maintenance of the cash crop farms.
Although women are actively involved in agricultural production, they have limited access to
extension and credit services. Deliberate effiort is therefore needed to improve the outreach of
extension services to meet the multiple roles of rural women in agriculture as home makers,
farmers, food processors, and marketers.
3.39   Women farmers are increasingly organizing themselves into groups, particularly under the
impetus of the 31st December Women's National Movement. The movement is assisting them in
getting access to grants and credits to establish small-scale gari, vegetable and oil processing
plants, grain mills and group farms. NGOs and the Agricultural Development Banks indicate that
1/     The World Bank, (1991). Ghana Medium Term Agricultuml Developmert Strtegy (MTADS)



- 16 -
these women groups are reliable and promptly pay their loans. Many of these groups are
functioning as loose associations without being properly constituted as legal entities. They require
education and assistance on the operations, development and management of co-operative societies
to properly conduct their business.
3.40   The number of fwiHaie front line staff (Zonal Extension Officers) in NiOA is very low
(415) and some of them would rtluire re-training in order to enhance their productivity. It is
difficult to recruit well trained female extension agents as the intake capacity of the agricultural
colleges is very low due to lack of accommodation. Only 58 females can be accommodated out
of a total enrollment of 750 students. At the university level, the problem seems to be the high
entry requirements which includes Mathematics, English and Science subjects. Since many girl
students do not join science streams in secondary school, this becomes a handicap in seeking
entrance to the agricultural faculties.
D. Agricultural Technology
The Agricultural Research Setup
3.41   Virtually all agricultural research in Ghana is undertakon by public sector agencies. The
Council for Scientific amid Industrial Research (CSIR) was set up in 1968 in order to advise the
government and promote and coordinate research efforts of different ministries. CSIR has a
mandate to advise Government on the use of science and technology for development, to promote
and coordinate research that will advance development and to establish and operate any necessary
research institutes. There are seven Agricultural research institutes under the CSIR one each for
Animal, Crops, Food, Oil Palm, Soils and Aquatic Biology. Each institute is semi-autonomous
and headed by a Director assisted by a Board. Overall coordination is provideJ through a
Director's Management Committee, chaired by the Director General of CSIR, whilst members of
the Management Boards provide linkages with other research and government agencies.
3.42   Cocoa research is undertaken by the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana, which is run by
the Cocoa Board. The faculties of agriculture in the three universities in Ghana also conduct
research with a focus on differing agro-ecological zones. The Departmect of Animal Health and
Pro.!uction, the Department of Fisheries, and the Department of Crop Services undertake some
research but are constrained by lack of qualified staff and facilities.
3.43   Amongst the food crops, the current concentration of research is on maize, sorghum,
cowpea and soybean. The non-cereal staples such as cassava, yam, cocoyam and plantain
received minor attention despite their greater contribution to agricultural GDP (almost 59 percent)
and the caloric content of the diet of rural population. Although research on industrial crops is
focussed on cocoa, some research has been conducted on coffee, coconut and cotton. Livestock
research conducted by the MOA has in the past emphasized the control of disease. The faculties
of agriculture in the three universities have been in the forefront of research in livestock breeding
and nutrition. Until recently, there has been little farming systems research which is only now
being introduced in the Crop Research Institute. While there has been some resedrch on the
economics of crop production, the economics of livestock production has received little attention.
The National Agricultural Research Project would address these and other main problems of



- 17 -
agricultural research by providing support to improve prioritization and planning, better
coordination, the development of physical facilities and manpower development.
3.44 Current Status of Research. Although considerable research is required to: (i) refine
existing technology to the different agro-ecological conditions in Ghana; (ii) generate new
technologies for relatively under-researched crops such as root and tuber crops; and (iii) adapt
new technology developed at the international research institutes, and other national research
systems to Ghanaian conditions, there exist a number of improved vatieties and recommended
agronomic practices for a majority of food crops that would, if adopted by Ghanaian farmers,
increase total crop production significantly in the short and medium term. Substantial research
work has been conducted on maize, sorghum, rice, cowpea, and groundnut in collaboration v. `h
bilateral donors, ICRISAT, CIMMYT and IITA. Of these, maize, sorghum and cowpeas seem to
be the most researched and for which a number of Improved varieties are available. Twelve
improved varieties of maize have been released with maturing periods of 95-120 days to fit
different agro-ecological zoines. Similarly, a number of improved varieties for sorghum and
cowpea have been released. Improved varieties have also been developed for both rainfed and
irrigated rice. High yielding varieties of cassava are available, but these are mainly suitable for
gw  production due to their high cyanide content. High yielding varieties exist for a wide range
of vegetables and fruits. Aquaculture technology and effective methods of disease control for
small ruminants and poultry exist that could immensely increase fish and meat production. A
number of intermediate technologies in farm tools and implements have also been developed to
if...izase the efficiency of farm labor. On the animal production side, simple and cost effective
technology for controlling trypanosomiasis is now available. A fuller account of available
technology is given in Annex 2.
3.45   Current Level of Farmine in Ghana. The level of modern agricultural technology adopted
by farmers in Ghana is low. Agronomic practices that decrease soil erosion and increase soil
moisture, such as contour plowing, 1:edge planting, terracing, and harvesting rain water are not
widely practiced. Composting is practically unknown. Crop rotation for purposes of increasing
soil fertility is not practiced. The major tools for a majority of farmers are the hoe and the
cutlass. Maize shelling and rice and sorghum threshing are all done by hand with the help of a
stick. In irrigated rice production, simple tools for leveling and puddling soil are not available.
Agricultural goods are transported from farm to home and from home to market by head portage.
Post harvest losses are reported to be very high.
3.46   There is wide scope for substantially increasing the cropped area per farm through use of
improved tools and animal drawn farm implements that significantly increase the efficiency of
labor, since less than 40 percent of the nation's arable land is cultivated. Very few households
have adopted technologies which would reduce the drudgery of women in doing household
chores, such as: stoves that are energy efficient and reduce the time of cooking and collecting
fuelwood, gari processing, grain milling, and oil extracting machines, improved housing of sheep
and goats that simplify the collection of manure and urine and ..,educe the time for cleaning, etc.
3.47   Livestock farmers do not generally adopt the currently available technology for the
control of animal diseases. This is a major factor constraining the use of animal traction. The
wide swings in crop prices and the possibility of drought, increase the risk of technology adoption
while the unavailability of inputs and credit discourage farmers from even trying it.



- 18 -
3.48   The use of fertilizer in Ghana is very low. In 1989, the total arnount of fertilizer sold to
farmers was about 10,200 tons of nutrients, which averages only about 7 kg per ha. As adequate
use of fertilizer and improved seeds are the major determinants of increased crop production,
special efforts need to be made to ensure that Government adopts appropriate policies to ensure
that the returns to these inputs are adequate to encourage their increased use and that they are
available at the right time.
3.49   The foregoing discussion clearly shows that not only is a wide range of technologies
available, but that there is also a wide scope for increasing agricultural productivity through the
use of improved cultural practices and labor saving implements and equipment. Disseminating
scientific farming and the available technolQgies can keep the extension service extremely busy in
the short and medium term. Thus, in the short and medium term, the gap would more likely be
"extension" and "services" gap rather than "technology gap". The existing gap between the level
of production and yields of major crops in 1988 and their potential yield if grown under
improved husbandry and crop management conditions, using improved seo ds, correct plant
population and planting date, moderate amounts of fert"Aizer and timely weed and pest control is
brought out in Table 3.4 below. For the longer-term, Government is investing in agricultural
research to solve the practical problems that constrain increased farm productivity.
Table 3.4. AREA, PRODUCTION, YIELD OF MAJOR AGRICULTURAL CROPS IN 1988 /
Possible
1988        Improved
Area              Production        Yield         Yield
CroD               '00   .             '000 tons        ton/ha        ton/ha
Maize                551                  750             1.4         > 3.0
Sorghum/millet       408                  370             0.9          >2.0 3/
Rice                  92                   120            1.3          >2.5 4/
Cassava              449                 3,300            7.5         >20.0
Yam                   170                1,200            7.0          25.0
Cocoyam              219                 1,200            5.5           n.a.
Cowpea                43                   14             0.3          > 1.4
Groundnut             153                 140             0.9           1.5
Source: The Minist"y of Agriculture
3.50   Current Extension Recommendations. The technologies currently being recommended to
farmers by extension are generally limited to maize, sorghum, cowpea and rice, and are: (i)
simple and uniform, i.e., lacking in specificity; and (ii) mono-crop based, ignoring the complex
_/ Adapted from The World Bank, 1990. Ghana - Medium-Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS).
Working Paper 2. Food Crops.
i/ The improved yield is for sorghum. Millet is mainly grown in the driest area of Northern Ghana. There are no
improved varieties of millet.
4/ Yield is for rainfed rice. Yield of 4.5 tons per ha. could be achieved on irrigated farm.



-19-
farming systems which are common in many parts of Ghana.jI In the case of maize, for
instance, the recommendations relating to fertilizer application rate and timing are standard,
though for increased efficiency of fertilizer use, these parameters should be varied according to
soil characteristics and climatic conditions. In some cases they lack relevance, as in the case of
cowpea, where high yielding varieties, recommended by extension, are not yet popular due to the
high susceptibility of these varieties to pests. As regards root crops, the only useful
recommendation is the mini-set technology for yamn, though these - cassava, yam, cocoyam - are
very critical for food security in the rural areas and farmers' incomes, and in which farmers
would welcome useful recommendations. The main reason for this lack of recommendation for
root crops is again extension's sole reliance on the research system for its recommendations, and
the higher priority given by the latter to grain than to tubers. Useful production recommendations
on these crops could be developed from the information available in Ghana, particularly among
farmers, and abroad. As regards rice, although more technological recommendations can be
developed from the information available than what are given to farmers by extension, such
efforts are at an initial stage. For sorghum and millet, improved varieties that can be
recommended with confidence are not yet available. Research is not actively involved in post
harvest technology, and extension is therefore unable to give useful recommendations to farmers,
despite the fact that post harvest losses are high in Ghana and some farmers have developed
storage techniques which could be studied by extension for further experimentation and
improvement.
3.51    Livestock. Extension services for livestock are very weak, primarily due to the limited
availability of recommendable technologies and lack of organized efforts in areas where
technologies are available. In the case of inland fisheries, particularly aquaculture, improved
technologies exist but have not yet reached the small-scale farmers, mainly due to lack of trained
manpower and partly due tc lack of organized efforts.
3.52    Soils. Past research in soil and water conservation has been inadequate, and extension
recommendations do not therefore cover these areas. The areas in which farmers would welcome
useful extension recommendations are: (i) restoration of soil fertility through crop rotation and
agro-forestry; and (ii) diversification of farming leading to sustainable farming systems. There
are farmers who have learned how to produce the desired amount of food crops on a smaller land
area, but they are not yet adeqi.. tely guided as to how best to reallocate their land and labor
resources to maximize their eartungs through diversification.
3.53    The main reasons for the poor level of adoption of technology by farmers in Ghana are:
(i) weak extension system with poor training, leading to poor capacity to diagnose farmers needs;
(ii) inadequate research-extension linkages, which have been responsible for the technologies
S/ One of the mair lessons Icarnt from Farming Systems Research (FSR) is that the research and extension systems
should understand the existing farming system well before assembling technological recommendations. FSR
would demonstrate that the inability of farmers to adopt one recommendation due to certain constraints which
would make some other reconunendations meaningless. Recommendations relating to the time of planting,
varietal choice and fertilizer levels provide a good example. These components have close irteractions, which
would make the recommended fertilizer levels for crop planted at the optimum planting time much higher than
for late planted crop. But if fanmers are unable to stick to the optimum planting time due to various constraints
such as low farm power or lack of labor resources, then many fertilizer recommendations would become
meaningless.



- 20 -
already developed by the research system not being extended to the farmers, and not being refined
to suit the different agro-ecological regions of Ghana and farmers' access ta other services;
(iii) tendency of the extenmion system, even where it has been strengthened, to rely too much on
the research system for its technological recommendations, and ignoring the indigenous
technologies developed by farmers themselves, particularly in areas such as post-harvest, root and
tubers, and intercropping; (iv) non-utilization of intermediate technology to increase labor
efficiency; (v) inefficiencies in the market system including the availability of credit and inputs
and access to commodity markets with adequate incentives; and (vi) the risks associated with
adopting innovations, and the inability of the administration to provide the farmers with a risk
minimizing environment.
E. Research-Extension Linkaees
3.54   The present linkages of research with extension are poor, and need to be strengthened to
make agricultural research relevant to farmers' needs. The present weaknesses are: (i) often
researchers publish research results in scientific journals which tend to be too technical, and also,
many publish their research activities in annual reports which have limited circulation. Apart
from being technical, these publications are often voluminous, and do not benefit extension work
since it has been observed that extension personnel do not read journals or annual reports, (ii) the
present level of interaction between researchers and the Information Support Unit of DAES needs
to be improved considerably. Researchers, in addition to publishing their works in scientific
journals, should highlight their results in newsletters and extension guides in concise and simple
terms which would be aimed at policy makers, extension officers and literate farmers; and
(iii) seminars and workshops which create avenues for extension officers, researchers, farmers
and policy makers to interact are practically non-existent. These meetings would enable
researchers to appreciate the practical problems that need to be investigated so that research can
be more relevant. The various research institutes ar.d universities can contribute subject-matter
specialists for the training of extension to the mutual benefits of the research and extension
establishments.
F. Agricultural Training and Education
3.55   Formal agricultural and forestry education in Ghana starts with primary schools. A
vocationally oriented agricultural education option has been introduced in the junior and secondary
schools. Professional training is provided by agricultural and veterinary colleges and the
universities. There are eight agricultural colleges, of which one trains veterinary and animal
husbandry technicians, another forestry officers and a third cocoa extension officers. MOA
operates five of these agricultural colleges and four farm institutes which prepare middle school
leavers for farming activities. The faculties of Agriculture of Legon, Kumasi and the Cape Coast
universities, which are under the Ministry of Education and (MOE), offer degree and diploma
programs.
3.56   Agricultural Colleges. The objectives of the agricultural colleges is to train technicians
for the various departments of MOA and other agricultural organizations. Except for the
veterinary college, all the remaining four colleges follow a common three years program. The



- 21 -
total capacity of the five MOA agricultural colleges is about 920 students. The total enrolment i
1989 was 750. These colleges admit about 375 trainees annually. About 70 percent of the intake
is from secondary school students with four "0" level passes including the English language in
the West African School Certificate Exam or the GCE. The rest are selected from the staff of the
MOA based on their work performance and experience. The educational background of the latter
is inadequate for effectively following the curriculum of the colleges and has created problems for
both the colleges and MOA in considering the future development of these staff. The limited
accommodation for female students (58 out of 920) severely limits the training of female staff.
3.57   The curriculum of the colleges covers all aspects of agriculture with four hours ot'
classroom lectures and four hours of practical work every school day. The first two vears are
residential while the third year is devoted to practical field work in the departmnent of MOA to
which they will be posted. The value of the last year as a learning device is questionable as
students do not return to the colleges to build upon the experience of their assignment. A
preferable arrangement may be to limit the practical assignment to 3-4 months and students return
to the colleges to discuss their experiences in class and to take additional courses to deepen their
expertise. The colleges are currently manned by poorly motivated and underqualified staff.
There are 8-10 instructors at each college, half of which are university graduates. The minimum
requirement to teach in these colleges should be a B. Sc. degree plus some work experience. The
principals of the colleges should have post graduate training with experience in academic
leadership.
3.58   Essential facilities like textbooks, teaching aids, laboratory and farm equipment and farm
machinery, means of transport and farm animals are lacking in all the colleges. Classroom and
dormitory furniture is dilapidated. With the exception of the veterinary college at Pong-Tamale,
the colleges in their present state do not bear any resemblance to an academic institution. All
these contribute to lower the quality of instruction given and the quality of students and teachers
the colleges attract. The existing facilities need to be renovated without recourse to physical
expansion. The curricula of the colleges and the capacity of the teaching staff to prepare students
to the challenges of the new unified extension system needs to be reviewed.
3.59   Agricultural Faculties. The University of Ghana and the University of Science and
Technology offer a full range of diploma and degree programs in agriculture leading up to the
Ph.D. degree. The University of Cape Coast essentially offers a teacher education program in
agriculture leading to a B.Sc. degree. Table 3.5 shows the programs, capacities and outputs of
the three faculties. The combined teaching staff of the three faculties comprise of 44 Ph.D., 39
M.Sc. and 9 B.Sc. holders. These are in general well trained and well qualified. However, they
are poorly motivated in terms of pay and support services for teaching and research. Those who
can are actively engaged in consulting work to supplement their income.
3.60   The curricula covered in the three faculties embrace all disciplines of agriculture and
home sciences. Practical training is an integral part of the curriculum but the means of effectively
carrying it out are lacking. Text books and reference materials are outdated. The infrastructure
has deteriorated over the years. Laboratory equipment and farm machinery have become obsolete
and difficult to maintain. Inadequate financing constrains conducting a full range of farm and
research operations, which deny students an exposure to an effective practical experience and
limits the creativity of the faculty. The MOA realizes these problems and is arranging to alleviate
some of these constraints through a number of its projects. The universities reference libraries
would be upgraded and linked with the Ghana agricultural research and information network



- 22 -
systems and research grants would be made available to the agricultural faculties under the
National Agricultural Research Project. The MOA is planning to review the entire agricultural
education system with the purpose of rehabilitating and revitalizing it.
Table 3.5. CAPACITY AND ANNUAL OUTPUT OF FACULTIES OF AGRICULTURE IN GHANA
BY QUALIFICATION
Dumation of    Qualification  Avg. Annual     Annual
Institution       Study                       Output            Com_Qity
University of       2          Diploma           54               60
Ghana               3          B.Sc.             44               60
2          M.Sc./M.Ph.        5               13
34         Ph.D.              -               3
U.S.T.              2          Diploma           43               45
4          B.Sc.             56               60
2          M.Sc.              1               2
3          Ph.D.              -               -
University of       4          B.Sc.             26               35
Cape Coast
TOTAL                          Diploma           97               105
B.Sc.            126              155
M.Sc.             6               IS
Ph.D.                              3
G. Agricultural Producer Qrganizations
3.61   Cooperatives have had their heyday in Ghana. They were actively promoted by the
colonial government since the 1920's and gained substantial importance especially in cocoa
marketing. In the 1940s and 1950s, the Department of Cooperatives pursued a policy of
transferring part of its educational and promotional functions to the movement's own
organizations, e.g., the Gold Coast Cooperative Federation and the Alliance of Ghana
Cooperatives. At Independence, the cooperatives were well on their way to developing into self-
reliant, viable and sustainable organizations.
3.62   Since the early 1960s, the cooperatives have gone through a turbulent period marked by
drastic and frequent shifts in government policy. In 1961, all cooperative organizations were
dissolved through Government decree and their assets and functions transferred to parastatal and
other Government controlled organizations. A few years later, this decision was pardy reversed
by the new Government, although the cooperatives were not compensated for the loss of their
assets The whole period since the mid-1960s has been marked by experiments with different
types of cooperative structures and with farmers' associations. The lack of a consistent



- 23 -
Government policy and the promotion of a variety of organizations to carry out government
initiated programs and functions, have over the years led to a proliferation of cooperatives and an
unwieldy cooperative structure. The Ghana Cooperative Bank was expropriated by the
Government in 1960. Although it was re-established in 1974, its links to the cooperative
movement are weak and the major part of its financial operations is outside the cooperative
sector. Although the Ghana Cooperative Council acts as an apex organization, it has been unable
to discharge its functions effectively. It is almost entirely dependent on financial contributions
from Government, which manifests the poor state of cooperative development in Ghana.
3.63   Only a few hundred out of a total of more than 5,000 registered agricultural service
cooperatives are functioning. Their membership and level of business activities are generally
quite insignificant, with the exception of a small number of cooperatives which are being
promoted with assistance from external donors. The cocoa cooperatives, which until the early
1960s constituted the backbone of the agricultural cooperative movement, have since become
moribund, and their activities have been taken over by the Cocoa Marketing Board.
3.64   The Government is aware of the foregoing problems and is reviewing the cooperative
sector with Bank and other donors' assistance in order to draw-up a plan of action to restructure
and develop the cooperative sector along sound and sustainable principles.
H. Rural Marketing and Finance
3.65   The most severe constraints militating against increased agricultural productivity through
wide spread adoption of agricultural innovations lie in the business end of agriculture, which is
poorly organized. There are problems in the timely delivery of inputs, mainly fertilizer and
seeds, and even if inputs were available, most farmers do not have access to credit for buying
them. Tremendous variations exist in seasonal prices of food grains. For instance the price of
maize 4 months after harvest can be as high as 3 to 5 times that in the month of harvest. Most
farmers cannot store their produce until prices increase due to immediate cash requirements for
family needs. Credit repayments fall due immediately after harvest, which reinforces low prices.
Smallholders in the maize surplus areas are unwilling to store their harvest in large quantities
because of high storage losses. The moisture content of the maize is high as farmers have to
remove the crop early to avoid pest infestation as well as for preparing land for the minor season
crop.
3.66 The Bank is supporting Government's resolve to improve the macroeconomic environment
for increasing the efficiency of the marketing system for agricultural inputs and farm produce
under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC), currently being processed.
Government would privatize the entire marketing chain of all agricultural inputs. Privatization of
retail marketing of fertilizer is in progress and would be extended to wholesaling in the next
phase. The FASCOMs in Upper and Volta regions would also privatize their operations.
Meanwhile they would be restructured to increase their capital base, tighten their financial
discipline and reorient their operations on sound commercial principles.
3.67   Farmers need to be encouraged and supported to actively participate in the distribution of
inputs, provision of credit and the storage and marketing of farm produce. The strategy of the
Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) is to contact smallholders in small groups.



- 24 -
A number of such groups can be organized to form farmers' and fishermen's associations (FAs)
for the purpose of input and credit distribution and the storage and marketing of farm produce.
FAs would facilitate as well as reduce the cost of input distribution and the administration of
credit to a large number of farmers. It has been shown in Ghana and elsewhere that credit given
to groups has a better record of repayment. The Rural Finance Project is making funds available
to the banking system for financing agricultural production and marketing.
3.68   FAs can also mobilize a high volume of farm produce for storage and marketing. Storage
and drying equipment could be made availakie to them on the basis of hire purchase and working
capital provided for buying and selling inputs and produce. The Integrated Agricultural
Development Project at Mainpong has successfully shown that this could be done. Government is
prepariag an Agricultural Marketing Project.
3.69   A multitude of NGOs are currently engaged In providing agricultural extension services to
farmers. As their comparative advantage does not lie in this, they should be encouraged to leave
extension activities to MOA and shift their focus to promoting the development of FAs by training
their management committees in accounting and business principles and monitoring their progress.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale, Obiectives and Strategy
Project Rationale
4.1    The project was proposed in the Government's Medium Term Agricultural Development
Plan (MTADP), which identified four priority areas of action for accelerating growth in the
agricultural sector. These were: (i) improving the incentive framework for farmers;
(ii) increasing private sector participation in agricultural development; (iii) strengthening the
management of agricultural services, particularly extension and research; and (iv) establishing a
framework for a more rational allocation of public sector resources. The project would improve
the key area of extension in agricultural support services and also complement the National
Agricultural Research Project by forging strong research/-extension linkages so that research
would be responsive to solving farmer perceived problems and extension would diagnose farmers'
problems and participate with research in the generation of technologies to resolve them. The
project would also contribute to the strengthening of the agricultural sector management and
rationalizing the allocation of resources in the public sector through consolidation of scattered
extension initiatives across departments and various agencies.
4.2    The proposed project would build upon the successful experiences of different extension
approaches tried in Ghana. It would unify the scattered agricultural extension services under
DAES. A single extension agent would deliver extension messages in crops, agro-forestry,
livestock, fisheries (aquaculture), irrigation, women in agricultural development, etc. It would
promote the wide use of proven agricultural innovations and farming practices that would increase



- 25 -
output, improve the efficiency of labor, conserve soil and water resources and contribute to the
protection of the environment.
Qbjectiyes
4.3    The project would be one of the main vehicles for accelerating growth of the agricultural
sector under the MTADP. It would significantly strengthen the services of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) through logistic, infrastructure and human resource development support and
contribute towards facilitating increased productivity of farmers, particularly that of smallholders.
The primary objective of the project is to achieve sustained increase in agricultural production and
improve the nutrition and incomes of smallholder households through enhanced adoption of
technology.
4.4   In particular, the project would help to: (a) improve efficiency in the management and
delivery of extension services, (b) improve the relevance of technologies available to farmers, and
in particular, indigenous technologies developed by farmers themselves; (c) increase the
involvement of farmers in the identification of areas where further research is needed and develop
technologies with their collaboration; (d) assist the Department of Cooperatives in organizing
farmers into groups and associations in order to improve their income through better access to
inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (e) strengthen the existing framework for human
resource development in the sector and forge linkages between research. teaching and extension.
Special emphasis would be placed on reaching women farmers.
B. Summary Description
4.5    The project would be implemented over a period of five years and would have the
following major components:
(a)   strengthenine the extension _ervice in all the ten regions through: (i) provision of
infrastructure, transport, equipment, consultancy services, and incremental recurrent cost
support; (ii) in-service training of all categories of staff; and (iii) forging closer link
between extension and agricultural research services;
(b)   strengthening the technical departments of MOA to expand sectoral capacity to test the
relevance of technologies generated by research institutes to farmers' conditions through
provision of transport, equipment, technical assistance and incremental recurrent cost
support to subject matter specialists (SMS)and to project monitoring and evaluation; and
(c)   supporting human resource development through improved facilities, provision of teaching
materials, farm and laboratory equipment and transport support as well as upgrading of
the teaching staff of agricultural colleges and text books to the faculties of agriculture.



- 26 -
C. Detailed Fedtures
Strengthening the g.xtension Servc (US$30.27 million)
4.6    The project would support the operation of a unified national agricultural extension
service which would deliver extension messages in crops, soil and water conservation, agro-
forestry, livestock, fisheries, women in agricultural development, etc., to farmers through a single
agent under the direction of DAES. Plans would be drawn for regional and district extension
programs on the basis of diagnostic studies of the local agro-ecologic conditions and farmers'
needs. Regional research/extension liaison committees (RELC) would be established to advise on
these programs. Adaptive on-farm trials would be conducted in collaboration with regional
research institutes to test the relevance of technologies under farmers' conditions and to provide
appropriate feed back that would guide researchers in generating new technology. National and
regional agricultural policy coordinating committees would be established to promote closer
linkages between local administration, farmers, research, extension, education, banking and agri-
business. The Information Support Unit of DAES would be developed to prepare audiovisual aids
for training farmers and extension staff and to develop programs for media diffusion, especially
the radio. A management information system (MIS) would be developed to monitor the execution
of the programs and evaluate their effectiveness. The project would provide funds for the
rehabilitation and construction of offices, construction of staff quarters in remote areas where
satisfactory rental accommodation is not available, equipment, vehicles, a limited amount of
technical assistance and studies, and incremental recurrent costs for the operation and maintenance
of vehicles and equipment.
Strengthening the Technical Departments of MOA (US$3.90 million)
4.7    The technical departments of the MOA, viLz, Crop Services, Animal Health and
Production, Fisheries, Agricultural Engineering, Training and Manpower Development and Policy
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, would play an important role in the project by providing
SMS support, and technical support as needed by the project, particularly to training, monitoring
and evaluation. The project would support these departments through provision of vehicles,
computers, technical assistance and funds to meet the incremental recurrent and maintenance costs
of vehicles and equipment. The project would provide support to the Policy Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Department, to enable it oversee the monitoring of project implementation and to
carry out the impact evaluation of the project.
Human Resource Development (US$6.94 million)
4.8    The project would sup    .man resource development in the agricultural sector, through
support to institutions at three  (i) induction and in-service training to MOA staff,
particularly extension staff; (ii) Agricultural Colleges of the MOA; and (iii) University Faculties
of Agriculture. The project would also forge linkages between research, teaching, extension and
farmers, both at the operational and managerial levels. Research scientists of national agricultural
institutes and regional international agricultural centers would be actively involved in conducting
workshops for SMSs on a regular basis in order to update them on new developments in the fields
of their specialty. Management staff from the headquarters and regional offices of DAES, subject
matter specialists, scientists of agricultural institutes and universities would participate in the
lecture series organized by the agricultural colleges. Students of the agricultural colleges would



- 27 -
be given opportunity to work with farmers and extension staff as part of field demonstrations and
practical training.
4.9    The project would support strengthening the five agricultural colleges under MOA
through the provision of classroom furnithre, books, teaching aids, (projectors, TV, video camera
and tape players, etc.), transport, and laboratory and farm equipment. Some of the dormitories
would be renovated and expanded to accommodate additional female students.
4.10   The three agricultural faculties under the Ministry of Education in the three national
universities suffer from a number of inadequacies. These include weak curricula in a few cases,
poor motivation for the well qualified teaching staff, outdated textbooks and reference materials,
inadequate teaching aids, dilapidated infrastructure (classrooms, laboratories and farm structures),
furniture and farm machinery and obsolete laboratory equipment. Addressing all these
inadequacies is clearly outside the scope of this project. The Government is aware of the
situation and would address these problems through other projects. What is provided under this
project is funds (US$0.52 million equivalent) for only updating the text books utilized by these
faculties. This would complement upgrading of the reference libraries of the faculties of
agriculture under the National Agricultural Research Project (para 3.60).
4.11  Induction Training. The changeover from the present extension system based on the
principles of T&V, but with no regularity of training and visit schedules or interaction with
research, would require an intensive induction training for staff at all levels, particularly to SMS.
This training would cover areas such as monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and how to: (i) carry
out effective field visits; (ii) conduct regular training of field staff; (iii) conduct SMS workshops;
and (iv) carry out field trials. The project would support the training through provision of funds
for consultants. Induction training would be conducted during the period of October 1991 to July
1992 (Annex 6).
4.12   In-service Trainin2. In addition to the periodic training of front line staff (FLS) and SMS
as part of t&e e dynamics of the extension system, extension staff at all levels would require
in-service training in specific subject matter areas, both in-country and abroad. The project
would support such training through provision of consultants, and support to travel and training
costs. The in-service training program would be conducted annually. The studies and tours
abroad would be scheduled during the first two years of the project (Annex 6).
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.1    Total project costs are estimated at US$41.11 million (¢16.75 billion) inclusive of duties
and taxes in the amount of US$4.3 million (¢1.75 billion). Of this, about 60 percent or
US$24.61 million is foreign exchange cost. As a proportion of base costs, investment costs
amount to 71 percent and incremental recurrent costs 29 percent. Total contingencies are
II percent of base costs, using 1991 prices, with physical and price contingencies accounting for



- 28 -
9 and 2 percent, respectively. The projected rates of currency exchange and interniational and
domestic inflation used to derive the total project cost estimate are given in Table 5.1.
Table S. 1. INFLATION AND EXCHANGE RATE PROJECTION
gxchanto       International       DoMggic
Rato           nlAigO            Infbtion
Year         ¢/S              gmecnt           Percent
PYI          395              -1.4               8.0
PY2          405              0.3                5.0
PY3          415               3.8               5.0
PY4          425              5.5                5.0
PY5          440              4.5                5.0
5.2   Table 5.2 gives a summary of project costs by component. Additional summary tables on
project costs by year, by component, and by summary accounts are presented in Annex 3. The
costs for the component of strengthening agricultural extension are also shown by region to
facilitate decentralization of project implementation at the field level.
Table 5.2. PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% Foreign       %Total
Comnyonent                             Local  Foreien      Total     Exchanae    Base Costs
(USS Million)
Strengthening Ag. Extension            12.01     14.97    26.98            55           73
Support to Other MOA Depts.             0.84      2.87     3.71            77            10
Human Resource Development
In-Service Training                 0.70      1.32      2.02           65             5
Agricultural Colleges               1.14      3.24      4.38           74            12
Sub-ttal                            1.84      4.56      6.40           71            17
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                   14.69     22.40    37.09            60           10C
Physical Contingencies                  1.18      2.06     3.24            63            9
Price Contingencies                     0.63      0.15     0.78            18            2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    16.50     24.61    41.11            59           111
of which: Incremental Recurrent Costs  (6.52)    (4.25)   (10.78)     (39)          (29)
Duties and Taxes          (4.30)    (0.00)   (4.30)           (-)
B. Proposed Financing Plan
5.3   Of the total project cost of US$41.11 million, the proposed IDA credit would finance
US$30.40 million and the Government of Ghana (GOG) US$10.71 million. The IDA credit
represents 74 percent of total project costs, 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 47 percent



- 29 -
of local costs, excluding duties and taxes. The IDA contribution amounts to about 82 percent of
project costs, excluding duties and taxes. Of the total IDA contribution, $5.67 million is to
finance incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis.
Tlab e_3 PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT
Prnoiwc Componen                   11h    coa    Total  PErcnt
(USS Million)
Strengthening Agr. Extension       21.55     8.72   30.27    73.6
Suppoit to Other MOA Departments    3.20     0.70    3.90     9.5
Human Resource Development
In-service Training              2.02     0.18    2.20      5.3
Agricultural Colleges            3.63     1.11    4.74    11.5
Sub-total                        5.65     1.29    6.94    16.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                30.40    10.71   41.11    100.0
of which: Incremental recurrent cost   (5.67)   (5.11)  (10.78)  (26.22)
Table 5.4 PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN BY FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND LOCAL COSTS
Foreien    Local   Taxes    Total
(US$ Million)
IDA                              24.61    5.79       -    30.40
Government of Ghana                 -    6.41    4.30    10.71
TOTAL                         24.61    12.20    4.30    41.11
C. Procurement
5.4    All goods, civil works, and services financed under the IDA credit would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Technical
assistance and studies will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants and training and study tours will be arranged in consultation with IDA. All contracts
for goods exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 per contract would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for goods valued at less than US$100,000
each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$400,000, would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB), advertized locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$15,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of US$200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. All bidding packages
and contract awards estimated at US$200,000 equivalent or more would be subject to prior review
by IDA. The remaining contracts would be subject to tamdom post review after contract awards.



- 30 -
5.5     LCB procedures are subject to prior review by IDA and will include local advertising,
public bid opening, clarity and disclosure of evaluation criteria, transparency in the evaluation
process, award to lowest evaluated bidder and non-exclusion of foreign bidders who wish to
participate. Procurement of items included under incremental recurrent costs will be done in
accordance with Government procedures, which are satisfactory.
5.6     Civil works estimated to cost less than US$250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$1.0 million, would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
LCB. It is estimated that there would be 15 such contracts aggregating to US$1.31 million
(averaging about US$87,000 per contract). The building of new offices and staff housing would
be grouped by region for international competitive bidding (ICB). It is expected that 16 building
contracts averaging about US$1.00 million per contract would be awarded through ICB. The
packaging of the civil work contracts is being finalized and would be discussed in detail during
the first IDA supervision mission, with appropriate criteria for post qualification review. In
evaluating ICB, domestic contractors would be given a margin of preference of 7.5 percent in
accordance with the Guidelines.
5.7    ICB will be followed for all vehicles and major equipment contracts and will be subject to
prior review by IDA. Books with a total value of about US$1.26 million will be procured on the
basis of ICB, in which publishers as well as their authorized agents can participate. The technical
assistance required for studies, monitoring and evaluation and training include 47 man months of
internationally recruited consultants and 95 man months of local consultants (Annex 9). Standard
bidding documents will be used for both LCB and ICB. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 5.5.
Table 53 SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                                       ICB      LCB      Other             Total
1. Works
1.1 Buildings                                  16.28     1.31                       17.59
(12.19)    (0.98)                   (13.17)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles                                    5.85                0.08             5.93
(5.20)            (0.08)            (5.28)
2.2 Equipment                                   1.61     0.45       0.10             2.16
(1.28)    (0.40)    (0. 10)         (1.78)
2.3 Books                                       1.24               0.02              1.26
(1.24)            (0.02)            (1.26)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Training                                                       1.33              1.33
(1.18)           (1.18)
3.2 Technical Assistance and Studies                               2.06              2.06
(2.06)           (2.06)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Incremental Recurrent Costs                                   10.78             10.78
(5.67)           (5.67)
TOTAL                                          24.98      1.76    14.37             41.11
(19.91)    (1.38)    (9.11)         (30.40)
* Figures in parenthesis show share of IDA financing.



-31i-
D. Disbursgment
5.8    The IDA Credit of US$30.4 million is expected to be effective on May 1, 1992. The
project is expected to be completed by May 1, 1997. The credit would be disbursed over a
period of five and a half years, up to the closing date of November 1, 1997. The disbursement
schedule is provided in Annex 3. It is shorter than the historical disbursement profile of eight
years for agriculture and rural development projects in Africa. The five and half year
disbursement period is considered realistic since the departments responsible for implementing the
project are firmly in place, and most of the vehicles, equipment and furniture would be procured
in the first two years of the project. The civil works for office and staff accommodation would
also be completed in the first three years of the project.
Table 5.6  SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(USS MiWiol)
Cateaory                      Amount of Credit      % of Expcnditure to be Financed
Civil Works                       11.67             100% of foreign and 75% of local
Vehicles                          4.68              100% of foreign and 90% local
Equipment and Materials           1.22              100% of formign and 90% of local
Books                             1.18              100% of foreign and 90% of local
Training                           1.11             100% of foreign and 80% of local
Consultancics & Studies            1.82             100% of foreign and local (net of taxes)
Incremental Recurrent Costs        .36              80% up to December 31, 1995 and
25% theafter
Sub-total                 27.04
Unallocated                       3.36
TOTAL                     30.40
5.9    In order to facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, one Special Account will be opened at a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. This account will be operated by MOA. An initial advance of US$1.5
million will be authorized and can be withdrawn upon credit effectiveness. This advance would
cover about four months of eligible expenditures.
5.10   Replenishment requests will be submitted monthly. Each request will be fully
documented except for incremental recurrent expenditures and for contracts of less than
US$20,000 equivalent which will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE). All
supporting documents will be retained by MOA and made readily available for review by periodic
Bank supervision missions and external auditors.
5.11   Whenever possible, withdrawal application should be aggregated in amounts of not less
than US$50,000. The same limit applies to direct payments. DAES will have responsibility for
the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications.



- 32 -
5.12   Government will establish an account with a local commercial bank, which will receive
the Government funding contribution and would be used to make payments for the implementation
of the project. Government will pay its contribution, monthly and in advance to this account.
The first Government deposit in this accour' would be the equivalent of US$340,000 equivalent in
Cedis, which is a condition of project effectiveness (para 8.3 (i)). This is the approximate
Government contribution, estimated for financing the local incremental recurrent and capital costs
for the first quarter of the project. An annual work program and budget would be prepared and
submitted to IDA not later than September 30, of each year by DAES, and all other departments
participating in the project (para 8.1 (c) (v)).
E. Auditing and Reporting
5.13   All accounts related to the project would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. In addition to the auditors' reports and statements of accounts a long form
audit report, that is, financial statements of project accounts, the special account and SOE's and a
management letter, will be prepared. This auditors' report would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of the fiscal year of the Government. Quarterly financial progress reports and
semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to IDA within 45 days of the end of each
reporting period (para 8.1 (c) (iv)).
Financial Implications
5.14   The project would require Government to contribute an average of US$2.14 million p.a.
from its own budgetary resources. Tiowever, US$0.86 million represents duties and taxes, which
it recovers from the purchase of goods and services for the project. The net contribution of
Government would, therefore, be US$1.28 million per year. In 1990, the expenditure allocation
of MOA was about US$50 million, out of which US$14.28 was for recurrent expenditure. The
recurrent expenditure of the Department of Agricultural Extension Services was US$2.87 million.
Incremental recurrent expenditure resulting from the project is shown in Table 5.7. The
incremental expenditure due to the project would amount to US$1.21 million in the final year of
the project, which does not appear too onerous for Government to bear. The approved budget for
DAES increased more than three fold from Cedis 287 million in 1988 to Cedis 1.09 billion in
1990. MOA wou!d be able to secure adequate support for the project given the strong
commitment of the Government to accelerate agricultural growth. IDA would use the annual
Public Expenditure Review mechanism to ensure that DAES would receive adequate allocations to
implement the project. Although Government would be able to sustain the national agricultural
exten.;i_ program after the project is completed, the project should be seen as the first phase of a
longar-term institutional development program which would require further external assistanc-
considering the long time it takes to develop a smoothly functioning extension service.
Government's contribution to incremental recurrent costs would increase from 20 percent .n the
first three years to 75 percent in the fourth and fifth years as shown in Table 5.7.



- 33 -
Table 5.7 PHASING OF INCREMENTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
(USS Million)
Project Year    EnI      Ei       EY3              PYS      PYa      TOTAL
Calendar Year   1992    1993      1994    1995     1996    1997
IDA             0.51     1.34     2.20    0.60     0.67     0.35       5.67
Go0             0.13     0.34     0.55    1.59     1.81     .8         528
IQ.L5L          0.64     1.68     2.75    2.19     2.48     1.21       10.95
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Introduction
6.1    The project would be managed and implemented mainly by the Department of
Agricultural Extension with the other departments of MOA implementing minor components in a
supportive role. It is envisaged that project implementation would be decentralized with the
regional agricultural offices playing an important role in the annual planning, implementation and
monitoring of project activities. The role envisaged for DAES would be that of coordinating this
planning and facilitating its implementation and not dictating what the regions plans should be.
The extension approach to be used is a modified T&V system amended to suit Ghanaian
conditions. Extension contact with farmers would be on the basis of groups rather than
individuals. Frontline staff would visit farmer groups for training and demonstrations on pre-
announced dates. Demonstration plots would be as large as half to one acre. Frequency of
frontline staff training would be once a month compared to fortnightly of the T&V model.
6.2    Subject matter specialists would play a crucial role in the implementation of the project as
they provide the key role between researchers, frontdine extension staff and farmers. SMS would
be involved in the identification of technological problems farmers are facing and feeding back
this information to research scientists. They would participate in on-farm adaptive research
testing the relevance and appropriateness of technological solutions to farmers problems. They
would train frontline staff in appropriate technologies and how to extend these to farmers. The
backstopping and support of the technical departments of MOA to the subject matter specialists is
therefore critical. Research scientists play an important role in generating and packaging
improved agricultural technologies. Their participation at diagnosing farmers' problems and
conducting research to solve these problems is ensured through the Regional Research/Extension
Liaison Committees and the implementation of the adaptive research component of the National
Agricultural Research Project.
6.3    Project implementation would be monitored using a management information system
(MIS) which emphasizes self monitoring in that individuals implementing various aspects of tile
project would be responsible for monitoring the progress and effectiveness of their work. Their
periodic reports would feed data into the monitoring system, which would be checked by their
immediate supervisors. Monitoring reports would be prepared and evaluated at the regional level



- 34 -
with a feed back both to the districts and headquarters. The quarterly progress reports would be
based on these monitoring reports. Impact evaluation of the project would be conducted under
the aegis of the Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department of MOA. IDA
supervision missions would review the annual program and budget, the effectiveness of the MIS,
financial reporting and audits and the adequacy of the system and studies designed to evaluate the
impact of the project.
B. Extension Approach and Methodology
6.4    Ghana has tried several agricultural extension methods under a variety of agricultural,
rural integrated and pilot development projects (Ghanaian-German Agricultural Development
Project, URADEP, VORADEP, Integrated Agricultural Development Project - in Mampong,
Ashanti Region, Global 2000, etc.). Drawing on these earlier experiences, Govemment has
decided to use an extension methodology with the following main features:
(a)   Extension in Ghana would be made professional, and would be confined to transfer
of technology; extension staff would be relieved of all non-extension functions,
such as, credit disbursement and recovery, and inputs distribution. However,
extension staff would facilitate these activities performed by other institutions.
(b)   All MOA field extension activities, i.e., of crops, animal husbarndry, agro-forestry,
horticulture, fisheries, irrigation, agricultural engineering and womnen in
agricultural development, would be unified and all extension messages and
demonstrations to farmers delivered by a single extension agent under the
Department of (DAES). A ministerial directive would be issued by MOA that
wouid articulate the new extension system and the roles of the various departments
of MOA, other agencies and NGOs in its implementation (para 8.2 (i)).
(c)   Front line staff (FLS) would be regularly trained (initially once a month subject to
review later on the basis of experience) and they would visit farmers regularly on
pre-announced dates with useful messages and demonstrations. Serious efforts
would be made to contact farmers through groups, which can be based on
traditional self help groups such as the Nnoboa, through their elected leaders and
village extension motivators (VEMs), who would be non-paid volunteers. Farm
demonstrations would take place on plots of these leaders and VEMs, who would
be the initial adopters of extension recommendations. The visits of FLS to the
groups would be pre-announced in accordance with a program drawn up with SMS
and district agricultural extension supervisors. Close supervision of staff at various
levels and continual and formal linkages with research would be maintained.
(d)   The periodicity of FLS training sessions and SMS workshops would not be fixed in
advance for all regions, but would depend upon the availability of technological
recommendations and logistic factors; to start with, FLS training sessions would be
held once a month and SMS workshops bimonthly; the position would be reviewed
as more experience is gained with implementation of the extension program.



- 35 -
(e)   Extension staff would assist in organizing farmers' associations which would
arrange credit and input supply through financial institutions, FASCOMs and
established traders.
(f)  In each extension area an extension program would be prepared outlining the areas
of focus, such as contour plowing, row planting, correct plant population, fertilizer
usage, composting, weed control, plant protection, post harvest technology, young
stock rearing, animal hygiene etc. These programs would also indicate broad goals
to be reached by extension, in terms of farmers' adoption of extension
recommendations.
Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) Teams
6.5   The technical departments of MOA would provide SMSs to the regional extension
services. In each region sufficient number of SMS teams would be constituted to train and
backstop the FLS at the regional and sub-regional level. For this purpose, each region would be
subdivided into one to four sub-regions (depending on size and farm population) combining a
number of districts. These sub-regions would be called SMS centers. The SMS team at each SMS
center would be inter-disciplinary and its composition would reflect the needs of the farming
systems predominant in the ecological zone the team operates. The minimum set of SMSs to be
posted at each SMS center would be one each in agronomy, women in development, and
livestock/fisheries. Additional SMS (e.g., horticulturist, agricultural engineer, etc.) may be
posted depending on the necessity of the specialties for the sub-region served by the SMS center.
The regional offices would have a full complement of SMSs appropriate for the ecological zones
found in the regions. Annex 5 shows the desirable number of SMS teams by region and SMS
centers. The number of SMS teams would initially be 22. Accessibility and availability of
adequate facilities and nearness to research or farm stations were considered in selecting the SMS
centers. The technical departments of MOA would ensure that their qualified regional staff would
function as the SMSs of the unified extension system, conduct the on-farm research, participate in
the SMS workshops and train the FLS. The field program of the SMSs would be planned with
and coordinated and supervised by the Senior SMSs in the regional centers. All the SMSs in turn
would be coordinated and supervised by the Regional Extension Officer, who would be
responsible for the extension program. Posting of the first complement of 45 subject matter
specialists (20 agronomy, 15 livestock and 10 WIAD) to SMS centers wouild be a condition of
credit effectiveness. The remaining subject matter specialists indicated in Annex 5 would be
posted in accordance with a timetable to be agreed upon with IDA by December 31, 1992
(para 8.3 (ii);
Research-Extension Linkage
6.6   The main operative steps of the research-extension linkage would be: (a) SMS workshops,
in which the researchers participate; and (b) the various stages of the technology transfer process,
in which the researcher, SMSs, extension staff and farmers take part.
6.7   SMS Workshop. The SMS workshop would be the principal forum of interaction
between the researchers and the extensionists. It is proposed that these workshops would be held
at CSIR research stations in Kumasi and Nyankpala for crops and at the Animal Research stations
(Kaumanso and Pong-Tamale) for livestock. The facilities of the faculties of agriculture may also
be used as appropriate. The selection of the resource scientists for the workshops would be made



- 36 -
by the Regional Research-Extension Liaison Committee (RELC) (para 6.13) and would normally
be from, but not necessarily confined to the link research station. The regional SMS (Training)
would arrange visits by the SMSs to the regional research centers and stations periodically, to
acquaint themselves with the ongoing research. Periodic training would be arranged at suitable
places in other subjects such as post-harvest technology, horticulture, agro-forestry, range
management and soil and water conservation. Where possible, the expertise available at the
universities and institutes other than the NARCs, such as the Institute of Renewable Natural
Resources and Forest Products Research Institute would be used for SMS training.
6.8    Researob. The National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) has proposed setting up
8 National Agricultural Research Centers (NAREC) which would be CSIR institutes and would be
commodity/crop oriented; and 6 Regional Research Stations (RRS) which would be part of the
CSD, and would be located at different representative agro-climatic zones. The preliminary
research findings of the NARECs would be tested at the RRSs by the CSD, on behalf of the
NAREC concerned, and the results of these experiments would be provided by the CSD to the
NAREC concerned. In addition to the RRS experiments, it might be necessary to undertake
researcher-managed trials on farmers' fields in those agro-ecological situations which are not
adequately represented by the NAREC/RRS complex. These trials are akin to the research
undertaken on the RRSs, the only difference being that they would be on farmers' fields. As they
are part of research, they should be planned jointly by the researchers and the CSD. These trials
would be funded under the National Research Project. For this purpose, CSIR would prepare a
list of research results ready for on-farm adaptive trial. CSIR would also strengthen research in
areas not adequately emphasized at present, i.e., relay and inter-cropping, root and tuber crops,
agro-forestry and livestock. These points would be included in the Memorandum of
understanding to be exchanged between CSIR and MOA under the NARP.
6.9    Diagnostic Surmeys. Diagnostic surveys of the farming systems found in the different
agro-ecological zones of each region would be carried out using rapid appraisal techniques prior
to developing the adaptive trials and extension program under the project. The purpose of these
surveys is to establish the agricultural knowledge base of farmers and the current agricultural
practices they follow. The findings of these surveys would lay the foundation for planning the
extension activities and adaptive trials to be executed under the project. The scientists of the
relevant research institutes in the regions would be responsible for these surveys with the active
involvement of the subject matter specialists and regional and district extension supervisors.
6.10   On-farm Adaptive Trials. The objective of these trials would be to find out how far
recommendations are found feasible by farmers to adopt, given the various factors such as, the
prevailing farming system and the competing demands on the available labor, farmers' resource
endowments, etc. These trials would be planned jointly by the researchers and the SMSs and
supervised by the latter. Extension would identify the farmers who would participate in the trials
and closely monitor their implementation. Researchers would visit the farmers' fields along with
the SMSs at pre-planned dates in accordance with crop and livestock calendars. The results of
these trials would be reported by the SMSs to the researchers and would form an important
subject of discussion in the SMS workshops. Recommendations given by research to extension
would take into consideration the results of these trials. The National Research Project would
also provide funding for these trials.
6.11 Extension Test Plots (ETPs). The next stage would be demonstrations on farmers' fields.
The objective would be to persuade farmers to adopt the recommendations on portions of their



- 37 -
farms, so that they serve as demonstration to other farmers, and at the same time provide
opportunity for further verification of the recommendations. The ETPs would vary in size from
one half to two acres and would be mostly managed by farmers themselves with FLS assistance.
ETP results would be disc ssed in the FLS training sessions.
6.12 Farmer Led Technology Development. Considering that the research system in Ghana is
still being developed and realizing the need to learn from the technologies developed by the
farmers in their efforts to overcome field problems, the project would support a special effort to
involve farmers and farmer groups in technology development. Recently there has been a
renewed interest in the role of farmers in introducing technological innovations. It is recognized
that such innovations are usually based on sustainable agricultural systems, and that the national
research and extension systems have not taken adequate notice of them. In Ghana, the
technological recommendations to farmers tend to be based on research done by scientists who do
not generally study farmers' practices before formulating their research issues. Recent literature
on farmers' participatory research and extension as well as international seminars on the subject
would indicate the growing interest in indigenous knowledge systems and the association of
farmers actively in technology development. Field experiences of many researchers and NGOs
who have successfully developed relevant extension messages based on technologies developed by
farmers have been documented in a number of publications. The project would focus on enabling
the extension system, through suitable induction training, to work with the farmers and farmer
groups and to involve them actively in technology identification and generation. Instead of
extension functioning as a mouthpiece of research, it would increasingly function as a partner of
farmers and discuss the possible research strategies with the researchers. Research would be as
much the client of the extension system as of the farmers.
Regional Research-Extension Liaison Committee (RELC)
6.13   Considering that in Ghana many agencies are engaged in the task of generation, testing
and transfer of technology, there is a clear need for a coordinating mechanism at the regional
level. Government would set up at the regional level the Research-Extension Liaison Committee
(RELC) under the chairmanship of the Regional PNDC Deputy Secretary for Agriculture. The
membership of this committee would include the Directors and Research Coordinators of the
NARECs of the region concerned, the SMSs in that region and the Regional Agricultural
Extension Officer. The SMS (Training of the region would function as the secretary of the
committee. The terms of reference of RELC is given in Annex 8). The functions of RELC
would include:
-   periodically assessing the relevance of the research programs undertaken by the CSIR
institutes and their priorities in the region;
-   selecting the resource persons for the SMS workshops and periodically assessing their
performance; and
-   reviewing the functioning of extension and the implementation of on-farm trials and
extension test plot programs.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that RELCs would be established in each of the ten
regions by September 30, 1992 (para 8.1 (a) (i)).



- 38 -
Women in Agricultural Development
6.14   Women play a prominent role in Ghanaian agriculture. In addition to performing
household duties, they participate in land preparation, sowing or planting, weeding, harvesting,
threshing, shelling, winnowing, cotton picking, oil palm, sheanut and cocoa processing and
transportation of farm produce. Women market nearly all the grains and starchy staple foods.
6.15   Through the project, MOA would make a deliberate effort to improve the outreach of its
services to meet the multiple roles of women farmers. The Women in Agricultural Development
Division (WIAD) would spearhead the Department's effort in transferring technologies in crop
production, processing, preservation, and utilization as well as in home improvement and nutrition
to women farmers. It would also be responsible for including farm youth in its training
programs. All training and demonstration sessions to women farmers would be given as a group
so that both male and female agents can work effectively with them. Female agents would be
provided in areas where there is gender restriction.
6.16   The number of female front line staff (FLS) in DAES is very low (457 out of 3079). The
agricultural colleges can accommodate only 58 female students out of a total enrollment capacity
of 920 students. The project would enable the agricultural colleges to increase the intake of
female students. Both female and male students in these colleges would be required to take
similar courses including nutrition, home improvement, food processing and agricultural
mechanization subjects. This would prepare them to meet the field requirements where one
extension agent would deliver messages on all areas of agriculture including post harvest
technologies and utilization of food crops. The colleges would be equipped with home science
equipment to offer adequate practical training. WIAD staff would publicize the importance of
WIAD as a profession and its career opportunities in order to arouse interest and increase the
enrollment of female students at the agricultural colleges.
6.17   Rural women lack appropriate labor saving farm implements and household equipments.
The WIAD program would sensitize researchers to women's needs for labor saving technologies
in food production and processing.
Personnel Policies and Staff Qualifications
6.18   The front line extension staff (FLS) would be certificate holders from the colleges of
agriculture or equivalent institutions. Due to shortage of qualified staff, the subject matter
specialists (SMSs) would initially have a minimum qualification of diplomates plus 3 years of
relevant experience. This would be reviewed and raised to a minimum of B.Sc. The SMS would
be given periodic training in their subjects of specialization to keep them abreast of new
developments. The SMS would be retained in their area of specialization through suitable career
development programs; ultimately they would all be post-graduates.
6.19   The teachers and principals of the colleges of agriculture would be university graduates
and post graduates, respectively. Experienced SMS and other extension staff would be
encouraged to teach at these colleges as part of their career development.
6.20   Retraining and Retrenchment of Non-gualified Frontline Staff. Currently, DAES has
3016 FLS, of which 1222 are under-qualified. These are found mainly in the three regions
covered by the defunct URADEP and VORADEP projects. Most of these staff have only



- 39 -
elementary education plus one year of practical farming training at the four farm instiwtes of the
MOA, which were established to train faimers. Assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiations that the capabilities of this category of staff were reviewed and that 250 would
be retrained at the Colleges of Agriculture. The remaining 972 would be phased out of the
extension service at the rate of 520 in 1992, 250 in 1993, 150 in 1994 sid 52 in 1995. DAES
would henceforth cease to hire frontline staff from the farm institutes (para 8.1 (a) (ii)).
6.21   Among the supervisory staff, 154 are diploma iolders and 83 university graduates.
Projections of staff requirement to the year 2"00 show that on the basis of extension:farmer ratio
of 1:800, DAES would need to double the rnmber of its qualified staff. The current capacity of
the colleges and universities is adequac .o produce the staff needs of the MOA, but they would
need considerable support to improve the teaching facilities.
6.22   Extension Coverage and Phasing. The extension component of the project would be
implemented in all areas which are not presently covered by any donor assisted extension project.
DAES would ensure that the extension approaches and policies followed would be consistent with
the Department's national strategy and that SMSs would be involved in conducting adaptive trials
and the training of their staff.
6.23   The project would be implemented in phases, with full coverage attained in the third year.
This would give sufficient time for the DAES and the participating technical subject matter
departments to get used to the system and its demands, and get over the key constraint on the
introduction of the new extension system, viz., the availability of trained staff. The first phase
would include the pilot project areas under the ASRP.
Preparatory Steps for Introducing Professional Extension
6.24  Induction Training. Before the proposed professional extension system is started in any
district, the staff of that district, including the SMSs, would be given induction training covering
various aspects of the reformed extension system. The contents of this training and its duration
would obviously vary depending upon the level of staff receiving training, but would generally
focus on how to:
-    diagnose farmers' constraints and analyze the relevance of extension
recommendations;
-    increase farmers' understanding and adoption of extension messages;
-    conduct FLS training sessions;
-    conduct monthly workshops and identify the extension impact points for following
months; and
-    plan and implement on-farm trials.
6.25   The induction training would be completed in 2 stages. In the first stage, 2 or 3 senior
DAES and DCS staff from each region, one of whom would be the regional SMS (Training),
would be given training in the various aspects of the new extension system. In the second stage,
these officials would train the district level staff in each region.
6.26  In light of the emphasis which the project would accord to participatory technology
development (para 6.12), the induction training for the extension staff would: (i) be field oriented
and instill in them diagnostic skills to analyze the field situation; (ii) enable them to identify the



- 40 -
technological innovations introduced by the farmers and their potential; (iii) reduce their present
exclusive reliance on the research system as the sole fountainhead of technological
recommendations, and train them to lay out simple field trials on the basis of farmers'
innovations; (iv) equip them to analyze the results of these trials, discuss them with the
researchers, formulate recommendations on the basis of such discussions and persuade them to
involve farmer groups in the development of technology; and (v) prepare an extension program
for each agro-climatic zone as a tool for the management of the extension system. In short the
induction training should enable extension to play a much more active role than now in
technology generation and to enlist the association of farmer groups in such task.
6.27   Extension Program. Preparation of an extension program would be a pre-condition to the
introduction of the new extension system in any district. The first step towards the preparation of
such a program would be the diagnostic surveys mentioned in para 6.9 above, which would lead
to the analysis of the existing farming system (e.g., sorghum-maixe intercropping), the level of
adoption of technology by farmers (e.g., farmers generally plant in rows, but the plant
populations are low; they do not apply fertilizers on cereal crops; etc.), the farm level constraints
on their adoption of technology (e.g., shortage of labor for weeding), and the opportunities (e.g.,
introduction of a new crop like soybean or fattening of livestock). Based on such an analysis of
the present status and identification of opportunities, and in the light of the available research
recommendations, the extension program for the first season would be formulated. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the first four district plans, representing the four agro-ecological
zones shall be submitted to IDA no later than July 1, 1992 (para 8.1 (a) (iii)). Any such program
would be tentative, as it might require modifications during implementation. The impact points to
be given to the extension field staff at each FLS training session, would be chosen against the
general backdrop of the extension program.
C. Organization and Management
6.28   The directors of each participating technical department, i.e., Agricultural Extension,
Crop Services, Animal Health and Production, Fisheries, Agricultural Engineering, Training and
Manpower Development and Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, would be responsible
for the performance of the role assigned to it under the project. The specific responsibilities of
each department are discussed below.
Department of Crop Services (DCS)
6.29   A reference was made earlier to the fact that the present extension recommendations in
Ghana are mostly confined to the major grain crops (maize and sorghum) and cowpea. Under the
project, extension advice would also t-e provided on root and tuber crops, soybean, horticultural
and tree crops. In addition, farmers would be taught: (a) post-harvest technology methods that
minimize crop losses, and (b) proper conservation of soil and water through contour plowing,
planting vetiver grass and trees to protect the soil against sheet and wind erosion. The DCS
would supply SMS in these fields to be posted in the SMS centers throughout the ten regions of
the couPtry. The project would make available funds for the logistic support and training of the
SMS in support of the national extension program.



- 41 -
6.30  The DCS is currently operating a number of nurseries throughout the country and selling
seedlings of fruit and forage trees 50-100 Cedis below prices charged by private nurseries.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the commercial multiplication and sales of all
improved varieties of seeds and planting materials, except coconut (because of control of coconut
virus disease) would be fully transferred to the private sector by December 31, 1993, with the
research institutes and DCS providing foundation seeds and planting materials. The role of DCS
would be to regulate the industry through proper inspection and certification (para 8.1 a(vi)).
Animal Health and Production Department (AHPD)
6.31 AHPD would provide the livestock SMS that would train and backstop frontline extension
staff in disseminating animal production technologies. Both the Animal Research Institute of CSIR
and the Animal Production Division (APD) in AHPD are weak and would be strengthened,
respectively under the proposed National Agricultural Research and National Livestock projects.
Funds would be provided under this project to enable APD to conduct adaptive trials in pasture
and forage development and the use of crop residues and industrial by-products for animal feed.
Fisheries Department (FD)
6.32   One of the functions of the Fisheries Department (FD) is to promote techniques of rearing
and harvesting fish in inland waters, i.e., lakes, rivers, lagoons, and reservoirs as well as fish
handling, preservation, and processing. Under the unified extension system, FD would use front
line extension staff to propagate these techniques among smallholders. FLS would be trained in
these techniques by SMS (Fisheries). DAES would provide transport and logistic support to these
SMSs to train the FLS. In addition, the project would provide the FD headquarters with transport
and funds to meet the incremental recurrent costs.
Agricultural Enginee_ring Services Department (AESD)
6.33 Until recently, the task of the AESD was to run tractor services and to maintain and
repair MOA's machinery and vehicles. The department proposes to discontinue these functions
and re-orient itself to testing and adapting animal and hand powered farm implements and
equipment to Ghanaian conditions and the requirements of Ghanaian farmers. The project would
support AESD in drawing-up and implementing such a program.
6.34   AESD has prepared a proposal for the promotion of animal traction and animal drawn
implements, in the three northern regions. It would be necessary to amplify this proposal to
include parts of Brong-Ahafo, Ashanti, Greater Accra and Volta Regions, where animal traction
could be successfully introduced.
6.35   A thorough review would be made of: (a) animal traction work in Ghana, particularly
that of the German Team at the Nyankpala Research Station; (b) hand tools and implements used
in Ghana for farm operations; and (c) grain storage structures and food processing machinery
used in Ghana with the purpose of identifying the technologies which could be disseminated to
farmers immediately, and the areas for adaptive research. The project would make funds available
for such a review. The suggested terms of reference for the review are given in Annex 10. The
National Agricultural Research Project would fund the adaptive research work identified by the
review.



- 42 -
Policy Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED)
6.36 The Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of MOA would
play a key role in ensuring proper monitoring of the project's implementation and in evaluating its
impact in relation to its stated objectives and annual targets. It would establish bench mark data
that would allow an objective assessment of impact and conduct crop-cutting and socio-economic
surveys using its own staff and consultants. The project would provide vehicles, computers and
funds for consultancy services.
Training and Manpower Department
6.37   The Training and Manpower Development Department is responsible for administering
the agricultural colleges of MOA and for planning and implementing the manpower development
of the MOA. The quality of pre-service training at the colleges of agriculture, which produce the
FLS, suffers seriously from several shortcomings that deter effective practical agricultural
training. First, most of them do not have adequately trained staff. About 56 percent of the
teachers are diploma holders. These need to be upgraded. Second, the text books and teaching
materials used are outdated and the libraries are poorly stocked. Third, the laboratories are
almost non-existent and the farms are not well equipped and managed. The syllabus of the
colleges need to be reviewed in light of the introduction of a vocationally oriented agricultural
education option at the junior and secondary schools and the new requirements of the unfied
extension approach. Qualified principals and teaching staff have to be appointed and these
situations have to be addressed and significantly improved in order to produce qualified staff for
the proposed agricultural extension program.
6.38   The Training and Manpower Development Department would reform the syllabus and
staffing requirements of the agricultural colleges in collaboration with the Curriculum division of
the Ministry of Education and the board of management of these colleges on which DAES would
be represented by the Deputy Director (Training).
6.39   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (i) by September 1, 1992, all the
agricultural colleges would be brought under a common board of management which would
include the representatives of research, extension and farmers; (ii) the staff engaged in teaching
post-graduate programs would participate in the SMS training and research programs to be
undertaken under the project; (iii) education and training in crops (including tree crops),
livestock, forestry and fisheries would be coordinated; (iv) senior faculty of the agricultural
colleges will participate in the SMS workshops; and (v) teaching staff at the post-graduate level
would conduct research and research staff would be engaged in teaching limited courses
(para 8.1 b(i)).
6.40  In-country in-service training of extension staff would be conducted at the colleges of
agriculture and local training institutions. This would include management training for key DAES
officers, monthly training of frontline staff, regular workshop and annual courses for SMS as
described in Annex 6. The project would also support study tours abroad, to enable about 30
supervisory extension staff and subject matter specialists to undertake field visits in other
countries with farming systems similar to those of Ghana and where the extension system is
working effectively.



- 43 -
The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAES)
6.41   As the -rincipal implementing department of the project, the Department of Agricultural
Extension (DAES), would be charged with the responsibility of coordinating: (a) disbursement of
funds, (b) procurement of goods and services, (c) compiling accounting returns, and
(d) monitoring of financial and physical progress of the project. It would be responsible for the
preparation of: (i) the annual work program and budget, (ii) quarterly and annual physical and
financial progress reports, and (iii) accounts for external auditinig in accordance with the
guidelines of the Bank. A qualified disbursement and procurement officer has already been
appointed to coordinate the funding, procurement and accounting returns of DAES and all other
MOA departments implementing components of the project.
6.42   Qualified officers have already been appointed to the following posts:
(a)   Director of DAES;
(b)  Head of Field Services;
(c)   Head of Women in Agricultural Development (WIAD);
(d)  Head of Training and Communications; and
(e)   Head of Planning and Monitoring Unit.
6.43   The WIAD, Training and Communications divisions and the Planning section would each
be represented at the regional level by a senior SMS, who would coordinate divisional activities in
the regions. The Regional Director of Extension would be in charge of Field Services.
Proiect Steering Committee
6.44  The project would have a Steering Committee that would coordinate the activities of the
various departments under the project. It would provide policy guidance and coordination in the
implementation of the project. It would be chaired by the PNDC Deputy See.retary for
Agriculture. The committee would comprise all of the Directors of MOA and a representative
each of the Cocoa Board and Deputy Director General (Agriculture) of the CSIR. The Director
of Extension would serve as Secretary. This committee would meet once a month in the first year
of project implementation, when the project may be expected to face start-up problems. The
frequency of meetings thereafter might be lowered on the basis of the first year's experience.
The establishment of this Project Steering Committee would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para 8.3 (i)).
Regional Agricultural Policy Coordinating Committees
6.45   The Government has proposed to establish agricultural policy coordinating committees at
the regional and district levels. These committees would foster cooperation by providing a forum
for representatives of: (a) input suppliers, (b) produce traders, (c) farmers, (d) NGOs, (e) banks,
and (d) officials of local governments, MOA and other development agencies, for discussing
agricultural service problems and making recommendations on how these might be resolved. The
management of DAES would ensure the proper functioning of these committees by providing the
secretariat and the required logistic support.



- 44-.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
6.46   Two types of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) are distinguished, i.e., M&E of project
implementation and M&E of the project's Impact on total agricultural production and on the
welfare of tlAo target beneficiaries.
Implementatign Monltorlng
6.47   Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation is an ntegral part of project
management as it provides feed back on whether the physical and financial targets are being
achieved as planned. The head of the Planning and Monitoring Unit (PMU) would be responsible
for overseeing the operation of the management information system (MIS) that Viot'd provide
such information.
6.48   An MIS that would transmit data monthly from the field to district and regional offices
would be set up. Field staff and officers of the DAES would be required to fill monitoring forms
as part of their normal duties. The monitoring officers in the regional DAES would analyze the
data so supplied and send the results to the districts and headquarters. The PMU would aggregate
and synthesize the information for the whole project and prepare a management report that would
be transmitted back to the regions. Semi-annual physical and quarterly financial progress reports
would be prepared and submitted to PPMED for information and clearance before distributing
copies to regional offices and all departments of the MOA, the Ministry of Economic planning
and Finance and IDA (para 5.13). These progress reports would facilitate the production of the
annual report of DAES. The PMU may, from time to time, undertake simple field assessments in
order to explain variations between planned targets and results achieved or to assess the
effectiveness of certain facets of the extension program by interviewing selected farmers and field
staff.
*  JmvLWatiQn
6.49   Monitoring and evaluation of project impact provides information to national planners and
policy makers as well as IDA concerning the effectiveness of the project in achieving the desired
objectives as set out in the project plans. This would require: (a) the establishment of bench
mark data against which the project's impact would be gauged, and (b) periodic measurements of
the key impact pararmeters. While some of the baseline data and periodic measurements, such as
number and characteristics of farmers adopting innovations, can be collected through the MIS,
socio-economic evaluations and crop-cutting surveys to determine impact on beneficiaries and
national agricultural output have to be conducted under the aegis of the PPMED. Socio-economic
studies needed for the impact evaluation would be conducted by PPMED staff or contracted to
universities or other consultants.
Seugthe MIS
6.50   The MIS needs to be set-up and staff of the Planning Division of DAES trained in the
preceding 6 months to the commencement of the project. Setting-up the MIS and training staff as
well as drawing up the impact evaluation program would require short term technical assistance as
the expertise does not exist in hon-se. Funds from the on-going Agricultural Services
Rehabilitation Project would be used to finance the technical assistance for setting up the MIS and



- 45 -
training staff in its operation. Funds would be provided under the project to finance the technical
assistance required for the impact evaluation of the project. Assuranes were obtained at
negotiations that DAES would submit to IDA a report on the MIS system no later than September
1, 1992 and after exchange of views, would implement the system in a manner acceptable to IDA,
(para 8.1 c(i)). Annex 7 provides guidelines for setting up the monitoring and evaluation
envisaged under the project.
6.51  In addition, no later than July 1, 1993, a review of the coverage and cost-effectiveness of
te provision of extension services in cocoa growing areas would be conducted, under the auspices
of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (para 8.1 (c) (ii)).
E. Consultancies
6.52   The MOA has sufficient professional staff to manage the implementation of the project.
However, funds are prz iided under the project for commissioning 47 man months to
internationally recruited consultants and 95 man months for local consultants to implement the
staff in-service training, studies and monitoring and evaluation components of the project. It is
envisaged that local consultants, mainly from the three faculties of Agriculture, would be
commissioned to work with internationally recruited consultants so that the local consultants are
involved from the outset and would be able to provide external technical expertise to the project
on a continuing basis. Annex 9 provides the phasing of these consultancies required for each
activity. The terms of reference for these are given in Annex 10.
6.53  It is envisaged that the in-service training sessions for SMS would be conducted by local
consultants with the input of scientists mainly from the International Agricultural Research
Centers in the region. The expatriate and local consultants engaged under the project would also
participate in the training sessions, which would cover the following fields: (a) roots and tubers;
(b) grains and legumes; (c) tree crops/agro-forestry; (d) horticulture; (e) livestock and pasture;
(f) fisheries; (g) home management and food processing and preservation; and (h) animal traction
and appropriate technology.
6.54   Two Consultants specialized in animal traction and appropriate technology would be
engaged for a period of 6 months each to review the extent to which these technologies are used
in Ghana and to make recommendations on what needs to be done to increase the adoption of
iabor saving implements among Ghanaian farmers. Their reports would provide the basis upon
which the program of the Agricultural Engineering Department would be based. An expert in
extension information and communications would be engaged for two months a year during the
flrst three years of the project to train staff in the preparation of audio-visual and mass media
material for dissemination of extension messages. An expert on extension management and
administcation would advise the management team of DAES and train supervisory staff. The
external consultant would be engaged for 4 months during the first year with subsequent visits of
one month each durin- the second and third years. Provision is made for 6 months of external
consultant for the engagement of specialists in Women in Agricultural Development to assist in
improving the effectiveness of this important component of the extension program. The services
of an external consultant would be required to set-up the monitoring and evaluation system to
train staff during the first year of the project, to review the implementation of the system and to
assist in the analysis and interpretation of the impact evaluation data at the end of the project.



-46 -
F. Mid-Term and Completion Rsv4ews
6.55   The progress and impact of the project would be jointly reviewed by MOA and IDA, not
later than March 31, 1995. Not later than December 31, )94, the DAES would prepare a
mid-term report on the project to facilitate this review. The review would evaluate: (a) the
effectiveness of the unified extension system; (b) depth and coverage of the national extension
service; (c) its impact on agricultural production and target beneficiaries; (d) effectiveness of the
technical departments of MOA in providing SMSs and backstopping them in the field; (e) the role
of RELC and the effectiveness of generation of technology and the adaptive on-farm research
trials; (f) improvement of the pre-service training; (g) regularity and effectiveness of frontline
staff training and SMS workshops; and (h) the experience of contacting farmers as groups. The
key indicators in assessing impact for the mid-term review would be the number of farmers
reached by extension messages (at least 350,000) and the yield attained by these for various crops
as compared to Table 3.4. In addition, the mid-term review would critically examine the
adequacy of Governmnent support izi counterpart funding, particularly incremental recurrent costs,
and implementation of policies with respect to the provision of credit, availability of inputs.
accessibility of markets and incentives that would enhance the widespread adoption of improved
agricultural technologies by Ghanaian farmers. The extent to which CSD has withdrawn from
operating nurseries and selling planting materials would also be reviewed. The Borrower and
IDA would consider changes in the project as a result of the mid-term review. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that this review would be implemented before March 31, 1995 under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para 8.1 c(iii)).
G. implementation Schedule and Supervision
6.56   A detailed implementation schedule is given in Annex 11, and project supervision plan is
given in Annex 12. Project supervision would be closely linked to the implementation schedule.
There would be three supervision missions during the first year of the project, when the project
may be faced with start-up problems. Subsequent supervision missions would take place
semiannually. The first supervision mission would launch the project by assisting DAES in
meeting with conditions of project effectiveness, initiating actions to implement the project
covenants and troubleshooting arrangements for procurement of goods and services. One of the
semiannual supervision missions would be timed during the last quarter of the year to review the
annual work program and budget. Key indicators of the project shown in Annex 13 would be
incorporated into the quarterly progress reports (paras 5.13, 6.48). The targets of the key
indicators would be discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. These would include targets
for adoption rates by type of technology. In addition to these indicators of financial and physical
progress, which are related to the implementation and disbursement schedules and to the detailed
cost tables, supervision would assess progress on the quality of the extension service, the
pre-service and in-service staff training programs and the effectiveness of the research/extension
linkage and the impact of the project. The Planning and Monitoring Unit of DAES and the
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of MOA would play a key
role in these supervision activities.



- 47 -
VII. IENEFIlS,    NEICTION AMKS RIS
A. Benefits and Justification
7.1    The project would help generate substantial increases in food production and would
improve the nutrition, income and standard of living of a large number of rural families through
the diffusion of improved technologies ani facilitating access to off-farm inputs, credit and
markets. About half a million farm households would be directly reached by improved
agricultural extension services. The project would emphasize reaching women farmers not only
with improved production technology but also with technologies for improving the home
environment, for food processing and preservation, for saving energy and labor in their daily
task. More specifically, project benefits should manifest themselves in three main areas of
increased food production, human resource and institutional development.
7.2   Increased Productivity of Both Crop and Livestock Production. Strengthening the national
agricultural extension service would allow for substantially improved diffusion of agricultural
technology, which would increase food production significantly, improve management of
agricultural resources and the environment and improve the nutrition and str,ndard of living of
farmers. Poverty in Ghana is a primarily rural phenomenon as nearly 80 percent of the national
incidence of poverty is found in the rural areas. The growth in agricultural production expected
of the project will be of prime importance in alleviating rural poverty and malnutrition and
enhancing food security. Nearly half of the farmers in Ghana are women. The project would
make a special effort in reaching more women farmers to participate in the adoption of not only
improved agricultural production technologies, but also in food processing, preservation, nutrition
and home improvement.
7.3   Increased Agricultural production. The incremental production of selected crops for
which improved technology is available was estimated using conservative adoption rates and yield
improvement. These crops are maize, rice, sorghum, cassava, yam, cocoyam, groundnut, beans
and vegetables. The number of farmers adopting new technology for these crops is expected to
increase by 45,000 during the first year of the project and by 292,000 in the fifth year. The
corresponding incremental production would be, respectively 51,000 and 331,200 tons valued at,
respectively US$6.24 and US$40.47 million in constant 1990 prices. At full adoption of
improved technologies, the average incremental output per farmer would be about 1.1 ton p.a.
with a value of US$139 at constant 1990 prices. About 58 percent of the farmers contacted are
expected to adopt improved technologies at the end of the project. This compares with 55 percent
experienced under the VORADEP project (See Annex 14).
7.4    Human Resource and Institutional Development. The project strongly emphasizes training
and continuing education programs, far farmers, herders and government staff. The project
would greatly enhance the capabilities of some 3,000 staff at all levels. By gradually building up
the capacity of the DAES to provide extension services and the other technical departments of
MOA and the research institutes to backstop its program and to monitor and evaluate its impact,
MOA's ability to plan and coordinate agricultural extension at the national level would be greatly
enhanced. This would also allow for a more effective system of technology diffusion and
adoption and would permit improved capacity and leadership of other agricultural services,
thereby creating a good opportunity to mobilize internal and external resources.



-48 ^
7.5    Adoption of innovations in crop, animal and tree husbandry, water harvesting and soil
conservation, depends on many !actors, of which field testing and effective dissemination are just
a part. Other factors include prices of inputs and outputs, accessibility of markets and credit and
assessments of risk by farmers. While the causality underlying adoption is difficult to determine,
a well designed and implemented extension program clearly has a catalytic role to play by
adjusting technical messages to local circumstances, and also bringing farmers' and others'
preoccupations to the attention of those who can adapt in consequence, such as researchers, policy
makers, bankers, traders, and agro-processors. Despite difficulties with causality, a Bank review
of agricultural extension programs on farmer adoption and productivity concluded that extension
in a number of countries has been a high pay-off investment.
B. Sustainability
7.6   The sustainability of the project is assured by the strong human resource development
component that would build up the capacity of DAES to provide effective extension services and
other technical departments of MOA and the research institutes to backstop its program and to
monitor and evaluate its impact. The organization of farmers into groups and farmers'
associations would increase their capacity to deal with credit institutions, input suppliers and
buyers of farm produce, thus reducing in the long-run their dependence on extension staff for
contact and dealings with these. MOA's ability to plan and coordinate agricultural extension at
the national level would be greatly enhanced by the project. This would allow for a more
effective system of technology diffusion and adoption and would permit improved capacity and
leadership of other agricultural services, thereby creating a better opportunity for obtaining and
streamlining both internal and external financing. The infrastructural requirements of the
extension system in terms of office and staff accommodation would be in place to continue the
national agricultural program. Although the recurrent costs would be well within the means of
Government financing, the project would have to be seen as a first phase of a longer-term
program, considering the long time required to establish an effective national extension service
(para 5.14).
C. Proiect Risks
7.7    The foreseen project risks, which are common to similar IDA supported projects, include:
(i) ineffective management and training of extension personnel; (ii) low adoption rates of technical
recommendations by farmers and/or slow build-up of technology by research; (iii) the possible
inability of Government and/or donors to sustain the long-term commitment required to achieve
durable improvements in the effectiveness of agricultural support services; and (iv) unfavorable
output:input price ratios.
7.8   Improved management of extension services is expected as a result of the improved
organization, training, monitoring and evaluation, and technical assistance to be provided under
the project. The station and on-farm research support provided by the National Agricultural
Research Project and the strong research/extension linkage in planning the research and extension
program built in the project should reduce the risk of low adoption rates and slow build-up of
technology. The annual review of work plans and budgets, as well as the mid-term
implementation review, will provide good opportunities for program review and enhancing



- 49 -
long-term Government and donor commitment. Use of improved technology and increased access
to inputs and produce markets would help in reducing the cost of production as well as the spread
between wholesale and farm gate prices.
D. Environmental Impact
7.9    An integral part of the project is training of farmers in: (a) soil fertility maintenance
using crop rotation, manure, compost and inorganic fertilizer; (b) conservation of soil and water
resources using contour plowing and planting of grass and hedges and terracing along contour
lines; and (c) use of insect tolerant varieties and integrated pest management systems that
minimize the use of chemicals. The Project would also promote the development of agro-forestry
in all ecological zones of the country. These would have a substantial impact in arresting
environmental deterioration and improving the productive potential of land resources on a
sustainable basis and hence a positive impact on the environment.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER.
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1    Assurances obtained during negotiations are as follows:
(a)   Assurances for Strenghening DAES Management of the Extension Program:
(i)  the regional Research/Extension Liaison Committees (RELC) would be
established in each of the ten regions by September 30, 1992 (para 6.13);
(ii)  DAES would henceforth cease to hire frontline staff from MOA operated
farm institutes, and DAES would implement the retraining, redeployment,
and retrenching program to completely phase out the technical assistant
category of frontline staff by December 31, 1995 (para 6.20);
(iii)  DAES would commence, no later than June 1, 1992, the implementation of
induction training program t^or all levels of its staff and key officers of
cooperating departments and institutes to ensure that the nature of the project
and the ramifications of a unified extension system are fully understood
(paras 6.24-6.27);
(iv)  DAES shall prepare district action plans for the introduction of the new
extension system before the new system in introduced in any new district.
The first four district plans representing the four agro-ecological zones shall
be submitted to IDA not later than July 1, 1993 (para 6.27);
(v)  commercial multiplication and sales of all improved varieties of seeds and
planting materials, except coconut, would be fully transferred to the private
sector by December 31, 1993 with the research institutes and the Department



- 0 -
of Crop Services (DCS) of MOA providing foundation seeds and planting
materials. DCS would regulate the industry through proper inspection and
certification (para 6.30); and
(vi)  DAES would furnish to IDA, not later than December 31, 1992, a timetable
acceptable to IDA for the posting of additional subject matter specialists at
the SMS centers; and post thereafter the additional subject matter specialists
in accordance with the said timetable (para 6.5).
(b)   Assurances for Human Resource Development:
(i)   Not later than September 1, 1992, all the agricultural colleges under MOA
would be brought under a common board of management which would
include the representatives of the Ministry of Education, the faculties of
Agriculture, research, extension and farmers. The syllabus and staff
requirements of the agricultural colleges would be reformed in collaboration
with the Curriculum Division of the Ministry of Education not later than
December 31, 1992. Staff of the faculties of agriculture engaged in post-
graduate teaching would be invited to participate in SMS training and
adaptive research programs undertaken under the project (para 6.39).
(c) Assurances for Reporting. Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation and Implementation
Review
(i)   A report on the management information system (MIS) is submitted to IDA
by September 1, 1992. After exchange of views, the agreed system would
be implemented in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para 6.50);
(ii)  The Borrower shall complete, not later than July 1, 1993, a review of the
coverage and cost-effectiveness of the provision of extension services in
cocoa growing areas. This review shall be carried out under the auspices of
the Borrowers' Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (para 6.51)
(iii)  not later than December 31, 1994, DAES would prepare a mid-term report
on the project, evaluating inter lij: 1). the effectiveness of the unified
extension system including an assessment of progress made in improving the
cost-effectiveness of extension services in cocoa growing areas; 2) the
adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart funding; 3) the depth and coverage
of the national extension service; 4) its impact on agricultural and target
beneficiaries; 5) the effectiveness of MOA's technical departments; 6) the
generation of technology and the adaptive on-farm research trials; and 7) the
training programs. This report would provide the basis for a joint
Government/IDA review to be conducted no later than March 31, 1995 (para
6.54);
(iv)  semi-annual progress reports and quarterly financial reports would be
prepared within 45 days of the end of each reporting period and submitted to
IDA (para 5.13);



- 51 -
(v)  an annual work program and budget for all participating departments would
be prepared and submitted to IDA not later than September 30 of each year
by DAES. Those departments conducting on-farm adaptive trials would
present the results of the previous years' trials and recommendations and the
adaptive trials to be undertaken during the year and their rationale.
8.2    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(i)   The Borrower has established an Agricultural Extension Project Account and
would pay into this account its first contribution of the equivalent of
US$340,000 in Cedis (para 5.12);
(ii)  the first complement of subject matter specialists are posted to SMS centers.
(para 6.5);
(iii)  the Project Steering Committee is established (para 6.44).
Recommendation
8.3    Based on the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a credit to the
Republic of Ghana of SDR 21.80 million (US$30.40 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
with 40 years maturity.



-52-                                 Annex 
Page I of I
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Ministerial Directive on Unified Agricultural Extension
Objectiye
1.    A number of government institutions, NGOs and donors have been executing
agricultural development programs with sizeable extension components using different
approaches in an uncoordinated manner. After reviewing past experiences with different
extension approaches and the current situation, the Ministry of Agriculture has concluded that
a unified extension approach using a single frontline agent, as the deliverer of agricultural
extension messages, is the most practical and cost effective approach. The objective of the
ministerial directive is to articulate the unified extension system and the key features of its
implementation so that it is clearly understood by all people concerned with agr-cultural
extension in Ghana, Including policy makers, planners, practitioners of agricultural
development, the farming and business communities, researchers, agricultural educators,
NGOs and donors.
Conte
2.    The ministerial directive should be issued before the IDA Credit is presented for
Board approval in February 1992. The following outlines the topics that would be covered by
this directive:
(a)    definition of the unified agricultural extension system;
(b)    rationale for the unified extension system and the role and responsibility of the
Department of Agricultural Extension Services in formulation and
implementation of agricultural extension policies;
(c)    description of the key features of the system;
(i)    contact with farmer groups;
(ii)   functions of the frontline agents and their qualification;
(iii)  functions of subject matter specialists and their qualification;
(iv)   role of technical departments providing subject matter specialists;
(v)    role of adaptive research and research/extension linkage in technology
transfer to farmers;
(vi)  role of the Regional Research Extension Committees;
(vii)  regular training of frontline agents;
(viii)  regular workshop of subject matter specialists; and
(ix)   role of national, regional and district Consultative Groups on
Agriculture;
(d)    requirement that other government agencies, NGOs and donors have to adopt
the unified extension system in the agricultural development programs they are
engaged in and that the Department of Agricultural Extension would monitor
their compliance with this directive.



- 53 -
Anm  2
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Availability of Agricultural Techioioges
1.        This annex reviews the current status of the availability of technology in Ghana for
the production of food crops, and the feasibility of farmers being able to adopt them, given
the present state of availability of inputs, their prices and the risk factors associated with
rainfed farming.
2.        This review is divided into the following categories:
(a)       technologies relating to the adaiptation to and management of climatic
factors particularly those involving risk;
(b)       technologies on the production and post-harvest management of
different crops;
(c)       technologies relating to input uses and farm implements;
(d)       technologies relating to environmental issues; and
(e)       gender specific technologies.
Technologies Relating to Climatic Factors
3.        Technologies on Adaptation to Climatic Conditions. The importance of evolving
different crop varieties to suit different climatic conditions is well recognized in Ghana. For
instance, different varieties of maize and different rates of fertilizer application are
recommended, according to climate.
4.        However the adoption of such climate specific technologies is hampered by very
weak meteorological research. Meteorological data collection has deteriorated seriously due
to severe budgetary problems faced by the Meteorological Service Department (MSD) in the
Ministry of Transport and Communication, as a result of which MSD has lost many trained
personnel, and many facilities have become non-functional 1/. MOA is therefore unable to
provide meteorological forecasts to farmers and recommend suitable technologies on the basis
of such forecasts; the use of climatic information on agricultural extension is thus very
limited, and the research on agro-climatology is very weak. There is also very little data to
assist the MOA in early estimates of crops performance. It is recommended that MSD apply
/         From 55 Agromet Stations, 77 Clino-stations, 368 Rainfall stations and 2 Meteorological Experimt Stations,
the numbers of functional units have dwindled to 30, 45 and 60 and 0 respectively. There are no computers in
these stations and all data are stored in handwritten form.



- 54 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
for grant funding under the National Agricultural Research Project to revive data collection
and analysis on selected meteorological stations.
S.       Technologies on the Management of Rainwater. In Ghana, rainfed farming is
dominant. In rainfed farming, with the exception of extreme cases, drought is generally due
to the intra-seasonal dry spells. Theoretkcally, if the rainwater is harvested during the rainy
days, and is used in the dry spells to bridge the rainfall gaps, such drought problems could be
mitigated. In reality, however, farmers do not seem to practice such rainwater harvesting,
nor is research very active in this area. Consequently, practical rainwater harvesting
technologies are not available to farmers.
6.       Technologies for prolonged in-situ moisture conservation are not recommended to
the farmers yet. Understanding of the interaction between water and fertilizer seems to be
particularly weak. Agricultural research institutes need to pay attention to this important
interaction.
7.       Technologies on the Adaptation to Soil Conditions. Due to the long history of soil
science research in Ghana, useful information on the rational use of land resources exists at
the research level. Soil maps and information on land capability classification are available.
Detailed soil survey is possible on the basis of available data. But information on the
scientific use of land resov.%;es has not yet reached the frontline extension officers in the form
of technologies extendable to farmers. Naturally, land use practices to suit the different soil
types are not uniformly observed. It is recommended that soil scientists participate in RELC
and subject matter specialist (SMS) training workshops and publish handbooks with
appropriate soil fertility management recommendations.
Technoloies on the Production and Post-harvest Manaizement of Different Crops
8.       Diversity in food crops is one of the special characteristics of Ghana's agriculture.
About 30 percent of calories are derived from maize, sorghum, millet and rice, and
70 percent from cassava, yam, cocoyam and plantain. The latter four crops occupy about
60 percent of total value of agricultural produce including non-food crops. On the other hand
the four grain crops occupy only 8 percent of the total value of agricultural produce
(MTADP). In spite of this, research efforts have focused more on grain than on root crops.
9.       Availability of Improved Crop Varieties. Improvement of crop varieties is one of
the major areas in crops research in Ghana. Improved varieties are available in almost all the
cereal crops and some legumes.
10.      Maize. Maize is perhaps the most researched crop and many varieties have been
released for recommendation to farmers. There are varieties suitable to different ecological
zones with differing maturity periods and with different degrees of resistance to some
diseases. Efforts continue to improve the yield potential and the grain quality. The present
level of research activity on this crop supports continued release of new varieties.
11.      Cowpeas. Research on the breeding of cowpeas is active both at Kumasi and
Nyankpala. Superior local lines as well as high yielding varieties from external sources are
available.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
12.      Sorghum and Mil. The area planted to these two crops together is almost equal
to that of maize. These crops are important in the Northern Region, and the two Upper
Regions. Nyankpala Agricultural Research Station (NARS) is responsible for research on
these crops. The station is actively participating in the international networks for the
screening of sorghum and millet varieties. In case of millet, some composites have been bred
with yield potential very much more than what are currently obtaining on farmers' fields
(0.5 t/ha.), but these varieties have not yet been extended to farmers, backed by inputs.
Experience indicates inadequate agronomic practice, rather than the lack of high yielding
varieties is the main reason for the current low productivity of these crops at the farmers'
level.
13.      Ric. Research on the breeding of rice varieties is active in NARS. The station
participates in various international networks for rice breeding. As a result, new varieties
with the yield potential of 5-6 ton/ha under moderate input conditions are being identified.
Some farms and donor assisted demonstration projects, are testing the varieties under varying
agro-ecological and farm conditions. In these demonstrations, some varieties have shown a
yield potential of up to 8 ton/ha under improved management.
14.      Cassava. Yam. Cocoyam and Plantain. Under the National Roots and Tubers
Improvement Program, efforts have recently begun for the improvement of these crops. Not
many new varieties have been released to farmers yet. Still, with existing varieties, the yields
can be increased up to three times by improving the agronomic practices.
15.      Groundnut. Groundnut production is increasing in Ghana. This increase has been
due to the increase in the areas planted, (from 98,000 ha. in 1970 to 159,000 ha. in 1989)
rather than through yield increase, which has remained static at about I ton/ha for the past 20
years. If cultural practices are improved, the yields of existing varieties can be doubled.
16.      Soybean. Soybean is gaining popularity among farmers. NARS has done
substantial work on the breeding of soybean varieties. As a result, varieties with varying
maturity periods and yield potential have been identified. Some varieties have demonstrated a
yield potential of about 2 ton/ha.
17.      The Attachment to this Annex gives the production increases which can be
expected from the adoption of technologies currently available in Ghana, if extension is
supported by other services and proper policies.
Technologies on the Agronomic Practices and Storage
18.      Generally speaking, the basic technologies on the agronomic practices such as land
preparation, fertilizer application, time of field operations, planting spaces, weed control, and
plant protection exist for most of the crops, although there are some aspects needing
improvement and refinement.
19.      Component Approach. A most serious deficiency in the existing recommendations
on agronomic practices is the lack of a systems approach. The majority of recommendations
are on a component basis. For instance, there are no recommendations on systematic crop
rotations and recommendations of fertilizers, taking into account the residual effect of the
fertilizers applied in the previous seasons.



- 56 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
20.      Croipng Systems. Both at the Crop Research Institute and the NARS, research
on cropping systems is active; the former emphasizing cassava/maize systems, and the latter
more complicated systems involving maize, millet, sorghum, cowpea, soybean and yam. So
far, however, not many practical recommendations on cropping systems are available. To be
able to produce practical recommendations on cropping systems calls for an insight Into the
system and an understanding of the farmers' needs.
21.      Technologies of On-farm Storage. Post-harvest losses of farm produce are known
to be substantial in Ghana. The figure of 30 percent is commonly quoted. Various storage
technologies using chemical, physical and biological means are available.
(a)      Chemical means: Use of mild insecticides, use of insect repellents such
as wood ash, and certain plant leaves.
(b)      Physical means: Small scale warehouse, locally constructed cib, home
made silo, storing in unhusked, unthreshed, and unprocessed form.
(c)      Biological means: Use of better-storing crop varieties which store well.
22.      Problems in Using Available Storage Technologies. There are problems in using
the available storage technologies, because of costs, materials and skills required. For
instance, in case of insecticides, securing the chemicals on time, and purchasing the sprayer
are not easy. Constructing small scale warehouses, cribs and home made silos, also involves
costs and skills that individual farmers might not possess. Many of these problems perhaps
can be solved by group efforts.
23.      Processing of Farm Produce. Village level processing of agricultural produce is an
idea attracting increasing interest. Accordingly, the relevant technologies are also being
developed. Outstanding examples of village level agro-processing are gari making, shea nut
butter production, palm oil extraction and the production of schnapps from sugarcane in the
Western Region. Small scale rice mills and flour mills are also emerging.
24.      Problems in Agro-processing. Agro-processing industry has been emphasized in
Ghana for a long time, and some initiatives have been taken. So far, such efforts have not
been very successful. Ghana's problems with agro-processing industry appear to be more
structural than technical. The problems arise from the smallness of farms, scattered producers
and poor infrastructure. This situation makes the feeding of large-scale processing with raw
materials very inefficient. Perhaps the mini-scale approach would be more appropriate for
Ghana. In such a case, the extension services should have an important role to play to help
agro-processing emerge at village level.
Technologies on Input Use and Farm Implements
25.      Technologies on the Uses of Fertilizer and Agro-chemicals. Fertilizer use in
Ghana is still meager. In 1989, the total amount of fertilizers sold was only about 6,700 tons
of N, 3,000 tons of P20, and 1,500 tons of K20. On the other hand, the use of agricultural
chemicals is common in export and industrial crops. For food crops, use of herbicides is
gaining popularity. In 1989, the total import was estimated at 2,140,000 liters of insecticide,
250,000 liters of herbicide, 100 tons of fungicides and 10,000 liters of nematocide.



- 57 -
Annex2
Page 5 of 7
26.      The recommendations for fertilizer application regarding application rate, timing
and placement, are available for various crops. There Is, however, a need to further refine
the application methods. In recent years there have been some efforts to increase the cost
effectiveness in fertilizer importation. Until recently, the major forms of fertilizers imported
to Ghana were the low analysis materials such as 15-15-15, and ammonium sulphate (21-0-0).
Since 1989, these low analysis materials have been replaced by 20-20-0, 25-15-5, and urea
(46-0-0).
27.      Technologies on Farm Implements. There is an obvious absence of intermediate
technologies between the traditional practices and modem mechanization. While for the
majority of households, the major tools are hoe and cutlass, some farmers rely on the tractor
services for the preparation of land. A similar contrast is observed in shelling maize cobs.
While the majority of farmers do this job with bare hands, in donor funded agricultural
development projects, modern shelling machinery is being used. A notable exception is the
gradual adoption by farmers of bullocks for plowing.
28.      Ghana has the capacity to design and produce new farm tools. Recently, a farm
implement manufacturing unit established under the Ghanaian German Agricultural
Development Project, was handed over to Ghanaian management. This unit produces, among
others, bullock drawn equipment such as plow and cart. So far, however, the capacity of the
unit has not been fully utilized. One reason for this could be the lack of demand for such
tools, due to inadequate efforts at demonstration and promotion.
29. Much of the farm work is being done by hand or simple tools. For instance, the tool
used for threshing sorghum is a simple stick. Winnowers are not commonly used. For
harvesting of rice, sickles used in other countries can be much more convenient than the
cutlass. Thorough puddling and levelling land are crucial for cultivating wetland rice.
Simnple tools for such operations are not yet available in Ghana. Head portage is the principal
means for carrying goods in rural areas. Hand-pulled or animal-drawn carts are not yet
common. Two types of hoes are used, one for ridging and one for weeding. These hoes can
be improved in weight, shape of blade, and the length of handle to make the work easier.
For shelling of corn cobs, simple corn shellers can be manufactured locally. Inexpensive
threshers used elsewhere can be adopted for threshing rice. Farm products such as rice straw
and other crop residues if not used for other purposes, are good raw materials for compost;
but compost making is neither practiced by the farmers, nor seriously recommended.
30.      Funds are provided under this project for 12 man months of technical assistance
and 22 man months of local consultancy to assist the Agricultural Engineering Services
Department to address issues related to the promotion of animal traction and other appropriate
technologies to solve the problems mentioned above in association with the University of
Science and Technology.
Txchnologies in Relation to Environmental Issues
31.      Degradation of Land Ouality. The major environmental issue related to farming
in Ghana (and perhaps in many other African countries) is the accelerated degradation of land
quality, both physically and chemically, leading to "slash and burn" technique. It has been
estimated that annually about 63,000 m.t. of Nitrogen, 31,000 m.t. of P20, 200,000 m.t. of
K,O are consumed by the major crops each year. As counter-measures, tree planting, and



- 58 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
other physical measures such as grass strips, clay or gravel bunds, and terracing are
recommended. These technologies, however, are not spreading spontaneously, despite efforts
in this direction.
32.      Land Use PatteM. The land use pattern also affects the conservation of the
environment profoundly. In Ghana, even though soil maps and information on the land
capability classification is available, little use is made of them, and use of land resources
which are harmful to the environment is very common. There are instances where the quality
of land is poor, yet the population density is high, while in other areas the land quality is
relatively high, but population density is very low. At the local leve;, In some areas, while
land which is more suitable is kept idle, land with steep slopes is used for the cultivation of
annual crops. Technological information to address thes. issues exists, but due to many other
factors, principally the sociological, rational land use is absent.
Gender Specific Technologies
33.      The gender issue in farming activities is relatively new to Ghana. Accordingly, in
developing farm technologies, little attenticn has been paid to it. In the rural areas women
are not only responsible for child care, cooking, securing drinking water and fetching the
firewood, but also engage themselves in vegetable gardening and share the general field work.
There are a variety of demands on them.
34.      Technological Considerations Needed for Rural Women. In the long run, the
improvement of the welfare of rural women can only be achieved when the welfare of rural
people in general is improved. However, considering the extreme hardship that the women in
the rural areas are facing, there is a special need to take whatever action is possible to ease
their hardship.
35.      So far, very little attention has been paid to the development of technologies which
would mitigate the drudgery of women, such as modification of farm tools generally used by
women, designing of farm tools specifically for them, improved devices for the drawing of
water, carrying of firewood, and for food processing at home. Very little attention has been
paid to the development of effective technologies for the crops that are mainly handled by the
women, viz. home garden vegetables.
36.      Funds are provided under this project for 6 woman months of technical assistance
and 6 woman months of local consultancy to address the problems of gender related
technologies in association with the Department of Agricultural Engineering Services of MOA
and the University of Science and Technology.



- 59 -
Annex a
Page 7 of 7
. Yield Increases Possible with the Technologies Available In Ghana
A. CROPS
Crops    Expected Yield Increase
Maize    1.2 t/ha to 3.0 t/ha
Sorghum     0.7 t/ha to 2.0 t/ha
Millet    0.5 t/ha to 1.5 t/ha
Rice    Lowland rice: 2.5 t/ha to 6 t/ha
Upland rice: 1.0 t/ha to 3 t/ha
B. STARCH STAPLES
Tuber    Expected Yield Increase
Cassava    7 t/ha to 25 t/ha
Yam     5 t/ha to 1S t/ha
Cocoyam     5 t/ha to 15 t/ha
Sweet Potato    S t/ha to 15 t/ha
Plantain    7 t/ha to 10 t/ha
C. LEGUMES
Legm       Expected Yield Increase
Groundnut    1.0 t/ha to 2.0 t/ha
Cowpea    0.5 t/ha to 1.0 t/ha
Soybean    0.5 t/ha to 1.5 t/ha



2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i t:tl It *j |s~
.... .. ..... ......... .. ... ....... ....................................................... ................................................................................................... ....  KM . ISO   1  ..........
sit    | F 16     lies ;t a}s   t c   as       us   t  I, ts                  o  issII g I Ias iaIsi iasIItI                                                1         121md I
a       a         c sit    c         ets        a o               i lobs 'UsIt   a IEuf"i    35111                                                             uAUgW hiW 0311 
*       ns         a  acr  ea. s*i sz1G         *       ns         a si ssilas      t  *-awta ascs*                                                     *    a ^       @
se      so        sea  uXe.a  fe u e s  ma              s o        eInaneri ausgw~ au.aiii                                                                  1156  misai   s.
11      ma          Isis   ass            I om   am-I aissama  c.caa ttt tt-  1t                   65 Ito                                    UU     SfUf1S31t11A _      31691
....... ....... .. . ....... ... ... .. ....... .  .... ......... ............. .. .. . .... .. .......
It      it         &'so'g riis tn'    Sbi m             Is         86s4 ii itas   aeteimIs aO aisa 'ON                                    w iilaauims i~UsUOMU 101V
s       Ss        s-ae   S-iC.  es 06           s       me         C     -m nua    saeitm    sa tos mM                                              ainfima USISUS  Is
es      at         esi CU-        a  vs tOt-            ii         iU51    is i*    SIib t                                         iiUlWd   Ifliml a m B.         " 831d   soa
£    013  1161    S111131 iI  (
e       It         ISaI t      901  %II         e        it        a SI6 L L U S' 51363l 5-U' tt S                                     1 S Ul 5Ud   516   Of SI * 1     ItD&-S S
9       U     *      S;     S  *-  1,619                 1         I U"  o-nt-ikut t'Su 6-W110                                                  ilUmio    mIntl    I
t       to         ealt'a  I tggla I  * cg      *        aa        dCo st 9-US                macat   I tU   W                            UsdgiN 51 1*11 1 E   611     M 1S  
_ _A     SiUWuWN UUSiDD  05 IASI  3l
a>      ci is     g sa      a enm   scum    a           i su s     aua.caom   osaimas   east aig                                            sa*- -  niissa um  aa ass    *-I
. .... . ... ... . .. ........ ........ ........ ..... .. ..... ..... ......... .. . ... ... ..... ..... .. .. ..
a       is           sui    cii.&I . te-l .     a       Is         s swatUI  @et-lls   -Sa atsl                                  asJBm VaisA - iOuIas  asuua1as  1a
I                  as s-ns  ciac                s       as ts i I  Si S                                                   mS,1m  m4sO U UuSe  - masuIlui ams auul 
!    s  IS 'n  I  SW s        I  &  ll             tC is     c|w l-|os-&    *-9%66    I        "ta                  111111I  ISla - ob        - MISNII13 IMIWI    -X
s       Cs         s-sina   ases  s6ew 1    s           Es                l It se1t    a     1* essS                     a19ii   Ism  - sum    m ISaImmI l156 531    I
s       is         £- i8ls  tess    cues        s       *us       lt-sa eag    a e            a a gat                         "im     MN swn     amiouISula slsuas1s *a
Cs tS           C S&I  1IS       6419 *  n          ts        VI t- in      11'6*g11   9,6 tZ                        wiJi    mi  11i         - iaSissl  tfl 0mie    I
I       SS        *sus  s-si           "  I   A         Ss at1Sls -"1  st ss USsi- SS   t3251 f11 SJ                                       1 -1 m- WISuI   OW1111asus1  1
C       Ss       C0 tUt  I illS   tIU- I   a            S6        *M    o'CU'I  6, iUM          IM S                     wool          1558m5l -  EllIhif I iuae ImiIuIs  t
*       is        c-K  ia  s-IIs  aaam 's I                I        ecgsI         seci.  o        cIis                   s mt-  eism  sonn       uuassau  shahamasrusq -g
mm      Xis         tICe l Ks   LULL    a161    m       Is           8-seiae6i                    U U-s Saturn  cuSo3maImi                    i MaN3rna 1ssuseasag   'c
tsass.. asRzssu  assas  Cuasg   ss1u.   zases  s*:SSz  *gssss:t5  sssus8  58g2g2EBU
Su{ 2 @   "'P'1 |           .iA;je1     S.1             e3 k    I       s*#       m ., i.e1I
..... ....... ................................    .............................................................. ...... ............... .. .........
it". Ss1                                             l_. 50
islNi IS1  13Ud
1335  uasalUia  :muamas  simin



GHANA
NATIONAl AGRICUIiLURAt EITENSIONSO-JECt
SUIART ACCOUIS COST SUIARY
ICEDI 000                                              (US$ a°°l
S Total                                           I Total
I Foreign  Base                                  I foreign  6lss
tocal      fori'gn       Total      Exchang    Costs    Locol    foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
1. INVIES1ENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS                              2.552.656.3 3.119.913.2  S.672.569.5           55      41   6.807.1   8.319.8 IS 126.9          55       41
B. VEHIClES                                 222.964. 1 1.803.982. 3  2.026.946. 4        89       15     594.6   4. 810. 6  5, 405.2       89       15
C. EQUIPMENT AND FURNIlURE                   128. 146.3 1.036.819.7  1. 164.966.0        89        8     341.7   2,764.9  3.106.6          89        8
D. CONSIIANCI AND STUDIES
1. LOCAL TIECHNICAt ASSISTANCE            13. 206.1   118. 855.1    132. 061.3       90        I      35.2      316.9    352.2          so 0
2. FOREIGN TECHNICAt ASSISTANCE           592227.5   574,855.5    634. 083.0          91       5      I5t.9   1.532.9  1.690.9          91        5
Sdu-Total CONSUtIMTCT AND STUDIES            72. 433. 6   693.710.6    766.144.3         91       6      193.2   1.849.9  2.043. I         91        6
E. IOCAl TRAINING                           207. 720.0            -    207, 720.0         -        I    553. 9          -    553.9          -        I
f. OVERSEAS TRAINING                        2a. I77. 3   211. 797.8    237.975. 0        89       2       69. 8    564. 8    634.6         89        2
Total INVESTRENT COSTS                       3. 210.097. 5 6. 866.223. 6 10.076.321.2       68       72   8. 560. 3  18. 309. 9 26,870.2      68       72
Physical Contingemnses                      441. 399 2   773.24?.0  1.214. 646. 2        64       9   1. 177. 1  2,062.0  3.239.           64        9
Price Contingemles                          380.316 0   553.243.4    933.559.4           59       7      232.6      -13. 1    219. 5       -6        1              1
Total INCLUOING CONTINGENCIES                4.031.812.7 S. 192.714.0 12.224.526.7          67       88   9.969.9  20,358.8 30.328.7          67       82              °
II. RECURRENT COSTS
INCRENENTAL OPERATING COSTS              1. 030. 296. 4         -  1. 030. 296. 4        -       7   2.747.5          -  2.747.5           -       7
VEICItE OPERATING COSIS                    524. 241.9   786.362.9  1.310. 604.8         60       9   1.398.0   2.097.0  3.494.9           60        9
GENERAt ADIIINSIRATIVE COSIS               438,515.4   292. 343. 6    730. 859. 1       40       5   1. 169.4     779.6  1. 949. 0        40        5
EQUIPIENT OPERAIING COSTS                  304.335.0   456.502.5    760,837.5           60       5      811.6   1,217.3  2.028.9          60       5
total RECURRENT COSTS                        2,297. 388. 7 1.535.209. 0  3.832.597. 7       40       28   6. 126. 4   4, 093. 9 10. 220. 3    40       28
Price Conlingencl.s                         446.540.9   245.640.2    692, 181. 1         3S       5      398.4      160.4    558.8         29       2
Total INCLUDING CONINGENCIES                 2. 743,929.6 1. 780.849.3  4.524.778.8         39      33   6.524.8   4.254.3 10. 779. 1         39       29
, x::       ,z=  =zzc x                : = == =Z= -= === =    ======= === zz             == zz;= :::=z ===z
Total BASELINE COSTS                          5.507.486.2 8,401.432.7 13.908.918.9           60      100  14,686.6  22.403.8 31.090.5          60      100
Physical Conti gencies                       441.399.2   773.247.0  1.214.646.2           64       9   1,177.1   2.062.0  3.239.1           64        9
Price Contingeniems                          826.856.8   798.883.7  1,625.740.5           49       12     631.0      147.3    778.3         19        2
Total PROJECE COSTS                           6. 775.742. 2 9.973. S63. 3 16.749. 305. 5     60      120  16,494. 7  24. 613. 1 41. 107.8      60      Ill
--------_ __ -_ _ ___----------_----------- -------------- ------- ------------ --- --- - -- ------------------------------------------------------------- --       O 
October 23. 1991  17: 18
0



GhANA
NATIONAl AGRICULIURAl EXTENSION PROJECT
financing Plan By Disbursement Category
(USS '0001
INTERNAlIONAt
DEVElOPNENT    GOVERNNENI OF
ASSOCIATION         GHANA           lotal
-----------L-------  Local (Excl.  Duties A
Amounlt           mount   I      Amount    I    for. Exch.       laxes)       Taxes
A. WUlCINGS                          13.168.5  74.9   4,417.9 25.1  17,586.4  42.8        9.553.8        6.098.1    .934.5
B. VEHICtES                          5.276.3  89.0       652. I11.0   5.928.4  14.4       5.276. 3            0.0     652.1
C. EtUIPHENT AND FURNITURE           3. 042.9  89.0      376. I11.0   3.419. 0   8.3      3.042.9            -0.0     376. 1
D. CONSUITANCY AND STUDIES           2.065. 3100. 0          -    -   2. 065. 3   5. 0     1. 866. 6        198.7          -
E. OVERSEAS IRAINING                   619.2  89.0        76.5 11.0      695.7   1.7        619.2             0.0      76.5
F. lOCAL TRAINING                      564.2  89.0        69.7 11.0      633.9   1.5             -         564.2       69.7
G. INCRENENTAt OPERATING COSTS        1.154.6  39.I   1.796.4 60.9   2.950.9   7.2               -       2.950.9           -
H. VEHICtE OPERATING COSTS           2.195.9  59. 9   1.468.8 40.1   3.664.7   8.9        2. 183.3          931.7      549.7
1. GENERAL ADNINSTRATIVE COSTS       1,040.5  50.8   1.005.8 49.2   2,046.3   5.0           809.6          827.4      409.3
d. EQUIPHENI OPERAIING COSTS          1.268.7  59.9      848.5 40.1   2.117.2   5.2        1.261.3          623.0     232.9
Total Dlsburs _ nt                    30.396.0  73.9  10,711.8 26.1  41. 107.8 100.0    24,613.1           12. 193.9   4.300.8
:,::::::3     ::::::::     ::::::: -       ::::::::::::::::
October 23. 1991  17:18
w
0
w



GRAUU
NATIONAL AUIOJCULTUIRAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estfm_ted Schedule of Credit Disbursement by Quarter I/
(US$ million)
Cumilat ive
IDA                                Cumtative      Stuidard      Disbursement
Flcatl Year                Cumastive Disbursement  Disbursement according to
Quarters Disbursement Disbursement as X of Credit Profile 2/         Profile
FY93      I
11         0.0           0.0             0.0           3            0.9
III         1.6           1.6             5.3
IV         1.8           3.4            11.2          10            3.0                              DISBURSEMENT  PROFILES
FY94      1         2.1           5.5            18.1                                        32
It         2.2           7.7            25.3          14            4.3             3o
III         2.4          10.1            33.2                                        28                                  r
IV        2.5           12.6            41.4          18            5.5             2
26 
Fm5       1         2.3          14.9            49.0                                         24                                                     /
11         2.4          17.3            56.9          26            7.9             24
III         2.6          19.9            65.5                                        22              ,
IV         2.7          22.6            74.3          30            9.1             20                      /
FY96      1         1.3          23.9            78.6                                        is
11         1.4          25.3            83.2          42           12.8             i ,
III         1.6          26.9            88.S                                 :      14                 /
IV         1.7          28.6            94.1          50           15.2             12 
FY97      I         0.4          29.0            95.4                                         *0            /
11         0.4          29.4            96.7          58           17.6
III         0.4          29.8            98.0
IV         0.4          30.2            99.3          46           20.1              6
4
FY96      1         0.2          30.4           100.0          70           21.3               2
1I                                                    74           22.5
III
IV                                                    66           26.1                 I   N   a   v   a   N           IV   I   IV   I   I        4 a   i 9
93      94        95        96     97            98        98    99
if                                                    94           28.6
IV                                                    98           2V.8
Fm99      I
11                                                   100           30.4
111
IV
I/  Credit effectivenes., ccupletion and closing dates assalwd to be Nay 1, 1992, April 30, 1997 and October 31, 1997, respectively.
21  Source: Standard Dlsbursmnt Profiles. CI10 July 11, 1991. Refers to the profile of agricultural projects In Ghoun.
0



- 64 -                                   Anne 5
GHANA                            Page 1 of 1
NATIONAL AGRiCULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Subject Matter Specialist Centers 1/: Staff Requirement
REGION         SMS CENTER    LIV  FISH  AGR iHRT SWM ENG WMAD MON TMN TOTAL
1. UPPER WEST
Babile         1. Wa            1    0      1     1     1    1      1    1    1      8
2. Tumu         1    0      1    0       0    0     1    0    0      3
Sub-total       2     0     2      1     1    1     2    1    1      11
2. UPPER EAST
Manga          1. Bolgatanga    1     1     1     1     1    1      1    1    1      9
3. NORTHERN
Nyankpala      1. Tamale        1     1     1     1     1    1      1    1    1      9
2.Yendi         1    0      1    0       0    0     1    0    0      3
3. Damongo      1    0      1    0       0    0     1    0    0      3
4.Salaga        1    0      1      0     0    0     1    0    0      3
Sub-total       4     1    4       1     1    1    4        1    18i
4. BRONG-AHAFO
Wenchi         1.Sunyani        1    0      1     0     1    0      1    1    1      6
2. Wenchi       1    0      1     0     0    1      1    0    0      4
3. Atebubu      1     1     1    0       0    0     1    0    0      4
Sub-total       3     1    3      0      1    1     3    1    1     14
5. ASHANTI        1. Kumasi        1     1     1     1     1    0     1    1    1       8
2.Mampong       1     0     1    0      0    1      1    0    0      4
Sub-total       2     1    2       1     1    1    2    1    1      12
5. WESTERN        1. Takoradi      1     1     1    0      1    0     1    1    1       7
2. Asankrangwa    1    0     1    0      0    0     1    0    0      3
3. Wlawso       1    0      1    0       0    0     1   0    0       3
Sub-total       3     1    3      0      1    0     3    1    1      13
7. CENTRAL
Asuandi        1. Cape Coast    1     1     1     1     1    0      1    1    1      8
2.Foso          1     0      1    0     0    0      1   0    0       3
Sub-total       2     1    2       1     1    0     2    1    1     11
8. EASTERN        1.Kotoridua      1     1     1     1     1    0     1    1    1       8
2.Mpraeso       1     1     1     0      0    1     1    0    0      5
Sub-total       2     2     2      1     1    1     2    1    1     13
9. GREATERACCRA Accra              1     1     1     1     1    0     1    1    1       8
10. VOLTA
iKpeve         1. Ho            1     1     1     1     1    1      1    1    1      9
2.Jasikan       1     1     1     0      0    0     1    0    0      4
Sub-total       2     2     2      1     1    1    2    1    1       13
TOTAL REGIONAL                 22   11   22       8    10    7    22   10   10    122
..iL UV -  vestock; FISH - Fisheries; AGR - Agronomy; SWM . Soil & Water Conservation; HORT - Horticulture;
WIAD . Women In Agriculture Development; MON - Planning & Monitoring; TRN - Training



- 65 -
Annex 6
Page I of 3
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
In-service Extension Training
1.       The project would provide for in-service training, comprisir,g orientation, induction
and subject matter training within Ghana and foreign training and study tours. The details of
the training are given in the Attachment to this Annex. The following supplements these
details in respect of the main in-service training programs.
2.       Orientation and Induction. The objective of the orientation training is to introduce
the concept of unified extension system to the policymakers and implementers in the
Ministries/Departments participating in the project. This course would last for 2 days. A
similar orientation program is also planned for the NGOs.
3.       Induction course for the regional staff would be aimed at making them understand
their responsibilities under the unified extension system. The focus would be on how the
various disciplines would work together to deliver to farmers an integrated set of messages
covering all disciplines related to agriculture.
4.       The induction course for CSIR and university scientists would be aimed at
explaining the unified extension system and making them aware of their role in the reformed
system, with its on-farm adaptive research and regular workshops involving scientists and
extension staff.
5.       All the orientation and induction courses would be held with the assistance of local
consultants with the participation of the extension field staff of the Bank.
6.       M&E. M&E would be a totally new activity and needs considerable initiation and
training. There would be 2 courses in M&E each for a period of 4 weeks and having about
20 participants. The project would recruit a TA for 6 months, who would, besides field
responsibilities as M&E expert, also provide back-up support to the local consultant in
running the training program. The program would cover all regional level M&E staff who,
in turn would train the district staff.
7.       Information Sunport. The staff of the information support unit require training in
the preparation of extension material (i.e., slides, charts, etc.) for the use of field extension
staff. The project would provide for their training in these areas and also in providing audio-
visual support to the extension training programs. Besides local consultants, one TA would
be employed to ran the training program. There would be one training course each year with
20 participants lasJ-.ng for about 4 weeks.



- 66 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
8.       Subiect-Matter Training. Eight subject matter areas have been identified for
annual in-service training to the SMSs. These are:
(a)      roots and tubers
(b)      grains and legumes
(c)      tree crops/agroforestry
(d)      horticulture
(e)      livestock/pasture
(f)      fisheries
(g)      home management
(h)      animal traction
9.       These in-service training programs would serve as supplementary to the periodic
SMS workshops under the project. These training programs would be conducted by local
consultants, except for Animal Traction for which TA support would be needed. The Animal
Traction Expert would, besides conducting training programs, assist the project staff in the
testing of prototypes of farm implements.
10.      Foreign Training. Key project staff would be sent to selected training institutions
abroad for training in the following areas: M&E, Raral extension, Information support,
Farming systems and Agricutural services.
11.      Study Tours. In addition to foreign training, study tours would be organized to
other countries with strong and successful extension systems. Some of these study tours could
combine institutional training in an institution in the developed country with field tour in a
developing country.



- 67 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
Table 1. DURATION AND COST OF IN-SERVICE EXTENSION TRAINING PROGRAM
Area of                  Duration        No. of     No. of            Local
Training                   (days)    Participants    Courses    Consultants 1/               TA
(Cedis)               (USS)
A. igtounta Trainina
1. Orientation
Ministerial              2           60            1         150,000
NGOs                     1            50          2          150,000
2. Induction
Regional staff           3            So          3          450,000
Scientists               3            50           1         150,000
3. M & e                   28           2j)          2          600,000               48,000
(6 months)
4. Extension Management
HQ Staff                28            35          1)          35,000
Regional Staff          28            30          31         750,000            (16 weeks)
5. Research-Extension
Linkafe                  2            25          1           50,000
6. Inf. Support                              (Each year)
28           20           1         750,000                15,000
(6 weeks)
7. Subiect Matter Trainine
Roots & Tubers          28            15           1         750,000
Grains & Legumes        28            15          1          750,000
Tree crops/Agro-Forestry  28          15           1         750,000
Vegetables              14            15          1          375,000
Livestock/Pasture       28            15          1          750,000
Fisheries               14            10          1          375,000
Home Management         14            15          1          375,000
Animal Traction         14            15          1          375,000               48,000
(6 months)
B. Forelan Trainine                                                            Lumpsum $215,000
C. Study Toug                                                                  Lumpsum $450,000
1/ The cost of local consultnts (incl. per diem) and travel is taken as 150,000 cedis per week.



- 68 -
Annex7
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Introduction 1/
1.    Monitoring performance and evaluating impact are essential to managing an
agricultural extension service in order to continuously readapt its services to the needs of its
clients - the farmers. The main objectives of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of an
agricultural extension program are to assess: (a) the effectiveness of the communication
between the extension service ard farmers, i.e., the information flow to and from farmers.
This would implicitly involve aisessing the implementation of the extension management
system; (b) adoption rates of recommended practices; (c) utilization of farm inputs; (d) yield
of crops and livestock, i.e., increased agricultural production; and (d) the impact of the
service on farmers' welfare, i.e., level and distribution of income and standard of living. The
purpose of this paper is to provide a guideline for the design and implementation of the
monitoring and evaluation of this project. First, the justification for the choice of a planning
and monitoring unit in the Department of Agricultural Extension Services is given. The
rationale for the M&E approach and the key indicators to be monitored are then discussed.
Second, a matrix is given to show the activities and objectives to be monitored and evaluated,
their key indicators and the targets set for them, the source of information and the
responsibility for monitoring and evaluating these.
Lustification for a Planning and Monitoring Unit in the DAES
2.    The project design has opted to establish only a Planning and Monitoring unit and not
a central monitoring and evaluation (M&E) unit in the Departmnent of Agricultural E;xtension
Services (DAES) for three reasons. First of all, as there is a central Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Department (PPMED) in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), it was felt that
another unit duplicating its functions in the DAES would not be necessary. Second,
monitoring is a tool of management and that the primary responsibility of the monitoring uQit
would be to meet the internal information needs of the management and technical and
administrative staff of DAES and cooperating departments of MOA. As such, the planning
and monitoring unit needs to be integrated within the management of DAES and that
monitoring information should be recorded by those who are directly involved in the
implementation of the project. The role of the monitoring unit of DAES would be to
coordinate the generation of monitoring information, analyze the data and disseminate its
findings to the staff of DAES, PPMED and other cooperating departments of MOA. It was
felt that this arrangement would not compete nor duplicate the functions of PPMED so long as
it receives monitoring information on the program of DAES and it has a say in the methods of
analysis of the data and the design of the management information system (MIS) that would
I/    For a detailed treatment of Monitoring and Evaluation, see Murphy, Jossette, and T. J. Marchant, 1988.
Monitoring and Evaluation in Extension A2encies. World Bank Technical Paper Number 79, Monitoring
and Evaluation Series. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.



- 69 -
Annex &
Page 2 of 4
generate the monitoring data. The third reason for not creating an M&E unit in the DAES is
to ensure that evaluating program impact would be carried out objectively by those who are
not actively involved in its implementation and PPMED is best suited to undertake this
function as it is doing so for other projects of MOA.
3.    It is, therefore suggested that monitoring of project implementation and assessing its
effectiveness would be undertaken by DAES as an integral part of its management information
system (MIS), which would be established prior to the commencement of the project. The
Planning and Monitoring Unit (PMU) of DAES would be responsible for managing the MIS
and producing monitoring reports. Evaluation of the project's impact on project bereficiaries
and on agricultural output would be carried out by PPMED of MOA with assistance from
outside consultants including the faculties of agriculture of the three Ghanian universities and
private firms.
Monitoring Program Implementation and Effectiveness
4.    It is proposed that the design of the MIS for DAES be based on a self-monitoring
principle that allows staff to record data that would help them assess the progress they make
and the effectiveness of their work and lets every level in the DAES organization to monitor
the operation of the level immediately below. Field staff and officers of the DAES in all
regions would be trained in the use of the MIS. Staff involved in direct implementation of the
extension program would be required to fill monthly monitoring forms designed to provide
information on selected indicators that would allow assessing the progress and effectiveness of
their work. This information would be checked and commented upon by the immediate
supervisors and submitted to the monitoring officer of the regional DAES, who would verify
and analyze the data. Care should be taken to keep the monthly monitoring forms as short
and simple as possible so that staff are not encumbered with too much paperwork that would
distract them from their normal duties.
5.    It is suggested that three types of reports be prepared by this officer. The first would
be a monthly report containing summary statistics of selected key indicators nf program
activities for all the districts in the region, serially listing the data for the previous months in
the reporting year. This should be accompanied by an executive summary or monitoring brief
(2-3 pages) which highlights interesting results and/or problems for the attention of
management and the individual supervisors concerned. This report would be sent to the
Planning and Monitoring Unit of DAES, which would likewise compile a monthly report on
these indices for all regions as a whole.
6.    The second report would be short diagnostic reports limited to the findings on a
specific problem, which warrants a short investigation to explain the root cause of the
problem and recommend corrective actions that management should take to solve the problem.
7.    The third report would be a formal progress report prepared quarterly in a standard
format. This would report on the current progress of the program and the rate of
accomplishment of the targets using the key indicators selected to measure progress. It would
analyze the trends in the data and compare and contrast the performance of the program in the
various districts and incorporate the comments of the regional management of DAES. It
would be sent to the district DAES and FLS as a feed back. The Planning and Monitoring



- 70 -
Annex 
Page 3 of 4
Unit of DAES would also receive these reports and synthesize a similar quarterly report for
the country comparing and contrasting the performance of the extension programs in the ten
regions. The quarterly reports published by DAES would be submitted to the PPMED and
distributed to supervisory staff in all regions as a feed back.
8.    Indicators for Monitoring Project Implementation and Effectiveness. It is
essential that key indicators are selected for measuring project progress and assessing its
effectiveness. The effectiveness and efficiency of an extension service should be measured in
terms of the extent to which the targets (output) set at the beginning of the monitoring period
in question are achieved and the resources (inputs) utilized in the process. The annual work
program and budget provides the targets to be achieved during the year and the level of
resources deemed necessary to achieve these targets. Monitoring would entail not only
measuring progress towards achieving these targets but also the level and timing of the
provision of resources and the rate of their utilization as these affect the timeliness and quality
of project implementation. Monitoring should, therefore, deal with the allocation and
utilization of resources during project implementation.
9.    Indicators for Monitoring Resource Allocation and Utilization show the physical
and financial amount of resources provided to and utilized by the project. These are then
compared with the levels indicated in the plan for the monitoring period. These resources are
investment items, including buildings or other civil works, transport (vehicles, motorcycles;
etc.), equipment and furniture; and operating and maintenance costs (e.g., staff salaries and
allowances, training costs, vehicle and other maintenance costs, etc.). The key items which
most affect project implementation should be chosen as the indicators of progress. The
accounting and stores operation systems set up for the project should produce the physical and
financial amount of these resources provided, the timing of their delivery and the rate at
which they are utilized. The only additional information that would be required for project
monitoring is explanations of significant variations between the levels planned and those
provided and utilized and what should be done to correct their adverse effects on the project.
The MIS and the regional and headquarters monitoring officers should ensure that this
information is prepared and made available in a timely fashion. See Table 1, for example, of
a matrix of key indicators for monitoring of resource allocation and utilization.
10.   Indicators of Program Delivery show the rate of execution of planned activities to
deliver relevant extension recommendations and train farmers. These are: (a) dissemination
of agricultural extension messages (visits and demonstrations by FLS to groups of farmers,
farmer training at demonstration and training centers, radio broadcasts, production and
distribution of brochures and leaflets to farmers, etc.); (b) generation of relevant technology,
i.e., adaptive on-farm trials, meetings of regional research/extension cemmittees; (c) training
of staff (induction and in-service training) including SMS workshops, monthly FLS training
and other workshops, seminars and study tours; and (d) supervision of program delivery. The
MIS should provide simple forms that those in charge of conducting these activities would fill
as each activity is being performed. These forms should solicit information on (a) the
purpose of the activity; (b) the number of participants by category (e.g., trainers and trainees
by adults, youth, male, female, the number of radio broadcasts, leaflets produced and
disseminated, etc.; (c) the topics covered or the actions taken; and (d) the reaction of the
participants or the conclusicns of the meetings or supervision sessions. Key activities that



- 71 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
measure progress in program delivery should be chosen for monitoring purposes. See
Table 1 for examples for monitoring key indicators of program delivery.
11.   Indicators of Program Effectiveness show the extent to which the messages,
delivered to and the training and demonstrations carried out for farmers are influencing their
agricultural behavior and farming practices. Key indicators selected to assess program
effectiveness would show rates of adoption of recommended practices, levels of utilization of
yield increasing inputs and changes in yields of the affected crops and livestock. See Table 1
for examples of possible key indicators for monitoring program effectiveness. These would
have to be adapted to the messages contained in the planned program delivery for the
monitoring period in question. Strategic surveys timed to capture the adoption rates of key
extension recommendations may have to be carried out.
12.   Monitoring and Evaluation of ProJect Impact provides information to national
planners and policy makers as well as donors the effectiveness of the project in achieving the
desired objectives as set out in the project plans. This would require: (a) the establishment
of bench mark data against which the project's impacts would be gauged; and (b) periodic
measurements of the key impact parameters. While some of the baseline data and periodic
measurements, such as number and characteristics of farmers adopting innovations, can be
collected through the MIS of DAES, socio-economic evaluations and yield surveys to
determine impacts on beneficiaries income and standard of living and national agricultural
output should be conducted under the aegis of the PPMED, which could also commission
universities or other consultant firms. It is suggested that PPMED avoid total reliance on
ambitious and costly extensive national sample surveys. Simpler, speedier and more in-depth
and manageable studies conducted region by region would be preferable in order to avoid the
pitfalls of amassing a large body of unanalyzed and unanalyzable data as has been the case in
similar ventures elsewhere.2/
13.   Possible key indicators for evaluating program impact are shown in Table 1. The
table can be used for the project as a whole, and for each region and its districts. Monitoring
formats to be used in the field need to be developed and tested with those staff who would be
using them in monitoring their own work and/or supervising others. Once these are tested,
amnended and found workable, staff need to be trained on how to use them.
42/ Cernea, M. M.; J. K. Coulter; J. F. A. Russel, edh. 1983. Agricultural Extension by Training and Visit:
The Asian Experience. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.



Table 1.  Monitoring wnd EvYluatiOn Matrfx
Activity/objective        indicator              Target                 Achievement          Source of Information     Responsibility
RESOURCE ALLOCATION                                                                          Internal project docu-
AND UTILIZATION                                                                              ments  accounting reports
1. Extension '.aff                               as specified In Staff                       personnel records               DAES
by category          no.                    Appraisal Report wnd                                                        DAES
2. SNS staff                                     reviewed In aiwwal                          personiel records               DAES
by speclalty         no.                    Program   B 0udget                                                          DAES
3. Transport                                                                                 accounting/store records        DAES
vehicles             no.    value                                                                                       DAES
motorcycles          no.    value                                                                                       DAES
bicycles             no.    value                                                                                       DAES
4. Buitdings                                                                                 accounting/store records        DAES
offices              no.    value                                                                                       DAES
staff housino        no.    value                                                                                       DAES
5. Furniture  nd                                                                             accomting/store records         DAES
E4ulpnent by type    no.    vatue                                                                                        DAES
6. Recurrent costs                                                                           accounting records              DAES
by purpose                   value                                                                                      DAES
Program Delivery
1. Consult. Group                                                                            monitoring formts               DAES
Meetings              no.    dates           Ansal Program
2. SWS workshops          no.    dates                                                       monitoring formts               DAES
3. Staff Training                                                                            mnitoring formsts               DAES
ind4etion           no.    dates
in-service          no.    dates
by type and
staff category
4. Farm visits                                                                               monitoring formats              DAES
by staff categ.
5. Farm dems. monitoring formts                                                                                             DAES
by staff categ.
by farmer gender
6. Farmer 7raining                                                                           monitoring formnts              DAES
by gender
T. Extension Trial                                                                           montoring formats               DAES
plots
S. onfarm trials                                                                             monitoring foruats              DAES
9. Radlo 0roadcsts                                                                          monitoring formats              DAES
by topics
10. Drochure leaflet                                                                         monitoring formats              DAES
production                                                                                                                                .d..    b
by topic                                                                                                                                   to 
11. Supervision of                                                                           monitoring formats              DAES                * ,-     b
by category                                                                                                                                         x
0



Table 1. Monitoring wid Evaluation Mbtrix
Activity/Objective        Indicator              jiarget                jAchievement          |Source of Informtion    1lesponsibitity
CRuP PRODUCTION
1. LOnd preparation                              Arnnal Progrm                                 monitoring formats              DAS5
hoe
animal traction
tractor
2. Soil & Vater                                                                               amnitorIng formats               DAkS
Conservation
contour plowing
vetiver bunding
terracing
3. Rom planting                                                                                monitoring formats              DAES
4. Plant population                                                                            monitoring formats              DAES
S Isfroved variety                                                                            monitoring formats               DAES
seed treatment
by crop
6. Fertilifer applic                                                                          monitoring formats               DAES
by crop I type
T. Vaeding                                                                                    miftoring formats                DAES
hoe
animal traction
tractor
herbicide                                                                                                                                              La
8. Plant protection                                                                            mnitoring formats               DAES
chemicals by type
9. Narvesting &                                                                               mnitoring formsts                DAES
Threshing
hand
hwd
amyowered
equfpeent
combine
10. Post harvest                                                                              monitoring formats              DAIS
technology
Improved
storage
pesticide
11. yield obtained                                                                            crop cutting survey           DAESIPPHED
by crops
full adopters
75X adopters
50X adopters
25% adopters
.    x
0
Nb



Table 1. Nonitoring and Evaluation Natrix
Actilvity/objective       Indicator              aTarget                1Achlevement         1ource of Infor_tlen    1Reponsibility
LIVESTOCK PRtIXUCTION
1. Use of Isproved                               Amual Progrm                                 monitoring form_ts               DAES
breeds
2. Use of castration                                                                          monitoring formts                DAES
3. Immmization by                                                                             monitoring formts                DAES
disease
4. Deaorming                                                                                  monitoring formats               DAES
5. Ectoporasite control
6. Groming of:                                                                                monitoring formats               DAES
lsproved pasture
fodder trees
by specel
7. Feeding of:                                                                                mneitoring formats               DAES
crop resils
olt seeds/cakes
grains
by type
S. Fertility rates                                                                            monitoring formats               DAES
9. Nortality rates                                                                            monitoring formats               DAES
yotnm stock
others
10. Production per animal                                                                     monitoring formats               DAES
oilk* egs, meet                                                                        surveys                          pPIEO
VIAD ACTIVITIES
1. Improved stove                                Annual Program                               monitoring formats               DAES
2. Improved storage                                                                           monitoring formts                DAES
kitchen
other rooms
3. Improved washing and                                                                       monitoring formts                DAES
drying facility
4. Compost making                                                                             monitoring formats               DAES
5. Vegetable/fruit garden                                                                     monitoring formats               DAES
by type of plant
6. Food piocessing                                                                            monitoring formats               DAES
by type
T. food preservatlon                                                                          mnitoring formats                DAES
by type
0  a,
0
oI th



Toble 1. onitoring nd Eva iAtion Matrix
Activitylobjective        Indicator             jT1rget                1Achievement         |Source of inforfetlon    jlesponsibility
PROGRAN IIPACT
1. Crop area increase                            as specified in Staff                       crop cutting surveys            PPIED
by adopters                                Appraisal Report m*d
2. increental production                         reviewed In ammal                           crop cutting surveys            PPWED
by adopters                                Progrme & Budget
3. Increosed crop Income                                                                     crop cutting surveys            PPNED
per hr., per  enday
4. Livestock Incrase                                                                         surveys                         PPKEo
by species
S. Increnentel productfon                                                                    sIWv'y5                         PPIEO
by product
6. Increased livestock                                                                       surveys                         PPHED
incoae per *nim,
per mencay
T. Increaed Net Inc
per femily
per worker
8. Nutrition iprovement                                                                      surveys                   MIH. PUBIlC HEALTH
9. Ne  ebrsbip of farmer                                                                     surveys                         PPNED
organis tion
10. Other measures of                                                                                                                                        o
standard of living
(0    K
0
oo lb



- 76 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Regional Research Extension Liaison Committe
Terms of Reference
1.    The Government of Ghana would establish, in each region, a Research-Extension
Liaison Committee (RELC) with the following objectives, constitution and terms of reference.
ObXectIMe
2.    The objectives of the RELC would be generally to oversee the functioning of the
research and extension systems in the region, particularly the research-extension linkages, and
the planning and implementation of on-farm trials.
Constitution
3.    The RELC would be chaired by the Regional PNDC Deputy Secretary for
Agriculture, and its membership would include the Heads of the research stations serving the
region, including those belonging to the universities, the Regional Director of Agriculture, the
SMSs in the region and the Regional Agricultural Extension Officer. The SMS(Training) of
the region would function as the Secretary of the Committee.
4.    The RELC would meet at least once prior to each agricultural season.
Terms of Reference
5.    The terms of reference of the RELC would include:
(a)   review of the extension program and the pre-seasonal training program for the
region;
(b)   review of the performance of extension during the previous season, incluJ -
the implementation of on-farm trials and the extension test plot programs;
(c)   assessing the relevance of the extension recommendations given to the farmers
in the major agro-ecological zones, and the farmers' response to these;
(d)   selecting the resource persons for the SMS workshops, evaluating their
performance, including their contribution to the planning of on-farm trials;
(e)   review of the work program oi the Participatory Technology Development
(PTD) to be initiated under the project;



- 77 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
(f)   review of the research programs of the stations belonging to the Crops and the
Animal Research Institutes which are pertinent to the region concerned, and
making recommendations to increase their relevance to the needs of the
farmers in the region; and
(g)   review of the implementation of the adaptive trials program initiated by
research under the National Agricultural Research Project(NARP), and
making recommendations to increase their relevance.
6.    In order to enable the RELC to undertake the above functions, the regional head of
the extension system would place before the RELC, a brief report covering (a), Qo) and (e);
and the heads of the research stations represented on the RELC would prepare reports
covenng (f) and (g).



- 78 -                             Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Schedule of Activities for Consultancy Services
A. Internationally Recruited Consultants
rioect Yer:                            I     2     a      4      5     Total
Activity                                       (man-months)
Animal Traction                       6                                   6
Appropriate Technology                6                                   6
Monitoring and Evaluation             6      1     2             3       12
Extension Management                  4      1      1                     6
Information and Communications        2      2     2                      6
Subject-matter Specialist Workshops    1     1      1     1      1        5
Women in Agricultural Development     2      1      1     1      1        6
Total                          27     6      7     2      5       47
B. Local Consultants
Project Yea-r:                          l          a      4      5     Total
Activity                                       (man-months)
Animal Traction                       6      1      1     1      1       10
Appropriate Technology                6      1      1     1      1       10
Monitoring and Evaluation             6      3     3      3      3       18
Extension Management                  4      1      1                     6
Information and Communications        2      2     2      2      2       10
Subject-matter Specialists Training   6      6     6      6      6       30
Subject-matter Specialist Workshops    1     1      1     1      1        5
Women in Agricultural Development     2      1      1     1      1        6
Total                          33    16    16    15    15         95



- 79 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 20
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
1.    This annex provides the detailed terms of references for consultant services elaborated
in Section 6.E. of the Staff Appraisal Report. It is envisaged that both local and
internationally recruited consultants would be engaged to assist MOA in conducting studies,
designing systems, conducting training sessions, and making recommendations for fiuther
improvements and development in their respective fields. The internationally recruited
consultants would provide expertise and experience that is not available in Ghana. Local
consultants, primarily from the university community, would work with the internationally
recruited consultants so that the latter would continue to participate in the project, bringing
needed expertise and detached objectivity, especially in evaluating the effectiveness and
impacts of the project. Although some of the terms below have been drawn for
internationally recruited consultants, local consultants could be substituted provided they meet
the qualifications specified. In such cases, the MOA would seek the approval of IDA before
commissioning the local consultants.
A.    INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED CONSULTANT - ANIMAL TRACTION
AND ANIMAL-DRAWN FARM IMPLEMENTS
Introduction
1.    Animal traction is widely used only in a few regions, i.e., Upper East, Upper West,
Northern ard parts of Brong-Ahafo regions. Animal traction is mainly employed for plowing.
Little animal power is used for weeding, threshing and transport of farm inputs and produce.
The occurrence of trypanosomiasis in the humid and sub-humid regions of Ghana is believed
to be the main reason impeding the widespread use of animal traction in these zones.
Technological advances in the control of trypanosomiasis, employing a combination of
chemotherapy and protection of animals from tse tse flies using impregnated screens and spray
or pour-on pesticides, are reducing the risk of keeping cattle in these zones. The efficiency of
labor in (Ghanaian agriculture could be increased several fold if animal traction and animal-
drawn implements would replace the current method of land preparation and crop cultivation
practiced by most Ghanaian farmers with the hand hoe.
Objectives
2.    The main objective of the consultancy is to review the status of the use of animal
traction and animal-drawn implements in Ghana and analyze the key constraints impeding the
widespread use of these in order to prepare a medium and long-term work program for the
Agricultural Engineering Services Department (AESD) in the development and promotion of



- 80 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 20
animal traction and animal-s rawn implements suitable to the farming systems practiced in
Ghana.
Terms of Reference
3.    Specifically, the consultant would:
(a)   inventory and catalog the various types of animal drawn implements used in
Ghana and assess their efficiency as well as analyze their advantages and
disadvantages;
(b)   review the research and development work so far done on animal drawn
implements by the universities, Nyankpala Research Station and the farm
implements factory at Tamale;
(c)   identify the constraints on the spread of the use of animal drawn implements
in Ghana;
(d)    where feasible, import prototypes and test their adaptability to Ghanaian
conditions and test their acceptability by farmers;
(e)   in the light of the prevailing cropping systems, prototypes and artisanship, and
manufacturing capacity available in Ghana, make specific recommendations on
medium- and long-term program for the AESD for the de%elopment and
promotion of animal traction and animal-drawn implements in Ghana,
estimating the material and manpower requirement, training needs and cost of
the program;
(f)   recommend a methodology for evaluating the performance of animal-drawn
implements;
(i)   assist the Information Support Unit of the Department of Agricultural
Extension Services (DAES) in producing manuals, leaflets, posters and audio-
visual material for training of extension staff and popularizing animal traction
and animal-drawn implements among Ghanaian farmers; and
(h)    participate in training subject matter specialists in promoting the use of animal
traction and animal-drawn imp:ements;
(i)    work closely with the AESD, DAES, Department of Crop Services, the CSIR
research stations, the University of Science and Technology, and the Tamale
implement factory. In addition, the wonsultant would maintain contact with
the Agricultural Extension Specialist in the World Bank Resident Mission in
Accra.



- 81 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 20
Qualification
4.    The consultant would be an experienced agricultural engineer with at least an M.Sc.
degree and work experience of at least 5 years in developing countries in Africa and/or Asia.
Duration of the Consultancy
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require a maximum of six man months in one
stretch or spread in two or more parts over a period of one or two years.
SuppQrt by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) qualified counterparts from
AESD and DAES as well as one local consultant to work with the internationally recruited
consultant during the duration of his/her stay in Ghana; and (b) a serviceable vehicle. The
terms of reference for the local consultant is attached herewith.
A.(1) LOCAL CONSULTANT - ANIMAL TRACTION AND ANIMAL-DRAWN
FARM IMPLEMENTS
Introduction
1 .    Animal traction is widely used only in a few regions, i.e., Upper East, Upper West,
Northern and parts of Brong-Ahafo regions. Animal traction is mainly em..ployed f- plowing.
Little animal power is used for weeding, threshing and transport of farm inputs and produce.
The occurrence of trypanosomiasis in the humid and sub-humid regions of Ghana is believed
to be the main reason impeding the widespread use of animal traction in these zones.
Technological advances in the control of trypanosomiasis, employirg a combination of
chemotherapy and protection of animals from tse tse flies, using impregnated screens and
spray or pour-on pesticides, are reducing the risk of keeping cattle in these zones. The
efficiency of labor in Ghanaian agriculture could be increased several fold if animal traction
and animal-drawn implements would replace the current method of land preparation and crop
cultivation practiced by most Ghanaian farmers with the hand hoe.
Objectives
The DAES is commissioning an internationally recruited consultant (IRC) to review
the status of the use of animal traction and animal-drawn implements in Ghana and to analyze
the key constraints impeuing the widespread use of these in order to prepare a medium and
long-term work program for the Agricultural Engineering Services Department (AESD) in the
development and promotion of animal traction and animal-drawn implements suitable to the
farming systems practiced in Ghana. The full terms of reference for the IRC is attached
herewith. It is deemed important that a local consultant, preferably from the agricultural
engineering department of one of the universities, would participate in the review and drawing
up of the development program so that the local consultant would continue to be associated
with the development program long after the IRC has completed his/her work.



- 82 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 20
Terms of Reference
1.    Specifically, the local consultant would:
(a)    assist the IRC in performing the tasks specified in 3 (a) - 3 (h) of the terms of
reference for the IRC;
(b)   continue to participate in the development work to be embarked by the AESD
over the years;
(c)    assist the Information Support Unit of the Department of Agricultural
Extension Services (DAES) in producing manuals, leaflets, posters and audio-
visual material for training of extension staff and popularizing the use of
animal traction and animal drawn implements among Ghanaian farmers;
(d)   conduct training workshops for subject matter specialists in promoting the use
of appropriate technology in farm and household tools, equipment and
structures; and
(e)    work closely with the IRC, AESD, DAES, Department of Crop Services, the
CSIR research stations, the University of Science and Technology and the
Tamale implement factory. In addition, the consultant would maintain contact
with the Agricultural Extension Specialist in the World Bank Resident Mission
in Accra.
Qualification
2.    The consultant would be a Ghanaian agricultural engineer with at least an M.Sc.
degree and two years of work experience.
Duration of the Consultancy
3.    It is envisaged that the local consultant would be engaged for a total of 11 man
months over a period of 4 years, spread as follows: 4 months each during the first and
second years and one month each in the remaining three years.
Support by MOA
4.    MOA would provide: (a) qualified counterparts from AESD and DAES to work with
the IRC and local consultant during the duration of his/her consultancy; (b) transport; and
(c) office space and secretarial support.



- 83 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 20
B.    INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED CONSULTANT - APPROPRIATE
TECHNOLOGY IN FARM AND HOUSEHOLD TOOLS, EQUIPMENT AND
STRUCTURES
Introducion
1.    The level of mechanical technology used in Ghanaian agriculture is very low. The
major tools for a majority of farmers are the hoe and the cutlas3. Maize shelling and rice and
sorghum threshing are all done by hand with the help of a stick. In irrigated rice production,
simple tools for leveling and puddling soil are not available. Agricultural goods are
transported from farm to home and from home to market by head portage. It is rare to see
wheel barrows used in the ruaral areas. Post-harvest losses are reported to be very high due to
lack of appropriate crop drying methods and poorly designed storage structures. Energy is
wasted by using open wood fire in cooking. There are no standard designs for livestock
housing. There are a large number of hand tools, equipment and structures developed in
other underdeveloped countries, mainly in Asia, that increase the efficiency of labor and
reduce the drudgery of performing farm and household chores. Appropriate technology on
these could be imported and modified to suit Ghanaian conditions.
Objectives
2.    The main objective of the consultancy is to review the status of utilization of
appropriate technology in farm and household tools, equipment and structures and make
recommendations to MOA for a program of development and promotion among Ghanaian
farmers. The appropriate technology areas included would be: (a) farm work including
seeding, planting, fertilizer and pesticide application, harvesting, threshing, transport and
storage, transport; (b) food processing and preservation, including gari making, oil extraction,
etc.; (c) water lifting; (d) conservation of energy; and (e) housing of animals, etc.
Terms of Reference
3.    Specifically, the consultant would:
(a)   inventory and catalog the various hand tools, equipment and structures used
by Ghanian farmers in farm and household tasks and assess their efficiency as
well as analyze their advantages and disadvantages;
(b)   identify local artisans and manufacturers for such tools, equipment and
structures;
(c)    where feasible, import prototypes and test their adaptability to Ghanaian
conditions and test their acceptability by farmers;
(d)   in the light of the prevailing cropping systems, prototypes and artisanship and
manufacturing capacity available in Ghana, make specific recommendations on
medium and long-term program for the MOA for the development and
promotion of the widespread use of hand tools, equipment and structures



- 84 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 20
anong Ghanaian farmers, estimating the material and manpower requirement,
training needs and cost of the program;
(e)    develop a methodology for evaluating the performance of such tools,
equipment and structures;
(f)    assist the Information Support Unit of the Department of Agricultural
Extension Services (DAES) in producing manuals, leaflets, posters and audio-
visual material for training of extension staff and popularizing hand tools,
equipment and structures among Ghanaian farmers;
(g)    participate in training subject matter specialists in promoting the use of hand
tools, equipment and structures; and
(h)    work closely with the AESD, DAES, Department of Crop Services, the CSIR
research stations, the University of Science and Technology and the Tamale
implement factory. In addition, the consultant would maintain contact with
the Agricultural Extension Specialist in the World Bank Resident Mission in
Accra.
Qualification
1.    The consultant would be an agricultural or mechanical engineer with at least an M.Sc.
degree and five years of experience in developing countries in Africa or Asia.
Duration of the Consultancy
2.    It is envisaged that the work would require a maximum of six man months to be
completed in two phases. Phase one would take 4-6 weeks for carrying out the task outlined
in 2 (a) above. The second phase would last 4.5 to 5 months in one stretch or spread in two
or more parts over a period of one or two years.
Support by kMOA
3.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) qualified counterparts from
AESD and DAES as well as one local consultant to work with the internationally recruited
consultant during the duration of his/her stay in Ghana; and (b) a serviceable vehicle. The
terms of reference for the local consultant is attached herewith.



- 85 -
Page 7 of 20
B.(1) LOCAL CONSULTANT - APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY ON FARM AND
HOUSEHOLD TOOLS, EQUIPMENT AND STRUCTURES
Introduction
1.    The level of mechanical technology used in Ghanaian agriculture is very low. The
major tools for a majority of farmers are the hoe and the cutlass. Maize shelling and rice and
sorghum threshing are all done by hand with the help of a stick. In irrigated rice production,
simple tools for leveling and puddling soil are not available. Agricultural goods are
transported from farm to home and from home to market by head portage. It is rare to see
wheel barrows used in the rural areas. Post harvest losses are reported to be very high due to
lack of appropriate crop drying methods and poorly designed storage structures. Energy is
wasted by using open wood fire in cooking. There are no standard designs for livestock
housing. There are a large number of hand tools, equipment and structures developed in
other underdeveloped countries, mainly in Asia, that increase the efficiency of labor and
reduce the drudgery of performing farm and household chores. Appropriate technology on
these could be imported and modified to suit Ghanaian conditions.
Qbjectives
2.    The Agricultural Engineering Services Department (AESD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is commissioning an internationally recruited consultant (IRC)to review
the status of utilization of appropriate technology in farm and household tools, equipment and
structures and make recommendations to DAES for a program of development and promotion
of these technologies among Ghanaian farmers. The appropriate technology areas included
would be: (a) farm work, including seeding, planting, fertilizer and pesticide application,
harvesting, threshing, transport and crop drying, storage, transport; (b) food processing and
preservation, including gari making, oil extraction, etc.; (c) water lifting; (d) conservation of
energy; (e) housing of animals, etc. The full terms of reference for the IRC is attached
herewith. It is deemed important that a local consultant, preferably from the agricultural
engineering department of one of the universities, would participate in the review and drawing
up of the development program so that the local consultant would continue to be associated
with the development program long after the IRC has completed his/her work.
Terms of Reference
3.    Specifically, the local consultant would:
(a)   assist the IRC in performing the tasks specified in 3 (a) - 3 (g) of the terms of
reference for the IRC;
(b)   continue to participate in the development work to oe embarked by the AESD
over the years;
(c)    assist the Information Support Unit of the Department of Agricultural
Extension Services (DAES) in producing manuals, leaflets, posters and audio-
visual material for training of extension staff and popularizing the use of



- 86 -
Amnex10
Page 8 of 20
appropriate technology in farm and household tools, equipment and structures
among Ghanaian farmers; and
(d)    conduct training workshops for subject matter specialists in promoting the use
of animal traction and animal-drawn implements; and
(e)    work closely with the IRC, AESD, DAES, Department of Crop Services, the
CSIR research stations, the University of Science and Technology, and the
Tamale implement factory. In addition, the consultant would maintain contact
with the Agricultural Extension Specialist in the World Bank Resident Mission
in Arcra.
Oualification
1.    The consultant would be a Ghanaian agricultural engineer with at least an M.Sc.
degree and two years of work experience.
Duration of the Consultancy
2.    It is envisaged that the local consultant would be engaged for a total of 11 man
months over a period of 4 years, spread as follows: 4 months each during the first and
second years and one month each in the remaining three years.
Support by MQA
3.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) qualified counterparts from
AESD and DAES to work with the IRC and local consultant during the duration of his/her
consultancy; (b) transport; and (c) office space and secretarial support.
C.    INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED CONSULTANT - MONITORING AND
EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPACT
Introduction
1.    The Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Agricultural Extension Project over a period
of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government agencies. The
primary objective of the project is to achieve sustained increase in agricultural production and
improve the incomes and nutrition of smallholder households through enhanced adoption of
technology suitable to their agro-ecological environment and their socio-economic conditions.
Specifically, the project would: (a) unify the scattered extension services in order to improve
efficiency in the management and delivery of extension services; (b) improve the relevance of
technologies available to farmers; (c) increase the involvement of farmers in defining
extension programs and setting priorities in adaptive research; (d) organize farmers in groups
to facilitate their access to inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (e) reorient
programs for human resource development to be responsive to the requirements of a unified



- 87 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 20
extension service and to forge closer linkages between research, teaching and extension.
Special emphasis would be placed on reaching women farmers more effectively.
Obiectime
2.    The objective of this consultancy is to assist the Policy Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department (PPMED) of MOA to develop and implement a system for monitoring
the progress of the project and evaluate its impact on the uptake of improved technologies by
farmers, on national agricultural outout and on the welfare of farmers participating in the
extension program. The information required for monitoring the physical and financial
progress of the project would be generated by a management information system (MIS),
which would be implemented by DAES. The task in this regard would be to ensure that the
MIS is adequate for PPMED's purposes. This consultancy would focus on evaluating the
impact. of the project.
Terms of Reference
3.    Specifically, the consultant would:
(a)   after studying the IDA Staff Appraisal Report of the project, particularly the
guidelines outlined for monitoring and evaluation in Annex 7, determine the
key indicator parameters that need to be monitored and evaluated in order to
achieve the above objective (para. 2.) and in Annex 7 cited above;
(b)   establish the initial or without the project value or situation of these
parameters. This would involve an initial base line sample survey and
analysis representing the agro-ecological zones in which the project would be
active;
(c)    devise a system for monitoring and evaluating these parameters over the five
years life of the project and beyond. This would include the method and
frequency of data collection, a data bank, and type of analysis to be carried
out;
(d)   train PPMED and DAES staff in obtaining the required data and feeding it
into the data bank and train PPMED staff in operating the data bank,
analyzing and interpreting the data; and
(e)    work closely with PPMED and DAES staff and local consultants in carrying
out the above tasks. In addition, the consultant would maintain contact with
the Agricultural Extension Specialist in the World Bank Resident Mission in
Accra.
Oualification
4.    The consultant would be an agricultural economist or development sociologist with at
least an M.Sc. degree and five years of experience with setting up impact evaluation systems
for agricultural projects and evaluating the results.



- 88 -
Ann0 I
Page 10 of 20
Duration of Consultancy
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require a total of 12 mar, months, carried out in
three phases. The first phase would be for a period of six months to establish the impact
evaluation system and to start the initial baseline survey and analysis during the first year of
the project. The second phase would be for two months at the end of the second year to
review the operation of the system, train staff and make recommendations on Its
improvement. The final phase would be for five months at the end of the first half of the
fifth year of the project to analyze and write up the impact achieved and the projected impact
of the project for the next five years.
Sup.poB by MOQA
6.    PPMED would provide: (a) three local consultants, one agricultural economist, one
agronomist and one nutritionist; (b) qualified counterparts from AESD and DAES; (c) full
time access to at least two personal computers; (d) a serviceable vehicle; and (e) office space
and secretarial support. The terms of reference for the local consultants are attached
herewith.
Expected gOutpu
7.    The consultant is expected to submit three reports coinciding with the end of each
phase of the work described in para 5 above. The first report would:
(a)    describe the impact evaluation system, i.e., the key impact indicators, the data
collection, storage and retrieval, analy.is and reporting;
(b)    present the results of the baseline survey establishing the initial or benchmark
values or situation of the key impact indicators; and
(c)   the timetabie for carrying out the tasks required for the impact evaluation of
the project with clear criteria for monitoring the progress of the work.
8.    The second report would evaluate the operation of the impact monitoring system and
make recommendations for improvements, if necessary. The third report would present a
comprehensive analysis of the impact of the project up to that time and make projection on its
likely impact in the following 5 years.



- 89 -
Annex 10
Page 11 of 20
C.(1) LOCAL CONSULTANTS - MONITORING A:ND EVALUATION OF PROJECT
IMPACT
Introdrction
1.    The Department of Agricultural Exteision Services (DAES) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Agricultural Extension Project over a period
of S vears with the support of other MOA departments and government agencies. The
primary objective of the project is to achieve sustained increase in agricultural production and
.mprove the incomes and nutrition of smallholder households through enhanced adoption of
technology suitable to their agro-ecological environment and their socio-economic conditions.
Specifically, the project would: (a) unify the scattered extension services in order to improve
efficiency in the managemer,t and delivery of extension services; (b) improve the relevance of
te^hnologies available to farmers; (c) increase the involvement of farmers in defining
extension programs and setting prio:"rities in adaptive research; (d) organize farmers in groups
to facilitate their access to inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (e) reorient
programs for human resource development to be responsive to the requirements of a unified
extension service and to forge closer linkages between research, teaching and extension.
Special emphasis would be placed on reaching women farmers more effectively.
--bjective
2.    The Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department (PPMED) of MOA is
commissioning an internationally recruited consultant (IRC) to assist in developing and
implementing a system for monitoring the progress of the project and evaluate its impact on
the uptake of improved technologies by farmers, on national agricultural output and on the
welfare of farmers participating in the extension program. The information required for
monitoring the physical and financial progress of the project would be generated by a
management information system (MIS), which would be implemented by DAES. The task in
this regard would be to ensure that the MIS is adequate for PPMED's purposes. The IRC
would focus on evaluating the impact of the project. The full terms of reference of the IRC is
attached hereto. It is deemed important that three local consultants, preferably from Ghanian
universities, participate in the design, implementation and write-up of the impact evaluation of
the project so that the process would result in internalizing the methodology developed.
Moreover, the involvement of Ghanaian professionals external to the MOA establishment
would provide the detached objectivity necessary in impartially assessing the impact of the
project.
Oualifications
3.    The professional mix of the local consultants would be an agricultural economist, a
development sociologist and a human nutritionist with a minimum of M.Sc. degree and three
years of work experience in their respective fields.



- 90 -
Annex 1
Page 12 of 20
Terms of Reference
4.    The local consultants would bring their local expertise to bear in participating in the
impact evaluation exercise and assisting the IRC carry out his/her terms of reference.
Specifically, the:
(a)    Agricultural Economist would contribute expertise in the key indicators that
would measure changes in agricultural output and gross and net farm incomes
and comment on the micro- and macro-economic environmnent affecting these
changes;
(b)    Development Sociologist would evaluate the socio-economic profiles of
adopters and non adopters of the technologies disseminated by the project and
shed light on the factors contributing to both cases. The organization and
management of the extension service, the methods of disseminating extension
messages and other institutional factors such as the availability and conditions
of access to credit, inputs and produce markets would be among the factors
considered in this evaluation; and
(c)    Human Nuttitionist would evaluate changes in the nutritional status of a
sample of the participating farmers in the project. A minimum of two surveys
might be required for this: one baseline survey at the beginning of the project
and another one in the second quarter of the final year of the project.
5.    It is expected that the agricultural specialists required for the impact evaluation would
be provided from the regular staff of MOA.
6.    The local consultants would work closely with the IRC, PPMED and DAES staff and
local consultants in carrying out the above tasks. In addition, the consultants would maintain
contact with the Agricultural Extension Specialist in the World Bank Resident Mission in
Accra.
Duration of Consultancy
7.    It is envisaged that the work would require six months each for a total of 18 man
months. The distribution of the man months over the project period would be decided by the
Director of PPMED in consultation with the IRC.
Suport by MOA
8.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) the IRC and qualified
counterparts from AESD and DAES; (b) transport; (c) computing facility and (office space
and secretarial support.



- 91 -
Annex 10
Page 13 of 20
D.    EXTENSION MANAGEMENT
Introduction
1.    The Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Agricultural Extension Project over a period
of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government agencies. The
primary objective of the project is to achieve sustained increase in agricultural production and
improve the incomes and nutrition of smallholder households through enhanced adoption of
technology suitable to their agro-ecological environment and their socio-economic conditions.
Specifically, the project would: (a) unify the scattered extension services in order to improve
efficiency in the management and delivery of extension services; (b) improve the relevance of
technologies available to farmers; (c) increase the involvement of farmers in drining
extension programs and setting priorities in adaptive research; (d) organize far niers in groups
to facilitate their access to inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (e) reorient
programs for human resource development to be responsive to the requirements of a unified
extension service and to forge closer linkages between research, teaching and extension.
Special emphasis would be placed on reaching women farmers more effectively.
Obiective
2.    An important feature of the project is building institutional capacity in DAES for the
management of the national extension program. An internationally recruited and a local
consultant would be engaged for this consultancy, the objective of which, is to enable DAES
tap experienced expertise to assist it in reviewing its planning, implementation and supervision
of its extension program and conduct training workshops on these management topics for the
managerial and supervisory staff at the national and regional headquarters.
Terms of Reference
3.    Specifically, the consultants would review how the following tasks are carried out and
make recommendations on how these could be improved upon:
(a)    diagnosis of farmers' constraints and opportunities for extension interventions
(b)   feed back of the results of (a) above to the agricultural research system and
the response of the latter;
(c)   relevance of contents, regularity and effectiveness of SMS workshops and
frontline staff training;
(d)    planning of the extension program for the districts;
(e)   implementation of the extension program in the districts, including the balance
between field crops, agro-forestry, soil and water conservation, livestock,
fisheries and women in agricultural development activities and farmers' group
formation;



- 92 -
Annex IQ
Page 14 of 20
(f)    uses of audio-visual materials and demonstration procedures in farmers
training;
(g)    procedures for and implementation of supervision of SMS, supervisory staff
and frontline staff;
(h)    procedures for assessing the effectiveness of extension messages and how
these assessments are used as a feed back to modify the messages, research
programs and agricultural policies; and
(i)   the training needs of managerial and supervisory staff for formal short-term
training in Ghana and/or abroad.
4.    Based upon the above review, the consultants would conduct training workshops for
managerial and supervisory staff at the national and regional headquarters.
Qualification
5.    The consultants would be extension management specialists with a minimum of an
M.Sc. in Agricultural extension and 5 years of experience. The experience of the
internationally recruited consultant should preferably be in African and/or Asian countries.
Duration of the Consultancy
6.    It is envisaged that the work would require a maximum of six man months each and
spread over a period of three years.
Support by MOA
7.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) qualified counterparts from
DAES to work with the consultants; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office space and secretarial
support.
E.  INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION
Introduin
1.    The Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Agricultural Extension Project over a period
of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government agencies. The
primary objective of the project is to achieve sustained increase in agricultural production and
improve the incomes and nutrition of smallholder households through enhanced adoption of
technology suitable to their agro-ecological environment and their socio-economic conditions.
Specifically, the project would: (a) unify the scattered extension services in order to improve
efficiency in the management and delivery of extension services; (b) improve the relevance of
technologies available to farmers; (c) increase the involvement of farmers in defining



- 93 -
Annex IC
Page 15 of 20
exte.sion programs and satting priorities in adaptive research; (d) organize farmers in groups
to facilitate their access to inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (e) reorient
progtms for human resource development to be responsive to the requirements of a unified
extension service and to forge closer linkages between research, teaching and extension.
Spacial emphasis would be placed on reaching women farmers more effectively.
Obje,ctive
2.    The production of audio-visual materials and the use of the mass media is an
important support activity to the field operations of DAES. An internationally recruited and a
local consultant would be engaged for this consultancy, the objective of which, is to assist the
Information Support Unit of DAES tap experienced expertise in planning and implementing an
effective program of audio-visual and mass media production.
Terms of Reference
3.    Specifically, the consultants would.
(4)   review the available auuio-visual and mass media production for agricultural
extension and make recommendations on what needs to be done further;
(b)    assess the equipment and staff training .eeds of the unit; and
(c)   train the unit's staff and initiate the implementation of the recommendations in
(a) and (b) above.
Qualification
4.    The consultants would be information and communication specia!ists with a minimum
of an M.Sc. degree and 5 years of work experience. The experience of the internationally
recruited should be preferably in African or Asian countri. s.
Duration of the Consultancy
5.    It is envisaged that the work would require a maximum of six man months for the
internationally recruited consultancy spread over a period of three years. The local consultant
would be engaged for a maximum of ten rnan months spread over a period of 5 years.
SuppQrt by MOA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide: (a) qualified counterparts from
DAES to work with the consultants; (b) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office space and secretarial
support.



- 94 -
Annx 1
Page 16 of 20
F.    CONSULTANTS FOR SUBJECT MATITER SPECIALIST TRAINING AND
WORKSHOPS
IntrIQduion
1.    The Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Agricultural Extension Project over a period
of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government agencies. The
primary objective of the project is to achieve sustained increase in agricultural production and
improve the incomes and nutrition of smallholder households through enhanced adoption of
technology suitable to their agro-ecological environment and their socio-economic conditions.
Specifically, the project would: (a) unify the scattered extension services in order to improve
efficiency in the management and delivery of extension services; (b) improve the relevance of
technologies available to farmers; (c) increase the involvement of farmers in defining
extension programs and setting priorities in adaptive research; (d) organize farmers in groups
to facilitate their access to inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (e) reorient
programs for human resource development to be responsive to the requirements of a unified
extension service and to forge closer linkages between research, teaching and extension.
Special emphasis would be placed on reaching women farmers more effectively.
Objective
2.    Subject matter specialists (SMS) play a key role in the national agricultural extension
program. They provide the link between researchers and farmers in conducting the on-farm
trials and in training frontline staff the technical messages to be disseminated among farmers.
It is imperative that the SMS are equipped with adequate technical knowledge and trained how
to package technical messages and how to train frontline staff in the dissemination of these
packages. It is envisaged that there would be two types of training for SMSs. The first
would be an annual training program lasting 2-4 weeks for upgrading the level of technical
skills of the SMSs. The second training program involves regular workshops lasting 3-5 days
for: (a) determining the extension messages frontline staff would be trained in and
disseminate; (b) planning and implementation of on-farm trials; (c) discussing results of on-
farm trials; (d) production of audio-visual materials and extension manuals; (e) discussing
reasons for non-adoption of extension messages, etc. These workshops would be regional and
conducted by the research scientists responsible for adaptive research in the different regions.
3.    The annual SMS training sessions would be national. SMS would be brought abreast
of new developments in their respective fields. Intensive training would be given in specific
techniques, which are deemed lacking in the skill mixes of the SMSs. These training sessions
would be conducted by local scientists from the research institutes and/or the faculties of
agriculture of the three universities in Ghana. Scientists from the International Agricultural
Research Centers (IARCs), i.e., IITA, WARDA, CIMMYT, CIAT, ILCA, etc., would be
invited to give lectures at these sessions. As outlined in Annex 6 of the Staff Appraisal
Report, the annual SMS training would be conducted in the subjects shown below. A local
consultant would be commissioned to conduct each course.



-A95 -
Page 17 of 20
Course
S-ubject Matter            Dumration
(a)    roots and tubers           4 weeks
(b)    grains and legumes         4
(c)   tree crops/agroforestry     4  "
(d)    horticulture               2
(e)   livestock/pasture           4
(f)    fisher-es                  2
(g)    home management            2
(h)    animal traction            2
Terms of Reference
4.    Specifically, the consultants would:
(a)   in consultation with the scientists that conduct the SMS workshops, identify
the skill gaps of the SMS in their respective fields;
(b)    prepare a training program acceptable to DAES;
(c)    prepare teaching notes and audio-visual materials;
(d)    arrange for the input of scientists from the IARCs and local universities and
research institutes, agri-business and NGOs;
(e)    conduct the training session and obtain an evaluation of the session from the
participants; and
(f)    prepare a report on the training session including the evaluation by the
participants and recommendations for the session in the following year.
Oualification
5.    The consultants would be scientists from the research institutes or the universities.
Duration of the Consultancy
a total of 40 man months of consultancy is provided for 30 months of training during the five
years of the project's life.
SUDPOrt bY MQA
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide logistical support for the training
programs, including: (a) organizing the venue, accommodation and board of participants and
lecturers; (b) audio-visual equipment and reproduction of teaching materials; (c) a serviceable
vehicle; (c) office space and secretarial support.



-96 -
Annex IQ
Page 18 of 20
G.    CONSULTANTS FOR INDUCTION TRAINING
Introduction
1.    The Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Agricultural Extension Project over a period
of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government agencies. The
primary objective of the project is to achieve sustained increase in agricultural production and
improve the incomes and nutrition of smallholder households through enhanced adoption of
technology suitable to their agro-ecological environment and their socio-economic conditions.
Specifically, the project would: (a) unify the scattered axtension services in order to improve
efficiency in the management and delivery of extension services; (b) improve the relevance of
technologies available to farmers; (c) increase the involvement of farmers in defining
extension programs and setting priorities in adaptive research; (d) organize farmers in groups
to facilitate their access to inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (e) reorient
programs for human resource development to be responsive to the requirements of a unified
extension service and to forge closer linkages between research, teaching and extension.
Special emphasis would be placed on reaching women farmers more effectively.
obiecaive
2.    The objective of the orientation and induction training is to introduce the concept of
the unified extension system to policy makers and implementers in the Ministries/Departments
and organizations participating in the project and their respective roles in implementing the
project. It would be based on the ministerial directive to be issued by MOA and the Staff
Appraisal Report for the project. Experiences of other African countries, which have unified
their extension system would also be discussed. One- to two-day sessions would be conducted
ai Accra and the regional headquarters. The induction course for CSIR and university staff
would be aimed at explaining the unified extension system and making them aware of their
role in the reformed system, with its on-farm adaptive research and the annual training and
regular workshops they conduct for subject matter specialists. Induction courses fcr regional
staff would be aimo' at making them understand their responsibilities under the unified
extension system. The focus would be on how the various disciplines would work together to
deliver to farmers an integrated set of messages covering all disciplines related to agriculture.
3.    It is envisaged that an internationally recruited consultant would be engaged for two
months to bring to bear the experience of other countries that have introduced a unified
extension system. A local consultant would be engaged for a period of 3 months to work
with the internationally recruited consultant and to conduct the course for regional staff.
Terms of Reference
4.    Specifically, the consultants would:
(a)   in consultation with the Deputy director of DAES, Training, Information and
Communications Services, prepare course notes and hand outs for the various
groups that would participate in the orientation and induction program;



- 97 -
Annex la
Page 19 of 20
(b)   conduct the orientation and induction sessions and obtain from the participants
their evaluation and comments; and
(c)    wr-te a report summarizing the experience obtained from (b) above
Qualification
5.    The consultants would be agricultural extension specialists with a minim;ium of M.Sc.
degree and 5 years of experience. The in,ternationally recruited consultant should have an
experience in working with a unified extension system in at least one African country.
Duration of the Consultancy
6.    The duration of the consultancy would be two months for the internationally recruited
consultant and 3 months for the local consultant.
Support by MOA
7.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would provide logistical support for the training
programs, including: (a) organizing the venue, accommodation and board of participants and
lecturers; (b) audio-visual equipment and reproduction of teachirng materials; (c) a serviceable
vehicle; (c) office space and secretarial support.
H.  CONSULTANTS FOR WOMEN IN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Introduction
1.    The Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) is implementing a National Agricultural Extension Project over a period
of 5 years with the support of other MOA departments and government agencies. The
primary objective of the project is to achieve sustained increase in agricultural production and
improve the incomes and nutrition of smallholder households through enhanced adoption of
technology suitable to their agro-ecological environment and their socio-economic conditions.
Specifically, the project would: (a) unify the scattered extension services in order to improve
efficiency in the management and delivery of extension services; (b) improve the relevance of
technologies available to farmers; (c) increase the involvement of farmers in defining
extension programs and setting priorities in adaptive research; (d) organize farmers in groups
to facilitate their access to inputs, credit and markets for their produce; and (e) reorient
programs for human resource development to be responsive to the requirements of a unified
extension service and to forge closer linkages between research, teaching and extension.
2.    The role of women in the socio-economic life of rural Ghanaians cannot be
overemphasized. Women play a prominent role in the economic development of the majority
of the population with low income. They constitute over half of the total population and
about 47 percent of the total food crop production; they process and market nearly all the
grains and starchy staple foods; and about 30 percent are heads of households. The National



- 98 -
Page 20 of 20
Agricultural Extension Project would put a major emphisis on how to effectively reach
women farmers.
Objective
3.    The objective of this consultancy is to assist the Women in Agricultural Development
(WIAD) program of DAES is to evaluate the effectiveness of its program and advise on how
to improve it. It is envisaged that an internationally recruited consultant and a local
consultant would work as a team. The consultants would also conduct the annual two weeks
training workshops for WIAD SMS.
Terms of Reference
4.    Specifically, the consultants would:
(a)   review the WIAD program and evaluate its effectiveness and make
recommendations on how to improve it. This would hiclude the extent to
which male extension agents are engaged in promoting WIAD activities,
response of women farmers' to the extension messages, the extent to which
WIAD concerns are reflected in the research programs, particularly labor
saving tools and equipment and food processing and preservation techniques
and equipment; the production of audio-visual and mass media miaterial for
WIAD messages;
(b)   prepare course notes and audio-visual material for the SMS workshops;
(c)   conduct the training sessions and obtain the evaluation of the participants; and
(d)   prepare a report on (a) to (c) above.
Oualification
5.    The consultants would be WIAD or home economics specialists with a minimum of
M.Sc. degree and 5 years of experience. The internationally recruited consultant should have
an experience in a West African country.
Duration of the Consultancy
6.    Six woman months of consultancy is provided for each of the internationally recruited
and local consultants under the WIAD schedule of activities in Annex 9. In addition, about 3
weeks is provided for the local consultant under the SMS training courses.
Support by MOA
7.    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would make available the Deputy Director for
WUAD and the SMS for the review and training program and provide logistical support for
the training programs, including: (a) organizing the venue, accommodation and board of
participants and lecturers; (b) audio-visual equipment and reproduction of teaching materials
(c) a serviceable vehicle; (c) office space and secretarial support.



SHA MA
NATIONAL AGR ULTURAL EXTENSON PROJWT
Pri$s ouYs                                                           2        J       3                4                          T
Cabmia YOU                          lWI           1162             196              1964             196       j      ISOS
MM IocalYe                            FY0     FY9      FY9      FY9     F9       FY4  I FYO   -YOS                                  F #  ]7
-ustr                                3   4   1   2   S   4
A.  PROJT PROCESS
-Boad FsntuWn                                  X
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-CoenpIeUrad                                                                                                                             X
PubBlm xtedon Sytem 
.....'.'.9,::,:''-.S.:.    "i..'......   '.  .....   ....     .  ..   ..
FomDbnt Fahw  nlSd                          X                                                           K              
-P~~~~sepI -ho le ntI 
Srubmit AnnuenWr P     ork s hopg,
5,:.,~a.V: n. ,.:..oS, ,' ........ X   II in  I                  I
..-i.&E ..**i ;Sub. ft.A.nua..Wo.k Progra    Budgel
to 0ELCA BimoX                                                             X SS8Worho:X                        X                X
&  ratsgles for WaProgramm                   X                X                X                 X                X             X
repm  rogram    EAc skSZoem                      X
- Equip FLO wIth DmenUonsI I I                                                                                                         I I
& Teaching Aide                                  X
> Watt PagmeSe  Asit a, p. ||X| d l  dl                                                            X
Og



P_jc  riImn~  &hud-tt
Pv*ctYw                    _                                  2              3              4              6
Cdmdwyw                           1961       1t62           t1              1W4            1966           199             tw
OM Ited Y                        FY02   FY92   FY92   FY96   FY91   FY94   FYM5    FY95   FY96   FY96   FM                   FY9
zAuww^                           -3 4 _ t-2  -3    4  _           _4-t-2-3   4-1    2  3  _  _-2-3    4   1                   _    -4
C. COMM1T!&THUMEEflM
-RELCMIngbtk2E*chRPglqn                  X       X       X      X       X      X       X      X       X       x       X
-Moni?ilPM..Ungof6c Xtas  _t                    _  _-x
- mnbW NA              -- 4-.-. .-  . a*6tl  -- 
-Etouailh.ev  NACG                         X
n   Egllth PReIona WNOADX
D. TRANMS & ORENTATION SIEDULES
- PRndw   IlcuwF & T.a                                                                                                                  O
*ofof Ag   Wok.  ebon    
Conductiduon Traig Ia, "MG.
-Ca _hduM onTO.inoles8&J8|X X -X
-8bd VCJ3<;ae                     .                 X              X              X I             X              X
,E     .:.; A+.   .                                                             *.: .        . _..._   _ :  |x. .  ... . ...
- Mnhy TaIingl ci Extnk 91aU                    X-      __. ____                                -                -   __ 
E MONIOFNG & EVALUA11ON
- Appdt Regonl PU Oem              X
- Dewpg & Plid T"l M IS Gyms wId         _X 
PMUSaff                             X     X
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~J
O )s
lb



Prefect hOW     n   &hedd                                                      Annex-11
Propct Yar                                              1                 2                                    4S
CalendarYor                              191           1902              1003              1is4               10oS              10                  9
IBSID Fle  Yer                           FY92     FY92    FY03       FY93    FY94      FY04    FY05      FY95    FY F6 FYs           FY97     FY97    FYN6
Quarter ~ ~     ~              'A                    _   _1 2_ _         3 4 1 231                                      2_  3    4    1 1 2    3    4
a' hire ontanlod eop                   : .
Impat  a        pam                            X
b. ubmit to Bank impact propoed
Impact vauaton program                              X
:. c.onduct btine sw.                            '.        X
d. conduct peiodic auwy (as require
F.  final p4oJecm em ion survey
Wm      il ratrion. Approprate.
Techg.&CcminuicatfinConadutants                         X . 
- Reld Work ld st   tral rain in Xg
|.    B iC; i                              ;         .                                                l.                                   li 
I     Select Arehitect                                X 
-Obtain Bank dppoa                                          X i
I.      . SeW t . . .   . .   . .   . . .   .    
-Advriz  Ux
8~ SWi    Wml'n                                                         K
I ~~~~~~~~~ W~~~~~.'..    f..   s'. 'e:: .   .,:. .,>....   ... x:
Mt. IMMOCUR11301
I     Prr Biddigocumet   rProe iiiiacure-
meat of Vehicles. Motodrikee.
Cydles. Office Equipme. a4c..
U     sBank Standrwd fo .Mmna                   x
- Ad-wtl Cd:                                       :    X.
-   -FW  of steerng C-ommitte                            X
-NothfWinw(e?                                              X
N I
0



rc    -pw           Sadub                                                hmex-11
Pros Yew                                             1                2                 3                4                                  6
CAImdafYew                             1901         1902             1093              1904             1995             1956              1367
M3 Fiscal Yer                         FY92    FYI2    FY93        Y      FY94    FY4 _6    FY9              FY96    FY0      FY97    FY3       FY33
Ouwtr                                 3   4   1   2  3    4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3  4    1   2   3   4   1   2 _            4
L  REVEW  REPORTNG AND AUDITS
- Submi to Bank Annual Work Program
d8udgit  X   X   X.. X   Xii;                                                                  X   X   X   X
.     _n" f       ' $m    --W   R"- WX X, X                         X     .'XX  X X         X      X   X         %X   X      X - X-'
: ,  I...        ", .......:,,- 
-ObtWn DA Appfov kw Abdlor                         X                                                                                 . 
-PreWp  ReponRsM   h0MPAA                                                                         X-X
X~~~~~~~~~
ConducIt b klw   :. ..                                                                            ..  -- X- 
K
C)
0



Anex 12
Page I of 2
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
r,rlSuwi81on
1.    IDA Contributign to Supervision. IDA supervision of the proj3ct would be closely
linked to the implementation schedule given in Annex 11. The schedule of supervision
missions, glv&n in the table below, does not include supervision time spent on the reiew of
progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated for this project to
require four staff-weeks per year during the first three project years and three staff-weeks per
year thereafter). Three supervision missions are planned during the first year of the project,
and two missions per year thereafter. The first supervision mission would be a project
launching mission that would assist the Borrower in meeting the conditions of project
effectiveness and other preparatory tasks that need to be performed for effectively launching
the project. The second mission would ensure that the work program and budget for the first
year of the project is prepared and that the other departments of the Ministry of Agriculture
and other agencies are cooperating with the Department of A,,ricultural Extension Services
(DAES) in implementing the project. The third mission would be the beginning of the normal
project supervision. One of the regular supervision missions would take place in either
November or December, during which the results of the current calendar year would be
assessed and the work program and budget for the following calendar year would be discussed
and agreed upon with the Borrower.
2.    Borrower Contribution to Supervision
(a)    DAES would submit to IDA quarterly project implementation progress
reports no later than February 15, May 15, August 15, and November
15 of each year.
(b)   The Director of DAES would be responsible for coordinating
arrangements for Bank supervision missions and for providing
information required by missions. Bank missions would be
accompanied by responsible officers of DAES and PPMED.
(c)    Briefing meetings of the mission would be normally chaired by the
Director of DAES, who would also arrange for an appropriate wrap-
up meeting.



- 104 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Table 1. SCHEDULE OF IDA SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Approximate                                     Expected Skill                       Staff Input
Date           Activity                         Requirements                         (staff-weeks)
4/92            Project launching               Agr. Economist                            6
Review progress on              Proc. Specialist
procurement of vehicles,        Extension Specialist
equipment & civil works
6/92            Review of first annual          Agr. Economist                            6
program & budget, staff          Extension Specialist
training and research/
extension linkages & inter-
departmental cooperation
11-12/92       Supervision mission              Agr. Economist                            4
Extension Specialist
5-6/93         Supervision mission              Agr. Economist
11-lV93        Supervision mission              Agr. Economist                            6
Extension Specialist
Financial Analyst
5-6/94         Supervision mission              Agr. Economist                            3
03/31/95        Mid-term project review         Agr. Economist                           15
Extension Specialist
Adaptive Agr. Research Specialist
Training & Communications Specialist
Management Specialist
5-6/95         Supervision mission              Agr. Economist                            3
11-12/95       Supervision mission              Agr. Economist                            6
Extension Specialist
5-6/96         Supervision mission              Agr. Economist                            3
11-12/96       Supervision mission              Agr. Economist                            3
5-6/97          Project completion              Agr. Economist                           16
mission                         Extension Specialist
Agr. Education Specialist
Financial Analyst



- 105 -
Amex I 
Page I of 2
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
KCy Indaors
Status as ot QUarterXfear ending xx l99x
Achievement
ActivibListi                                               Indicator        Tara= 1/      Aehieved        Rtoe
Program Inputs
Fielding of extension staff by categories               no.
Opening of SMS centers                                  no.
Posting of SMS by field of specialty                    no.
Vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles                      no. value
Construcfion of offices, staff houses                   no. value
Recurrent costs by category
Establishment of RELC by region                         date
Establishment of Consultative Groups by region          date
Establishment of Steering Committee                     date
Investment costs by component by categories             value
Recurrent costs by component by categories              value
Proam Ddhvey
Project Steering Committee meetings                     dates, conclusions
RELC meetings by region                                 dates, conclusions
Consultative Group meetings                             dates, conclusions
Induction training by type and region                   dates & no. of
participants
Diagnostic surveys by district                          dates, major findings
SMS workshops by region                                 dates & no. participants,
subjects covered
In-service training
Frontline staff by district                           dates, no. of participants,
subjects covered
others by category and type of training               dates, no. of participants
Parm visits and demonstrations by districts             no., dates, no. of farmers
frontline staff                                       attending visit sessions by
supervisory staff                                     gender
SMS
research scientists
Extension trial plots by district                       no. crop/forage & variety
Adaptive research plots                                 no. crop forage & variety
Radio broadasts by region and message type              no. and dates
Brochure/leaflet/poster production by message type      no. dates
Audio-visual production by message                      no. dates
Supervision of frontline staff by district              no. dates
[/ As specified in SAR and/or Anmal Work Program and Budget.



- 106 -
Annox 13
Page 2 of 2
Achievement
Activity/Obiective                                        Indicats         lige 2/       Achieved        Bote
Program Impact
Farmers adopting improved technologies by type          no.
of technology, by district, by type
of farmer (sex, size of holding)
Yield improvement of crops and animals by type          incremental yield
of commodity by district, by type                    from x to y
of farmer (sex, size of holding)
Improvement in net income by district, by type         incremental net income
of farmer (sex, size of holding)                     from x to y
Improvement in nutritional status by district           from x to y
by type of farmer (sex, size of holding)
Program Review and Reporting
Annual program and budget                               date            By September 30
Quarterly report                                        date
IDA supervision                                         date
Annual closing of accounts                              date
Annual external audit                                   date
CompOance with Covenants                   Section
Submission of ext rnal audit to IDA      4.01 (b)       date
Establishment of P7roject Steering Committee   5.01 (a)  date
Deposit of US$340,000                    5.01 (b)       date
Submission of MIS                        Sch. 4.3 (a)                   by September 1, 1992
!             Quarterly progress reports               Sch. 4.3 (b)                   within 45 days after
end of quarter
Submission of mid-term review report     Sch. 4.3 (c)                   Dec. 31, 1994
Mid-term review                          Sch. 4.4                       March 31, 1995
Appointment of key officers of DAES      Seh. 4.5                       June 1, 1992
Submission of five district action plans  Sch. 4.6                      July 1, 1992
Establishment of RELC in each region     Sch. 4.7                       September 30, 1992
Posting of first complement of SMS       Soh. 4.8 (a)                   June 1, 1992
Timetable for posting remaining SMS      Sch. 4.8 (b)                   December31, 1992
Posting of remaining SMS                 Soh. 4.8 (c)                   timetable
Agreement with COCOBOD                   Sch. 4.10 (a)                  May 1, 1993
In-service training for COCOBOD extension   Sch. 4.10 (b)   no, date
staff
Closure of commercial nursery operation  Sch. 4.11                      December 31, 1993
by DCS
Implementation of induction training     Sch. 4.12                      June 1, 1992
Common Board of Management for MOA       Sch. 4.13                      By Sep 1, 1992
colleges
Reform of curricula of MOA colleges      Sch. 4.13                      December 31, 1992
Participation of staff of faculties of   Sch. 4.14      no. date
Agriculture in training and adaptive                 type of parti-
research program                                     cipation
21  AAs speified in SAR and/or Annual Work Progmm and Budget.



- 107 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1tCREMENTAL PRODUClTON ESIMATES
Tible t. Number of Farmers Adootine Imroved Techolorv
Project                           Number of Farmers          Adoption
Year                      Reached            ^Agdting        Rate
1                        150,000              45,000         30
2                        350,000              127,000        36
3                        500,000              217,500        44
4                        500,000              267,000        53
5                        500,000              292,000        58
1/ An incremental rate of adoption of 30% * 15%, 10%, respectively in the first, second and
third ye3r of extension contact is assumed, i.e. 30% of farmers contacted would adopt new
technology during the first year, an additional 15% would adopt during their secoad year of
contact and an additional 10% would adopt during their third year of contact. The 58%
adoption rame reached inthe final year of the project compares with the Experience of
VORADEP, which reported an adoption rate of 67% for use of improved seed and 55% for
use of fertilizers in a period of five years (VORADEP PCR).



GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Table 2.  ESTIMATED  INCREMENTAL CROP PRODUCTION
Av.ha.        Incr.
per          Yield       Year 1       Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year S
Crop                 farmer       ton/ha                          tons
Maize                 0.499       0.500         9600        12000       14400        18000       24000
Rice                  0.500       0.300         1296         1620        1944        2430         3240
Sorghum               0.430       0.300         2320        2900         3480        4350         5800
Millet                0.400       0.300         2320        2900         3480        4350         5800
Cassava               0.500        1.500       45873       57341        68809       86012       114682
Yam                   0.113        1.500       17664       22080        26496       33120        44160
Cocoyam               0.450        1.500       16464       20580        24696       30870        41160
Groundnuts            0.140       0.400         2960        3700         4440        5550         7400
Beans                 0.530       0.200          784         980         1176         1470        1960
Plantain              0.300        1.500       16640       20800        24960       31200        41600
Vegetables            0.129        1.400        7504        9380        11256        14070       18760
Cultivated area       1.997 a/
TOTAL                                  123425      154281       185137      231422       308562
a/ includes double cropping for some grains, legumes and vegetables.
wx
-
o -



GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECr
Table 3.    VALUE OF INCREMENTAL CROP PRODUCTION
Price      Year I       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4       Year S
Crop                   $/ton          -     Thousand US Doars        -
Maize                     87          835         1044         1253         1566         2088
Rice                    242           314          392          470          588          784
Sorghum                  100          232          290          348          435          580
MilUet                   100          232          290          348          435          580
Cassava                   45         2064         2580         3096         3871         5161
Yam                     259          4575         5719         6862         8578        11437
Cocoyam                  259         4264         5330         6396         7995        10660
Groundnuts               173          512          640          768          960         1280
Beans                    173          136          170          203          254          339
Plantain                  50          832         1040         1248         1560         2080
Vegetables               250         1876         2345         2814         3518         4690
TOTAL                          15872        19840        23808        29760        39680
X >
°x°
o 4S



- 110 -
AnneS 14
Page 4 of 4
GHAINA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
MMCE;UENN.AL PRQpUC`rT0N EST !=A
Table 4. Esdramed Tncrernental Hguseha1d Production
Zsti2at4  Znc.amental
Eousehold    Zois.hold
Xvft-e   ha Z:nc. yield       value   production        XAscus
ar  fa&         ton/ha        $/ton          ton           U
MAL26                         0.499        1.200       87.000        0.599       52.,04
ric-                            0.033        0.300      242.000        0.02LL        2.727
sorlh=                          0.S47        0.400       .00.000       0.068        8.797
millet                     0.130        0.000                     0.000        0.000
assava                          0.4LS         .S00       45.000        0.523       28.024
yam                             0..13        2.500      259.000        0.170       44.030
ccoyam                          0.2.85       0.000                     0.000        0.000
qroundrluts                     0.074        0.400      273.000        0.020        5..44
beans                           0.108        0.400      173.000        0.043        7.476
plantain                        0.LS9        0.000                     0.000        0.000
veg.et.Als                      0.X29        1.400      250.000        0.M8L       45.141
a--e  pSLnted                   0.000
Total Cultved are               1.997
.1.L34    138.62.3



Figure            CURRENT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF TIIE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (1989)
nulasobsetor 4t.ch alaerl CS  ata
Cb   t r c  e ^^wX  zotlw  - bD                                                          _ tIab |-  t-^"szl_ *^wl- g comess 
* ^ "|w 1    *Co ^te@      |                                                     [e"tp S ccaear  |9 |aa SS-t                    ctr  ||r  $<tJ|
Cover~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I a,  .Xt      1  *Xt_II|l 
lowcta        stactor          trar                 gror              ftactor         leadeg                            goatu  lica     goct 
BIlateral Ce  Irn1 lt,ra          ole   tat              llalasrclaa                                      o
masslasaral  * gmalag  staries *ad                          at       rlaaalc         raduct    sW rad.dtln    )p5.
*hractor     p.Slsactos        apusas           psaIaI.aej         9.SIractor      gaco                                 - - .  --
*|fe-r   D|e z z        lI-e696ee arl_   IPIB                 alet                  coccoto    Ds0ct    DAA    tow;              l-z 
amaChm       .lacy flaaal        Iwauto&           Idl-l1               Enteam
alas *IP.D tog   a blseatoa        i                   t c  a              l tor         t InIas  o      t|                : cto
Atool-o  a                                                           Lbll-           leaata"  I         loadte1
I    t*P  C;  c t e f  I  lif l o   o f_ t  *  | 6 .Iv l  as                    |
I   P .t D lra   Wd0 c    Data  |a                         l      |lemma                                 .ShIrc t r             tagarl e|
SeSl  bt   |  1   reres tut |    aer da                                                           gl 41 4r.Ue Uaalsb  a.arch SI..
maurwal ..  aidaCn Dl.  1lr ralalDi. I
~~~~~~:,teams                                                                        isete~11stl. -w  I i       Is
tlsstea   I                                Itf!          0  t_|_t *-t                             3        s x~~~~~~~~~stlcte
.111recter                                                            .81cactog~~~ opse  hrsse  Soirae.
|fllDes Dow.zu <;-tus  AvicutsCZ                                                               Kw        stots  I:.    baSlaS
[f;sps;slons nd r.;,'^     .                                          :In Y ot                      mde-                                                    o
Iratoa.l £5 Safecu  wal Olgactoa                     agoa   aa-Scaap              bgosioal Sacatarvp                                                                0 
ag&SOa ,l



-  112  -                                                 Annex  is
Page 2 of 2
Figure 2
OASSONAL AOf CTLH  PtINE:ON PROJIC?
ORQAMZIA??OK,.r 3ThVc?UU
|oPCTY StCRC?&AZ?Z.
CONULAT:VEoRoTUPo0                   Pflo.gc- s-rzrizw
IAGRICULSVRAL StRVZCES ----              COK:TTEE
rI    Oc DRtCTOR|
IUCOR  DP  AORI C._TVRAL.
I                                       ZXT=ESWN !ZIW?CZS
INTERNAL AUDIT           PLANN.HCG  M ONTORUNGI
HEADQUARTERS                               .                  I     |         T |AN? COHCATZON|
LEVEL
! qr~~~~OOD PRDC.   NUTrR -;ON                     R NIS|         TRAINING 
RESUATSV  CR  4ORMATIUN &O
NONE |NPR    NT          |  EXSZN  ZION   CD1fJICATIt|
I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L:KSOSN
I                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~PIflSONNZLI
*ZREGIONAL-|R-z SEARGIv
*                                   2NL~~~~~....upONC ZJ
REGIONAL                     4~~~~~~~OFCEO                   EGOALOPEI;
LEVEL                                                      ARiawO jA        fi:ULTh
*  MR. EXTNSIONI AOR. tON C;NiZRS
P OLICY? £2R  3P£C;AZSD  CINIflI
*.                K PANNINT     & NVONIORINC I| LO StRV:CS
*                        V H WO<NE  SN A5. O.    |  |STRAINING
DISTRICT  AGA. EXTENSION OFFICEI
DISTRICT                                                         AREA  CXT
LEVEL17 F
LEVEL  IFERONT LINE STAFF
TrAmR GROUPS



- 113 -
Anex 16
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
]DocUmfents Available In Prtoject Flie
A.    Background
1.    Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS): An Agenda for
Sustained Growth and Development (1991-2000), 1991. Report No.
8914-GH.
2.    MTADS Working Papers
WP 1.        Agricultural Background
WP 2.        Food Crops Subsector
WP 3.        Non-Food Crops Subsector
WP 4.        Livestock Subsector
WP 5.        Fisheries Subsector
WP 6.        Irrigation and Water Resources Management
WP 8.        Growth Prospects
WP 10.       Rural Infrastructure
WP 11.       Agricultural Educr.tion
WP 12.       Seed Subsector
WP 16.       Marketing and Storage
WP 17.       Agricultural Research
WP 18.       Agricultural Extension
WP 20.       Role of Land Asset and Draft Power in Agricultural Growth



- 114 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
B.    FLQoiect Identification and Prearagion DoQuMents
1.    Ghana, Ministry of Agriculture. July 1990. Proposed Agricultural Extension
Strategy Under the Medium Term Agricultural Development Plan.
2.    Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire
3.    Ghana, Ministry of Agriculture. 1990. Pilot Project for the Promotion of
Integrated Agriculture Development Program in Sekyere West and Ejura-
Sekodumase Districts (Ashanti Region). Summary of Project Implementation.
4.    Ghana, Ministry of Agriculture. 1989. A Review of Agricultural Extension
Services with Particular Reference to Female Farmers. Consultant Report by
Daphne Spurling.
5.    Human Resource Development for Agricultural Extension. Consultan: Report
by A. Waktola.
C.    Working Pae
I.    Detailed Project cost Tables.



___,__                    ________ _    ___ __ _                                          IBRFD 18395R2
3°                         2°                          0°                                                                                    2'
BURKINA   FASO                                                                                                 GHANA
SOIL SUITABII.'TY FOR
CROP PRODUCTION
',IR WEST .
* pION                                                                                               HIGH RAINFALL FOREST
.  <4     E           3 )  J     \\ s          >                       -  IFNDtJDsTRRlorzs ~~~~~~~~~Banana Ctruis
.  < _  -  ;    .  1         4        <     5 \/    {                            EX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FOOD CROPS  "cnCtrs
INDUSTRIAL CROPS
O.pIronr, Rubbor
EXPORi CROPS
Black Popper
10
I u                                                                                                                       SEMI-DECIDUOUS FOREST
-                                                                                                  -Fool CROPS  M,(A, CssvZO
Am7,:~n                                                                                  C.xoyon, Jr r. st
_5>                                                                            .                                       AVis { Xr v zw Ik d INDUSTRIAL CROPS
OlIpolmn. Rubbor
EXPORT CROPS
COCOa, Coffee
UTRANSITIONAL ZONE
COASTAL SAVANNAH
FOOD CROPS Maime. Sorghum,
D'on                                                                             MIe,. CossIRo. Yam
Groundnut, Cowpec., Monge,
90                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDUSTRIAL CROPS.
Cotton, Tobacco, Kenaf
-COASTAL SAVANNAH
FOOD CROPS RCce
COTE                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Svgarcone
A xt 4     T                                              o   20  40  60  80 KINTERIOR SAVANNAH
D$IVOIRE'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FOOD CROPS Sorghum. Millet,
'N                    ~~~~~~Cossava, Yom, Groundnut.
Cowpeu  Mango
INDUSTRIAL CROPS
F;;    INTERIOR SAVANNAH
Pasture
COASTAL STRIP
EXPORT CROPS: Coconut
c==zm  VALLEY BOTTOM
FOOD CROPS R,ce
E l FOREST RESERVE/GAME RESERvE
-Reg-on Bounclores
---Inlernot,onol Boundor-es
6'                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-
0  10   0 30   p  50 MILES                  50-
0   20  40   60   8~0 KILOMETERS
Gulf           of           Guinec2                                              Ff-~  a onPoadb  wVMer,a$0cd*t,f o-so
FanC CoM.Lmnwarnm dan ion.tn as Sd and ftt boaannsai.,,"V-- .~ Io orta
#*t,. on Dr. On?a ofu rWta W 0* and SW, h.tn,n,n  Fmeas CMa,Pinn, 6V ,AXWn,nn
in                    an~~~~~ tOW MgOI Stab. .t wn t4frilofy . VW aaaoan0n  -oapn.~ of anh bnra,d.-a
JANUARY  198-7



BURKINA    FASO   r                                                                    k                        GHANA
-w r ~SELECTED IDA SUPPORTED,
,.:j - ;X; ato%  ;/= "   \                _             COCAGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
Wet-'                 Uppr           OLGTAOPII.                                   UPPER RE'GONAGRICULTURAL
LOJ                                                                                                           VOLTA REGION AGRICULTURAL
Eesr                        N               - -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4r-                            ~~~~~~~~~~~COCOA RZEHABIUTATION PROJECT
\ > -     >         5                               9 - - ; l                        / Goosbogo  S  OIL PALM REHARIUTAPON PROJEC
Wolewole                         k.:.::: -.::::  : ..::.::    :. -  f    >AGRICULTURAL DIVERSFICATION
Ia-   .5-                                                Y: :. : %    Volewgal -   - --  PROJECT
I      'K,                                                            I    -   R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OADS
--          .: * | J ,                                                    )  - - |RAILWAYS
a-  5                                                                             2       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
., . --:: ::  ,           |                     4         /      )   *   NATIONAL CAPITALS
70S EGO CAPITALS
'.  ::  . .-_.-:^._ -                                                                    P ( ---- REGION 0OUNDARIES
_. ----   . INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-5- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ b
.e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,bI S                                                                   20 aS20
s.    . \  ~~N  o r the rHnRe\    o n Wjtl 
b          0    b   abIb     0
C6TE           \ \                                                                            |
\S\  c j rGowompe   -         -F  '
8-bf~~~~~~~TG
b 4,,a0p                          K,rtonapa       w< /roeg                      -,?
J                   aWenchi } 1                         fAtebabo                      m K . 
j/)sB r o  n g                   Aho f o    Re g io n                                                '  I 
i -   t  N   ; f r-t                                                                                'T/\ !-'    3SS L>wz
;.                                        Mo                            **po-.                 oth  f
Kp              K
/    )%   GoosoaX  /A s hV  ~~~~ng t  SR ea   nj        s te r n(   ,;    0O
A'>  ) -    c;~ R e  g                 - o  n      T ASSlele  sa9
Nyi1                          Aiwote                /                          2O-
wer         n                                                                ' ReiA oA .
\   R  e g    - o  n       A    Yr3,44.                      W    ~a             |tbe O     Aoylrawaa Dkea
\        h1 -,0Ad. Aownktngoy   eks   Pr                                           E       Es       N A
oibs  '.      Pne5'   L >                              ~kJrb                                                           N  8\ °Inb      
tiws                  -oarw         _dp .sao-ar,esme    KOO-- D' .onof D)  ./(eG
s-  Holf     1        Asssronio -~                      0F00'                  Ado Af CC-PA                                              \ 
Es4     omoSI                                   xI Nsowar,    iS  'O'sAda
e .n Tr                                    | T
S3-ebi     ig,so   S
CAPE COAST                                                   /b
5. Half Ass'm,
EsiomoNDI



