Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2346 GH
             (National Agricultural Extension Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 22, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2346 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 22, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
      (b)   "DAES" means MOA's Department of Agricultural Extension
Services;
      (c)   "COCOBOD" means the Ghana Cocoa Board;
      (d)   "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower; and
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
one million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 21,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 1, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
Page  3
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
April 1, 2002 and ending October 1, 2031. Each  installment to and
including the installment payable on October 1, 2011 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, environmental, financial and research
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
Page  4
      (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank an agricultural
extension project account on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting
expenditures under the Project which are not financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
      (b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, deposit into said account
promptly before each month starting six months after the date of
this Agreement, the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the
Project as set forth in the Project's work program and budget for
the next month.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                  dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records
                  and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
                  ation has received the audit for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
                  ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
Page  5
                  tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has established the Project Steering
Committee referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has deposited an initial amount in Cedis
equivalent to $340,000 in the agricultural extension project account
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
      (c)   the Borrower has posted the first complement of subject
matter specialists (SMS) at the SMS centers.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                         ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            PNDC Secretary for Finance
              and Economic Planning
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  ECONOMICON                 2205 MIFAEP GH
                  Accra
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  6
                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                  By /s/ Joseph L. S. Abbey
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               8,360,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Vehicles                  3,360,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                and 90% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)  Equipment and               880,000        100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures
                                                and 90% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Books                       850,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)  Training                    800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)  Consultants'              1,310,000        100%
     services
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)  Operating costs           3,840,000        80% up to
                                                December 31, 1995
                                                and 25% there-
                                                after
Page  7
(8)  Unallocated               2,400,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    21,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means the incremental Project
related costs for office and laboratory supplies, vehicle, equipment
and farm machinery maintenance and field work.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
such expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to achieve sustained
increase in agricultural production and improve the nutrition and
incomes of smallholder households through increased efficiency in
the management and delivery of extension services and enhanced
adoption of appropriate technology.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening the Extension Service
1.    Operation of a unified national agricultural extension
service.
2.    Development of regional and district extension programs on the
basis of diagnostic studies of the local agro-ecologic conditions
and farmers' needs and establishment of regional research/extension
committees.
3.    Conduct of adaptive on-farm trials in collaboration with
regional research centers.
4.    Establishment of regional and district agricultural policy
coordinating committees.
5.    Strengthening of the Information Support Unit of DAES to
prepare audiovisual aids for training farmers and extension staff.
6.    Development of a management information system to monitor and
evaluate the execution of the extension programs.
7.    Rehabilitation and construction of offices and staff quarters,
and the acquisition of equipment and vehicles for the extension
staff.
Part B:     Support of the Technical Departments of MOA
Page  8
      Strengthening of the technical departments of MOA through the
acquisition of computers and vehicles.
Part C:     Human Resource Development
1.    Induction and in-service training for MOA staff, particularly
front line staff and subject matter specialists.
2.    Strengthening of the five agricultural colleges under MOA,
including renovation and expansion of dormitories and acquisition of
classroom furniture, books, teaching aids, transport facilities and
laboratory and farm equipment.
3.    Acquisition of textbooks for the agricultural faculties at the
national universities.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by May 1, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each and contracts for civil works shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
a third-party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000, and goods estimated to cost less than
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $15,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
Page  9
exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Management and Coordination
1.    Overall responsibility for the coordination of all Project
activities shall rest with the Project Steering Committee
established pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement. This
committee chaired by a Deputy Secretary for Agriculture and
comprising all department directors of MOA, representatives of
COCOBOD and the Deputy Director-General (Agriculture) of the Council
for Scientific and Industrial Research shall meet as often as
required to review the progress of the Project and resolve outstand-
ing issues.
2.    Under the guidance of the Project Steering Committee the
various technical departments of MOA shall carry out those parts of
the Project which fall into their respective areas of respon-
sibility. These departments shall prepare and furnish through DAES
to the Association, not later than September 30 of each year, annual
work programs and budgets for the following year in such detail and
Page  10
format as the Association shall request. Those departments which
conduct on-farm adaptive trials shall include in their work programs
the results of the previous years' trials and proposals for adaptive
trials to be undertaken in the coming year and their rationale.
3.    With respect to Project monitoring and evaluation, DAES as the
principal implementing department of MOA shall:
      (a)   furnish to the Association, not later than September 1,
1992, a report on the proposals for setting-up a management and
information system to be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the
Association following an exchange of views on the proposals;
      (b)   prepare and furnish to the Association within 45 days of
the end of each reporting period semi-annual progress reports on the
implementation of the Project; and
      (c)   prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than
December 31, 1994, a mid-term report on the Project, evaluating
inter alia: (i) the effectiveness of the unified extension system,
including an assessment of progress made in improving the cost-
effectivenes of extension services in cocoa growing areas; (ii) the
adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart funding; (iii) the depth and
coverage of the national extension service; (iv) its impact on
agricultural and target beneficiaries; (v) the effectiveness of
MOA's technical departments; (vi) the generation of technology and
the adaptive on-farm research trials; and (vii) the training
programs.
4.    The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term
review, not later than March 31, 1995, based on the report referred
to in paragraph 3 (c) above.
Part A of the Project
5.    DAES shall prepare district action plans for the introduc-
tion of the new extension system before the new system is in-
troduced in any new district. The first four district plans
representing the four agro-ecological zones shall be submitted to
the Association not later than July 1, 1992.
6.    The Borrower shall complete, not later than July 1, 1993, a
review of the coverage and cost-effectiveness of the provision of
extension services in cocoa growing areas. This review shall be
carried out under the auspices of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning.
7.    The Borrower shall establish, not later than September 30,
1992, a Research/Extension Liaison Committee in each of the ten
regions.
8.    MOA shall:
      (a)   furnish to the Association, not later than December 31,
1992, a timetable acceptable to the Association for the posting of
additional subject matter specialists at the SMS centers; and
      (b)   post thereafter the additional subject matter
specialists in accordance with said timetable.
9.    DAES shall cease to hire front line extension staff from the
MOA operated farm institutes.
10.   The Borrower shall ensure that, not later than December 31,
1993, the commercial multipication and sales of improved varieties
of seeds and planting materials, except coconuts, shall be trans-
ferred from the nurseries operated by MOA's Department of Crop
Services to the private sector which shall be provided with
foundation seeds and planting materials. The Borrower shall regulate
these private sector activities through proper inspection and
certification.
Page  11
Part C of the Project
11.   DAES shall commence, not later than June 1, 1992, the
implementation of induction training programs for all levels of its
staff and key officers of other MOA departments and institutions
designed to familiarize such staff with the ramifications of a
unified agricultural extension service.
12.   The Borrower shall, not later than September 1, 1992, bring
all agricultural colleges which are operated so far by MOA under a
common board of management which shall include representatives of
the Ministry of Education, the Faculties of Agriculture, the
research institutes, the extension service and farmers. The syllabus
and staff requirements of the agricultural colleges shall be
reformed, not later than December 31, 1992, in collaboration with
the Ministry of Education.
13.   The Borrower shall ensure that the staff of the Faculties of
Agriculture engaged in post-graduate teaching shall be invited to
participate in the training and adaptive research programs under the
Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Page  12
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
Page  13
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
