Report No. PID8077
Project Name                     Croatia-Technical Assistance Project for (@+)
Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Financial/Private Sector
Project ID                       HRPE57767
Borrower                         Government of Croatia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Mr. Josip Kulisic,
Assistant to the Minister of Finance
Katanciceva 4, 10000 Zagreb
Tel: + (385 1) 459-12-58
Fax: + (385 1) 459-12-15
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           January 25, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         January 22, 1999
Projected Board Date             April 27, 1999
Country and sector background
Steep economic decline in the wake of the dissolution of the former
Yugoslavia and the war which followed Croatia's declaration of independence,
in June 1991, was ended in 1993 by a successful stabilization program. This
program has been followed by the period of consistent macroeconomic stability
that has lasted until today. The fiscal deficit has been kept close to zero
and the same is projected for 1999. Inflation has been under control for the
last five years (3-5%). Croatia's current account deficit was monitored as a
potential roadblock, but it improved somewhat at the end of 1998. Further
improvements are expected in 1999. GDP growth rate declined in 1998 compared
to previous years, yet, preliminary indicators show a growth rate of around
4%.
Although the stabilization program has been successful and the macroeconomic
indicators are favorable, Croatia will come under increasing strain if it
does not tackle the structural problems of the enterprise sector. Since
1991, the Government has been seeking to improve the performance of
the enterprise sector primarily through the privatization of the former
socially-owned enterprises (FSOEs). Privatization was conceived
essentially as a bottom-up process where insiders were given strong
incentives to purchase the shares of their companies at discount
(employee and management buy-outs), in many cases not investing new
capital in respective companies. Although the privatization is in its last
stage and most of the enterprises were privatized, a proper enabling
environment/infrastructure hasn't been created to encourage badly needed



improvements in corporate governance and further investment activity. The
latter represents perhaps the single most compelling constraint to a
conducive investment environment and to further development of the private
sector. As a result, and due to other external and internal factors, very
little direct investment, both domestic and foreign, has been made in
Croatian enterprises.
Project objectives
The development objective of the proposed project is to support improvements
in the business enabling environment for private sector growth.
Specifically, the project will:
- Support the establishment of an appropriate regulatory and institutional
framework for public utilities;
- Support the development of the regulatory and institutional framework for
market competition;
- Support further strengthening of the institutional framework for capital
market development;
- Help design a reform and investment program for improving the public
registries of immovable and movable property and for businesses and other
economic entities;
- Improve the country's statistical system.
Project description
The project supports a key area of the Government's economic program, that
is, encouraging private sector-led growth, by supporting improvements in the
institutional and regulatory framework for the development of private
businesses. Priority is also given to necessary improvements in the business
enabling environment that would make possible further growth of private
sector investments, including Foreign Direct Investment, and that would
develop credible regulatory institutions in order for Croatia to attract
private investment and to maintain consumer confidence.
Project Components
Regulatory and Institutional Framework for Public Utilities.      This
component will assist the Government to finalize the regulatory framework and
build capacity in a Regulatory Agency. The loan will mainly finance a
resident advisor and other advisory services to assist Office for
Restructuring and Economics of State Enterprises (ORESE) in this task by
designing the agency's organizational structure and develop detailed
regulations, a comprehensive staff training program, twinning arrangements
with a foreign regulatory agency, implementation of a campaign to promote
public awareness of new regulatory arrangements and development of an
information management strategy, including the purchase of hardware and
software and establishment of a library.
Strengthening of the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (APMC).
The loan will finance a resident advisor and other advisory services to
develop secondary legislation for the 1995 Competition Law. Assistance will
support preparation of a development plan for the APMC, including design of
recruitment and training programs; the design and implementation of a public
relations campaign to encourage business compliance with the Competition Law;
- 2-



training activities and linkages with foreign competition authorities and
international organizations; and implementation of a public information and
dissemination strategy aimed at creating a culture of competition and
compliance with the law.
Strengthening of the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission (CROSEC) and
the Securities Depository Agency (SDA).     The loan will assist in
strengthening CROSEC's and SDA's capacities, through provision of expert and
continuation of ongoing institutional development and on-the-job training in
each agency.
Support for a Registry Reform Strategy.     This component will include
advisory services to foster the program of harmonization of the cadastre to
the European coding system.
Strengthening of the Central Bureau of Statistics.      This component will
first aim to develop an appropriate plan for a statistical system to publish
and disseminate data for policy makers, businesses, research and the general
public. This will be accomplished through the preparation of an
Institutional Development Plan that will focus on redesigning the
organizational structure of the statistical agency and developing a training
program for managers and statisticians. This component will also assist to
improve preparation of the new system of national accounts and price
statistics.
Support of Bank Privatization Unit. This component would provide funds to
support the privatization of Croatia's three largest State banks.
Support to the Project Implementation Unit. This component will support
consulting services for PIU staff positions; establishment of Financial
Management System, and annual audits of loan accounts.
Financing in US$mil
Local                    Foreign         Total
Government of Croatia            0.7                      0.0             0.7
IBRD                             1.4                      5.9             7.3
Total                            2.1                      5.9             8.0
Implementation
The main implementing agency for the proposed project will be the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). The individual components will be coordinated by the various
agencies involved: (i) for public utilities regulation, ORESE and URA, in
consultation with affected line ministries; (ii) for improving the
environment for market competition, the Agency for the Protection of Market
Competition; (iii) for capital market development activities, the Croatian
Securities Agency; (iv) for the registries component, the State Geodetic
Agency; (v) for improvement of the statistical system, the Central Bureau of
Statistics. The Project Implementation Unit will play an overall coordination
role, provide assistance to the implementation agencies in Bank procurement
and support the MOF and the Bank in other operational matters.
Sustainability
The Government is committed to the transformation of Croatia into a full
market economy, ready to take its place in the European Union. Fully
recognizing the difficulties and risks, it is determined to adjust its
institutions to the new market-economy environment, to complete restructuring
and privatization of enterprises and banks, and to create conditions for
private sector investment. The project focuses on essential activities to
assist the Government to implement its long-term strategy. Follow-up
operations (e.g., in the energy sector and PSD) will also help the Government
-3 -



address issues this project targets.
Lessons learned
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector should add value
to the implementation of the proposed project. Implementation of the ongoing
Technical Assistance Project for Enterprise and Financial Sector Reform (TAL)
(Ln. No. 3989-HR) continues to be satisfactory. The Croatian Government has
recognized the value and necessity of well-defined technical assistance.
Like the TAL, implementation of each component under the proposed project
will be the responsibility of the relevant implementing agency which will
work with assistance from the Project Implementation Unit. Several of the
implementing agencies have had previous experience with World Bank projects,
therefore, implementation of TAL II should benefit from this past experience.
As under TAL I, flexibility has been built into the project to accommodate
evolving needs under the Government's reform program should any emerge during
project implementation.
Poverty Category
NA
Environmental Aspects
NA
Program Objective Categories
The project would contribute to the development and improvements of key
elements of the business enabling environment needed for private sector
development, protection of a fair market place, transparency and speed of
access to information.
Contact Points:
Gerardo Corrochano, ECSPF
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-3568
Fax No.:         (202) 522-3687
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 27, 1999.
- 4 -



