                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No:ICR000035




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-44600)

                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.3 MILLION

                                       TO

                                   CROATIA

                                     FOR A

   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR INSTITUTIONAL AND REGULATORY
        REFORM FOR PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                January 31, 2007




Private and Financial Sectors Development
ECCU5
Europe and Central Asia Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       ( Exchange Rate Effective 01/25/2007 )
                            Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna
                       Croatian Kuna 1.00 = US$ 0.175964
                                 US$ 1.00 = Croatian Kuna 5.683


                                     Fiscal Year
                              January 1 - December 31




                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APMC   Agency for the Protection of Market Competition
BI     Brodarski Institute
BICRO  Business Innovation Center of Croatia
BRA    Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CARDS  Community Assistance to Reconstruction, Development and Stability
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CBS    Central Bureau of Statistics
CEM    Country Economic Memorandum
CMDP   Capital Markets Development Project
CROSEC Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission
CS     Consultant Services
CSAO   Central State Administration Office
EFSAL  Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EU     European Union
HITRA  Croatian program for innovative technological development
HRK    Croatian kuna
ICR    Implementation completion report
ISR    Implementation status report
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS    Management information system
MOAFWM Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management
MOE    Ministry of Economy
MOELE  Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MOSES  Ministry of Science, Education and Sports
MSES   Ministry of Science, Education and Sports
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PAL    Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PDO    Project development objectives

PHARE  Pologne, Hongrie Assistance à la Reconstruction Economique
PIU    Project implementation unit
R&D    Research and development
RBI    Rudjer Boskovic Institute
RDI    Research and development institutions
SAPARD EU's special accession program for agriculture and rural development
SDA    Securities Depository Agency
SGA    State Geodetic Administration
SME    Small and medium-sized enterprises
TAL1   Technical Assistance Loan
       Technical Assistance Project for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for Private
TAL2
       Sector Development
URA    Utilities Regulatory Agency
USAID  United States Agency for International Development




                           Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

                        Country Director: Anand K. Seth

                          Sector Manager: Gerardo M. Corrochano

                    Project Team Leader: Paula Genis

                                                       Croatia
Technical Assistance for Institutional & Regulatory Reform for Private Sector
                                            Development Project




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 13
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 18
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 25
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 27
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 29
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 30
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 33
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 34
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 36
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 41
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 42
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 44
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 45
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 46
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 47
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 60
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 61
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 62

1. Basic Information
                                                                       Technical Assistance
                                                                       for Institutional &
Country:                Croatia                Project Name:           Regulatory Reform for
                                                                       Private Sector
                                                                       Development Project
Project ID:             P057767                L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-44600
ICR Date:               01/31/2007             ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:               GOVT. OF CROATIA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 7.3M               Disbursed Amount:       USD 7.3M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Project Implementation Unit of the MOF
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review: 02/11/1999            Effectiveness:     08/03/1999         08/03/1999
Appraisal:         02/11/1999         Restructuring(s):
Approval:          04/20/1999         Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:           06/30/2003         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance        Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)           Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                   No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                        No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):     Satisfactory

DO rating before                 Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:         Satisfactory




                                              1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   41                95
Law and justice                                                     59                 5
                                                       Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting           Primary          Secondary
Other public sector governance                                           Primary
Law reform                                              Primary          Not Applicable
Legal institutions for a market economy                 Primary          Primary
Personal and property rights                                             Primary
Regulation and competition policy                       Primary          Not Applicable
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization   Primary          Not Applicable
Technology diffusion                                                     Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                          At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                        Shigeo Katsu     Johannes F. Linn

Country Director:                                      Anand K. Seth    Arntraud
                                                                        Hartmann

Sector Manager:                                        Gerardo M.
                                                       Corrochano       Yasuo Izumi

Project Team Leader:                                   Paula Genis      Gerardo M.
                                                                        Corrochano
ICR Team Leader:                                       Paula Genis
ICR Primary Author:                                    Paula Genis




                                                 2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for
Bank assistance)


Political and macroeconomic conditions

In 1998-1999 Croatia faced challenges on several fronts after several years of stable political
conditions, reconstruction, and economic growth which had started in mid-90's with the cessation of
the armed conflict. First, the political forces of the country were split on the need for deeper
economic reforms and the approach to reforms (internal or outward orientation). Some expected
reforms had been postponed by the Government in the period preceding the parliamentary elections
planned for the end of 1999. Second, the recession had set in the economy after the monetary policy
had been tightened to maintain the macroeconomic stability shaken due to several years of fiscal
expansion. Third, at the same time, inadequate attention was being paid to structural reforms that
were needed to restore the fiscal viability and to improve the private sector development and
investment. After a head start in the transition process in the region in 1990, Croatia had fallen behind
by the end of the decade and prospects for integration with Europe remained elusive.

Sector conditions

Rehabilitation and privatization of the state-owned banks was progressing. The Government had
initiated a banking sector reform in 1994 to rehabilitate and privatize the state-owned banks. The
Bank Rehabilitation Agency was set up in mid-90's to manage the restructuring and privatization of
the state-owned banks. Of the 9 largest banks, 5 most troubled banks had been earmarked for
rehabilitation of which 3 were undergoing it (it had been completed/unnecessary for the other 2). The
3 banks included the following: Privredna Bank, Splitska Bank, and Rijecka Bank. The Government
planned the privatization of the majority stake in these banks by mid-1999.

Privatization of the public utilities and development of the regulatory framework had not
progressed, as planned in 1996. Since mid-1990's preparation for the restructuring and partial
privatization of the public utilities had progressed more slowly than planned. Efforts to move ahead
with the restructuring and privatization process at the initially planned pace had been hampered by
their political sensitivity, the opposition to the reforms, and their technical complexity.

Privatization of the telecommunications (HT) was most advanced with plans to complete the partial
privatization by end-1999 (the Croatian post and telecommunications conglomerate, HPT, was
separated into post, HP, and telecommunications, HT, in January 1999). The law for the partial
privatization of the Croatian gas and oil conglomerate, INA, was pending approval of the Parliament.

The Government had started the development of a regulatory agency for public utilities, but there had
been less progress in developing regulatory rules in each sector. The Government's plans materialized
in a draft law prepared by the Office for Restructuring and Economics of State-Owned Enterprises
(the ORESE) in October 1998, requiring the establishment of a single multisectoral agency for the
telecommunication and energy sectors (the ORESE was a government unit set up in 1993 to supervise
performance of the public enterprises and, in particular, to review and analyze their financial
performance and to assist in their restructuring). There were expectations that the draft law would be



                                                    3

sent for approval of the Parliament in a couple of months.

At the same time, when the separation of the post and telecommunications took place and the
privatization process of the telecommunication advanced, the Government decided to establish a
separate regulatory agency for the telecommunications sector. There were plans to prepare
comprehensive energy legislation during the second half of 1999.

Privatization of the formally state-owned enterprises was almost complete, but governance
problems prevailed. In spite of the fast growing private sector (not originated in privatizations),
weak governance of the privatized enterprises, their limited restructuring efforts, and the resulting
losses combined with the liquidity squeeze and weak investment climate undermined the enterprise
sector performance. On one hand, privatization of the original state-owned enterprises was about 90%
complete by end-1998 and was expected to be largely completed by mid-1999 in accordance with the
1996 Privatization Law. On the other hand, privatization process gave overwhelming preference to
manager and employee buy-outs and progressed at a slower rate than at which enterprises were
returning to the state ownership.

Progress had been made towards improving the investment climate, but significant challenge
remained. Croatia had made significant progress towards putting in place the legal and institutional
framework necessary to support a favorable investment climate. It had also developed many relevant
institutions. However, much remained to be done to fully put in place all the elements conducive to
the enterprise and financial sector development. Especially the judicial system was viewed as
ineffective in law enforcement. This hampered the effectiveness of the regulatory institutions'
activities, such as the CROSEC and the APMC that had to refer their findings of illegal behavior to
the courts for prosecution.

· The Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission (the CROSEC) had been established in 1995
    with the passage of the Securities Law to undertake securities regulation. The basic
    organizational, legal, and regulatory work to establish the CROSEC and the legal analysis
    required to amend the existing laws concerning securities and investment funds had been
    completed. However, its implementation capacity needed strengthening to meet the international
    standards.

· The Securities Depository Agency (the SDA) was established in 1997 and licensed in April 1999
    as the central depository, registry, clearing, and settlement agency. Since its establishment, the
    SDA had been implementing an institutional and infrastructure development plan to provide an
    initial set of services to its customers. This represented the starting point in the SDA's evolution
    from a start-up organization to a fully functioning, mature clearing, settlement, and depository
    agency.

· The Agency for Protection of Market Competition (the APMC) had been established to
    implement the 1995 Competition Law. The APMC had become operational in 1997, but lacked
    capital and human resources to implement the Law and to promote awareness of its goals and
    scope so as to guide the business community's and Government's activities and policies.

· Legal uncertainties concerning the land property rights (notably linked with discrepancies
    between the land registry and the cadastral registry) and their enforcement through the judicial
    system constituted a major impediment for the private sector development and new investment.
    The system of the land registry and cadastral registry was inefficient and split among separate
    institutions. It was burdened by the unprecedented increase in the number of transactions since


                                                    4

    privatization started in 1992 and by the related failure to maintain the link between the land
    registry and the cadastre systems during the previous time, resulting in significant discrepancies
    between the official records and the actual state of title on the ground (the Real Property
    Registration and Cadastre Project, PAD 2002, 5). Cadastral records (particularly maps) were
    outdated; cadastral offices were short-staffed and in need of modern office and survey equipment;
    there were delays in conducting property transactions, and their cost was very high (Cadastre
    Project, PAD 2002, 43). Resulting from such pressing needs, the State Geodetic Administration
    had started a registry reform.

· As Croatia continued to move forward in its transition to a market economy, it became apparent
    that the statistical system needed introduction of new data collection methods, improvement of
    the management of the statistical system to cope efficiently with the new requirements, staff
    development, and considerable upgrade of the equipment to process, store, share, and disseminate
    information efficiently. The Government had begun the reform of the statistical system by
    introducing international classifications and compiling new indicators. The Central Bureau of
    Statistics was preparing amendments to the Law on Statistics enacted in 1994 to adjust its
    established systems and procedures to changes in the social and economic conditions in order to
    improve availability of the data needed for a market economy, as well as for the overall economic
    management. Continued institutional strengthening was needed to meet the quickly emerging new
    data needs for the Government's economic management and business community's decisions.

Rationale for the Bank assistance

The TAL2 project was designed as an ancillary and follow-on project to build on and facilitate
implementation of other Bank projects related to the private sector development in Croatia . These
projects included the following: (i) the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (the EFSAL,
the Board approval in May 1997, extended from June 1999 to December 2001) which was a key
element in the Bank's assistance to the Government's program for mass privatization, restructuring,
and privatization of public utilities and their regulation, as well as for privatization and reforms in the
financial sector; (ii) the first Technical Assistance Project (the TAL1, the Board approval in March
1996, extended from June 1998 to June 2000) which supported the EFSAL; and (iii) the Capital
Markets Development Project (the CMDP, the Board approval in February 1996, closed in June
1999).

Given its extensive international experience, the Bank was seen to be in a unique position to facilitate
the transfer of learning emerging from the ongoing experience on optimal regulatory policies,
enforcement of capital markets, and enhancement of the competition policy.

As such, the TAL2 project was consistent with the strategic country assistance objective of building
conditions for sustainable growth articulated in the 1995 and 1999 CASes. The project components
responded to specific (1999) CAS objectives aimed at reducing the size of the public sector and
increasing its efficiency, improving governance, and creating conditions for a competitive business
environment.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

To support improvements in the business enabling environment for private sector growth and, in
particular, the following:




                                                   5

    · creation of an appropriate regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities;
    · further development of the regulatory and institutional framework for market competition;
    · further strengthening of the institutional framework for capital market development;
    · modernization of the registries system;
    · restructuring and modernization of the statistical agency; and
    · ongoing efforts to complete the privatization of the three largest state banks.

Progress in achieving the PDO was to be assessed on the basis of the following:

    · establishment of a regulatory agency for public utilities and of new legislation in the energy
        sector;
    · improved regulatory and enforcement capacities of the Agency for the Protection of Market
        Competition;
    · improved regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the Securities Exchange Commission
        and Securities Depository Agency;
    · harmonization of the cadastre system to the European coding system;
    · preparation of an institutional development plan for the Central Bureau of Statistics; and
    · completion of the privatization strategy and due diligence of the three largest state banks.


6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. However, the Bank management approved some changes in the scope of
the project and components, and some components were cancelled, revised, or added over time (see
the sections 6.6 and 6.7).

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The project aimed at improving the key aspects of the institutional and regulatory environment for
the private sector development in Croatia. More specifically, the benefits were to include a new
regulatory framework for public utilities, improvement of the competition policies, and better
enforcement of the securities regulations. The target beneficiary was the enterprise sector at large
which was to ultimately benefit from the improved business enabling environment.

The direct beneficiaries of the project included the following: Component 1: the Office for the
Restructuring and Economics of the State-owned Enterprises and the Utilities Regulatory Agency
(was to be established with the project support), (in consultation with the Ministry of Economy and
other affected ministries); Component 2: the Agency for Protection of Market Competition;
Component 3: the Croatian Securities Exchange Commission; Component 4: the Securities
Depository Agency; Component 5: the State Geodetic Administration; Component 6: the Central
Bureau of Statistics; Component 7: the Bank Rehabilitation Agency; and Component 8: the Project
Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Finance.

The following new beneficiaries were added to the project through amendments to the Loan
Agreement approved by the Bank management in 2001 and 2004: Component 9: the Ministry of
Science and Technology (after the 2003 Parliamentary elections ­ the Ministry of Science, Education



                                                  6

and Sports) and the Ministry of Crafts, Small and Medium Enterprises (after the 2003 Parliamentary
elections ­ the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship); and Component 10: the Ministry
of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Water Management, the State Office for Public Administration, and the State Office for
Strategy and Development

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


Component 1: The regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities: This component
was to finance the following: (i) capacity building in a new utilities regulatory agency, which was to
be established with the project support, including a resident advisor for the development of detailed
regulations, training, and twinning programs for the agency's staff, promotion campaigns, and an
information management strategy (with hardware and software) for the establishment of a library;
and (ii) advisory services to the Ministry of Economy for preparation of modern comprehensive
legislation for the energy sector (covering power, gas, and oil) and for carrying out tariffs and
distribution market studies for the gas sub-sector.

Component 2: Strengthening the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (the
APMC): This component was to finance a resident advisor and other advisory services to develop
primary and secondary legislation to operationalize the 1995 Competition Law and to design an
institutional development plan for the APMC, including the design of recruitment and training
programs, the design and implementation of a public relations campaign to encourage business
compliance with the Competition Law, and training activities.

Component 3: Strengthening the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission (the
CROSEC): This component was to finance a resident advisor to help strengthen the CROSEC's
capacities through continued institutional development and on-the-job training. It was also expected
to develop public access to information.

Component 4: Strengthening the Securities Depository Agency (the SDA): This component was
to finance a resident advisor to continue institutional development and on-the-job training.

Component 5: Support to the registry reform: This component was to finance advisory services to
the State Geodetic Administration to foster the program of modernization and harmonization of the
cadastre system with the European coding system.

Component 6: Strengthening of the Central Bureau of Statistics (the CBS): This component was
to finance development of an appropriate plan for the statistical system to publish and disseminate
data for the policy makers, businesses, and the general public. This was to be accomplished through
the following: (i) consultant services to design an institutional development plan for the CBS focused
on restructuring the institution and developing a training program for managers in response to the
new data collection methods and data flows; and (ii) a resident advisor to assist the CBS to prepare
the new system of national accounts, as well as to improve the price statistics.

Component 7: Support to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency:This component was to finance
advisory services to continue the ongoing Bank support for bank privatization activities.

Component 8: Support to the Project Implementation Unit (the PIU):This component was to
provide advisory services to assist the PIU in the establishment of the financial management system,
project management, accounting, and auditing of the project accounts.


                                                  7

6.6 Revised Components

The Bank management revised certain initial project components at the request of the Government in
an amendment to the Loan Agreement dated December 20, 2001. The amendment was requested on
the basis of availability of Loan funds due to the reduction of the scope of the APMC component and
the regulatory and institutional framework for the public utilities component. It increased the Loan
financing to goods and training in response to the project beneficiaries' new needs. In the case of the
CBS, the changes reflected a shift from carrying out institutional restructuring to meeting specific
technical assistance needs. The December 2001 amendment revised the components in the following
ways:

Component 1: The regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities: The Loan funds
were made available to finance training to the Ministry of Economy.

Component 2: Strengthening the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (APMC):
Advisory services for development of enabling legislation for the 1995 Competition Law, an
institutional development plan, and a public promotion campaign were cancelled from the component
scope. The component was to finance now the APMC's institutional development in general to cover
the actual activities financed by the project. The reduction of the component scope reflected the lack
of use of the Loan funds since the project launch and the availability of grant funds which substituted
the need for Loan funds since 2001 (see the section 6.7 on the reallocations between the project
components).

Components 3 and 4: Strengthening the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission (the
CROSEC) and the Securities Depository Agency (the SDA): The Loan funds were made available
to finance goods. In the case of the CROSEC, this made it possible to finance goods for the
establishment of the public reference room, as originally planned. In the case of the SDA, the
amendment made it possible to finance new needs to upgrade some infrastructure in the SDA.

Component 5: Support to the registry reform: The Loan funds were made available to finance
goods and training. The amendment was prompted by the need to begin to establish a system-wide
business information system between the central office and the regional offices which had become
part of the SGA with the reorganization required by the Law on State Survey and Real Estate
Cadastre enacted in March 2000.

Component 6: Strengthening of the Central Bureau of Statistics (the CBS): Consultant services
for preparation of a specific institutional development plan and a training program for managers and
statisticians were cancelled from the component scope. The component was to finance now the CBS's
institutional development in general and to finance a new activity, the preparation of a business entity
census, in addition to the initial activity, the preparation of the national accounts and prices statistics.
The Loan funds were made available to finance goods for these two specific activities.

Component 8: Support to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Finance:
The Loan funds were made available to finance goods and training to support the PIU in project
management, including now also advisory services for monitoring.

In addition, the Bank management added two new components to the project through two
amendments to the Loan Agreement and expanded the scope of the PIU component (see section 6.7).




                                                    8

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Changes in the project scope. The Bank management incorporated two new components into the
project at the request of the Government, as they were broadly within the project development
objective (the Loan amendments dated December 20, 2001 and November 2, 2004). The new
components supported the Government's development strategies and the Bank's country assistance
strategy. The requests were based on the availability of the Loan funds due to the reduction of the
scope of the APMC component and the regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities
component. The latter amendment was also made possible later by the availability of undisbursed
funds in the first new component 9. The two new components were the following:

Component 9: Support to the Ministry of Science and Technology (after the 2003 Parliamentary
elections ­ the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports) and the Ministry of Crafts, Small and
Medium Enterprises (after the 2003 Parliamentary elections ­ the Ministry of Economy, Labor and
Entrepreneurship). This component was to finance advisory services, training, and goods to the
ministries and their affiliated agencies for preparing SME/technology studies and specific programs
to assist the micro-, small and medium enterprise sector to improve their competitiveness (the
amendment dated December 20, 2001). It was a response to the 2000 Government's request for
assistance in preparing a possible new project aimed at the development of the SMEs and industrial
technologies in line with the Government's increased focus on stimulating entrepreneurship and
innovation and making R&D serve the economy. It was also in line with the 1999 CAS element of
creating conditions for a competitive business environment.

With regards to the Government's strategies, the new Government had taken some steps to focus on
the development of the SMEs and industrial technologies and desired to further develop and expand
the available infrastructure and instruments to build a comprehensive national innovation system.
These steps included, for example, the following: (i) the establishment of a separate Ministry for
Crafts and Small and Medium Enterprises, providing a range of different programs for the provision
of credit lines, technological upgrading of enterprises, etc.; (ii) creation of a separate directorate for
technology with the Ministry of Science and Technology, focusing its efforts on the companies and
activities with higher value added and involving cooperation with the R&D sector; (iii) the launch of
the Program of SME's Development for 2000-2004, the Croatian program for innovative
technological development (HITRA, April 2001, the Government's first such a policy program), and
the Strategy for Development of Science in the Republic of Croatia in the 21st Century (2002) based
on the EU model.

From the steps taken by the Government to support the development of the SMEs and industrial
technologies, HITRA aimed at establishing an efficient national innovation system, fostering science-
industry cooperation, reviving industrial R&D, and encouraging commercialization of research
results. The HITRA program provided the basis for requesting Bank assistance. It envisaged creation
of a technological institutional infrastructure, such as BICRO (existed since 1998, but needed
strengthening and was developing new programs), the Research and Development Technology
Institute (ITP) (was to be established), and R&D and technology innovation centers (some existed),
as well as creation of stimulating policy measures and programs.

Component 10: Support to the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship (before the 2003
Parliamentary elections ­ the Ministry of Economy), the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the State Office for Public Administration, and the


                                                   9

State Office for Strategy and Development. This component was to finance advisory services for the
ministries and agencies for analytical and technical work related to the preparation of the proposed
Programmatic Adjustment Loan (the PAL) (the Loan Amendment dated November 2, 2004). The
Bank and the Government agreed on a list of studies to be financed by the TAL2 project.

The new component was in line with the Government's development strategies and the 2004 CAS, as
follows. The newly elected 2003 Government had prepared a development strategy for 2003-2007
with a number of priorities, including rationalization of the public administration, strengthening
entrepreneurship and the role of science and new technologies, continuation of the EU accession
agenda, and others. Preparation of the proposed Programmatic Adjustment Project started in early
2003, and it was to support the Government's strategy through a policy and institutional reform
program across sectors. These reforms were aimed at improving the investment climate, as well as at
reducing the size of the public sector and improving its efficiency. As the centerpiece of the Bank's
2004 CAS, the proposed project was fully focused on supporting the EU accession and integration
efforts.

Extensions of the closing date and the project implementation schedule. The Bank management
extended the original closing date of June 30, 2003 four times, resulting in the closure of the Loan
closing date 3 years later than originally planned. The closing date was extended by one year until
June 30, 2004 and June 30, 2005 and then by 6 months until December 31, 2005 and June 30, 2006.

The reasons for extending the closing date and the implementation schedule were the following:

· The one-year extension to June 2004 was justified by the continued need to finance the
    preparation of the SME/technology component which had been incorporated into the project in
    December 2001. This work had progressed into preparation of a proposed Science and
    Technology Project (the Board approval in July 2005). The extension kept the Loan financing
    available for business environment related and micro finance studies for a possible adjustment
    operation.

· The extension to June 2005 was justified by the continued need to finance the preparation of the
    proposed Science and Technology Project and the implementation of some pilot applied science
    projects by the project agency candidates. The extended preparation of the proposed project was
    caused by the difficulties in building a consensus on the new concept for developing an
    integrated science and technology policy, restructuring of RDIs, commercialization of research
    results, etc. The consensus building called for certain requirements in the project design that
    needed to be met before the project could proceed to the next stage. The difficulties in meeting
    these requirements upfront led to delays in preparation of the proposed project and, consequently,
    to the extension of the TAL2 project.

· The extension to June 2005 was also justified by the following additional needs of the
    beneficiaries of the TAL2: (i) establishment of training centers and a central repository of
    cadastral data for the SGA, (ii) development of the corporate governance index for the CROSEC,
    (iii) hardware for the consumer price index data collection for the CBS, and (iv) business
    environment related studies for preparation of the proposed Programmatic Adjustment Loan (the
    Board approval in August 2005) incorporated into the project in November 2004.

· The extensions to December 2005 and to June 2006 were justified by the need to support
    improvements in the public sector management techniques in the MOF and, in particular, in the
    human resource management and in upgrading some infrastructure in the MOF. These activities


                                                 10

     supported the ongoing public sector reform aimed at improving the public administration
     management and ultimately the quality of public services to the private sector. They also
     facilitated the country's EU integration process which was making progress. In addition, the
     Government desired to fully utilize the TAL2 Loan funds, and there were no other investment
     funds available to finance these needs. The 2004 CAS with the PAL as the centerpiece of this
     support was fully focused on supporting the EU integration agenda.

Reallocations between the Loan disbursement categories. The Bank management reallocated the
Loan funds between the disbursement categories 4 times at the request of the Government to meet the
Government's and beneficiaries' evolving needs (see Table 1). This resulted in $1 million increase in
the allocation to goods and in $0.4 million decrease in the allocation to consultant services compared
to the respective original allocations.

                 Table 1:Reallocations between the Loan disbursement categories (USD)
                                   Original                         Reallocations
                                  Allocations    03/14/2001   12/20/2001    11/02/2004     10/31/2006     Change
                  Categories          (A)            (B)          (C )          (D)            (E)         (E-A)
                  Goods              0.45           0.45         0.60          1.33           1.62            1.17
                  CS                 5.43           5.46         6.08          5.35           5.05           -0.38
                  Training           0.55           0.55         0.55          0.55           0.51            0.00
                  Fee                0.07           0.07         0.07          0.07           0.07            0.00
                  Unallocated        0.80           0.80         0.00          0.00           0.00           -0.80

                  Total              7.30


Reallocations between the project components. The Bank management and the Government
reallocated the Loan funds between the project components 4 times (see Table 2). The reallocations
reflected the performance progress under the original project components and the need to finance
new activities and components to support the project objectives broadly.

          Table 2: Allocation of the project costs and reallocation of the Loan funds (USD)


Beneficiary             Orig. Bank                                                                            of    % of

                        cost* Loan     2001    +/-
                                               Realloc. 2002 Realloc. 2004 Realloc. 2005 Actual%
                                                               +/-              +/-               costs*  original final
                                                                                                          cost      costs

1. ORASE, URA,
MOE                         3.9 3.5    2.9     -2.0     0.9    -0.5      0.4    0.0       0.4     0.36    9         4

2. APMC                     0.9 0.8    0.1     0.0      0.1    0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0     0.04    4         0
3. CROSEC                   0.7 0.6    0.6     0.0      0.6    -0.2      0.4    -0.1      0.4     0.38    54        5
4. SDA                      0.9 0.8    0.8     0.0      0.8    0.0       0.8    0.0       0.8     0.82    91        10
5. SGA                      0.2 0.2    0.5     0.0      0.5    0.8       1.3    0.1       1.4     1.65    825       20
6. CBS                      0.3 0.3    0.8     0.0      0.8    -0.2      0.6    0.1       0.6     0.68    227       8
7. BRA                      0.5 0.5    0.5     0.0      0.5    0.0       0.5    0.0       0.5     0.50    100       6
8. PIU, MOF                 0.5 0.3    0.4     0.0      0.4    0.0       0.4    0.5       0.9     1.27    423       16

9. MOSES, MOELE                        0.7     2.0      2.7    -0.8      1.9    -0.2      1.7     1.70    NA        21
10. PAL studies                                                0.9       0.9    -0.4      0.5     0.77    NA        9
Total (w/fee)               8.0 7.3    7.3              7.3              7.3                 7.3 8.17     102       100
* This data is from p. 8 of the project appraisal document and includes contingencies. The table in Annex 3 of the ICR is
from Annex 3 of the project appraisal document and presents contingencies separately. There is a difference of $0.2 million
in the total project costs between the above table and Annex 3 due to a minor calculation error in the appraisal document.




                                                           11

· The December 2001 reallocation recognized the unsatisfactory performance of the regulatory and
    institutional framework for the public utilities regulatory component and the APMC component.
    The allocation to the former was reduced considerably since there had been no progress in using
    the Loan for the establishment of the utilities regulatory agency(ies) or development of the
    energy legislation. The allocation to the APMC was reduced to reflect the amount disbursed.
    There had been no results to use the Loan for the development of primary/secondary legislation
    for the 1995 Competition Law, the preparation of an institutional development plan, or for a
    promotion campaign.

    The freed funds were reallocated to finance the following: (i) preparation of studies and programs
    for a possible new SME/technology project under a new component 9 (later, the proposed
    Science and Technology Project); (ii) establishment of a business information management
    system for the SGA's central office and regional offices; and (iii) implementation of a business
    entity census by the CBS.

· The November 2002 reallocation reduced most of the allocation of the public utilities regulatory
    component due to the lack of using the Loan funds for the agreed activities and the availability of
    grant funding. Overall the Bank and the Government agreed that the energy regulation issues
    would be ad0dressed in the context of a possible adjustment operation.

    The freed funds were reallocated to the SME/technology component for advancing the
    preparation of the proposed Science and Technology Project and for implementing pilot applied
    science projects by the project agency candidates.

· The November 2004 reallocation was made to reflect the actual disbursements under each
    component, as most of their implementation was being finished. It also reduced the allocation for
    the proposed Science and Technology Project component due to slower use of funds and
    expected progress towards meeting the conditions for negotiations and possible availability of
    retroactive financing under the new project.

    The freed funds were reallocated to finance the following: (i) preparation of studies to support the
    proposed Programmatic Adjustment Loan (the Board approval in August 2005) under a new
    component 10; and (ii) establishment of a central repository of cadastral data and training centers
    in the SGA.

· The June 2005 reallocation reallocated uncommitted funds mainly to the PIU component for
    carrying out the human resource management development and other activities in the MOF to
    support the public sector reform. This reform aimed at ultimately improving the public sector
    services to the private sector (it was also supported by the proposed Programmatic Adjustment
    Loan). The activities also facilitated the EU accession process.

Cancellation of Loan funds. $7.25 million of the $7.3 million Loan was disbursed. About $0.05
million was cancelled.




                                                  12

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


The project rationale. The project rationale was sound as the project was designed as an ancillary
and follow-on project to help the Government implement reforms supported by the EFSAL and to
sustain the assistance provided to the Government under the CMDP and TAL1 projects. This made
the implementation of the TAL2 project subject to the difficulties which the EFSAL had in
supporting the politically sensitive and difficult reforms in the restructuring and privatization of
public utilities and their regulation.

Assessment of the project design. The broad project development objective was narrowed down
into more specific component objectives. They responded to the Government's reform program and to
the needs of the beneficiaries supported by the previous Bank projects and new beneficiaries. The
design became inevitably complex with the originally 8 beneficiaries/components (the Bank
Rehabilitation Agency - the BRA - component was added during negotiations at the request of the
Government). This put unrealistic expectations for the project management and coordination capacity
of the PIU.

Some lessons learnt were built into the project design to facilitate smooth implementation. For
example, the Loan included a $0.8 million allocation (10% of the Loan) for accommodating new
technical assistance needs when priorities would change or when alternative financing would be
found. In addition, the Government could reallocate Loan funds between the project components
based on a prior approval by the Bank (this did not require any Loan amendment). Retroactive
financing was made available for the BRA component to ensure smooth continuation of the financing
after the TAL1 and for possible energy legislation contracts.

Some aspects of the project design needed modification to add more flexibility to the project to meet
the evolving needs of the Government and beneficiaries. These aspects reflected the Bank practice at
the time of project preparation to allow only specific procurement methods based on the initial
procurement plan.

Risks and mitigation measures. The project identified many critical risks and incorporated the
appropriate mitigation measures into the design of the project components, but underestimated the
level of some risks to some extent. For example, the risk related to delayed parliamentary approval of
new regulations was rated as modest and the risk related to the creation of a regulatory agency for
public utilities and political commitment to the reforms were rated as substantial/modest. When the
risks materialized and the circumstances changed, the Loan funds were subsequently not utilized for
the appropriately identified risk mitigation measures which had been included into the component
design (public information campaigns and seminars to politicians).

The project management and procurement capacity in the beneficiary agencies was not identified as a
risk because some of them were expected to have gained some experience during the TAL1. To
mitigate any risks, the project did make funding available for the PIU's training to ensure efficient
procurement process.




                                                  13

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The project was not formally restructured. However, the Bank management approved some changes
to the project components, reallocations of the Loan funds, and incorporation of two new components
(see the sections 6.6 and 6.7). There was no formal mid-term review. The project was not at risk
status although it was flagged for slow disbursements.

The below factors affected the project implementation.

Political conditions related to the privatization and restructuring of public utilities and their
regulation. Since the project was linked to the EFSAL agenda, it became subject to the high risk
posed by the uncertain political environment and the degree of difficulty related to the
implementation of the restructuring and privatization of the public utilities.

The 2000 parliamentary elections and the subsequent change of the Government caused delays in
meeting the EFSAL conditionalities. These conditionalities related to enactment of regulations
providing an adequate regulatory framework for the electricity and telecommunication sectors and
establishment of a regulatory authority in these sectors. The delays in meeting them led to the
absence of plans for using the TAL2 funds.

The new 2000 Government demonstrated more progress in meeting the EFSAL conditions, and this
initiated some discussions of the use of the TAL2 funds. The progress was demonstrated by the
following: (i) the Croatian Institute of Telecommunications was established in January 2000; (ii) the
Telecommunications Council was established in July 2000; (iii) the Energy Law was enacted and the
Energy Regulator Council was established in July 2001; and (iv) the July 1999 Telecommunications
Law was revised in August 2001. This progress was found acceptable to meet the respective EFSAL
conditions in December 2001, and the implementation strategies outlined in the TAL2 project
documents were considered sufficiently flexible to accommodate variations in the Government's
policy as to the structure of the public utilities regulatory framework which was implemented (a
multi-sectoral agency versus separate agencies) and as to the creation of the agency(ies) preceding
the privatization of public utilities.

However, the TAL2 project funds were not used to support the establishment of the regulatory
agencies or regulatory development. After progress was made in the development of the energy
legislation in 2001, the Bank and the Government discussed specific plans (including draft terms of
references for consultancies and development of policies and procedures, internal systems, and some
equipment) for utilizing the Loan funds to support the energy regulator, but the discussions did not
materialize into project support (see below on the EU and availability of grant funding). After the
closure of the EFSAL in December 2001, it was agreed that the energy regulation issues, which the
TAL2 was to support, would be addressed in the context of an adjustment operation since it would be
a more appropriate instrument to address politically sensitive and difficult reforms.

The EU-Croatia relations and availability of grant funding The parliamentary and presidential
elections in January 2000 resulted in a change of the Government and ushered in a new political
climate. These changes offered the opportunity for rapid progress in the relationship between Croatia
and the EU. Subsequently, the new 2000 Government changed the focus of regulatory and
institutional development towards the EU standards in preparation of the desired EU membership,
and this affected the priorities which needed to be addressed by the Government. At the end of 2001,



                                                    14

the EU adopted a country strategy for Croatia for the period of 2002-2006. The strategy provided the
framework for the EU financial assistance via the CARDS program initiated in 2001.

The launch of the EU accession process mobilized grant funding from the EU and other donors for
Croatia. Availability of donor funding reduced the need for Loan funds mainly for the following
components:

· Strengthening the Agency for Protection of Market Competition component (the APMC). The
    APMC had access to grant funding from 2001 onwards. Due to the lack of use of the Loan funds
    since the project launch and availability of grant funding, it was decided to cancel the
    undisbursed Loan allocation to the APMC in the end of 2001.

    The following examples demonstrate the assistance from which the APMC benefited: (i) the EU
    provided financing to alignment of the Croatian competition policy to the EU standards and
    strengthening of the implementation of the 1995 Competition Law and Policy; (ii) the Structural
    Adjustment Loan (the Board approval in December 2001) helped to strengthen the position of the
    APMC through the amendments enacted in 2003 to the 1995 Competition Law and Policy; and
    (iii) the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (the Board approval in August 2005) supported by the
    TAL2 helped the APMC set up the inventory of the state aid available in Croatia applying the EU
    scoreboard methodology when the APMC was entrusted with the responsibility for approving
    state aid.

· The regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities component. The USAID picked up
    a number of activities which were planned for financing under the TAL2 to support the new
    energy regulator. The USAID had been providing technical assistance on legal and regulatory
    aspects of power reforms and restructuring, including institution building support to the
    regulatory agencies, throughout the South East Europe since late 1990's. With the desire to join
    the EU, Croatia became also more involved with the process ongoing in the South East Europe to
    integrate their energy programs into the EU internal energy market and to develop their
    regulations to meet the EU directives. In addition to the USAID funds, the EU funds were also
    available.

    In response to the slow use of the Loan funds since the project launch and the availability of the
    grant funding, the November 2002 reallocation reduced the allocation to this component
    considerably. It was agreed that the energy regulation issues would be addressed in the context of
    an adjustment operation rather than through the TAL2. In addition, the Bank carried out constant
    dialogue with the Government on possible assistance in the energy sector in support of the above
    regional programs.

· Strengthening the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission component (the CROSEC).
    The CROSEC received grant funding from the USAID to finance the improvement of a corporate
    governance codex in Croatia. Initially the terms of reference for this assignment had been
    discussed with the Bank with the intention to finance it under the TAL2 project.

· Support to the Ministry of Science and Technology (after the 2003 Parliamentary elections ­ the
    Ministry of Science, Education and Sports) and the Ministry of Crafts, Small and Medium
    Enterprises (after the 2003 Parliamentary elections ­ the Ministry of Economy, Labor and
    Entrepreneurship). While the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports decided to use the Loan
    funds for developing its technology financing programs under the new component incorporated
    into the TAL2, the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship had access to a plenty of



                                                 15

     grant funding and other sources for the development of its SME programs. Although the Bank
     and the latter Ministry discussed some possible activities for financing under the TAL2, these
     activities did not materialize into project support. Consequently, the new component was
     designed to help the Government prepare a new project focused only on the science and
     technology financing issues.

Government commitment to development of the capital markets.The operations of the CROSEC
were affected by the constrained financial and human resources. As a Government agency, the
CROSEC suffered from the budget cuts carried out in the early phase of the project. In addition to the
constrained budget, the enforcement activities of the CROSEC were affected by deficiencies in the
legal framework for capital markets. The 2002 Law on Securities Markets addressed the legal
weaknesses which had led to the CROSEC's limited powers and ineffective enforcement activities
(the Law required compulsory listing of companies issuing shares on public offerings or having more
than 100 shareholders and a share capital of at least HRK 30 million, CEM 2003, 99). Overall the
capital markets were very much in the developmental stage, and the Government had not made
commitment to prioritize capital markets development as an important pillar for the future
development of the economy (CEM 2003, 99).

Progress in the reform of the cadastre system. Implementation of the SGA component was
initially slow, but picked up after the Law on State Survey and Real Estate Cadastre was enacted in
March 2000. The SGA utilized the Loan funds to implement parts of this Law. The Law reorganized
the cadastre services to bring the 20 regional offices and 96 branch offices under the SGA's central
administration, with the exception of the Zagreb city Cadastre office which remained under the
municipality of Zagreb. Later, the use of the Loan funds was guided by the Program of State Survey
and Real Estate Cadastre for 2001-2005 approved by the Parliament in July 2001. Finally, the TAL2
project provided funding to specific needs which the Property Registration and Cadastre Project (the
Board approval in August 2002) could not finance (including the training centers and the central
repository of cadastral data).

Appointment of key staff.The delays in appointing the CROSEC's commissioners and in replacing
the management by the Government between 2001 and 2002 were a factor in the slow use of Loan
funds. The Bank expressed its concerns about the delays to the Government during the supervision
missions.

Efficiency and capacity of the project implementation The number of the project components put
additional demands on the capacity of the PIU to manage, plan, monitor, and coordinate the project
implementation by the beneficiaries. The project administration and procurement assistance provided
by the PIU to the beneficiaries was affected by the lack of adequate and trained staff. Implementation
efficiency in some beneficiary agencies was influenced by the necessary time required for learning
the Bank procurement procedures. Their project management teams were also constrained by their
regular duties, and this ­ combined with unfamiliarity with the Bank procurement procedures and
other circumstances ­ made it difficult to carry out procurement activities expeditiously and
efficiently.

The following examples demonstrate the difficulties faced by the beneficiaries: (i) the APMC
prepared procurement documents for selecting an institutional advisor over an extended period of
time and eventually cancelled the bid due to the change of circumstances; (ii) the CROSEC initiated
the selection of the resident advisor but decided to cancel the bid after evaluation which showed that
the bids were of low quality; and (iii) the Ministry of Economy cancelled the procurement of
consultant services for a concession study due to unresponsiveness of bids.



                                                   16

From time to time the Bank urged the Government to utilize the Loan funds for training and
contracting a procurement expert to assist with carrying out procurement more efficiently. In the end,
the Loan funds were reallocated from the slowly disbursing components to more active components
based on a dialogue between the Bank and the Government.

Management effectiveness. The SDA's management was highly committed to developing the
institution in the long term demonstrated by the use of a resident advisor. This contributed to the
success of the component with the highly satisfactory outcomes.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As far as the Bank's internal reporting was concerned, the M&E design was based on the earlier
logistical framework which provided indicators for the CAS goals, project objectives and outputs, but
did not show the baseline and the annual targets for the components. The baseline and the end-of-
project targets for M&E were introduced internally in the Bank reporting at the end of project life in
line with the Bank's revised internal reporting requirements.

During project life, M&E was carried out as part of the regular supervision missions. Annual
operating / procurement plans were used to help the beneficiaries plan and use the Loan funds more
efficiently, although they had difficulties on the average in delivering them on a timely basis.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)


Financial management. All the project audit reports were found acceptable by the Bank. However,
there were issues with the frequency and quality of the quarterly project management reporting due to
the capacity constraints in the PIU. Training and possibility to hire short-term assistance was made
available to the PIU to improve the quality and timeliness of the project management reporting.

The Bank received the quarterly project management reports until 2003 based on the Scala-financial
management system which became operational in late 2000 after some delays in the procurement
process and installation of the system (this did not affect compliance with the fiduciary requirements
since the first project management report was due in May 2001). The Bank received the project
management reports for 2003-2005 in early 2006. They had been prepared manually, in Excel, as the
Scala system was found inefficient.

While the Bank reviewed the project reports, separate financial management supervision missions
were infrequent until early 2006. At that time the Bank carried out an extensive supervision of the
project's financial management system and rated it as unsatisfactory because of the following: (i) the
reports were produced based on a manual accounting system which increases the risk of errors, (ii)
there was no proof of reconciliation of the MOF's accounting data with the project accounting data,
and (iii) the reports were produced with a delay and they were somewhat erroneous. The Bank
upgraded the financial management system to moderately satisfactory based on the timely receipt and
accuracy of the 2006 final project management reports.

Procurement. There were no major issues in compliance with the procurement procedures, but the
lack of capacity affected the efficiency of procurement and quality and frequency of the reporting.
Procurement training was provided to the PIU staff throughout the project life.




                                                 17

In order to address the ongoing procurement issues, the Bank's May 2002 mission agreed with the
PIU on the following: (i) all procurement of goods will be carried out by the PIU instead of the
beneficiaries in order to ensure proper procedures and savings from combining procurement
packages; (ii) the PIU shall be included as a member of the evaluation committees for procurement
carried out by the beneficiaries to ensure that the Bank rules are followed, and (iii) the PIU shall
review all documents prepared by the beneficiaries before sending them to the Bank.

The procurement post-review missions (September 2003, April 2005, and May 2006) found that
majority of the contracts selected were generally in accordance with the Bank's rules and procedures.
These missions also provided guidance to the Borrower on requirements related to maintaining
complete procurement records, extending contracts to allow completion of payments and deliverables
(October 2003), ensuring competition, and using one fee under one contract (April 2005).

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity,
and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The sustainability of the project's impact on the institutional capacity is likely given that the current
Government is reform-minded and the EU integration process provides the additional, doubtless
drive that reforms will be sustained and deepened. All pre-accession financial instruments are
available to Croatia to help address the issues on the EU agenda.

In addition to the EU agenda, the following Bank projects, which the TAL2 supported, are helping
sustain the institutional capacity of some beneficiaries of the TAL2: (i) the Real Property Registration
and Cadastre Project (the Board approval in August 2002) is helping build the capacity of the
reorganized SGA to design and conduct a unified national cadastre system in both rural and urban
areas, including support to strengthen the cadastre function, to carry out organizational restructuring,
and to finance information technology to manage and administer the information system; (ii) the
Science and Technology Project (the Board approval in July 2005) is helping strengthen and
restructure selected research & development institutions to achieve higher levels of applied research,
while maintaining their scientific excellence, and increasing the ability of enterprises to develop, use,
adapt, and commercialize technology; and (iii) the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (the Board
approval in August 2005) is helping enhance economic growth in Croatia through improving the
investment climate and reducing the size and improving efficiency of the public sector.

With regards to the CROSEC, as practiced in many European countries, the Government decided in
November 2005 to consolidate the CROSEC with the new Croatian Agency for Supervision of
Financial Services together with the Insurance Companies Supervisory Authority and the Agency for
Supervision of Pension Funds and Insurance. This became effective in January 2006. The 2002 Laws
on Securities Market Law and Takeover of Joint Stock Companies Security are being amended to
fully meet the EU standards and are expected to be enacted in 2008.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Overall the project development objective ­ aimed at improvements in the business enabling
environment for the private sector growth ­ remained relevant. It was reinforced by the Government's



                                                 18

strategy since 2000 for entering the EU with a competitive and growing economy and the
institutional capacity to meet the demands of the membership. The project objective remained also
relevant to the main goal of the current 2004 CAS which is fully focused on supporting the
Government's growth strategy and reform strategy embedded in the EU accession process. Of the
specific objectives, the capital market development represented an area of less importance on the
Government's EU accession reform agenda, but it was meaningful to continue the institutional
building needs that had started during the TAL2.

In order to maintain the relevance, the project design and scope were adjusted within the broad
development objective when the circumstances or the Government's and beneficiaries' development
priorities and needs changed. For example, the project shifted resources from the public utilities
regulation and APMC components to meet the Government's plans to improve competitiveness by
increasing and improving technology financing programs and supporting development of linkages
between R&D and the industry. The project also shifted resources to the public sector reform in
response to the Government's request to improve the quality of public services and to facilitate the
EU accession process. Although some of these activities were more distant to the objective of
supporting a business enabling environment, they however strengthened the MOF and other
organizations, indirectly benefiting the business environment.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs
in Annex 4)


Component 1: The regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities. This component
was the key component due to its linkage to the EFSAL agenda and the large original allocation. It
failed to support the establishment of the regulatory agency(ies) and the legislation for the energy
sector and was substantially reduced in the end of 2002 based on the unsatisfactory performance (see
the section 6.7 regarding the reallocations between the project components and the section 7.2
regarding political conditions and the availability of grant funding that affected the implementation).

The studies financed by the project benefited the Government in the following ways:

(i)      Croatia implements the system of natural gas pricing and tariffs proposed by the project-
         funded consultants in the segment of transport of gas. With regard to the proposed model, it
         has been implemented and is being used with some modifications as per the initial plan.
(ii)     A workshop on the draft Law of Concessions helped improve awareness of its implications
         for the economy and stakeholders.
(iii)    A study on constraints to economic growth in Croatia provided background information for
         preparation of the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (the PAL, the Board Approval in August
         2005) on the level of subsidies provided to the Croatian enterprise sector, although it was not
         used for formulating the cost of doing business benchmarks under the investment climate
         pillar of the PAL. In addition, this study provided input to developing the Government's
         industrial policies and sector programs and defining the regulatory reform approach strategy
         being implemented by the Government.
(iv)     A review of the policy making, policy management, and legislative planning system in
         Croatia identified weaknesses in the policy-making system of the Government which were
         then addressed in the Government's Public Administration Reform Strategy. These findings
         provided input to determination of the benchmarks under the public administration pillar of
         the PAL.



                                                  19

Component 2: Strengthening the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (the
APMC). This component failed to support the improvement of the regulatory and enforcement
capabilities of the APMC on a broader scale. It was cancelled in the end of 2001 based on the
unsatisfactory performance (see the section 6.6 regarding revision of this component, the section 6.7
regarding the reallocations between the project components, and the section 7.2 regarding the
availability of grant funding that affected the implementation). It supported some staff development.

Component 3: Strengthening of the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission (the
CROSEC). This component improved the regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the CROSEC
moderately satisfactorily. It financed the CROSEC's specific short-term implementation needs rather
than the initially intended long-term technical and operational assistance. The draft Laws on
Securities Market and Takeover of Joint Stock Companies prepared by the CROSEC were evaluated
in light of the IOSCO and EU principles. These Laws were adopted by the Government in July 2003
(amendments to the Securities Market Law and to the Takeover Law drafted by the CROSEC are
being reviewed and prepared, respectively, and they are expected to be enacted in 2008 fully
harmonized with the EU standards). Short-term on-the-job training provided to the CROSEC's four
operational divisions helped improve enforcement of the above Laws and their further development.
In addition, the public has now access to quarterly financial and corporate data on joint stock
companies, financial institutions, and insurance companies through the public reference library (also
available on www.crosec.hr).

Component 4: Strengthening of the Securities Depository Agency (the SDA). This component
improved the regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the SDA highly satisfactorily. The SDA
developed into a profitable clearing, settlement, and depository agency and expanded and improved
its operations in line with the international standards. The number of issuers grew from less than 50
in early 2000 to 889 in end-2006. The SDA became a member of the Croatian real time settlement
system and reduced its settlement period (to T+3). Its improved operating rules and procedures meet
the international standards and partially exceed them.

Component 5: Support to the registry reform. This component met the objectives highly
satisfactorily on a considerably larger scale than originally envisioned (see the section 7.2 regarding
progress in the reform of the cadastre system). Overall the project helped the reorganized SGA to
develop its operations towards the EU standards and to strengthen its business processes and
information management and staff skills. In the first phase of the project assistance, the project-
funded studies helped define Croatia's geo-information infrastructure based on the European
standards and to develop internal regulations referred to in the Law on State Survey and Real
Property Cadastre in line with the EU standards. In the second phase, the project helped successfully
implement a business information management system in the SGA's central office and 20 regional
offices. This resulted in improved efficacy of business processes and in an increased flow of business
information. In the third phase of the project assistance, the project enabled the SGA's central office,
regional and branch offices have all on-line access to one cadastral database which is also available to
the public (www.katastar.hr). In addition, the project equipped a multipurpose multi-media training
centre in 5 different regional offices. In 2005-2006 SGA carried out 2300 man-days of training in
these centers.

Component 6: Strengthening of the Central Bureau of Statistics (the CBS). This component
supported the institutional development of the CBS satisfactorily in accordance with the revised
objective approved by the Bank management. The revised objective focused on institutional
development in general and on meeting specific implementation goals. The CBS developed the
consumer price index in Croatia in line with the international standards and has prepared it since



                                                  20

2004. In addition, the CBS established the first version of a business register based on a one-time
pilot economic census of the business entities carried out in 2002 and 2003 with the project support
(the CBS developed the required software and obtained data on small businesses). Finally, the project
provided IT equipment to carry out labor force surveys supported with the EU funding.

Component 7: Support to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. This component helped complete the
privatization strategies and due diligence of Privredna Bank, Rijectka Bank, and Splitska Bank
initiated during the TAL1 satisfactorily. These banks were privatized by the end of 1999. This helped
meet the related EFSAL conditionality.

Component 8: Support to the Project Implementation Unit. This component supported the
Project Implementation Unit (the PIU) in the Ministry of Finance (the MOF) satisfactorily. In
addition, based on the agreement between the Bank management and Government, it helped the MOF
strengthen its capacity to support the public sector reform and the EU accession process with the
following satisfactory results:

(i)      Prepared a design solution for the integration of the line ministries' financial management
        information system with the Treasury IT system and the tender documents for procuring the
        required hardware and software in accordance with the EU Phare requirements.
        Subsequently, the MOF has submitted the application, and the EU approval is pending. Once
        implemented, the integrated system will allow faster and less erroneous payments between
        the ministers, better control and management of the budget planning and execution, and
        faster and better consolidation of data.
(ii)    Carried out management and human resources development training programs for managers
        in the MOF. The programs were first directed to the Department of the International
        Financial Institutions and European Integration (including the PIU of the project) and later to
        managers in all other departments in the MOF. Almost 100 managers were trained in
        effective communication, team work, and human resources management. Overall the training
        was favorably received and led to overall improved communication between departments. In
        addition, the Department of the International Financial Institutions and European Integration,
        which received assistance in the first phase, adopted new communication and management
        practices and initiated performance appraisal of its staff. Planning and implementation of this
        effort is continuing on a high level in the MOF.
(iii)   Reviewed the institutional structure, operational practices, and legal framework of the
        deposit insurance system in Croatia and made recommendations for changes in light of the
        EU requirements. The recommendations that are part of the report are expected to serve as
        the basis for drafting a new legislative framework under the forthcoming harmonization of
        the Croatian Deposit Insurance Act with the EU's directives. In addition, the
        recommendations are expected to be used in creating a new deposit insurance model.
(iv)    Procured the same case management software for the MOF's Foreign Exchange Directorate
        compatible as is used by the Anti Money Laundering Department. The system is currently in
        the roll-out phase and is expected to become operational in 2007. It will enable faster and
        safer case management, quick exchange of information among various departments of the
        MOF and state administration in general, as well as safer keeping of the collected data.

Component 9: Support to the Ministry of Science and Technology (after the 2003
Parliamentary elections ­ the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports) and the Ministry of
Crafts, Small and Medium Enterprises (after the 2003 the Parliamentary elections ­ the
Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship). This new component supported the Ministry
of Science, Education and Sports in the extensive and extended preparation of the Science and



                                                 21

Technology Project with satisfactory outcomes. The proposed project was approved by the Board in
July 2005, and the following specific examples demonstrate the benefits brought about by the TAL2
assistance:

(i)     Provided some input to preparation of a technology policy which was further developed and
        later integrated into the first Science and Technology Policy approved by the Government in
        May 2006.
(ii)    Helped develop and narrow down the concept and design of the new project and its potential
        components, as well as the initial procedures.
(iii)   Prompted improvements in the legal framework for venture capital industry to make it more
        favorable for venture capital funds. Consequently, the new Act of Investment Funds enacted
        in December 2005 provided favorable conditions for venture capital funds.
(iv)    Identified the potential project agencies/beneficiaries of the new project (the Rudjer
        Boskovic Institute, the Brodarski Institute, BICRO, and MARIBIC).
(v)     Initiated capacity building and restructuring efforts in some of the potential project agencies
        on the basis of the business plans initiated or further improved with the project support and
        provided input to improving BICRO's technology financing programs.
(vi)    Prepared the design of and technical specifications for an MIS for the Rudjer Boskovic
        Institute, the Brodarski Institute, and BICRO to make it compliant with the international
        accounting standards. This provided the basis for a follow-up assignment funded under the
        new project to provide the final design and delivery of the MIS Finance and Accounting
        Module and the Human Resource Management Module in the Brodarski Institute and
        BICRO.
(vii)   Designed a local area network for the Brodarski Institute which is now being implemented
        under the new project.
(viii) Initially reviewed the business opportunities and markets and the business processes for the
        Rudjer Boskovic Institute and the Brodarski Institute. In the case of the Brodarski Institute,
        the review of business opportunities was used as the basis for a best practices business
        development manual. The review of the business processes led to a realistic business process
        map in the Brodarski Institute and provided input to the above MIS assignment.
(ix)    Supported the implementation of three applied science projects in the Rudjer Boskovic
        Institute and one in the Brodarski Institute. For example, one project implemented in the
        Ruder Boskovic Institute led to development of a commercial prototype, and benefited from
        a study on commercialization options which led to forming a spin-off company.

Component 10: Support to the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship (before the
2003 Parliamentary elections ­ the Ministry of Economy), the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry
of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the State Office for Public Administration,
and the State Office for Strategy and Development. This component supported the Government in
the preparation of the proposed Programmatic Adjustment Loan (the PAL) which was approved by
the Board in August 2005 satisfactorily. The studies which were selected for project financing
provided input to specific benchmarks under the various pillars of the PAL project or provided
background information for its preparation, as follows:

The investment climate pillar of the PAL:

(i)     The two studies related to the SME/export promotional measures and the cost of doing
        business provided background data on the overall enterprise environment, although not direct
        input to the benchmarks in this pillar. As a result of the studies, however, efforts were
        initiated by the Government to streamline and rationalize the SME support programs. The


                                                  22

         SME/export promotional measures study was used as the main information source in the
         development of the first Regulatory Impact Assessment pilot/project that was done for the
         recent changes in the SME Law approved by the Government.
(ii)     The state aid study assisted the MOF to align collected information on the state aid with the
         EU state aid guidelines on reporting and monitoring (the scoreboard) and to establish a
         baseline for the medium-term state aid reduction plan with the annual targets that the
         Ministry had prepared. The study and inventory was also shared with the APMC which took
         over the approval of the state aid in 2003. Both the alignment of the inventory with the EU
         state aid structures and levels and the adoption of the state aid reduction plan were PAL1
         prior actions in the investment climate pillar.
(iii)    The agriculture competitiveness study provided input into the strategy for enhancing the
         agribusiness performance and privatization of agro-kombinats, a benchmark in this pillar.

The governance strengthening pillar of the PAL:

(i)      The study on the methodological framework for functional reviews of organizational
         structures in the Croatian administrative structures and two related pilots were used to
         formulate the benchmark in this pillar. The Government adopted the methodology and
         carried out functional reviews of the remaining state administration based on the review plan
         provided in the study. The adoption of the methodology and pilots were a PAL1 prior action
         under this pillar.
(ii)     The study on the civil service sector pay and benefit systems provided input to the new Law
         on Salaries. Its enactment was a PAL1 prior action under this pillar.

Related to the PAL assistance to the agriculture sector, the project financed the following two
additional studies which mutually reinforce each other:

(i)      The ex-ante evaluation of the Agricultural and Rural Development Program for the period of
         2005- 2006 drawn by the Ministry of Agriculture. The ex-ante evaluation was required by the
         EU and formed the basis to receive the SAPARD assistance. The ex-ante evaluation helped
         Croatia to move to the next phase with the preparation of the SAPARD measures.
(ii)     The environmental assessment for the Agricultural Cohesion Loan (the Board approval in
         January 2006). This study enabled the Agricultural Cohesion Project to proceed to the project
         appraisal stage. The assessment is guiding environmental mitigation aspects of the project's
         investments during the project implementation.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Net present value/economic rate of return and financial rate of return are not applicable.

The project represented a cost-efficient solution to reaching many results achieved with the project
support despite the extended implementation period. The project contributed to strengthening
institutions when other financing was not available (for example, for the SGA, the SDA, and the
CBS). When some components were cancelled as a result of the availability of grant funding or other
reasons, the Borrower (in consultation with the Bank) used the freed Loan funds for other
improvements in the business environment broadly and for support in the EU accession process. The
studies financed under the TAL2 project helped bring about efficiency gains that would not have



                                                  23

materialized or would have materialized with considerable delays without the TAL2 financing (for
example, the studies that financed preparation of the two new projects and activities that contributed
to the public sector reform and the EU accession process).

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory, based on the above, given that the component
objectives were largely met with some shortcomings and the project design was adjusted to meet the
evolving priorities and needs of the Government and beneficiaries, as the circumstances changed.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project had a strong impact on long-term institutional development in some beneficiary agencies
(see the section 8.2). It led to a strongly strengthened depository, clearing, and settlement agency; it
strengthened and modernized the cadastre administration undergoing reorganization; it improved
provision of information on the economy for the Government's decision making; it contributed to
financing implementation of improvements in the public administration; and it enabled the launch of
restructuring activities in some project agencies of the ongoing Science and Technology Project.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

See the Section 8.2.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The uncertainties and risks to the development outcome are low given the Government's
determination since 2000 to integrate into the EU and to ensure successful conclusion of the
accession negotiations and to open to global markets through memberships in international
organizations. Even though the reforms could be accelerated in some areas, the EU factor promotes
sustainability of project benefits as it guarantees reform motivation for the next several years and
beyond until the expected achievement of the EU membership in 2008-2009. In addition, the
availability of the EU pre-accession financial instruments will give possibilities for continuing the


                                                   24

institutional building efforts in many beneficiaries of the TAL2.

In addition to the EU factor, some ongoing Bank projects which were supported by the TAL2 can
reduce the uncertainties for maintaining the project benefits. These projects include the Programmatic
Adjustment Loan, the Real Property Registration and Cadastre Project, and the Science and
Technology Project which address some weaknesses in the investment climate and the overall
environment for the business sector.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was overall satisfactory. The project components
were overall relevant for the Government's development strategy and the Bank's country assistance
strategies. The project was prepared in a straightforward manner as its design was mainly built on
continuing support provided under other Bank projects (partly due to this reason, it was decided not to
have a decision meeting). This also permitted synergy in the use of budget resources during
preparation. In addition to supporting other Bank projects, the project added assistance to some new
beneficiaries which were seen as strategically important for building a market economy (the SGA, the
CBS, and the APMC).

With regards to the implementation arrangements, it was reasonable that the MOF would be in charge
of the project management and implementation since the project dealt with issues in many sectors of
the economy. However, the large number of components and their political sensitivity put high
demands on requiring strong project administration and management and procurement capacity in the
PIU to the extent not anticipated.

With regards to the project management reporting system, it was found acceptable at that time that it
would be established during the first year of the implementation so that the first project management
report would be sent to the Bank in one year after the Board approval.

Since the project supported the EFSAL, its implementation progress depended on the Government's
commitment and capacity to carry out restructuring and privatization of the public utilities and their
regulation in accordance with the EFSAL's schedule. Based on the lessons learnt, the Bank mitigated
any risks related to the change of political conditions or priorities by allowing reallocations between
the components based on a prior approval of the Bank.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality of supervision was overall satisfactory. The Bank
monitored the project implementation and procurement progress through close supervision and
regular missions. The Bank discussed with the Government and the beneficiaries their
implementation plans and delays and made timely and appropriate suggestions to help resolve
identified problems. The suggestions included actions, such as preparation of annual


                                                 25

action/procurement plans, centralization of some procurement work to the PIU, improvement of
proactivity of the PIU in procurement, providing adequate staff and training to the PIU.

In addition, the Bank responded flexibly to the emerging needs of the Government and beneficiaries
as the circumstances changed by cancellations, reallocations, and incorporation of new components
and activities. Although the first reallocation was made only in December 2001, two and a half years
after the Board approval, there were good reasons for it. They included, for example, the following:
(i) the need to maintain the allocation for the public utilities regulation component due to its linkage
to the EFSAL closed with a delay in December 2001, (ii) time required by the new energy regulator
established in mid-2001 to make plans, and (iii) ongoing although delayed procurement in the APMC
until early 2001.

Performance reporting was of good quality with the focus on the implementation and procurement
progress, although it was more limited on the results of the studies financed by the project.
Coordination of reporting on and supervision of the new component related to preparation of the
Programmatic Administration Loan was more difficult than in the case of the other new component,
the Science and Technology Project, because the latter was managed by the same Bank unit as the
TAL2. Finally, although the supervision reports discussed the implementation delays thoroughly, the
project performance ratings showed satisfactory implementation progress until towards the end of the
project life, perhaps reflecting the overall lack of focus on the M&E in the Bank at that time.

Regarding the fiduciary aspects, the Bank carried out more frequent procurement and financial
management supervision in the second half of the project life rather than in the first half although the
Bank's supervision missions made suggestions to address capacity constraints in these areas
frequently since the project launch. The Bank carried out several procurement post-review missions
since 2003 in addition to carrying out prior reviews of contracts and addressing procurement issues
during regular supervision missions. However, separate post-review missions were not carried out
before 2003. The Bank also monitored the extended establishment of the financial management
system closely and urged the MOF to expedite it and to take action to ensure sufficient financial
management staffing in the PIU when it was short. Although the Bank reviewed the project reports
during the project implementation, the Bank's financial management supervision overall was
somewhat lacking. In early 2006 the Bank carried out an extensive supervision of the project's
financial management system and reviewed the project management reports for 2003-2005.

When the EFSAL was under implementation, the Bank team was able to benefit from synergy in use
of the supervision budget and from the expertise of the EFSAL team in supervising the activities
related to regulation of public utilities. There was also a good synergy with the Real Property
Registration and Cadastre Project. This was demonstrated by the fact that the TAL2 financed
activities that helped pave the way for the larger project (reviews of regulations) and institutional
development activities that could not be financed by the larger project when it was being
implemented.

QSA2 carried out in September 2000 rated the quality of supervision as satisfactory. The QSA2
recognized that the Bank supervision had taken place in a difficult environment given the change of
the Government and delays in its decision-making. The QSA2 recommended a follow-up of the
effectiveness of public awareness and information campaigns, but these activities became irrelevant
as the scope of the components changed. However, the Bank team followed the QSA2's
recommendation to request annual action/procurement plans to allow close monitoring of the project
implementation.




                                                  26

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Despite the complexity of the design and some shortcomings in supervision of the fiduciary aspects of
the project, the Bank performance was overall satisfactory in ensuring quality at entry and taking
proactive supervision measures, as described above.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government was initially committed to the project objectives and, in particular, to those
supporting the EFSAL agenda, and was willing to borrow for the identified technical assistance
needs. However, the difficulties and delays in the restructuring and privatization process and later the
availability of grant funding led to the fact that the Loan funds were not used to support the capacity
building of the new regulatory institutions for energy or telecommunication or for the development of
the regulatory framework. The limited restructuring and privatization process also delayed
development of the capital markets. Later, the EU accession process guided the selection of priorities
by the Government in development of the legislation and institutions and decisions to use the TAL2
funds. The Government's commitment to the new activities led to practically full disbursement of the
Loan.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency               Performance

                     The project administration was satisfactory although the complexity of the project
                     presented a constraint to the limited capacity of the PIU. The limited capacity
Project              affected its performance in carrying out the day-to-day project management,
Implementation       implementation, and coordination activities among the many beneficiaries. The
Unit of the MOF      limited capacity also constrained the performance of the PIU's fiduciary
                     responsibilities. The PIU took benefit of training to strengthen its procurement
                     and financial management skills.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, reflecting the performance of the Government
and the PIU in the MOF, their commitment to the objectives, and the project management and
implementation capacity.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Flexibility in the project design. Flexibility built into the design of complex institution building
projects enables efficient and effective adjustments in the project implementation in response to
rapidly evolving operational environment and needs of project agencies. The flexibility of the design



                                                   27

built into this project facilitated timely assistance to the Government's and beneficiaries' new
priorities, as the circumstances changed with the launch of the EU process. This contributed to
practically full disbursement of the Loan. This was achieved through the availability of an
unallocated amount and the possibility for the Borrower to reallocate funds between the project
components for new needs that demonstrated high performance based on prior approval by the Bank.
The amendment to the Loan agreement of this project added later more flexibility by making
available a wider range of procurement methods for consultant selection.

Pros and cons of different implementation arrangements. Creating efficient institutional
arrangements is a critical factor for implementing a complex technical assistance program and for
maximizing its impact. Given the number of the beneficiaries of this project in different sectors in the
economy and the project's initial linkage with the EFSAL agenda, it was justified to assign the
responsibility for the project management and implementation to the MOF. However, the PIU's
limited capacity constrained its project management and implementation work and quality control of
procurement. Further, the fact that this project required coordination across several ministries and
beneficiaries, involving politically sensitive and difficult areas of reform, put high demands on the
authority expected from the entity managing and coordinating the implementation of the project-
supported reforms.

Time required for building procurement capacity. The difficulties encountered by the PIU and
beneficiaries of this project in procurement suggest that the Bank may underestimate the time and
effort needed to familiarize Borrowers with the Bank's procurement rules. In addition to providing a
fully functioning PIU, the risk of such difficulties could be mitigated by providing training on project
funds, as this project provided for the PIU. It could also be mitigated by agreeing on the main
procurement documents for the key assignments during negotiations so that procurement could start
immediately after effectiveness. However, advance preparation of the terms of references for key
assignments in this project was not sufficient to prevent from inefficient or uncompleted
procurement.

Coordination of technical assistance and policy loans and donor assistance. A technical assistance
project usually benefits from the complementarities and leverage provided by a multi-year policy
program as the combination can lead to broader and longer-term institutional development impact.
This may be particularly valuable if the reforms deal with complex and politically sensitive areas.
Consequently, technical assistance loans linked to policy loans are affected by the successes and
failures in implementation of the related policy loans. This underlines the importance of building
flexibility into the technical assistance loans so that the design can be flexibly adjusted to meet the
evolving technical assistance needs and timing their implementation consistently with related policy
loans so that the support can be ensured.

In the case of the TAL2 project, the Loan funds were kept available for the public utilities regulatory
component until closure of the EFSAL despite the lack of progress in using them. After the EFSAL
had been closed and grant funding became available with the EU accession process, it was
determined best to address the energy regulation issues in the context of an adjustment operation
rather than through a technical assistance loan, and the Loan funds were redirected to other uses. This
helped practically fully disburse the Loan.




                                                   28

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments on the performance rating raised by the Central Bureau of Statistics:

The final ICR was revised to remove performance ratings for the project beneficiaries. Although the
agencies that benefited from the project assistance had implementation responsibility for their
respective components, the project did not require them to sign project agreements and therefore they
were considered beneficiaries.

The Borrower indicated that the Bank's performance was cooperative, although, according to them,
the advice was, at times, not always consistent.


(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.




                                                29

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

To support improvements in the business enabling environment for private sector growth and, in
particular, the following:

    · creation of an appropriate regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities;
    · further development of the regulatory and institutional framework for market
        competition;
    · further strengthening of the institutional framework for capital market development;
    · modernization of the registries system;
    · restructuring and modernization of the statistical agency; and
    · ongoing efforts to complete the privatization of the three largest state banks.

Progress in achieving the PDO was to be assessed on the basis of the following:

    · establishment of a regulatory agency for public utilities and of new legislation in the
        energy sector;
    · improved regulatory and enforcement capacities of the Agency for the Protection of
        Market Competition;
    · improved regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the Securities Exchange
        Commission and Securities Depository Agency;
    · harmonization of the cadastre system to the European coding system;
    · preparation of an institutional development plan for the Central Bureau of Statistics; and
    · completion of the privatization strategy and due diligence of the three largest state banks.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDO was not revised. However, the Bank management approved some changes in the scope
of the project and components, and some components were cancelled, revised, or added over time
(see the sections 6.6 and 6.7).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                        Original Target         Formally          Actual Value

         Indicator           Baseline     Values (from                             Achieved at
                               Value        approval         Revised Target      Completion or
                                           documents)            Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 :               Improved regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities
                            (original)
                                      Establishment of a                       Gas pricing and
                                      regulatory agency                        tariff study; study

Value                                 for public utilities                     on constraints to

(quantitative or            NA        or separate                              growth and

Qualitative)                          regulatory agencies                      exports,
                                      for public utilities;                    concessions
                                      passage of law for                       workshop, review
                                      the regulator;                           of the Croatian


                                               30

                                   passage of ancillary                  policy making,
                                   legislation                           policy
                                                                         management, and
                                                                         legislative planning
                                                                         system
Date achieved          04/21/1999 04/21/1999                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. % achievement)

Indicator 2 :          Improved regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the APMC
                       (original)
                                   Approval of         Provision of

Value                              primary and         advisory services

(quantitative or       NA          secondary           and training to   Improved staff

Qualitative)                       legislation, public APMC for its      skills
                                   awareness           institutional
                                   campaign, training development
Date achieved          04/21/1999 04/21/1999           12/20/2001        06/30/2006

Comments               Undisbursed funds reallocated to other components at the

(incl. % achievement)  Government's request in 12/2001 due to lack of use of funds and
                       availability of grant funding.

Indicator 3 :          Improved regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the CROSEC
                       and SDA (original)
                                                                         SDA ­ self-
                                                                         sufficient, meeting
                                                                         international

                                   Establishment of an                   standards (in part,

Value                              information system                    exceeding them)

(quantitative or       NA          for market                            CROSEC ­

Qualitative)                       surveillance;                         improved

                                   training                              enforcement skills;
                                                                         improved access to
                                                                         public to corporate
                                                                         disclosure
                                                                         information
Date achieved          04/21/1999 04/21/1999                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 4 :          Modernized Cadastre System (orignal)
                                   Harmonization of
Value                              Croatian cadastre
(quantitative or       NA          coding with the                       Strengthened and

Qualitative)                       European coding                       modernized SGA

                                   system
Date achieved          04/21/1999 04/21/1999                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 5 :          Design of an institutional development plan for the CBS (original)
Value                  NA           Adoption of the    Provision of      Strengthened


                                            31

(quantitative or                     institutional        advisory           methodologies and
Qualitative)                         development plan     services, training information for
                                     by CBS's Board,      and goods to       economic
                                     implementation of a CBS to support      management in the
                                     new system of        its institutional  CBS
                                     national accounts    development and
                                                          to prepare
                                                          national
                                                          accounts, price
                                                          statistics and
                                                          business census
                                                          systems
Date achieved             04/21/1999 04/21/1999           12/20/2001         06/30/2006

Comments                  Development of a specific institutional plan cancelled from the

(incl. % achievement)     component scope. Maintained support to institutional development in
                          general. Added financing a business census.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)



   Indicator    Baseline  Original Target Values       Formally         Actual Value Achieved

                  Value       (from approval       Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                documents)               Values                 Years
Indicator 1 :   Not applicable
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              32

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)




                                  33

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                               Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                  Components                    Estimate   Estimate (USD Percentage of

                                                (USD M)         M)        Appraisal

REGULATORY & INSTIT. FRAMEWORK
FOR PUB UTIL                                          3.30           0.36      10.91

STRENGTHENING OF THE APMC                             0.80           0.04       5.00
STRENGTHENING OF THE CROSEC                           0.70           0.38      54.29
STRENGTHENING OF THE SDA                              0.80           0.82     102.50
SUPPORT TO REGISTRY REFORM                            0.20           1.65     825.00
STRENGTHENING OF THE CBS                              0.30           0.68     226.67
ASSISTANCE TO THE BRA                                 0.50           0.50     100.00
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                           0.40           1.27     317.50
SUPPORT TO MINISTRY OF SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY AND MINISTRY OF CRAFTS                     0.00           1.70
AND SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES
SUPPORT TO VARIOUS MINISTRIES IN THE
PREPARATION OF THE PROGRAMMATIC                       0.00           0.77
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                          Total Baseline Cost         7.00           8.17
Physical Contingencies                                0.00
Price Contingencies                                   0.80
                          Total Project Costs         7.80
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00           0.00       0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00           0.00       0.00
                    Total Financing Required          7.80           8.17



(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal  Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds            Type of                              Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing    Estimate  Estimate (USD
                                                (USD M)         M)        Appraisal

  Borrower                                            0.70           0.92     131.43
  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                    7.30           7.25      99.32
DEVELOPMENT




                                          34

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            35

Annex 4. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Public Utilities Regulatory and Institutional Framework

· Consultant services (CS) to prepare an economic system of natural gas pricing and tariffs for
  Croatia and a plan for its smooth implementation, to provide a gas tariff computer model and
  associated documentation for monitoring and adjusting gas price structures in Croatia and
  for calculating transmission, storage, and distribution tariffs, including the calculation of
  tariffs for third party users of gas infrastructure.
· Dissemination workshop to introduce the new draft Croatian Law on Concessions and to
  discuss its implications for the economy and stakeholders.
· CS to review the policy making, policy management, and legislative planning system in
  Croatia (including a detailed review of the policy processes in three selected Ministries: the
  Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Justice and the
  coordination mechanisms at the center of Government) and to make recommendations for
  implementing improvements.
· CS to review Croatian production/processing industries, to identify major
  constraints/barriers to growth and exports of Croatian large, mid-sized, and small industrial
  companies and to recommend administrative, regulatory, and other short-term and mid-term
  measures, facilitating growth of the Croatian enterprise sector.

Component 2: Strengthening of the Agency for Protection of Market Competition

· Conferences, symposiums, study tour, and forums.

Component 3: Strengthening of the Croatian Securities Exchange Commission

· CS to review the draft Securities and Takeover Laws and to harmonize them with EU and
  IOSCO principles.
· Short-term CS to provide on-the-job training to the Enforcement Department in supervising
  the Securities and Takeover Laws, Investment Funds and Stock Exchange, OTC Market, and
  Securities Depository Agency.
· Short-term CS to provide on-the-job training to the Corporate Finance Department to
  upgrade inspection and surveillance techniques related to the Securities Act and Takeover
  Law, including public offering and prospectus issues, private offering, reports of the
  ownership of the issuer; to the Investment Funds Department to upgrade inspection and
  surveillance techniques related to the Law on Investment Funds; and to the Market
  Regulation Department in order to clear-up and upgrade inspection, reporting and
  surveillance methods related to the Securities Act, including market monitoring, monitoring
  of the brokerage institutions, and monitoring of the custody institutions.
· Equipment, software, and training to collect data and to provide access to the public to
  quarterly financial and corporate data of joint stock companies, financial institutions, and
  insurance companies on the web in a public reference room (www.crosec.hr).
· Hardware and software for business operating systems, CS to design a SW for digital
  document flow and archival system, office equipment.
· Capital market related and language training, conferences, seminars, forums, study tours.




                                                36

Component 4: Strengthening of the Securities Depository Agency

· Resident advisor during 1999-2003 to provide technical and operational support to the SDA
  in implementing its operating plan and strategic objectives.
· Training, conferences, forums, seminars, study tours related to capital markets and
  development of the institution.
· IT and communication equipment and software, SWIFT interface software and hardware,
  mailing machine, interactive voice response system.

Component 5: Support to the registry reform

· CS to review the EU requirements for the geographic information system and their
  implications for Croatia.
· CS to assist with the following: (i) preparation of a proposal for the new official geodetic
  dates and map projections with special consideration of the establishment of the system and
  its expenses; (ii) reform of the cadastral system in Croatia; (iii) the fundamental geodetic
  (net)works; and (iv) the topographic survey and production of state maps. These reports
  were required to draft the rulebook and documents required by the Law on State Survey and
  Real Property Cadastre.
· CS to prepare the final design for a SW application for the initial business management
  system, to implement it, and to provide training (this was extended later to develop a
  software application for the cadastre data consolidation necessitated by the reorganization of
  the SGA).
· CS and hardware to establish multi-functional-multimedia training facilities in 5 different
  locations for the SGA staff, and managers.
· CS, IT, software, and training to establish a central cadastral database which connects all the
  cadastral offices and branch offices into a network and to provide an Internet browser for
  users.
· Training of staff (240 members in different locations) in MS office applications.

Component 6: Strengthening of the Central Bureau of Statistics

· CS to assist the CBS in preparing the Consumer Price Index in Croatia by providing the
  methodology and testing it, developing the software to produce the CPI for the national
  accounts, training of the CBS staff, and hardware for the effective CPI data collection
  throughout the country.
· CS to design the methodology for carrying out a pilot economic census of business entities
  (including large and medium-sized enterprises), to carry it out in 2002 and 2003, and to
  make recommendations on the basis of the collected data on creating the first version of a
  business statistics register.
· IT and office equipment for the CBS, as well as lap tops for carrying out labor force surveys
  and EU household budget surveys in the field.




                                               37

Component 7: Bank Privatization Unit

· Supplemental financing for the privatization advisory contracts for the three banks,
   Privredna Bank, Rijectka Bank, and Splitska Bank, initially financed under the TAL1.

Component 8: the Project Implementation Unit

· CS and training for carrying out the TAL2 project audits.
· CS and IT/software for the establishment of the financial management system, office
   equipment, IT and software.
· CS to help the MOF to prepare project documentation for the integration of the line
   ministries' financial management information system with the Treasury's IT system and put
   together the required documentation for submitting an application to the EU Phare for
   financing the purchase and installation of the required hardware and software.
· CS to assess the financial position of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Fund, to present the
   best international practices of financial planning in the deposit insurance field, and to assess
   the overall legal framework, taking into consideration the following: (i) the present stage of
   development and risks of the Croatian banking system and (ii) the present stage of
   development and required changes within those elements of the legal and regulatory
   environment that have a direct influence on the financial position of the Fund and to transfer
   know-how on risk and financial analysis that is best suited for the aims and needs of an ex-
   ante Deposit Insurance Fund in a workshop for the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian
   National Bank, and the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency.
· CS and training in management and human resources development for the Department for
   International Financial Institutions and European Integration in the MOF and in strategic
   management and leadership for the senior management and supervisory cadre in the MOF.
· IT hardware for the MOF's IT Department.
· Case management software for the MOF's Foreign Exchange Directorate to upgrade/ expand
   the system for case management deployed in the MOF's Anti Money Laundering
   Department and to enable faster and safer case management, quick exchange of information
   in general, as well as safer keeping of the collected data.

Component 9: Support to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry
of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship

· CS to prepare an assessment of the Croatian research and innovation system and
   recommendations for further policy making in the fields of technology and innovation and
   CS for a workshop on technology policy.
· CS for the MSES to prepare a feasibility study on the technology program proposed by the
   Government and CS to carry out detailed feasibility studies and to prepare business plans for
   various programs of the proposed Science and Technology Project.
· CS to assess the quality and utility of particular fields of research in selected RDIs against
   the international standards, to identify potential business opportunities and potential foreign
   partners for them, and to help build a strategy for their development.
· CS to review the policy and legal issues involved in the science and technology reform
   process, as well as the institutional structure and autonomy of research and development
   institutions (RDIs, such as the BI), BICRO, technology centers, and the (then) new
   Technology Policy and Research Institute, and make recommendations on statutory changes



                                                 38

   or legal and institutional restructuring to ensure improved autonomy of these organizations.
· Institutional advisors for the RBI, BI, and BICRO to help in the change management process
   and in implementation of the new business plans.
· CS to assist the RBI, BI, BICRO, and MARIBIC to prepare their business plans (including
   proposals on the changes in the current legal/operating framework, governance, staffing
   policies, training and TA plans, etc.) and sound and financially well-established financial
   analysis for the business plans.
· Marketing officer and commercial director for the RBI to help the management in
   transformation process from a dominantly budget-financed RDI to a market oriented RDI for
   the public and private sector (the "PIU" of the RBI).
· CS for market research training and study for the RBI and the BI: (i) to identify new
   business development opportunities, (ii) to train selected staff in the basic techniques of
   market research and assessment of demand for R&D and technology services, and (iii) to
   make recommendations on the optimal structure of the marketing/sales and commercial
   service function with an one-year operating plan.
· CS for the BI: (i) to design and carry out on-the-job training for selected staff in the
   techniques of business development and sales and (ii) to prepare a business development and
   sales plan, procedures, and documents based on the above market research study and
   business plan.
· CS for the RBI and BI: (i) to review their commercial and project management business
   processes and supplementary services to ensure that they operate in line with the
   international best practice and (ii) to reduce their respective cost bases for their support
   services and infrastructure to optimal levels in line with the best international practice and
   the requirements of the business plans.
· CS for the design of the BI's web-page and local area network.
· CS to carry out a study for the RBI, BI, and BICRO to recommend changes to their
   accounting systems based on the international accounting standards and to prepare the
   functional specifications of the MIS.
· IT and software for the project agency candidates and the PMU, and office equipment for
   the PMU.
· CS for the RBI to prepare feasibility studies and business plans for three individual applied
   research projects, as well as hardware, software, laboratory equipment, and training for their
   implementation on a pilot basis.
· CS for the project management unit of the Science and Technology Project, the
   establishment of the financial management system, and for the annual audits of the BI,
   BICRO, and RBI.
· Study tours, seminars, and conferences for the project agency candidates and the project
   management unit of the Science and Technology Project.

Component 10: Support to the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship, the
Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the
State Office for Public Administration and the State Office for Strategy and Development

· CS for the MOE to evaluate the impact of the available SME and export promotion
   programs/measures and to propose a concept for monitoring and assessing the impact that
   specific programs have on increasing SME/export growth.
· CS for the MOE to review the aspects of the business environment not covered by other
   studies and to identify major constraints to growth with the focus on the overall cost of



                                                39

  doing business for operating and start-up businesses and with an analysis of the central and
  local regulations and practices and their impact on the cost of doing business.
· CS for the Central State Administration Office (CSAO): (i) to develop a methodological
  framework for the functional reviews of organizational structures and management in the
  Croatian state administration, (ii) to apply it to two functional review pilots, (iii) to make
  rationalization proposals on vertical and horizontal cooperation mechanisms between/among
  the state bodies and county offices in selected policy areas, and (iv) to train local experts in
  carrying out future functional reviews.
· CS for the CSAO: (i) to assess the current Croatian legislation and practices in the public
  sector pay and benefit system, (ii) to define the options for reforming this system, and (iii) to
  assess the fiscal impact of any proposed modifications.
· CS for the MOF: (i) to develop a methodological framework for the analysis of the state aid
  in Croatia, (ii) to apply this methodology to a review of the medium term expenditure
  framework 2005-2007 and general government budget outturns for 2003-2004, (iii) to assess
  the current forms and modes of the state aid, (iv) to draw up rationalization proposals in line
  with the EU best practice and in full compliance with the State Aid Law, and (iv) to train
  local experts in carrying out future reviews and analytical work.
· CS for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management (MOAFWM) to
  provide strategic directions for enhancing competitiveness in the agriculture and
  agribusiness sector in Croatia.
· CS for the MOAFWM to carry out an ex-ante evaluation of the Agricultural and Rural
  Development Program for the period 2005-2006 of the Ministry of Agriculture in
  accordance with the requirements of the EU SAPARD program.
· CS for the MOAFWM to prepare an environmental assessment on the proposed Agriculture
  Cohesion Loan financed by the World Bank (Board approval January 2006).




                                               40

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

Not applicable.




                                    41

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title               Unit      Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Gerardo M.
Corrochano             Sector Manager       ECSPF             Team leader

Ilene Photos           Operations Officer   TFO               Operations
Supervision/ICR
Mohini Bhatia          Consultant           EASRE             Consultant
Paula Genis            Operations Officer   ECSPF             Team leader
Vinod K. Goel          Consultant           ECSPF             Consultant
Ekaterina N. Koryukin Projects Officer      COCPO             Team leader
Arben Maho             Procurement Analyst  ECSPS             Procurement

Mirela Mart            Financial Management
                       Specialis            ECSPS             Financial Management


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.      Date ISR                                         Actual Disbursements (USD
         Archived                DO                IP                M)

1   06/30/1999           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       0.00

2   10/05/1999           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       0.07

3   04/12/2000           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       0.74

4   07/18/2000           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       0.84

5   11/21/2000           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       0.99

6   06/22/2001           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       1.35

7   12/11/2001           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       1.74

8   06/10/2002           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       2.04

9   11/18/2002           Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       2.46

10 02/25/2003            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                       2.81

11 09/23/2003            Satisfactory                                           3.25




                                           42

12 04/07/2004            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                         3.66

13 11/08/2004            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                         4.18

14 04/27/2005            Satisfactory       Satisfactory                         4.94

15 10/31/2005            Moderately
                       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                         6.68

16 05/12/2006            Moderately
                       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                         6.88

17 01/24/2007            Moderately
                       Satisfactory         Satisfactory                         7.25


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                                             No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY98                                                        57.05
                    FY99                                                        71.62
                    FY00                                       1                 9.73
                    FY01                                                         0.61
                    FY02                                                         0.00
                    FY03                                                         0.00
                    FY04                                                         0.00
                    FY05                                                         0.00
                    FY06                                                         0.00
                    FY07                                                         0.00
                                      Total:                   1               139.01
Supervision/ICR
                    FY98                                                         0.00
                    FY99                                                        17.57
                    FY00                                      19                44.35
                    FY01                                      15                68.72
                    FY02                                      11                99.13
                    FY03                                      13                67.07
                    FY04                                      12                58.46
                    FY05                                      12                73.02
                    FY06                                      15                38.94
                    FY07                                       8                29.50
                                      Total:                 105               496.76




                                          43

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                   Ratings        Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory     Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory     Implementing
                                         Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory     Performance:      Satisfactory




                                        44

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not applicable.




                                       45

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not applicable.




                                  46

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  47

48

49

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    60

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

The Capital Markets Development Project: Memorandum and recommendation of the President
(February 1996); Implementation completion report (December 1999); Project status reports


The Country Assistance Strategy/Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report of the World
Bank for the Republic of Croatia (April 1995, May 1999, September 2001, November 2004)


The Croatia Country Assistance Evaluation of the World Bank (November 2004)


The Croatia Country Economic Memorandum (July 2003)


The Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Loan: Report and recommendation of the
President (April 1997); Implementati on completion report (June 2002); Project status reports


The Programmatic Adjustment Loan: Program document (August 2005); Supervision mission
reports


The Project Performance Assessment Report of the World Bank: EFSAL, TAL2 and CMPD
(July 2004)


The Real Property Registration and Cadastre Project: Project appraisal document (August 2002);
Project status reports


The Structural Adjustment Loan: Report and recommendation of the President (December 2001);
Implementation completion repo rt (April 2004); Project status reports


The Technical Assistance Loan: Memorandum and recommendation of the President (February
1996); Implementation completion r eport (June 2000); Project status reports


The Technical Assistance for Institutional and Regulatory Reform Project for Private Sector
Development: Project appraisal document (March 1999); Project implementation plan (March
1999); Project/implementation status and mission reports


The Energy Community of South East Europe Program: Project Appraisal Document (December
2004)




                                               61

MAP




       62

