Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18975-HR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR INSTITUTIONAL AND REGULATORY REFORM FOR
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
March 24, 1999
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective end-February 1999)
Currency Unit = Kuna
Kuna I = US$ 0.159
US$1 = Kuna 6.9
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APMC         Agency for the Protection of Market Competition
BRA          Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBS          Central Bureau of Statistics
CMDP         Capital Markets Development Project
CNB          Croatian National Bank
CROSEC       Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission
EFSAL        Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EU           European Union
FDI          Foreign Direct Investment
FMS          Financial Management System
HEP          Croatian Electrical Power Enterprise
HPT          Croatian Post and Telecom
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDP          Institutional Development Plan
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INA          Oil and Gas Conglomerate
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOE          Ministry of Economy
NGOs         Non-Governmental Organizations
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
ORESE        Office for the Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enterprises
PE           Public Enterprise
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PSD          Private Sector Development
SDA          Securities Depository Agency
SGA          State Geodetic Administration
SME          Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE          Socially Owned Enterprise
TAL (I)      (First) Technical Assistance Project
URA          Utilities Regulatory Agency
ZAP          Central Payment Institute
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
Team Leader: Gerardo Corrochano



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                      8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project           8
3. Benefits and target population                                          9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                           9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection               9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design               10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                       11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                            11
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                               11
2. Financial                                                              11
3. Technical                                                              11
4. Institutional                                                          11
5. Social                                                                 11
6. Environmental assessment                                               11
7. Participatory approach                                                 11
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                         12
2. Critical risks                                                         12
3. Possible controversial aspects                                         13



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                              13
2. Other                                                                 13
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary                                            14
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description                                       15
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs                                            18
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                                      19
Annex 5.     Financial Summary                                                 20
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                         21
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                       23
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements                               24
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review             25
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                     26
Annex 7.     Financial Management Arrangements                                 30
Annex 8.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule                            35
Annex 9.     Documents in Project File                                         36
Annex 10.    Statement of Loans and Credits                                    37
Annex 1 1.    Country at a Glance                                              38



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Technical Assistance Project for Institutional and Regulatory
Reform for Private Sector Development
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Date: March 24, 1999                                Team Leader: Gerardo Corrochano
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann                 Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
Project ID: PE-57767    Sector: FSD/PSD             Program Objective Category: Enterprise Sector and
Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data            [X] Loan   [] Credit           [] Guarantee            [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$7.3 million
Proposed terms:                     [   Multicurrency    [X] Single currency, specify: US$
Grace period (years):         [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed                [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:
Commitment fee: %
Service charge:  %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                           Local               Foreign              Total
Government                                            0.7                  0.0                0.7
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                  1.4                  5.9                7.3
Other (specify)
Total         2.1                  5.9               8.0
Borrower: Government of Croatia
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Finance, Office for the Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enterprises, Utilities
Regulatory Agency, Agency for the Protection of Market Competition, Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission,
Securities Depository Agency, State Geodetic Administration, Central Bureau of Statistics, Bank Rehabilitation Agency,
Project Implementation Unit.
Estimated disbursements (Bank                     2000          2001          2002        2003
FY/USSM):
Annual              0.5           2.3           2.5          2.0
Cumulative              0.5          2.8           5.3           7.3
Project implementation period: 4 years. Expected effectiveness date: July 1999. Expected closing date: June 30, 2003.



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The development objective of the proposed project is to support improvements in the business
enabling environment for private sector growth. Specifically, the project would:
*  support the creation of an appropriate regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities;
*  support further development of the regulatory and institutional framework for market competition;
*  support further strengthening of the institutional framework for capital market development;
* assist in the modernization of the registries system;
* assist in the restructuring and modernization of the statistical agency;
*  support ongoing efforts to complete the privatization of the three largest State banks.
To achieve this objective, the loan will finance consultant services, training and equipment.
Progress in achieving the development objective will be assessed on the basis of:
*  the establishment of a regulatory agency for public utilities and of new legislation in the energy
sector;
*  improved regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the Agency for the Protection of Market
Competition;
*  improved regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the Securities Exchange Commission and
Securities Depository Agency;
*  the harmonization of the cadastre system to the European coding system;
*  the preparation of an institutional development plan for the Central Bureau of Statistics;
*  completion of privatization strategy and due diligence of the three largest state banks.
B.: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14088-HR       Date of latest CAS discussion: April 20, 1995
The project supports a key area delineated in the CAS, that is, encouraging private sector-led
growth, by supporting improvements in the institutional and regulatory framework for the development of
private businesses. Ongoing preparation of the new CAS (FY99-01) also gives priority to necessary
improvements in the business enabling environment that would make possible further growth of private
sector investments, including Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), and that would develop credible
regulatory institutions in order to attract private investment and to maintain consumer confidence.
Furthermore, the project builds on the successful implementation of the almost fully completed first
Technical Assistance Project (TAL I, March 1996), which has been instrumental in advancing the
structural reform agenda of bank and enterprise reform supported by the ongoing Bank's Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL, April 1997).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Private Sector Development
Early efforts in Croatia to promote private sector development (PSD) started shortly after
independence (1991) when the first Law on Transformation of Socially Owned Enterprises (SOEs) was
adopted. At that time, ownership structures were inherited from the former Yugoslavia - small private
enterprises, cooperatives, and mostly SOEs. While entry barriers to new enterprises were almost
eliminated, Government efforts concentrated on the privatization program that transformed about 3000
enterprises in all sectors of the economy into joint stock companies, and transferred almost 50 percent of
their shares to private owners, primarily through employee and management buy-outs. In parallel, the



3
transformation of a small number of large strategic enterprises (mainly the oil conglomerate and the
public utilities) followed ad-hoc legislation by which their share capital remained under State ownership.
Despite these developments, a large number of enterprises undergoing privatization remained, in
effect, controlled by the State. Little consolidation of private ownership and slow progress in the
divestiture of the remaining shares held by the State happened during the first 4-5 years that followed the
1991 program. Only limited trading of shares took place on the secondary market for a variety of reasons,
i.e., inadequate capital market infrastructure, title deficiencies, overpricing, the overhang of the payment
obligations on worker-subscribed but not fully paid for shares, and even expectations of upcoming new
privatization schemes. As a result, despite the noticeable increase in private participation, ownership in
privatized enterpnrses remained heterogeneous and dispersed, and was generally not conducive to
improving governance.
Govemment policies towards the completion of privatization continued to show strong
commitment. In 1996, the Ministry of Privatization and the Croatian Privatization Fund (CPF) moved
decisively to complete the divestiture of the State's portfolio through a more forceful search for strategic
investors and a new voucher privatization program  with participation of investment funds, as well as
improvements in the existing privatization methods (e.g., realistic pricing of shares) brought about the
new 1996 Privatization Law. Implementation of the US$2 billion voucher privatization program was
launched late 1997 and was completed by the last quarter of 1998. In this manner, the privatization of the
original SOEs was about 90 percent complete by end 1998 and is expected to be largely completed by
mid 1999.'
Institutional and regulatory reform to support PSD
Croatia has made some progress in supporting PSD by improving the environment for business
development. Like other Central European economies, it has adopted a legal and regulatory framework
compatible with a market economy through the enactment of important laws beginning in 1991.2
Furthermore, Croatia has moved forward with a comprehensive enterprise and financial sector reform
program (supported by the Bank's EFSAL and TAL I). In addition to the completion of the restructuring
and privatization of the largest State banks and enterprises, the EFSAL/TAL I program includes parallel
efforts aimed at the development of an adequate institutional and regulatory framework for the
development of the financial system. 3
The development of adequate institutions and regulations related to the start-up of capital markets
was tackled decisively and supported by the Bank's Capital Markets Development Project (CMDP,
lExcept for the shares contributed to the pension funds and the restitution fund.
2 In addition to the Privatization Law (1991 and 1996) and Securities Law, the most significant legislation enacted since 1991
includes: (i) the Law on Obligations (1991) - based on the former SFRY law; (ii) the Law on Accounting (1992) - making
mandatory the use of IAS, and the Law on Audits (1 992) - requiring independent audits for large and medium companies (1993);
(iii) the Law on Protection of Market Competition (1995); (iv) the Law on Labor (1995) - which permits collective bargaining
agreements; (v) the Law on Companies (1995) - drawing primarily on German Law; (vi) the Law on foreign credit relationships
(1996); the Law on court enforcement procedures (1996); (vii) the Law on real property ownership (1996); (viii) the Law on
Bankruptcy (1997); (ix) the Law on Compensation for Nationalized Property (1998); (x) the VAT law (1998); and (xi) the Law
on Banking (1998).
'During project negotiations, the Government requested that additional funds be added to the loan amount to support ongoing
efforts to privatize the three major State banks. This process is an essential part of the EFSAL program, and is currently being
supported by the TAL I. At the moment, the Bank is supporting the Croatian Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) in the ongoing
selection of privatization advisors. This selection process has been carried in accordance to Bank procurement guidelines. The
funds allocated to this particular component will be eligible for retroactive financing, and will supplement financing that was
allocated for this purpose under the TAL L. A more extensive discussion of the rationale for Bank support to the BRA and the
process of bank privatization was done in the TAL I and EFSAL reports, Ln 3989 HR and P-6792 HR, respectively.



4
March 1996). The aim of the CMDP was to support the Government's transformation program by
facilitating the privatization process and, more generally, by developing the capital markets institutions
required for a modem market-based economy. The project addressed three critical areas: (i) the policy
framework for capital markets, especially the regulation of securities markets and the creation of the
Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission (CROSEC); (ii) the operational capabilities of key capital
markets entities, especially the Securities Depository Agency (SDA); and (iii) a comprehensive public
awareness campaign of the role of capital markets and of shareholder rights. Overall, the program has
been successful in setting the institutional basis for the development of the securities market, though rapid
market developments and demands on the newly created institutions are a growing challenge. In order to
sustain the progress made under the CMDP, both the SDA and CROSEC require further assistance in
strengthening their enforcement capacities, in developing public access to information, and in setting up
an information system for market surveillance.
Despite these developments, the institutional framework to support PSD and to foster and protect
market competition is still limited. Until recently, the only two formal organizations were the Croatian
Chamber of Economy (CCE) and the Chamber of Artisans, both inherited from the former Yugoslav
system. The CCE covers a broad range of sectors and has a regional network of chambers and sectoral
associations. It has become more independent vis-a-vis the Government and plays important advocacy
and information roles for enterprises. The Ministry of Economy has also started a program for SME
development. Its objective is to support SMEs by proposing policy guidelines, training, information and
technological development, and SME support infrastructure (i.e., advisory centers).
Property legislation and registration are in their own right major issues in Croatia. Despite some
improvements, the system of registries of business and properties remains split among separate
institutions and pieces of legislation. Efforts are under way to revise and harmonize the property and
registries legislation which have not yet been finalized and have not reached consensus among policy
makers. However, even when the legal framework is better harmonized, the institutional back-up to
support the proposed changes in legislation and the modernization of the registry system will still be
inadequate. For generations, Croatia has had a "ground-book" method for registering property rights,
which at the moment consists in large part of fragile book entries that are disintegrating, and in some
cases becoming not only inaccessible, but also highly inadequate to keep up with the demands of market
transactions. Institutional support for updating and creating electronic property registries is important not
only to secure property rights, but to form the basis for quality secured lending within the financial
system.
One of the most serious problems affecting the business environment lays in the inadequacies of
the judicial system. At the moment the court system in Croatia is overloaded and is incapable of dealing
efficiently with the number of cases that are piling. As a result, the system has no credible resolution
mechanisms for commercial disputes, secured transactions are not honored, and poorly defined venues
for exiting insolvent entities from the system remain uncontested.4
Competition Policy
In terms of market competition, enterprise privatization, liberalization of trade and investment,
and deregulation have together led to a more efficient reallocation of resources, demonopolization and
increased exposure of markets to firm rivalry. To further support these measures, a specific competition
law was enacted in 1995, which was followed soon thereafter by the creation of a dedicated agency, the
Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (APMC), to implement and enforce it.
4The Government of Croatia has recently requested of the Bank the preparation of a new Judicial Reform program.



5
However a genuine competition culture does not yet exist, and various anti-competitive business
behaviors and arrangements, notably in services, are prevalent. Competition also is experiencing
distortions due to a number of government-promoted barriers to trade by means of unnecessary exclusive
concessions, permits and administrative approvals and requirements, which have provided commercial
advantages to incumbents. Some importers have avoided competition through alleged price-fixing and
market-sharing agreements. In certain sectors (i.e., retail trade, agro production, and food distribution),
former State conglomerates have regrouped or new companies have formed financial/industrial holdings
and have abused their dominant position through, arguably, predation, discrimination, and closure of
market opportunities for smaller or more efficient competitors. In all these cases, the gains of trade and
investment liberalization are undermined and measures taken to promote a more efficient reallocation of
resources and demonopolization have not provided sufficient discipline to preclude firms from raising
prices above the competitive level.
For these reasons, the implementation of the competition law and the strengthening of the APMC
should be a priority. This process is still in the early stages. The APMC began operating in early 1997,
two years after enactment of the law in 1995. Since then, the APMC has tried to apply the law without the
necessary capital and human resources. In addition, the business community and, to some extent, the
government and other public bodies have not been adequately informed of goals and scope of the law as
to guide its activities and policies. With almost two years of operations, APMC's services have been in
high demand, and the agency's capacity to respond has not been able to meet expectations.
To overcome these limitations, a strategy to implement competition law and policy is essential.
This strategy should focus on three goals: (i) to improve regulatory and enforcement capabilities of the
APMC; (ii) to develop and implement a program to make the law operational, including institutional
arrangements (staffing and training); and (iii) to develop a competition culture through public
communication and corporate compliance programs and by ensuring effective development of capacity
for competition advocacy. The strategy should also point towards steps that minimize the likelihood of a
Government policy reversal or failure of stakeholders to support the policy.
Public enterprises and regulatory reform
In parallel to ongoing efforts in private sector development, a small number of very large, so
called "strategic" enterprises were legally transformed into public enterprises (PEs) under specific laws -
with their share capital owned directly by the State. The largest companies in this group were the
Railways, Post and Telecom (HPT), Electric Power (HEP), and the Oil and Gas conglomerate (INA). For
some of these (i.e., INA, HEP, HPT) the 1991/96 laws already provide for some partial privatization (up
to 25 percent of their equity). In practice, each PE has followed its own reform track, and ad-hoc plans for
restructuring and/or privatization have been initiated.
A significant problem had been poor monitoring, and lack of active supervision of the PEs by the
Government and its lack of success in having them implement forcefully their restructuring and
privatization programs. Back in 1993, a Government unit was established to monitor the PEs - the Office
for the Restructuring and Economics of State-owned Enterprises (ORESE) to address these problems.
While ORESE succeeded in imposing improved financial controls on the largest PEs, its efforts have
fallen short of effectively controlling and guiding management decisions on the restructuring of several of
the largest and more complex PEs.
Institutional weaknesses have been compounded by the size and complexity of the PEs and their
political clout . In the larger PEs, INA and, to a lesser extent, the electricity and railways companies, the
combination of intricate corporate structures and of technically complex lines of business makes effective



6
monitoring a challenging endeavor. These enterprises typically consist of a cluster of 10-20 units,
frequently resulting in extensive cross-subsidization within group structures and soft budget constraints in
loss-making units. The restructuring process of the natural monopolies has not progressed far yet (INA
being the exception). In fact, efforts to move ahead with the restructuring and privatization process of
PEs had been hampered by the lack of adequate legislation, particularly in the energy sector and in the
telecommunications sector, conducive to private sector investment. The preparatory work to create a
new regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities has thus been at the top of the
Government's policy agenda. The initial studies were carried out in 1997-1998 under TAL I financing.
A new law on the regulation of public utilities has just been drafted and a plan to set up the new multi-
sectoral regulatory agency was prepared under ORESE. This law is expected to be adopted during the
first quarter of 1999, allowing for the creation of the new regulatory agency immediately thereafter. A
new telecommunications law has been drafted and preparation of a comprehensive legislation for the
energy sector is planned for the second half of 1999. Whereas there had been for some time a consensus
within the Government on the need to move fast with the privatization of public utilities, the lack of full
political consensus had so far resulted in implementation delays, with potentially long-term costs for the
economy and to the detriment of attracting possible future international investors. A first concrete step
has been the splitting, as of January 1, 1999, of HPT between post and telecommunications. A second
step was the Government's announcement to start in 1999 with partial privatization, first, of the new
telecommunications company, HT, followed by INA and part of the electrical power sector in 2000.
Advisers are being recruited to assist in the sale of a major stake of HT to a strategic investor planned for
the second half of 1999. In parallel, amendments to the earlier privatization laws are expected shortly in
order to allow privatization of the utilities beyond the currently allowed 25 percent limit.
Information in the marketplace
As Croatia continues to move forward in its transition process towards a market economy, the
availability and dissemination of statistics in the market place is becoming a visible deficiency. During
the last few years, the Croatia National Bank, the Payments Institute, various ministries, and the Central
Bureau of Statistics (CBS), have been the major providers of statistical information. Despite these efforts,
proper dissemination and timely and adequate statistical information is still considered a major constraint.
The Law on Statistics was adopted by Parliament in 1994, though the CBS is currently preparing
amendments to the Law to adjust its established systems and procedures to changes in the social and
economic conditions which have evolved since the Law's adoption. The latter is part of ongoing
Government efforts to develop Croatia's statistical system in order to improve the availability of data
needed for a market-oriented economy, as well as overall economic management. The Government has
begun reforming the statistical system by introducing international classifications and compiling new
indicators. However, data needs for policy and business decisions are emerging at a higher pace than the
statistical system can develop and deliver. Thus the statistical system will require the introduction of new
data collection methods, improved management of the statistical system, training of staff, and
considerable upgrading of equipment to process, store, share and disseminate information efficiently.
A plan to improve and restructure the statistical system must be developed. It has to cover several
agencies involved in data collection, though it should focus primarily on the CBS. The priority activities
for the development of the statistical system would best concentrate on: (i) filling in gaps in
macroeconomic data utilized for economic policy and management; (ii) capturing new economic and
social activities; (iii) meeting the needs of analysts, policy makers and the business community;
(iv) introducing international standards and methodologies; and (v) improving efficiency and productivity
with improved organization, data collection and processing methods and equipment. The Croatian
Government has subscribed to the Special Data Dissemination Standards of the IMF. This places an
additional burden on the statistical system to adhere to certain standards in data quality and periodicity.



7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project provides technical assistance - consultant and advisory services, training and
equipment - which will help improve specific aspects of the regulatory and institutional framework to
support private sector activity. Specifically, the project will address:
*  The need to establish an adequate regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities. The
proposed component will support the creation of a multidisciplinary utilities regulation agency
(IJRA) and the preparation of modem legislation for the energy sector. In turn, this is expected to
facilitate progress in the privatization program of the utilities sectors (electricity, oil and gas, and
telecommunications), as well as to encourage the entry and participation of private investors in these
sectors, and provide a framework for their efficient and transparent operations. A successful
implementation of this component will complement efforts on the reform agenda of large public
enterprises, sponsored by the Bank's EFSAL and TAL I.
*  The need to enforce compliance with antimonopoly regulations and to strengthen the newly
established Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (APMC).
*  The need to further compliance with newly established capital markets regulations and institutions
(CROSEC and SDA), improved public access to information, and better market surveillance. These
components will largely extend the TA provided in the context of the ongoing CMDP. Further, it will
focus more on strengthening compliance with the new regulatory framework for capital markets.
*  The need to support progress in the reform program of registries. A successful implementation of this
component will modernize and harmonize Croatia's cadastre system with the European coding
system and will enhance the institutional capabilities of the State Geodetic Agency (SGA).
*  The need to strengthen the CBS. A successful implementation of this component will foster a
comprehensive system of collection, proper dissemination and adequate availability of statistics.
*  The need to further support ongoing efforts being carried out by the Bank Rehabilitation Agency
(BRA) to complete the privatization of the three largest State banks. This component will supplement
the financing being made available under TAL I.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities. This component will assist the
Government to create and build the capacity of a new utilities regulatory agency (URA) and draft a
comprehensive legislation for the energy sector. The loan will finance mainly: (i) a resident advisor and
other advisory services to assist ORESE to design the new agency's organizational structure and develop
detailed regulations, a comprehensive staff training program, twinning arrangements with a foreign
regulatory agency, implementation of a campaign to promote public awareness of new regulatory
arrangements and development of an information management strategy, including the purchase of
hardware and software and establishment of a library; and (ii) advisory services to assist the Ministry of
Economy (MOE) draft new energy laws covering electric power, gas and petroleum products, as well as
the secondary legislation and regulations necessary for their implementation.
Strengthening of the APMC. The loan will finance a resident advisor and other advisory services to
develop secondary legislation for the 1995 Competition Law. Assistance will support preparation of a
development plan for the APMC, including design of recruitment and training programs, the design and
implementation of a public relations campaign to encourage business compliance with the Competition
Law, and training activities.
Strengthening of the CROSEC and SDA. The loan will assist in strengthening CROSEC and SDA's
capacities, through provision of expert advice and continuation of ongoing institutional development and
on-the-job training in each agency.



8
Support for registry reform. This component will include advisory services to foster the program of
harmonization of the cadastre to the European coding system.
Strengthening of the CBS. This component will develop an appropriate plan for a statistical system to
publish and disseminate data for policy makers, businesses, and the general public. This will be
accomplished through the preparation of an institutional development plan focused on redesigning the
organizational structure of the statistical agency and developing a training program for managers and
statisticians. This component will also assist to improve preparation of the new system of national
accounts and price statistics.
Support to the BRA. The Loan will provide advisory services to continue ongoing Bank support for
bank privatization activities.
Support to the PIU. The Loan will finance advisory services to assist the PIU in the establishment of a
financial management system, project management and accounting, and auditing of project accounts.
Component               Category       Cost Incl.      T of       Bank-        % of
Contingencies    Total      financing     Bank-
(US$M)                   (US$M)    financing
1. Regulatory and institutional  Institutional      3.9          48.8         3.5         47.4
framework for public utilities  Devt, Physical
2. Strengthening of the APMC     Institutional      0.9          10.7         0.8         11.5
Devt.
3. Strengthening of the CROSEC   Institutional      0.7          8.7          0.6          8.8
Devt.
4. Strengthening of the SDA       Institutional     0.9          10.8         0.8         11.5
Devt.
5. Support for registry reform   Institutional      0.2          3.0          0.2          3.3
Devt.
6. Strengthening of the CBS      Institutional      0.3          4.2          0.3         4.7
Devt.
7. Bank Privatization            Institutional      0.5          6.7          0.5         7.4
Devt.
8. Project Implementation Unit   Institutional      0.5          6.2          0.3         4.5
Devt.
Total /a        8.0          100.0        7.3         100.0
/a includes front-end fee
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
In support of the Government's objective to improve the institutional and regulatory framework
for PSD, this project seeks to:
* provide the appropriate regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities, essential to
develop private participation in delivery of public services (through privatization of existing
public enterprises as well as investments in new privatization projects), particularly in the energy
sector where private investment projects are under preparation;
* promote compliance with antimonopoly and market competition regulations;
* further strengthen compliance with the new regulatory framework for capital markets;
* advance the reform program of Croatia's system of registries;
* develop a plan for the improvement of the country's statistical system;



9
* support the privatization of three State banks.
3. Benefits and target population
The proposed project aims at improving key aspects of the institutional and regulatory
environment for PSD. More specifically, benefits will include a new regulatory framework for public
utilities, improved competition policies and better enforcement of securities regulations. The target
population is the enterprise sector at large which will ultimately benefit from an improved business
enabling environment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Project Implementation: The main executing agency will be the Ministry of Finance. The
individual components will be coordinated by the various agencies involved: (i) for public utilities
regulation, ORESE and the URA, in consultation with affected line ministries, and the MOE for energy
sector legislation (ii) for improving the environment for market competition, the APMC; (iii) for capital
market development activities, CROSEC and SDA; (iv) for the registries component, the SGA; (v) for
improvement of the statistical system, the CBS; (vi) for bank privatization, the BRA. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) will play an overall coordination role, will provide assistance to the
implementation agencies in Bank procurement, will prepare progress reports with inputs from the
implementation agencies, and will support the MOF and the Bank in other operational matters.
Financial Management System (FMS): The capabilities of the PIU were assessed with respect to
financial management and reporting systems, including accounting, financial reporting, auditing, internal
and other control procedures. The PIU is already managing two on-going Bank projects, namely the
CMDP and TAL I. The FMS established for these projects is mainly geared towards monitoring and
controlling the procurement and disbursements of loan proceeds and does not provide financial
management reports as required under the new World Bank guidelines. An accounting firm will be
engaged to design a proper accounting system which, when implemented, will ensure that the project
accounting meets "International Accounting Standards" as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Committee. In this context, draft terms of reference for the establishment of a financial
management system have been agreed (see Annex 7). The PIU will seek a qualified accounting firm to
establish the FMS. Draft templates for the Financial Management Reports appear in the PIP.
Project Audits: The Special Account and the project accounts will be audited in accordance with
"International Standards of Auditing" as issued by the International Federation of Accountants. The PIU
will provide the Bank, within six months of the end of each government fiscal year, an audit report by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
One project alternative which was rejected was that of creating several sector-specific regulatory
agencies. Multisectoral regulatory institutions have not so far been established in ECA countries,
although Latvia is giving consideration to establishing one, as is Slovenia. They have, however, been
created in a range of other countries, including Australia, Bolivia, Canada, and Colombia. A major
motivation in Croatia's case is to economize on scarce regulatory resources. There is strong competition
from a range of sources for personnel with the economic, financial and legal skills needed to operate an
effective regulatory agency. Creating a single agency can facilitate the sharing of skills across sectors. It



10
can also help to support the independence of the agency, since any attempts to improperly influence the
regulator will have implications for a wider set of stakeholders.
During project preparation, the possibility of implementing a fully funded program for the
Central Bureau of Statistics was considered. This option was found to be premature, given the capacity of
the CBS to absorb such a program. The project focuses on assisting the CBS to design its institutional
development plan as a necessary first step for a possible comprehensive program at a later time. The
project also includes financing for key urgently needed activities, i.e., to develop a new system of
National Accounts.
A larger scale support component for a comprehensive reform program of registries was also
considered. It was rejected due to the lack of consensus of various stakeholders on the scope and pace of
reform. Furthermore, such a program would have had to deal with a complex set of issues related to the
resolution of property rights which would have exceeded the scope of the proposed technical assistance.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned)
Sector issue                        Project                      Latest Supervision Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation         Development
Progress (IP)        Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Privatization and reform of        Enterprise and Financial                  S                      S
public enterprises and banking    Sector Adjustment Loan -
sector                             ongoing
. . _.. ... ... ....................................  ....................... __..... ...............   .............  .... ...   .............. .........................      ...........- .......................   .....   .......  .. ... ... ......................... .... ...
Institutional development -        Technical Assistance Project              S                      S
support to the EFSAL               - ongoing
........ ..... .... ..... .. ... ............. ..... .... I........... .... . .. .. . .....    .........   ......    .   . .. .... . ....... ....  ... .  .......  .... .. ..................... ........... .. ..........  ....... .. ............ ..... ................  . ............I.............  ....... ... ... ......-........................... .. .  .. ... ... ... ... ...  ...... .  ....... ..  ..
Capital markets development        Capital Markets                           S                      S
Development Project -
ongoing
Other development agencies
UK KnowHow Fund                    Assistance to the banking
sector - ongoing
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Implementation of the ongoing TAL (Ln. No. 3989-HR) continues to be satisfactory, although
the component for the financial sector was delayed due to the slow pace of reform, alternative
arrangements made for financing bank restructuring, and the use of grant funds that have been made
available (UK KnowHow Fund) for consultant services originally to be financed by TAL I. The
Government has recognized the value and necessity of well-defined technical assistance. Like TAL I,
implementation of each component under the proposed project will be the responsibility of the relevant
implementing agency which will work with assistance from the PIU. Several of the implementing
agencies have had previous experience with Bank projects, therefore implementation of TAL II should
benefit from this past experience. Finally, as under TAL I, flexibility has been built into the project to
allow funds to be reallocated, if requested by the Government and with the Bank's prior approval, should
grant funds become available or to accommodate evolving needs under the Government's reform
program should any emerge during project implementation.



I1
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership
The Government requested support through this project during the CAS discussions in March
1998 and confirmed its need for support during the 1998 Annual Meetings. The Government recognizes
that the privatization of utilities will require an appropriate regulatory framework. Further support to the
establishment of a competitive market environment will be accomplished through strengthening of the
APMC and continued technical assistance to the CROSEC and the SDA. The Government has been
selective in its borrowing for technical assistance. Its decision to borrow for this project and its
involvement in the design of this assistance is a further sign of its commitment.
The Borrower's commitment is also reflected in recent actions taken by the Government to
influence enterprise governance, the most important being the passage of legislation to split posts from
telecommunications. Other actions include the Government's announcement to launch in 1999, first, the
privatization of the telecommunications and, second, that of INA.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
Given its substantial inter-country experience on privatization, restructuring and regulatory
issues, the Bank is in a unique position to facilitate the rapid and efficient transfer of learning emerging
from ongoing experience on optimal regulatory policies, enforcement of capital markets and
enhancement of competition policy.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: Not applicable
2. Financial: NPV and FRR: Not applicable    Fiscal impact: Not applicable
3. Technical: Not applicable
4. Institutional: a. Executing agencies: MOF will be the main executing agency and will oversee the
implementation and take overall responsibility for the project. Other implementing agencies are: the
Office for the Restructuring of State-owned Enterprises (ORESE), the new Utilities Regulatory Agency
(URA), the Ministry of Economy (MOE), the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition (APMC),
the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission (CROSEC), the Securities Depository Agency (SDA),
the State Geodetic Authority (SGA), the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), and the Bank Rehabilitation
Agency.
b. Project Management: The proposed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has substantial project
implementation and procurement administration experience from its management of the ongoing CMDP
and TAL I. TORs for initial services procurements have been prepared and will be included in standard
Bank invitation/contracting documentation packages. HW/SW and office equipment specifications will
be prepared after the Regulatory Agency is established.
5. Social: Not applicable
6. Environmental assessment:     Environmental Category    []A  []B   fX] C
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Not applicable.



12
b. Other key stakeholders: Not applicable.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The Government is committed to the transformation of Croatia into a full market economy and to
its integration into Europe. Fully recognizing the difficulties and risks, it is determined to adjust its
institutions to the new market-economy environment, to complete restructuring and privatization of
enterprises and banks, and to create conditions for private sector investment. The project focuses on
essential activities to assist the Govemment to implement its long-term strategy. Follow-up operations
(e.g., in the energy sector and PSD) will also help the Government address issues targeted by this project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1).
Risk                                       Risk Rating                Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Parliament approval of new regulations and                                         M              Seminars for Parliament and
procedures may be problematic and delayed.                                                        Government members; public
information campaign.
~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... . -    ------- - --------- --_---.._ ........  . .     .. ...... ... .......  ......-_. ....... . ... -. . ..   .. .  ...... ..._.. .    ........   .    .......I...... ..... . .-_. ....... .... ........ ..._. .. .... ...... -_
Opposition to creation of a regulatory agency by                                  S/M             Public information campaign.
those opposed to privatization.
Political support and will of Govenmment to                                       S/M             Govemment's desire to create full
enforce new regulatory framework.                                                                 market economy; policy dialogue.
Continued Government commitment to reforms.                                        M              Policy dialogue.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
Implementation of recommendations by advisors                                     S/M             Government's desire to create full
and findings of studies.                                                                          market economy.
-... - 1................ .......... ..... ............................. ................ .......   ..............   ...................... ........   ...    ... ............ .    ..... .. .   ..............I..... ... .......... ...... .............. . . .. .. ...... . .... . .  ....... ......................... ............
Application of laws/regulations/procedures.                                       S/M             Government's desire to create full
market economy.
....................................... ... .... ....  . ......... .. ......I... .   . . .    .................I......... ..... .....I........ ..    .........................................  ..I... ....    -..  ...... ..  - ........  ....... ....- -.................. - .......... ... ....... ......... ........ .....
Adequate budget for operation of respective                                       S/M             Discussions held with MOF and
implementation agencies.                                                                          agencies to ensure budget
availability.
Overall Risk Rating                                           M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The Prime Minister has given his support to the establishment of a multisectoral agency.
However, this option was not favored by the telecommunications ministry officials, who consider that
there should be a separate communications agency covering telecommunications and broadcasting, or by
the energy officials, who consider that there is no need as yet for an energy regulatory agency.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Board Conditions: None.
2. Effectiveness Conditions: (i) Establishment of a FMS acceptable to the Bank; (ii) staffing of the
PIU acceptable to the Bank (see below).
3. Other:
The Loan Agreement requires that: (i) the PIU be maintained with adequate staff, satisfactory to
the Bank, to carry out the project; (ii) the PTU will provide reports tomonitor project activities and assess
progress against the performance indicators; (iii) the Borrower and the Bank will review these reports and
agree, if necessary, on activities to improve project performance and objectives.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The Government is ready to implement the project, with the PIU handling the day-to-day administration.
Terms of Reference for the main assignments have been agreed or are under preparation. The Borrower's
Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
Team Leader:        Gerardo Corrochano
Sector Director:      ajos Bokr
Country Director:   Arntraud Hartmann



14
Annex 1
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Project Design Summary
To encourage private sector-led                                                          * Political and
growth                                                                                   macroeconomic stability
* Continued Government
commitment to reform
P rcjcVe    Dn~n Ob_                                         gIICv=                      fIOILfdtdve tt Goa l):SU}
To support improvements m the
business enabling environment
for private sector growth
__________________                                                                DDiD  ~t t o   O
* Improved regulatory and      * Establishment of a regulatory   * Progress reports submitted    * Political support of
institutional framework for public  agency for public utilities  by the PIU (with inputs from    Government to enforce the
utilities                      * Passage of the law for      relevant implementing       new regulatory framework
regulatory agency            agencies) to the MOF and the   * Continued Government
* Passage of ancillary       Bank                         commitment to reforms
legislation                                               * Passage by Parliament of
* Improved regulatory and      * Approval of primary/                                    appropriate legislation;
enforcement capabilities of the  secondary legislation                                   approval of new
APMC                           * Public awareness campaign                               regulations and procedures
* Training provided to APMC
officials
* Improved regulatory and      * Establishment of an
enforcement capabilities of the    information system for market
CROSEC and SDA                 surveillance
* Training provided to
CROSEC and SDA officials
*       Modernized cadastre system  * Harmonization of Croatian
cadastre coding with the
European coding system
*Design of an institutional    * Adoption of the IDP by
development plan for the CBS   CBS's Board
* Implementation of new
System of National Accounts
1. Regulatory and institutional  3.5 million                 * Progress reports submitted    * Timely appointment of
framework for public utilities                            by the PIU to the MOF and the  advisors
2. Strengthening of the APMC   0.8 million                   Bank                        * Implementation of
3. Strengthening of the CROSEC   0.6 million                                             reconmmendations by
4.SrnteigothSD                        -------- - -*-Bank supervision m-issions    advisors and findings of
4.Strengthening of the SDA    0.8 million ac uevsomssn avoraarmg O
5. Support to registry reform  0.2 million                                               studies
6. Strengthening of the CBS    0.3 million                                                * Application of laws/
- -----                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~regulations/procedures
7. Assistance to the BRA.      0.5 nillion
..------   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~*Adequate bugtfor
8. Project Implementation Unit    0.5 million                                            operation of respective
I____________________________  I____________________________   agency
5 See footnote No. 3 in the main text. This component is eligible for retroactive financing.



15
Annex 2
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Public Utilities Regulatory and Institutional Framework
Finalizing the Regulatory Framework and Building Capacity in a Regulatory Agency (US$3.5 million)
*   Technical assistance addressing market structure issues.
*   Assistance to develop detail of the regulatory framework.
*   Resident advisor to assist ORESE to coordinate tasks related to creation of the regulatory agency, and to
build regulatory capacity.
*   Gas sector study covering market, tariff and distribution.
-   Training program which will address generic issues of economic regulation as well as specific technical
issues and should address the needs of all levels of staff; study tours to examine how foreign regulators
perform their tasks; twinning arrangements, allowing for the funding of staff from a foreign regulatory
agency.
I nformation management strategy, including purchase of computing equipment, selection of software and
establishment of a library.
-   Public campaign to promote awareness of new regulatory arrangements and means of addressing
inadequate performance from service providers.
-   Supplementary tasks emerging over time.
Project Component 2 - Strengthening of the Agency for Protection of Market Competition (US$0.8
million)
-   Preparation of substantive and procedural primary and secondary legislation (law amendments,
implementing decrees and regulations), administrative guidelines, and policy and law interpretation
documents to:
*   Develop analytical standards for horizontal practices, abuse of dominance, vertical agreements and
merger control.
*   Define markets, gauge actual or potential exercise of market power, assess barriers to entry, and
evaluate efficiencies and consumer welfare.
*   Develop methods for collecting and safeguarding business confidentiality, and analyzing industry and
firm economic data.
*   Assess sectoral regulations in cooperation with other regulatory agencies.
*   Determine fines, penalties, consent orders and alternative approaches to case resolution.
*   Draft internal policy documents on investigative techniques, administrative rule-making, and
adjudicative practices and procedures.
*   Identify administrative requirements for filing and processing applications, complaints and other
requests for official action.
*   Development of a training program  and linkages with foreign competition authorities and
international organizations
*   Implement short visits and intemship programs in collaboration with major competition agencies.



16
*   Provide for APMC management staff to participate in international seminars, conferences and
workshops organized by major competition agencies and international organizations.
*   Establish arrangements and other communication linkages with major competition agencies to
promote exchange of information and documentation on best practices.
*   Building of institutional-expertise capacity
*   Engage a resident advisor to assist APMC in building up expertise, helping develop secondary
legislation and guidelines, providing technical support in law enforcement and competition advocacy
activities, and training staff.
*   Implementation of a public information and dissemination strategy aimed at creating a culture of
competition and compliance with the law
*   Conduct a seminar-workshop for APMC, government authorities, judges, business and consumer
associations, academics, and journalists.
*   Develop a corporate compliance program which allows APMC to provide advice and support to
business activities in accordance with the law.
*   Definition of organizational structure and personnel profile
*   Assess human resource requirements, including governance setting, incentive systems, personnel
policies and staffing structures.
8   Define job descriptions.
-   Design information management systems and procedures.
Project Component 3 - Strengthening of CROSEC (US$0.6 million)
* Resident advisor to assist CROSEC to implement the following
*   Assist CROSEC to ensure the timely collection, storage and dissemination of corporate disclosure
documents, to increase the number of issuers filing reports with the Commission, and to develop a
program to start disseminating the information in hard-copy.
-   Provide technical assistance to the Enforcement Division in conducting investigations of possible
violations of the securities laws and make recommendations as to the disposition of those matters.
*   Assist the Division of Investment Management in promulgating operational standards, reporting
forms, disclosure rules, and calculation regulations concerning net asset value for investment funds
and privatization investment funds.
*   Assist the Market Regulation Division, to disseminate operational standards for brokerage companies,
and organized securities exchanges, and to conduct compliance examinations of registered market
participants and evaluate the outcome of the inspections.
*   Assist the CROSEC to assess the existing data storage and retrieval system at the Commission as well
as recommendations for an immediate process by which dissemination can begin.
*   Provide continuous training of executives, professionals and staff, primarily through on-the-job
consultation on inspection, enforcement and disclosure issues, in order to facilitate an efficient
transition for CROSEC from a start-up to a steady state operation.
Project Component 4 - Strengthening of SDA (US$0.8 million)
* Resident advisor to continue ongoing institutional development and training efforts in the SDA. The
advisor will provide operational assistance and technical support to:
*   Ensure that all listed securities are eligible for clearing and settlement services through the depository.
*   Make 150 unlisted securities eligible for registry services and be in a position to accept 10 new
securities per month into the registry as part of a routine operation.



17
*   Allow the SDA to be in a position to accept all new issues of securities directly into the registry. In
the case of new issues that are to be listed, assist the SDA in being able to make these securities
immediately eligible for clearing and settlement.
*   Provide continuous on-the-job training of staff.
Project Component 5 - Support to Registry Reform (US$0.2 million)
* Consultant services to assist State Geodetic Administration to harmonize Croatian registry coding with the
European system of coding.
Project Component 6 - Strengthening of Central Bureau of Statistics (US$0.3 million)
Activities to strengthen the statistical system:
*   Consultant services to help design an institutional development plan (IDP) for the Central Bureau of
Statistics, with a view to restructuring the statistical agency to be responsive to the new data collection
methods and data flows.
*   Resident advisor to assist the CBS in the development of a new system of national accounts as well as
improvements to price statistics. The resident advisor will also help liaise with the consultants in charge of
the IDP.
Project Component 7 - Bank Privatization Unit (US$0.5)
Supplemental funds to support the privatization of Croatia's three largest State banks.
Project Component 8 - Project Implementation Unit (US$0.5)
* Consultant services for PIU staff positions.
E establishment of Financial Management System.
* Annual audits of loan accounts.
6 See footnote No. 3 in main text. This component is eligible for retroactive financing



18
Annex 3
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Estimated Project Costs
Project Conmponent                                            Local     Foreign      Total
--------------US $ million-------------------
1. Regulatory and institutional framework for public utilities  1.1       2.3         3.3
2. Strengthening of the APMC                                   0.1        0.7         0.8
3. Strengthening of the CROSEC                                 0.3        0.4         0.7
4. Strengthening of the SDA                                    0.1        0.7         0.8
5. Support for registry reforn                                 0.0        0.2         0.2
6. Strengthening of the CBS                                    0.0        0.3         0.3
7. Bank Privatization                                          0.0        0.5         0.5
8. Project Implementation Unit                                 0.4        0.0         0.4
Total                                                          2.1        5.1         7.2
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                      0.0         0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                                         0.0         0.8        0.8
Total Project Cost                                             2.1         5.9        8.0
Figures include Government counterpart and front-end fee.
Figures may not total due to rounding.



19
Annex 4
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Not Applicable



20
Annex 5
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Financial Summary
Local                  Foreign                   Total
US$m          %         US$m           %         US$m          %
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
Government                           0.7          9           0.0          0           0.7          9
IBRD                                 1.4          17          5.9         74           7.3         91
Total                  2.1          26          5.9         74           8.0         100



21
Annex 6
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement will be handled by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which reports to
the Assistant Minister of Finance. The PIU over the past two and one-half years has developed a
degree of procurement experience through its administration of other Bank Loans and, with
guidance, will be capable of managing procurement for this project. A general procurement
notice covering all planned purchases will be issued at the start of the project, with annual
procurement updates published thereafter as appropriate. Procurement of goods will be done
according to the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996 and January 1999). International
Shopping will be used to procure imported goods, mostly computer hardware/software for the
Regulatory Agency for Public Utilities, for contracts up to US$300,000 each, up to an aggregate
of US$400,000. National Shopping will be used for goods estimated to cost below US$50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000.
Selection of consultants will be done according to the provisions of the: "Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, as revised
September 1997 and January 1999). Quality and cost-based selection (QCBS) will be used for
consultant services contracts expected to total about US$4.0 million equivalent (for long and
short-term advisory services). The least-cost selection (LCS) process will be used for contracts
totaling about US$90,000 (for periodic project audits). Selection based on qualifications (project
accountant, $90,000) and single source selection (project management specialist, $150,000),
including procedures for selection of individual consultants will be used. The standard forms of
contracts and documentation for consultant services contracting issued by the World Bank will be
used for complex time-based assignments and for contracts based on lump-sum remuneration.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods: Goods will be procured under International and National Shopping procedures.
Proposed procurement documentation for the first International Shopping package and the first
National Shopping package will require prior review by the Bank.
Consultants' Services: Selected procurement procedures and documentation for
consultants (see Table B) will require prior review by the Bank.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will be administered by the PIU. The proceeds of the Loan will finance
100 % of eligible direct foreign exchange expenditures for goods and 100 % of expenditures for



22
consultants' services and training, less identifiable taxes levied by the Croatian Government. The
Loan is expected to be disbursed over three years, with expected project completion by
December 31, 2002. The Closing Date will be June 30, 2003.
Use of Statements of expenditures (SOEs)
Disbursements ior expenditures for goods procured under contracts below US$100,000
equivalent and for consulting services under contracts below US$100,000 equivalent for firms,
and below US$50,000 equivalent for individuals, will be made against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs). Documentation to support these expenditures will be retained by the PIU for at least one
year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was
made, and will be made available to the Bank and the auditors on request. Withdrawal
applications for payments against other contracts and which require the Bank's prior review will
be fully documented.
Special account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account, in US dollars at a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account would have an Authorized
Allocation of US$1 million representing the expected advance payments (20 percent) on contracts
during the peak quarter of expenditures if made exclusively through the Special Account. At the
start of the project, the Special Account deposit would be limited to half of the Authorized
Allocation and the remaining portion of the Authorized Allocation would be disbursed upon
Government request when the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding Special Commitments entered into by the Bank shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of US$2 million. Replenishment applications would be submitted at least
every three months, and would include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents. The minimum application size for payments directly from the Loan
Account for issuance of Special Commitments is 25 percent of the Special Account authorized
allocation.



23
Annex 6
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method                Tot-al Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB      NCB       Other    N.B.F.
1. Goods                                         0.45                   0.45
(0.45)                (0.45)
2. Services
Consultants                               6.93                   6.93
(6.23)                (6.23) /a
Training/Study Tours /b                   0.55                   0.55
(0.55)                (0.55)
TOTAL /c                                       7.93                   7.93
(7.23)                (7.23)
Goods will be procured by international and national shopping. Consultant services will be
procured by QCBS, LCS and from individuals, as appropriate.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
/a Includes contingency funds currently unallocated.
lb May be performed in part by hiring of individual consultants.
/c Total does not include front-end fee of US$73,000.



24
Annex 6
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Consultant Services                        Selection Method                       (including
Expenditure Category                                                             contingencies)
QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS    CQ    Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms                  4.00                     0.09                               4.09
B. Individuals                                                     0.54               0.54
Total n     4.00                     0.09            0.54               4.63
Note:    QCBS - Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  - Quality-based Selection
SFB  - Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  - Least-Cost Selection
CQ   - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other - Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc., including project management
specialist under Sections 3.8 - 3.11
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Total does not include: US$0.3 million for ancillary services and TA for privatization activities not yet identified;
US$0.5 million for bank privatization; or US$0.8 million contingency funds currently unallocated. The procurement
method(s) for the US$0.3 million will be decided when each task is identified.



25
Annex 6
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value          Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)              Method                Prior Review I
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
(US $ thousands)                                (US $ millions)
1. Goods                     < 300                   IS                  1          0.10
< 50                   NS                  I          0.05
2. Services *
Firms                      > 200                 QCBS                 11         3.41
<200                  QCBS                 7          0.59
< 200                  LCS                 1          0.09
Individuals                > 50            Selection of Individual    6          0.54
Consultants - Consultant
Guidelines, Section V
<50            Selection of Individual    --          --
Consultants - Consultant
Guidelines, Section V
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  27   4.78
as percent of total loan:    66%
* The Bank will review all TORs and proposed procurement methods for services engagements. This
will also apply to the US$0.3 million available for ancillary services and TA for privatization
activities, not included above. The procurement method(s) for these activities will be decided when
the tasks are identified.



26
Annex 6
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Table C: Procurement Plan
Package            Description            Procurement Document  Invitation   Contract   Estimated
No.                                       Method   Preparation   nm/yr   Signature   Contract
mm/yr                rmn/yr    Amount /1
A. SERVICES
1   Economic design of market            QCBS        Jun-99     Jul-99    Aug-99       90000
structure for electricity
2    Gas tariff study                    QCBS        Jun-99      Jul-99    Aug-99      400000
3    Gas market and distribution study   QCBS        Jun-99     Jul-99     Aug-99     250000
4    Preparation of comprehensive energy    Other a/  Apr-99    Jun-99     Jul-99      300000
legislation and regulations
5    Design of telecoms regulatory       QCBS        Apr-99     Jun-99     Jul-99     300000
arrangements
6    Development of initial telecom      QCBS        Apr-99     Jun-99     Jul-99      60000
licenses
7    Resident advisor for ORESE          QCBS        Apr-99     Jun-99     Jul-99      250000
8    Capacity development for URA        QCBS        Jul-99     Aug-99    Oct-99      200000
9    Public Awareness Campaign for       QCBS        Mar-00     Apr-00    Jun-00       100000
Regulatory Arrangements
10   Resident Advisor for APMC            QCBS        Jun-99     Jul-99    Aug-99      360000
11   Public Awareness Campaign            QCBS        Jul-99     Sep-99    Nov-99      90000
for APMC
12   Preparation of Legislation - APMC    QCBS       Oct-99     Dec-99    Feb-99       200000
13   Resident Advisor for CROSEC          QCBS       Apr-99      Jun-99     Jul-99     350000
14   Public Awareness Campaign            QCBS        Sep-99    Nov-99    Jan-00       50000
for CROSEC
15   Resident Advisor for SDA             QCBS       Apr-99      Jun-99     Jul-99     350000



27
Annex 6
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Table C: Procurement Plan (cont.)
Package            Description            Procurement Document  Invitation   Contract   Estimated
No.                                       Method    Preparation   mm/yr   Signature    Contract
mmn/yr                mm/yr    Amount /1
16   Public Awareness Campaign            QCBS        Sep-99     Nov-99    Jan-00       100000
for SDA
17   System development for clearing      QCBS        Sep-99     Nov-99    Jan-00       350000
and settlement - SDA
18   Harmonization of cadastre coding     QCBS        Oct-99     Nov-99    Jan-00       200000
19   IDP for CBS                          QCBS        Sep-99     Nov-99    Dec-99       200000
20   Development of new National          QCBS        Sep-99     Nov-99    Dec-99       100000
Accounts/Price Statistics
21   Services for bank privatization    /2                                              500000
22   Supplementary tasks to establish    /3                                             300000
regulatory framework/agency
23   Project Manager                      Other b/      NA         NA       Feb-99      150000
24   Project Accountant                   Other c/    Mar-99     Apr-99    May-99        90000
25   Project Audits                        LCS        May-99      Jun-99     Jul-99      90000
26   Training/Study Tours                 Other d/                                      550000
B. GOODS
27   Agency library (URA)                   NS        Mar-00      Apr-00    May-00       50000
28   Information management                 IS         Jan-00    Mar-00    May-00       100000
system - software (URA)
29   General office HW and SW (URA)         IS         Jan-00    Mar-00    May-00       200000
26   IT for Public Reference Room           IS        Oct-99     Dec-99    Feb-00       100000
(CROSEC)
CONTINGENCY    800000
TOTAL   7230000



28
Annex 6
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Table C: Procurement Plan (cont.)
QCBS   Quality and Cost-Based Selection
LCS    Least Cost Selection
IS      International Shopping
NS      National Shopping
Other   a/ Consists of 4 - 5 small contracts for which individuals will be selected.
b/ Current project manager will be contracted through single source selection.
c/ Individual or, if unavailable, a firm.
d/ May be performed in part by hiring of individual consultants.
/1 Contract amounts do not include contingency funds currently unallocated.
/2 Supplemental funds for services already procured under TAL I using Bank procurement guidelines.
/3 Ancillary services and TA for privatization of public services and central or local government owned
enterprises. Procurement method will be decided when task identified.



29
Annex 6
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                  Amount in      Financing Percentage
US$ million
Goods                                           0.5          100% of foreign, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
Consultant services and related expenditures     5.4         100% less identifiable taxes
levied by the Croatian
authorities
Training                                         0.6         100%
Front end fee                                    0.1
Unallocated                                      0.8
Total       7.3
Figures do not total due to rounding.



30
Annex 7
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Financial Management Arrangements
Project Financial Management System
The Bank's financial management specialist assessed the capabilities of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with respect to financial management and reporting systems,
including accounting, financial reporting, auditing, internal and other control procedures. The
PITU is already managing two on-going Bank projects, namely the Capital Markets Development
Project (CMDP) and the Technical Assistance Project (TAL I). The financial management system
established for these projects is mainly geared towards monitoring and controlling the
procurement and disbursements of Loan proceeds in accordance with the schedules established in
the Staff Appraisal Reports, and do not provide financial management reports as required under
the Bank's new guidelines. Nor does the PIU have the in-house capability to design such a
system. A proper accounting system will be designed and implemented to ensure that adequate
recording of project transactions as well as the preparation of financial statements meet Bank
requirements. In this context, draft terms of reference for the establishment of a financial
management system have been agreed (see below). The PIU will seek a qualified accounting firm
to establish the financial management system. Draft templates for the Financial Management
Report appear in the PIP (Appendix E).
Project Audits
The Special Account and the project accounts will be audited in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines, Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank. The PIU
will provide the Bank, within six months of the end of each government fiscal year, an audit
report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. The report will include a separate opinion by the independent Auditor on
disbursements against certified SOEs. The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs
submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.



31
Annex 7
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Terms of Reference
Establishment of a Project Financial Management System
BACKGROUND
The Government of Croatia is expected to receive from the World Bank (IBRD) a loan of
US$7.3 million to help finance the above Project.
In the implementation of Bank assisted projects, the role of financial management, as part
of overall project management, in a world of scarce financial resources and complex projects, is
fundamental. Its aim is to provide timely, reliable, and useful information for accountability and
decision making. In addition, accounting and auditing are essential elements of stewardship-
achieving the greatest benefit for the funds invested. This implies an integration of financial and
program disciplines to manage available resources to achieve common goals. Accordingly, the
Bank includes in all legal agreements one or more accounting, financial reporting, and auditing
covenants as a means of ensuring accountability for the use of its funds. Loan covenants are used
to assure compliance with general Bank policies.
OBJECTIVE
The objective of the project Financial Management System (FMS) is to ensure that
accounting, procurement, disbursement, and audit are woven together to contribute to good
project financial management, reduce the administrative burden on the Borrower, and ensure
better client service. Better integration of all these elements of the loan administrative process
will yield financial management reports that present the whole picture, virtually at a glance.
QUALIFICATIONS
In order to establish the FMS of the above project, the selected consultant/s should have
training and experience in financial management and its related disciplines of accounting and
auditing. Consultant/s should be a professionally qualified accountant (CPA, CA, or equivalent
qualifications), or if not, have appropriate financial management qualifications:
(a)  Proven knowledge of and experience in implementing financial management systems,
based on International Accounting Standards (IAS). In this respect, the consultant/s
will be expected to provide appropriate references for the firm/individual, as well as
for the personnel establishing the FMS;
(b)  The consultant/s should have an affiliation (i.e., be a member) in an accounting
association with International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) membership;
(c)  Experience in carrying out accounting and auditing diagnostic work, making specific
recommendations, and discussing and obtaining client concurrence;
(d)  Experience with the role and application of internal control systems and procedures,
along with the ability to assess such systems and to recommend remedial action where
necessary;



32
(e)  An understanding of information systems and the application of new information
technologies;
(f)  All personnel involved in the establishment of the FMS of the said projects must be
proficient in the English language, both written and spoken;
(g)  Experience in establishing FMS in World Bank financed projects is desirable, but not
mandatory.
SCOPE OF WORK
The selected consultant/s will establish a "free standing" project financial management
system in accordance with World Bank Financial Management Systems guidelines. It is
recommended that the consultant/s utilize an "Off the shelf Accounting Package", which can be
modified to record project accounts and to produce financial management reporting formats and
ensure that the proposed system can also be integrated into the client's existing accounting data
base. Security procedures should be built into the proposed system to ensure that data cannot be
manipulated by unauthorized persons. Sample reporting formats are available to the client. In
particular, the FMS should produce the following quarterly reports:
*  A Project Progress Report which explains variances between actual physical and
financial progress versus forecasts;
* A Project Financial Statement which includes a summary of sources and uses of funds, an
updated six-month project forecast, a Special Account reconciliation statement, and
expenditures by category statement; and
* A Procurement Management Report which shows project procurement status and contract
commitments.
The consultant/s will also be required to train the client's financial staff in the operation of
the FMS. The main output relating to the design of the financial management system will be a
'Financial Management Manual' for the project. The financial management manual will
comprehensively document the operation of the financial management system and will serve as a
reference document for all project staff in operating the financial management system. In
designing the system, particular attention should be paid to the:
(i)    Development of a Chart of Accounts: The Chart of Accounts will be used to: (a)
capture financial data under appropriate headings; and (b) classify and group financial data
for the various financial reports. The structure of the Chart of Accounts should cater for data
to be captured by: (i) project components and sub-components; (ii) expenditure categories;
(iii) World-Bank disbursement categories for the project; and (iv) implementing agencies.
The structure of the Chart of Accounts should conform closely to the project cost tables to
enable comparison of actual project costs during implementation with those estimated
during project preparation. The Chart of Accounts should also provide appropriate linkages
with the reporting heads used for Government budgeting purposes.
(ii)   Development of Financial and Accounting Policies: Simple, clear and transparent
financial and accounting policies which will govern financial management of and
accounting for the project should be developed. These will include both: (i) Accounting
Policies for accounting and financial reporting for the project; and (ii) Financial Policies and
Procedures, e.g., policies and procedures for transfer of funds and accounting for
expenditures (including payment of advances, recovery of amounts); policies regarding
expenditures which can be treated as project expenditures; and the classification of these
expenditures under appropriate headings in the Chart of Accounts; etc.



33
(iii)   Development of Financial and Accounting Procedures (for various types of
transactions). The most important considerations in designing the various procedures are to
ensure: (i) a satisfactory system of internal controls; and (b) smooth working/operation of
the financial system. These procedures should incorporate standard internal check/controls
such as delegation and separation of duties, authorization of transactions, physical custody
of assets, periodic and regular reconciliations, independent verification, conformity to
project procurement policies and procedures, etc. Given that the system will be a
computerized system, internal controls should also include aspects such as controls over data
integrity, standard EDP controls, etc.
(iv)   Financial Reporting: Formats of the various periodic financial reports which will be
generated should be developed. The financial reports should be substantially generated from
the computerized financial management system. Therefore there should be clear linkages
between the information in these reports and the Chart of Accounts. The financial reports
should provide quality and timely information to project management, implementing
entities, and various stakeholders on project performance. The financial reports should also
include all the Project Management Reports (financial statements, output monitoring reports,
and procurement management reports) to be provided in the quarterly Withdrawal
Application to the World Bank under the World Bank's Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI).
Financial Management Manual: The following aspects will be covered in the Financial
Management Manual:
(a)    Flow of Funds
(b)    Financial and Accounting Policies for the Project
(c)    Accounting System (including Chart of Accounts, formats of books and records,
accounting and financial procedures)
(d)    Budgeting
(e)    Financial Forecasting
(f)    Procurement and Contract Administration Monitoring System
(g)    Financial Reporting (including formats of reports, and linkages with Chart of
Accounts)
NOTE: Most of these refer to the formats expected to be produced by the system.
The consultant/s should visit the client and familiarize themselves with the project as well as
the existing accounting database. It is highly desirable that the consultant/s become familiar with
the Bank's Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank, which
summarize the Bank's financial reporting and auditing requirements. The consultant/s should also
be familiar with the Bank's Disbursement Manual and the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI) Implementation Handbook. These documents will be provided by the Project
Implementation Unit of the client.
CLIENTS
The Financial Management System is expected to be installed at the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) at the Ministry of Finance. In developing their financial proposal, the
consultants should take into account the cost of the required software. Further details will be
provided in the Letter of Invitation (LOI).



34
GENERAL
The consultant/s will be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other
information associated with the Project and deemed necessary by the consultant/s in the discharge
of their assignment.
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Upon award of a contract , the consultant/s is expected to adhere to the following
implementation schedule:
(a) Commencement of the work - within 10 calendar days from contract signature.
(b)  Establishment of the FMS - no later than a month after the start of the assignment.
PAYMENT TERMS AND SCHEDULE (To be revised as appropriate)
The payment for the FMS will be effected 10 percent upon signature of the contract and 90
percent upon presentation and acceptance of the FMS.



35
Annex 8
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
113.0                100.7
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            05/20/1998           05/20/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    10/15/1998              NA
Negotiations                                   01/15/1999           03/03/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/15/1999           07/15/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, ORESE, APMC, CROSEC, SDA, SGA, CBS, BRA, PIU
Preparation assistance: NA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Gerardo Corrochano                        Team Leader
Misha Belkindas                           Senior Statistician
Yves Duvivier                             Principal Financial Analyst
Francis Kenefick                          Procurement Specialist
Ilene Photos                              Operations Analyst
Roberto Tarallo                           Financial Management Specialist
Luis Tineo                                Market Competition Specialist
Michael Warlters                          Regulatory Specialist
Tunc Uyanik                               Peer Reviewer



36
Annex 9
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Documents in the Project File*
A.   Project Implementation Plan
B.   Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment - BTO [July 98]
C. Other
*Including electronic files.



37
Annex 1O
Technical Assistance Project
for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for
Private Sector Development
Statement of Loans and Credits
as of February 28, 1998
Amount in US$ million (less cancellations)
Loan/Credit Fiscal Year           Purpose                 Bank    IDA  Undisbursed  Closing Date
Credits
0 Credits                                                           0.00
Loans
19 Loans closed                                          218.94              0.00
30690       1989   Istria Water Supply                 28.00             13.81       6/30/99
37600       1994   Emergency Reconstruction           128.00               1.70      12/31/99
38430       1995   Health Project                      40.00              3.66       12/31/99
38690       1995   Highway Sector                      80.00             18.29       12/31/00
39990       1996   Farmer Support Services              9.50              0.97       6/30/99
39890       1996   Capital MaIket Development           5.00               1.74      6/30/99
39880       1996   Technical Assistance                17.00             13.17       6/30/01
41590       1997   EFSAL                               95.00             45.04       6/30/99
41190       1997    Coastal Forest                     42.00             38.87       6/30/02
41040       1997    Emergency Transport/Mine          102.00             46.75       6/30/00
42470       1998   Investment Recovery                  9.00               8.78      12/31/01
43510       1998   Municipal Environment               40.60             41.66        6/30/03
42460       1998   Eastern Slavonia Reconstruction      8.00              7.29       12/31/01
43520       1998   Investment Recovery                 36.30             36.60       6/30/06
42490       1998   Investment Recovery                  3.00              2.77       12/31/01
42480       1998   Investment Recovery                 10.00              7.91       12/31/01
44330       1999   Railway Modernization & Rest.      101.02             94.04        6/30/03
Total Number of Loans  17                                754.42            383.05
Total                                  973.36    0.00
of which repaid                              215.50    0.00
Total held by Bank & IDA                     757.86    0.00
Amount sold                       0.05
of which repaid                   0.05
Total Undisbursed                                              383.05



38
Annex 11
Technical Assistance Project for
Institutional and Regulatory Reform
for Private Sector Development
Country at a glance                                                       3124/99
Europe &    upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            CentreA   middle.
Croatia      Asia  Incorme       Development diamond'
PPpulaotiO, mild-year (millin                           4.5       476       571                  Life expectancy
GNP per capit (Atlas mtetd US$)                       4,610    2Z320      4,520
GN P eAtlas method, US$ bililions)                     20,7     1,106     2,584
Averag, annuali growtt, 1991.97
Population I(%)                                        -0.0       0.5       19        NPGrs
Labo force I(%)                                          0         .         1.      GNGrs
per                             pn Mary
Moatrecn eetmat. (lteat year alvaIlable,~ 1991.97)                             captaenrollment
Poverty (% of population betow national poverty line)     -         -      I
Urban.population (% oftttalpopylation)                  57         87        73
Life epectancy at birth (yeara)                         73         69        70
Infant mortality (per l00OO lv& births)                  9         25        30
Child malnutrition l'3 of echilren under 5)              -.         .         -.,              Access to safe water
Acess to sate water (% of populatioll)                  96          .        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      -.                 isCo15i
Gross primrynernrotiment (%f oschool-age population)    86         92       107Crai
81a1e                                                 87          .         ..Upper-m?7ddle4incom'e group
FPrmale                                               88_______________
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1878     1988      1196      1997 
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ b0il7on)                              .         .      19.7      19.5 I
Gros domestic investmnt/VGDP                             ,,      22.1      24.2Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP                .        .      42.0      42.0Tre
Gross domestic savingslGDP                                .      12A4       7,8
Gross natinona saying /O                                  .      17.5       11.7
Current account balance/GDP                     .        ,        -4.6     -12.5     Domestic                     Investment
Interest payments/GOP                           .        ..       0.7       1.2      Saig
Total debtVGOP                                  .         ,      24.4      31.1      Saig
Total debt ser-vice/exports                              .,       4.9        8.6
Present value of deb/GOP                        .        .,      21.2
Present value ot debV/exports                   .         .      45.0         . 
Indebtedness
1991-97     1998      19,97   198042
(averge annuial grow/th)
GDP                                           -1.6      6.0        65                   -Croatia
GNP per capita                               -1,1      10.3       6.2        ..Upper-middle-ircome group
Exports of goods                                ..     -6.3       8.8___________________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY____ ___________
1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment I%)
('A of GDP)                                                       86        8.       0
Agriculture86                                                               84         T
Industry                                                 ..      24.2      24.5
Manufacturing                                          ..       18.9      19.2   _.0s                 5 4   95   96   57
Services                                                 6. 7.2            87.1    -2
Private consumptiton                                     ..      59.0      65.2    -30
General government consumption                           ..      28.5      27.1                 - D                  D
Imports oftgoods and services                            ..      51.7      58.4-G                    I      --GD
(average annual gmwth)               ~1991-85       1996      1987     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                            -6.7        ..         .
Industry                                              -12.6                         la .
Manutfacturing                                      -12.9         ..         .
Services                                               -3.0        ..         .      9      5    9      4     99
Private consumption                                      ..-19,0
General govemnment consumption                           ..-20
Gross domestic investment                                                           2
Imports of goods end services                             .                    .-Exports    -0-Imports
Gross national product                                 -1.5        8.2       6.2    ___    _________________
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



39
Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     200-
(% change)                                                                          2,000 7
Consumer prces                                           ..       3.6       3.7     i500,
Implicit GDP deflator                                    ..       2.8       4.2    1000
Government finance                                                                   500
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                          ..      49.2      49.6              92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                            5.5       4.7              -     GDP deflator    a  CPI
Overall surplustdeficit                                  ..      -0.4      -11                 1-
TRADE
1986     1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                             4,546     4,206     10O,DO
Capital goods
Chemicals                                                      643.0    570.4
Manufactures                                           ..   4334.0   4145.0        6,000
Total imports (cifm..9 7,788                                              9,104      4
Food                                                    ..    767.1    831.6       200I
Fuel and energy                                         .     857.4    849.9       2
Capital goods 
9 92 93  94  95  96 97
Export price index (1995=100)                            ..       110      112
Import price index (1995=100)                            .          ..       ..               o Exports     r Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                ..        ..        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                        1986       1996     1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                            ..    8,024      8,199      8
Imports of goods and services               9,911   11,402                           6
Resource balance                                          .    -1,887    -3,202      2            l
Net income                                                        -21      -84       o  1    92  93   94   9    9    97
Net current transfers                                           1,028      852      24
Current account balance                                                                                      .. -881 -2,435
Financing items (net)                                           1,304    2,623      1-
Changes in net reserves                                          -423      -188    -14
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                   ..    2,314      2,539
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUS$)                         ..       5.4       6.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1986     1996      1997                1
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                     0      4,815    6,067
IBRD                                                   0        195      277                    G: 438 A 277 C: 232
IDA                                                    0          0        0
Total debt service                                       0        450       806                                  D: 305
IBRD                                                   0         26       29
IDA                                                    0          0        0                                       E: 1,017
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                        0          0        0
Official creditors                                     0         23       57
Private creditors                                      0       455      1,225
Foreign direct investment                             ..        509      196
Portfolio equity                                       0         27      174            F: 3,798
World Bank program
Commitments                                            0        176      125      A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                          0        105      112      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                   0         16       14      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                              0         89       98
Interest payments                                      0         11       14
Net transfers                                          0         78       84
Development Economics                                                                                                 3/24/99



