Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4460 HR
Loan Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project for Institutional and Regulatory Reform for Private 
Sector Development)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 5, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4460 HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
Whereas (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  2
(a)
“APMC” means the Agency for the Protection of Market Competition 
established pursuant to the Law on Production of Market Competition dated July 14, 
1998, as amended on May 21, 1997 and June 30, 1998;
(b)
“Beneficiary Agencies” means collectively  APMC, CBS, CROSEC, ORESE, SDA, 
SGA, URA, MOE and BRA (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“BRA” means the Bank Rehabilitation Agency established pursuant to the 
Law on the State Bank Agency for Savings Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation, 
dated June 3, 1994, as amended on June 5, 1998; 
(d)
“CBS” means the Central Bureau of Statistics established pursuant to the 
Law on Establishment and Operations of Ministries and State Administrative 
Organizations, dated October 10, 1994, as amended on October 30, 1996 and December 5, 
1997, and pursuant to the Law on State Statistics dated July 7, 1994;
(e)
“CROSEC” means the Croatian Securities and Exchange Commission 
established pursuant to the Law on Sale and Issuance of Securities dated December 27, 
1995, as amended on October 28, 1998;
(f)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories  (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy; 
(i)
“ORESE” means the Office for Restructuring and Economics of State-Owned 
Enterprises established pursuant to the Act on Office for Restructuring and Economics 
of State-Owned Enterprises dated April 10, 1993, or any legal successor or successors 
thereto;
(j)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit within the Ministry of 
Finance; 
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
“SDA” means the Securities Depository Agency established pursuant to the 
Law on Sale and Issuance of Securities dated December 27, 1995, as amended on October 
28, 1998;
(m)
“SGA” means State Geodetic Administration established pursuant to the Law 
on Establishment and Operations of Ministries and State Administrative Organizations 
dated October 10, 1994, as amended on October 30, 1996 and December 5, 1997; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(o)
“URA” means Utilities Regulatory Agency to be established  for the 
purposes of regulating infrastructure services in industries such as 
telecommunications, gas and electrical power.  
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement an amount equal to seven 
million three hundred thousand Dollars ($7,300,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
Page  3
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%)  of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the effective date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to said Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to said Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through Beneficiary Agencies 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than May 15, 2001, 
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period 
covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The PIU has been fully staffed with personnel whose qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank an evidence regarding satisfactory 
implementation of an action plan for the establishment of a financial management 
system for the purposes of the Project, acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  6
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance     
Katanèiæeva 5
10000 Zagreb
Croatia
Telex:
862-21215
862-28133
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
By /s/ Miomir Žužul 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Arntraud Hartmann
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each 
Page  7
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
  Amount of the
 Loan Allocated
     % of
   (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent) 
to be Financed
(1)
Goods 
    450,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of 
local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost),
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants’ services,
 5,430,000
100%
including auditing
(3)
Training and study
   550,000
100%
tours
(4)
Fee
    73,000
Amount due under 
Section
2.04 of this 
Agreement
 (5)
Unallocated
   797,000
  ________
TOTAL
 7,300,000
 =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “training” means expenditures incurred on the account of the 
Project and includes trainees’ fees, transportation costs, per diem allowances and 
translation. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of. 
$730,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after February 11, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 each; (b) services provided by consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) services provided by individual consultants 
under contracts costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 each, and (d) training, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account, in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
Page  8
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
Page  9
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made  
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of  $2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the  Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; 
Page  10
and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management 
Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support development of enabling business 
environment for private sector growth.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Regulatory and Institutional Framework for Public Utilities 
1.
Provision of advisory services and goods to ORESE and URA to develop detailed 
regulations, design organizational structure for URA and build its regulatory 
capacity, including development and implementation of a staff recruitment and training 
program. 
2.
 Provision of advisory services and goods to MOE for developing a comprehensive 
legislation for the energy sector and carrying out tariffs and distribution market 
studies for the gas sub-sector.
Part B:
Strengthening of the APMC 
1.
Provision of advisory services to APMC to develop an enabling legislation for 
the 1995 Competition Law.
2.
Provision of advisory services and training to support: (a) preparation of a 
development plan for the APMC, including design of recruitment and training programs; 
and (b) the design and implementation of a public relations campaign to encourage 
business compliance with the 1995 Competition Law.
Part C:
Strengthening of the CROSEC and SDA
Provision of advisory services and training to CROSEC and SDA to support their 
institutional development.
Part D:
Support for Registry Reform
Provision of advisory services to support the Borrower’s program of 
harmonization of the cadastre with the European coding system.
Part E:
Strengthening of the CBS
1.
Provision of advisory services and training to CBS to develop an institutional 
development plan for CBS and develop a training program for managers and 
statisticians. 
2.
Provision of advisory services to prepare the new system of national accounts 
and price statistics.
Part F:
Assistance to the BRA
Provision of advisory services and institutional support to the BRA.
Part G:
Support to the PIU
Provision of advisory services to assist the PIU in the establishment of a 
financial management system, Project management and accounting and auditing of Project 
accounts. 
Page  11
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
     Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 2004
through April 15, 2014
365,000
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
Page  12
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contracts for goods to be awarded under the 
provisions of Part C.1 and Part C.2 of this Section, the following procedures shall 
apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of a supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Page  13
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part G of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for carrying out an audit of the Project accounts under Part G of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for Project management and for other tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000, but less than the equivalent 
of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Page  14
Implementation Program
1.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
ensure that the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance shall have overall 
responsibility for monitoring of the Project implementation and shall coordinate the 
activities of the Beneficiary Agencies;
(b)
maintain the PIU within the Ministry of Finance with staff and other 
resources and terms of references satisfactory to the Bank and which shall be 
responsible for Project management and implementation, including: (i) coordination of 
the activities of the Beneficiary Agencies; (ii) preparation of bidding and contract 
documents and the undertaking of procurement procedures under the Project; (iii) 
maintenance of the Project records including the Special Account, and arranging for 
the audit thereof; and (iv) preparation and furnishing to the Bank of quarterly 
reports on the status of the Project implementation; and
(c)
cause the Beneficiary Agencies to carry out the following Parts of the 
Project: (i) ORESE  and URA – Part A.1; (ii) MOE – Part A.2; (iii) APMC – Part B; (iv) 
CROSEC and SDA – Part C; (v) SGA – Part D; (vi) CBS – Part E of the Project; and (vii) 
BRA – Part F of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
