Report No. 18727
Impact Evaluation Report
Building Institutions and Financing Local Development:
Lessons from Brazil and the Philippines
Municipal Development Project in the State of Parana (Loan 3100-BR)
Municipal Development Project in the State of Rio Grancle do Sul (Loan 31 29-BR
Municipal Development Project in the Philippines (Loan 2435-PH)
Seconcd Municipal Development Projec[ in the Philippines (Loan 3146-PHI
December 18, 1998
Operations Evaluation Department
u
Document of the World Bank



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit  Brazilian Reals (R$)
(As of December 1998)
US$ 1.00 = R$1.20
Currency Unit = Philippines Pesos (P)
(As of December 1998)
US$1.00 = P39.1
Abbreviations and Acronyms
Brazil:
BANRISUL            RGS State Commercial Bank
FAP                 Financial action plan
FUNDOPIMES          RGS State Urban Development Fund
FDU                 Parana State Urban Development Fund
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
MDP                 Municipal development fund
OED                 Operations Evaluation Department
PAR                 Perfornance Audit Report
ParanaCidade        Parana State Urban Development Fund (under IDB)
PEDU                MDP in the State of Parana
PIMES               MDP in the State of Rio Grande do Sul
RGS                 Rio Grande do Sul
Philippines:
BLGF                Bureau of Local Govemment Finance
CPO                 Central Project Office
DOF                 Department of Finance
DPWH                Department of Public Works and Highways
IRA                 Internal Revenue Allotment
LGA                 Local Government Academy
LGU                 Local Government Unit
LOGOFIND            Local Government Finance and Development Project
MDF                 Municipal Development Fund
MDP                 Municipal Development Project
RPTA                Real Property Tax Administration
Fiscal Year: Brazil and Philippines
Government:         January 1 - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation         : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department      : Ms. Elizabeth McAllister
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluations        : Mr. Roger Slade
Task Manager                                    : Mr. Kyu Sik Lee



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 18, 1998
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Impact Evaluation Report
Building Institutions and Financing Local Development:
Lessons from Brazil and the Philippines
Municipal Development Project in the State of Parana (Loan 3100-BR)
Municipal Development Project in the State of Rio Grande do Sul (Loan 3129-BR)
Municipal Development Project in the Philippines (Loan 2435-PH)
Second Municipal Development Project in the Philippines (Loan 3146-PH)
Sixty three of 75 countries with more than five million people are now pursuing decentralization
policies that devolve functions and responsibilities to local governments, but the process of
decentralization is severely constrained by a lack of institutional capacity among local governments,
limited resource mobilization at the local level, and limited access to long-term financing for investment
programs. Municipal development projects (MDP) aim at mitigating these constraints. Since early 1980s,
16 Bank-financed MDPs have been completed in 11 countries, and 19 more MDPs in 15 countries are
currently being implemented with total lending reaching US$2 billion.
This study assesses the impacts of MDPs on the institutional capacity building of local
governments for fiscal and financial management and for planning and implementation of investment
programs. It also assesses direct impacts on the beneficiaries as anticipated by the projects, and indirect
side-effects on the development of local economies focusing on employment and income generation. The
study evaluates the impacts of two successful MDPs each in the Philippines and Brazil. They provide a
rich base for the study to extract lessons for ongoing and future projects. Three sets of data were collected
and analyzed: municipal finance data of local governments, a sample survey of mayors on capacity
building, and a survey of stall-holders in public markets. At both the municipal and the beneficiary levels,
the study compared impacts on the participating municipalities with conditions of the non-participating
municipalities, and the initial conditions with the impacts after the project implementation.
The Brazil and Philippines MDPs were almost identical in their objectives and design but had
different implementation strategies. In Brazil, a statewide "wholesale approach" allowed as many
municipalities as possible to participate in the fiscal reform program with a technically simple project
such as street paving. In the Philippines, a more selective approach allowed a smaller number of eligible
municipalities to finance revenue-generating projects such as public markets. In both countries, the
programs had two main instruments: fiscal and financial reform and investment programs. To apply for a
sub-loan, a municipal government had to submit a financial action plan with a comprehensive reform



2
package. The preparation and implementation of investment sub-projects in turn enhanced institutional
capacity by offering experience in every phase of a project cycle from feasibility study to construction
work.
The analyses of the data produced the following results: MDP participating municipalities in
Brazil and the Philippines outperformed non-participants on municipal financial autonomy. Furthermore,
the deeper the MDP finance, the greater the MDP impact upon participants. Thus, participant
municipalities relied upon their own revenues to a greater extent thani noni-participanits and succeeded in
mobilizing more of these revenues. Property tax collection responded well to the project. Participating
municipalities also did much better in direct cost recovery througih levying and collecting bettermielt
charges. To remain creditworthy, participant municipalities were more successful thani others in balancilig
their budgets. Thus, the extensive municipal finance data point to significanit MDP impact on the
strengthening of municipal fiscal and financial management.
The results of a survey of mayors in Rio Grande do Sul highilight their awareness of the
improvements made under the MDP project. Participant municipalities valued most higilly the
institutional development interventions aimed at making resource management more efficient and
improving the management of investment sub-projects, which included better procuremenit procedures.
Professional training, information technology, and community participation were also highily valued.
Municipality awareness of these advances had an important side-effect: successful participants openly
promoted the MDP project and its principles among municipalities still not involved.
A case study of the MDP-financed public market in Pulilan in the Philippinies shows that the
project had significant impact on the development of the local economy. The project not only stimulated
employment and income generation, it also triggered the development of a new business center near the
public market, which had significant spill-over effects.
The study concludes that the MDP operations helped reform at the local level; municipalities are
aware that participation is a commitment to reform; improved fiscal performance goes hanid in halid with
management strengthening that gives mayors a more entreprenieurial view of their admilnistration; and
municipalities are more sensitive to MDP impacts the deeper MDP fulidinlg goes. Based on these
findings, the study recommends that MDP policy reforn instruments be diversified to broaden project
impacts; for successful impacts, good project design must be achieved as later course correction is
difficult; and competition among municipalities should be promoted through disseminating success
stories. The most important element for overall success with long-term sustainability, however, is in a
sound policy and fiscal decentralization framework, since participating municipalities should eventually
"graduate" from the MDP program, which is a transitory institutional mechanism, and should start
borrowing from the capital market.



Contents
Preface ...v
1. Introduction                                   .I
Rationale for the Study                        .I
MDPs in Urban Lending                                                       I
Objectives, Scope, and Approaches to the Study            .2
Objectives                            .2
Scope.2
Approaches                             .2
Methods and Data                             .3
2.     Evaluation Logic: Instruments and Expected Impacts            .5
MDP Project Objectives and Components, and Key Institutions      .5
Main Project Instruments and Expected Impacts .5
Fiscal and Financial Reform Package               .6
Institutional Capacity Building through Investment Programs  .6
Expected Development Impacts                   .6
3.     Impacts on Municipal Fiscal and Financial Management           .9
Introduction                               .9
Municipal Financial Autonomy Versus Revenue Sharing           .9
Own Revenue Generation through Property Taxes .12
Direct Cost Recovery .14
Budget Surplus/Deficit .16
Financial Deepening .18
4.    Impacts on Local Government Capacity Building .21
Introduction .21
Field Surveys .21
Direct and Indirect Cost Recovery .23
Local Financial Management .24
Sub-project Management and Implementation .25
Information Technology, Training, and Community Participation at the
Municipal Level .26
Conclusions and Recommendations .28
5.  Impacts on Local Economic Development .29
Introduction .29
The Public Market in Pulilan .29
Survey Results .30
Change in Sales and Income .30
This report was prepared by Mr. Kyu Sik Lee (Task Manager) and Mr. Roy Gilbert
(Consultant). It was edited by Mr. William B. Hurlbut. Administrative assistance was
provided by Ms. Romayne Pereira.



ii
Commuting ....................................................... 31
Quality of Infrastructure Services .......................................................  31
Indirect Impacts ....................................................... 32
Expanding Market Linkages with other Municipalities and Regions .................. 32
Employment Side-Effects .......................................................  33
Emerging Real Estate Market .......................................................  33
6.      Agenda for the Future ........................................................ 35
Changing Demand for Project Finance .......................................................  35
MDP in Parand ....................................................... 35
MDP in Rio Grande do Sul .......................................................      35
MDP in the Philippines .......................................................        35
7.      Conclusions and Lessons .......................................................       37
Conclusions .......................................................                   37
Lessons for Future Operations .......................................................  38
References   ..39
Annexes
A. Data and Methodology                  ..41
B. Additional Data Analysis of Municipalities-By Population Size Category. .                  45
C. Performance Audit of the Brazil MDPs: Lessons and Recommendations . .51
D. Performance Audit of the Philippines MDPs: Lessons and Recommendations..                     53
E. Public Market Survey Questionnaire               ............................ 55
Tables
Table 3.1: MDP Project States/Provinces: Selected Indicators       ..                          9
Table 3.2: Impacts upon Financial Autonomy    l..
Table 3.3: Impacts upon Own Revenue Mobilization            ..12
Table 3.4: Impacts upon Property Tax Collection          ..13
Table 3.5: Impacts upon Direct Cost Recovery (Brazil Only)        ..15
Table 3.6: Impacts upon Municipal Budget Surplus/Deficit         ..17
Table 3.7: Impacts upon Own Revenues by Degree of Financial Deepening (Brazil Only) .. 19
Table 4.1: MDP-sponsored Institutional Development Interventions    .         .22
Table 4.2: Impacts upon Municipal Cost Recovery           ..23
Table 4.3: Impacts upon Municipal Financial Planning and Management  .           .24
Table 4.4: Impacts upon Municipal Management of Investment Sub-projects. .                    26
Table 4.5: Impacts upon Computerization and Training          ..27
Table 5.1. Characteristics of Stall-holders (average value)     ..30
Table 5.2. Change in Sales and Income             ..31
Table 5.3. Commuting Distance and Travel Time             ..31
Table 5.4. Quality of Services at the Market (percent of respondents answering "excellent" or
"good") .32
Table 5.5. Origin of Goods to be Sold at the Market (mean percentage for each cell) ..        32
Table 5.6. Origin of Customers to the Market (mean percentage for each cell) . .33



iii
Figures
Figure  3.1: Impacts upon  Financial Autonomy  ...................                                            ..................................... 10
Figure  3.2: Impacts upon  Own  Revenue Mobilization ........................................................                                                11
Figure  3.3: Impacts upon  Property  Tax  Collection ........................................................                                               13
Figure  3.4: Impacts Upon  Direct Cost Recovery  in  Brazil ........................................................   15
Figure  3.5: Impacts upon  Municipal Surplus/Deficit ........................................................                                               17
Figure 3.6: Impacts upon Own Revenue by Degree of Financial Deepening ................................ 19
Figure  4.1: PIMES  Institutional Development Interventions ........................................................ 22
Figure  4.2: Impact upon  Municipal Cost Recovery ........................................................                                                 23
Figure 4.3: Impact upon  Municipal Planning  and  Management .................................................... 24
Figure 4.4: Impact upon Municipal Management of Investment Sub-projects .............................. 25
Figure 4.5: Impacts upon  Computerization  and  Training ........................................................                                           27






v
Preface
This Impact Evaluation Report (IER) assesses the direct and indirect impacts of the
municipal development projects (MDPs) implemented in the states of Parand and Rio Grande do
Sul, Brazil, and two MDPs in the Philippines. The purpose was to determine the impacts of Bank
lending on the fiscal and financial performance and management capacity of municipal
governments and on the development of local economies.
Basic Loan Data (actual)
Loan Number       Project Name       US$ Million        Board Approval    Completion
3100              MDP in the State of   100.0          06/22/89           12/31/95
Paran6
3129              MDP in the State of   80.0           10/24/89           12/31/95
Rio Grande do Sul
2435              MDP in the         35.9              06/05/84           06/30/93
Philippines
3146              Second MDP in the   37.7             12/14/89           12/31/96
Philippines
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) conducted a performance audit of the two
Brazil MDPs in December 1997. The preparatory work for this study was carried out during the
audit mission. The OED study mission visited the Philippines in April 1998 to conduct a survey
of selected public markets.
The kind assistance and cooperation of government officials at all levels is gratefully
acknowledged. The staff of the Central Project Office and the Bureau of Local Government
Finance in the Philippines and staff in the state governments of Parani and Rio Grande do Sul
provided invaluable contributions to the study. The survey of public markets in the Philippines
was conducted by the Cirrus Research and Software in Manila.
Copies of the draft IER were sent to the borrowers for comments. Their comments were
incorporated in the final revision.



1
1.    Introduction
1.1    Sixty three of 75 countries with more than five million people are now pursuing
decentralization policies that devolve functions and responsibilities to sub-national governments
(Davoodi and Zou, 1998). Such decentralization is severely constrained, however, by (i) a lack of
institutional capacity among sub-national governments, especially a lack of technical personnel to
prepare and implement projects; (ii) limited resource mobilization at the local level, and (iii)
limited access to long-term financing for investment programs. Municipal development projects
(MDPs) are intended to mitigate these constraints. This study evaluates the extent to which MDPs
have achieved these objectives based on recently examined cases in Brazil and the Philippines.
Rationale for the Study
1.2    Since the early 1 980s, 16 Bank-financed MDPs have been completed in I I countries,
including Brazil, the Philippines, Jordan, and Cote d'lvoire. Nineteen more MDPs in 15
countries, including Georgia, Tunisia, and the West Bank and Gaza, are currently being
implemented with total lending reaching US$2 billion' The MDP lending instrument has become
popular in the Bank's urban sector because its project concept is consistent with the current Bank
emphasis on demand-driven, bottom-up approaches with strong ownership and local
participation.
1.3    OED commissioned this impact evaluation study to ',-.lp disseminate the lessons of
successful MDPs. The study grew out of recently completed performance audits of the first two
MDPs in the Philippines (OED, 1997) and the second MDP in Parani and the first MDP in Rio
Grande do Sul in Brazil (OED, 1998). The Performance Audit Reports (PARs) covered
implementation experiences and remaining issues. The agenda for the future that was identified
regarding future policy and operational direction is summarized in Chapter 6, and the lessons
drawn and recommendations provided in the PARs appear as Annexes C and D.
1.4    The PARs found that the Brazil and Philippines projects had significant impacts on
improving the living conditions and the productivity of the residents in the participating
municipalities. Moreover, their unintended indirect impacts on the local economy have been
significant. The performance audit of MDP I and II in the Philippines showed that small,
resource-poor municipalities could successfully complete a small revenue-generating sub-project
such as a public market, and later, after they became more creditworthy and technically capable,
could come back to the program to finance more complex infrastructure sub-projects. This
experience shows the importance of sequencing project components according to the speed of
institutional leaming of the borrowers. As the Brazil PAR (OED, 1998, para. 5.2) points out, the
participating municipalities should eventually "graduate" from the MDP program, which is a
transitory institutional mechanism, and start borrowing from the capital market.
MDPs in Urban Lending
1.5    The legacy of the World Bank's urban lending operations during the past two decades
can be characterized as a sequence of paradigm shifts from (a) sites and services and slum
upgrading projects for low-income areas, to (b) citywide infrastructure projects for selected cities,
to (c) MDPs to reach numerous municipalities by encouraging competition among them. In the
1. This study deals with only those MDPs that had a municipal (or urban) development fund as part of the project
design.



2
1980s, the MDPs shifted the urban project design from a complex supply-driven (top-down)
approach to a demand-driven (bottom-up) approach that provided a large number of
municipalities with access to credit they could use to finance their own investment projects.
1.6   The Parand Market Towns Development Project in Brazil (Loan 2343, approved in
1983), and the First Municipal Development Project in the Philippines (Loan 2435, approved in
1984) were the first group of MDPs approved in early 1980s. In both Brazil and the Philippines.
the MDP programs have been successful during the past two decades. In Brazil, the Bank
subsequently undertook an MDP for the state of Santa Catarina (Loan 2623, approved in 1985),
and continued its operations in Parana with a second MDP in that state (Loan 3100, approved in
1989) and an MDP in the state of Rio Grande do Sul (Loan 3129, approved in 1989). Three more
states, Minas Gerais (Loan 3639), Ceara (Loan 3789), and Bahia (Loan 4140), are now
implementing MDPs with loan amounts ranging from US$100 to US$150 million. More than
2,100 municipalities come under the purview of these five MDPs in Brazil.
1.7   In the Philippines, a second MDP (Loan 3146) was approved in 1989 and was followed
by a third MDP (Loan 3455, approved in 1992) to meet the strong demand for financing among
the municipalities in that country. A fourth project, called Local Government Finance and
Development Project (LOGOFIND) is now in preparation in the Philippines with a proposed loan
amount of US$100 million.
Objectives, Scope, and Approaches to the Study
Objectives
1.8    This study has two objectives: (i) to assess impacts of MDPs on the institutional capacity
building of local governments for fiscal and financial management and for planning and
implementation of investment programs; and (ii) to assess both "direct" impacts on the
beneficiaries as anticipated by the projects, and "indirect" (longer-term) impacts on the
development of local economies focusing on employment and income generation in the
participating municipalities.
Scope
1.9   The study evaluates the impacts of two MDPs each in the Philippines and Brazil: the first
and second MDPs in the Philippines (Loans 2435 and 3146) and the MDPs in the states of Parana
and Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil (Loans 3100 and 3129). These four successful projects provide a
rich base for the study and a rare opportunity to extract lessons about the institutional learning
process over an extended period.
Approaches
1.10   This study assesses impacts at two levels: the municipal level and the beneficiary (firm
and household) level. At the municipal level, it analyzes municipal finance data collected in
Brazil and the Philippines and a sample survey of mayors in Rio Grande do Sul. It documents
impacts on financial autonomy; local revenue generation; cost recovery; creditworthiness;
planning, budgeting, and accounting practices; project preparation and implementation; and
technical skills of staff. The historical data allow comparison of the conditions "before the
project" with those "after the project." The cross-section data for both participating and non-



3
participating municipalities allow comparison of fiscal and financial performance "with versus
without" the projects.
1.11   At the beneficiary level, the study analyzes survey data from two case study
municipalities in the Philippines to assess the impacts of an MDP-financed public market on
employment creation and income generation, and to evaluate the indirect impacts on local
economic development. Most participating municipalities in the Philippines financed public
markets (OED, 1997). The data allow comparison of the conditions "before the project" with the
impacts "after the project," and comparison of the impacts "with the projects" with the conditions
"without the project." The impacts documented include: job creation; income generation;
increases in land and real property values; changes in the quality of life from basic services such
as street paving, water supply, and garbage collection; time savings from efficient commuting and
access to services; and better access to infrastructure services.
Methods and Data
1.12   The study uses six evaluation instruments: (i) review and analysis of project
implementation data in the municipalities and implementation agencies; (ii) interviews with
government officials and nongovernmental organizations; (iii) interviews with beneficiaries and
site visits; (iv) municipal finance data collected for all municipalities in the two states in Brazil
and two provinces in the Philippines; (v) a survey of mayors of 26 municipalities in Rio Grande
do Sul regarding the project's impact on local capacity building; and (vi) sample surveys of stall-
holders and shop owners in two municipalities in the Philippines constituting an experiment
group and a control group. More details on data collection are in Annex A.
1.13   At both the municipal and the beneficiary levels, the study was designed to contrast and
compare project impacts on the participating municipalities (experiment group) with the non-
participating municipalities (control group)-a with versus without project evaluation approach.
In addition, the data document the initial conditions and the outcomes and impacts after project
implementation-a before versus after project approach.






5
2.   Evaluation Logic: Instruments and Expected Impacts
MDP Project Objectives and Components, and Key Institutions
2.1   In Brazil, the second MDP in Parana and the first MDP in Rio Grade do Sul were
prepared concurrently by the same project team and using identical project objectives and design.
The projects had four objectives: (i) to increase the institutional capacity of municipalities and
state urban development agencies to plan, finance, and execute investment programs; (ii) to
improve the fiscal and financial management capacity of municipalities; (iii) to provide basic
economic and social infrastructure in urban areas; and (iv) to improve targeting of urban
programs to lower-income populations. These objectives were to be achieved through three
components: (a) creation of an Urban Development Fund providing a long-term line of credit to
municipalities; (b) establishment of strict municipal creditworthiness and management
improvement standards as conditions for allowing local governments to participate in the fund;
and (c) on-lending to municipalities to finance infrastructure investments such as street
improvements and community facilities such as health posts and day care centers.
2.2   In Parana, the state government's Secretariat of Urban Development had overall project
responsibility for Parana MDP II (known locally as the PEDU project, the name used in the rest
of the report). The Parana Municipal Assistance Foundation handled day-to-day project
management. In Rio Grande do Sul, the MDP (known locally as the PIMES project, the name
used in the rest of the report) was executed by the RGS State Development Bank, which later
merged with the State Commercial Bank.
2.3   In the Philippines, the second Municipal Development Project (MDP II) was an extension
of the first (MDP I) for different regions with identical project objectives and design. The project
had four objectives: (i) to establish an institutional mechanism, the Municipal Development Fund
(MDF), to provide local governments with direct access to long-term development finance; (ii) to
establish a national-level technical intermediary, the central project office; (iii) to strengthen local
technical and financial capacity for project implementation and service management through a
training program; and (iv) to improve local fiscal performance through the Real Property Tax
Administration (RPTA) program. The project had five components: (a) improving basic
infrastructure services such as water supply, sanitation, roads, drainage, public markets; (b)
upgrading various maintenance activities; (c) upgrading real property tax records for improving
tax collections; (d) training local government staff; and (e) technical assistance for project
implementation and local budgeting and fiscal administration.
2.4   In the Philippines, the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) was the lead
agency for the projects. The central project office carried out project implementation under the
DPWH. The Department of Finance managed the MDF, and the department's Bureau of Local
Government Finance administered the RPTA programs. The Local Government Academy
implemented the Municipal Training Program under the Department of the Interior and Local
Government.
Main Project Instruments and Expected Impacts
2.5    The MDPs in Brazil and the Philippines were almost identical in their objectives and
design, with some variations in implementation strategy. In Brazil, the project implementation
took a statewide "wholesale approach" to cover as many municipalities as possible in the
financial reform program with a technically simple investment project such as street paving. Such



6
a simple investment project served as an "entry ticket" to participate in the reform program. In the
Philippines, the project implementation took a more selective approach, focusing on a smaller
number of municipalities that are eligible to participate in the program, and allowing revenue-
generating investment projects such as public markets. But in both cases, the programs had two
main instruments: fiscal and financial reform and investment programs.
Fiscal and Financial Reform Package
2.6   In both Brazilian states, OED's performance audits confirmed that the project improved
the fiscal and financial management capacity of participating municipalities. The project design
required strict municipal creditworthiness and management improvement standards as conditions
for allowing local governments to participate in the program. To apply for a sub-loan, a municipal
government had to submit a financial action plan (FAP) analyzing the municipality's debt-
servicing capacity (with revenue and expenditure projections) and demonstrating the sub-
project's eligibility for financing based on required technical standards. The FAP also presents a
plan for institutional development, including training and technical assistance needs (OED, 1998).
The FAP has been the key instrument for financial and fiscal reforms. Also, the requirement for
sequencing of institutional reform before allowing physical investments was an effective way of
minimizing possible implementation delays and cost recovery problems.
2.7   In the Philippines too, OED's performance audits confirmed that the participating
municipalities improved their fiscal and financial performance significantly (OED, 1997). The
projects in the Philippines also required an explicit financial reform package similar to the FAP in
Brazil. In the Philippines, however, the RPTA program was implemented by a unit in the
Department of Finance.
Institutional Capacity Building thiroughi Investment Programs
2.8   In both Brazil and the Philippines, the preparation and implementation of investment sub-
projects financed by MDP served as a second major instrument for enhancing the institutional
capacity of local governments. In both countries, OED's performance audits confirmed that the
projects achieved their objective of increasing the institutional capacity of municipalities and the
government's urban development agencies to plan, finance, and execute investment programs.
T he projects gave officials of participating municipalities opportunities to learn all phases of
project preparation and implementation, from identification to appraisal to completion. In
addition to improving their fiscal and financial management through the reform package (FAP),
the participating municipalities had learned by experience in every phase of a project cycle,
including the feasibility study for a sub-project; economic and financial analysis for cost
recovery; and technical analysis for engineering design, procurement, and construction work.
Furthermore, by using computers funded under the project, many municipalities were able to
streamline payroll, cadastre, accounting, and budget operations and improve overall
administrative efficiency.
Expected Development Inspacts
2.9    The study documents empirically the impacts of MDPs on the following areas:
*   Fiscal and financial performance of local governments, focusing on fiscal autonomy,
local revenue generation, cost recovery, and budget balance as presented in Chapter
3.



7
*   Local governments' institutional capacity for investment planning, budgeting, and
accounting, and project preparation and implementation as presented in Chapter 4.
*   Local economic development focusing on income and employment generation and
the quality of urban services as presented in Chapter 5.






9
3.  Impacts on Municipal Fiscal and Financial Management
MDP participant municipalities in Brazil and the Plhilippines outperformned non-
participants on municipalfinancial autonony, direct and indirect cost recover',,
and balancing the budget. Furthermnore, the deeper the MDP finance, the greater
the MDP imnpact upon participants. Thus, participant municipalities r elied uponI
their own revenues to a greater extent than non-participants and have succeedled
in mnobilizing more of these revenzues. Property tax collection-a focus of MDP
conditionalities antd technical assistance-responded well to the project.
Participant municipalities also did much better in direct cost recovemy througl
levying and collecting betterment charges. To help them7t remain creditworthl.
participant mnlfnicipalities were more successfid thaan others in balaincing their
budgets. Tlhus, extensive mtunticipalfi nance data point to significanlt MDP
impact on the strengtlhening of muniicipalfiscal andfinancial managemenft.
Introduction
3. 1    This chapter reports the impacts upon municipal finances of financial reform programs
introduced by MDP in Brazil and the Philippines. Table 3.1 summarizes key characteristics of the
four project areas studied and their composite municipalities.
3.2     Altogether, the projects covered 850 municipalities. Then, as now, municipalities in
Brazil were much smaller, more varied in population size, and much more numerous than their
Philippine counterparts. Both states in Brazil are as urbanized as the country itself. The
Philippines provinces-as part of metropolitan Manila-are more urbanized than the country as a
whole. While the Brazilian states enjoy levels of GDP per capita similar to the national average,
the levels in the Philippine provinces are above their respective national average. The Philippines'
lower levels of income, nevertheless, have implications for municipal finances, as this chapter
will show.
Table 3.1: MDP Project States/Provinces: Selected Indicators
Indicator                                     Brazil                         Philippines
Parana  Rio Grande  National    Bulacan   Laguna   National
do Sul
Total population 1996 (millions)      9.0         9.6    157.1          1.8        1.5      71.9
Urban population as share of total (%)  77.9     78.6      78.4        69.7      75.4       54.9
GDP per capita PPP 1991 (US$)       5,138       5,168     5,142           -         -      3,550
All municipalities 1996 (number):
total                            371          426     4,974          24        29     1,610a
pop. >250,000                      4            4         -0                    0          -
pop. 50,000-250,000               25           36         -          19         7         -
pop. 10,000-50,000               162          125         -           5        22          -
pop. 2,000-10,000                177          248         -           0         0          -
pop. c2,000                        3           13         -           0         0          -
MDP project municipalitiesb (number)  364         152         -          17         4          -
Average pop. per municipality (number)  24,269  22,597    31,584     67,549    52,138    44,658
Sources. MDP IES database: Brazil census 1996: World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM; Philippines MDP study team.
a. Aggregate of cities' (82) plus 'municipalities (11528).
b. MDP project municipalities are defined as those that participated fully in both MDP investment and technical assistance component programs.



10
Municipal Financial Autonomy Versus Revenue Sharing
3.3    This section and those that follow focus on two perspectives of impact evaluation. First.
the performnance of participant municipalities is compared with that of non-participant
municipalities. Second, performnance is reviewed before and after the projects. For the latter, 1990
is the "before-project" benchmark, and 1996 is the "after-project" year.
3.4    To evaluate MDP project impacts upon financial autonomy, the study team examined the
performance of collections of current revenues whose sources are under the control of municipali-
ties themselves. They are called "own revenues" in this text. Municipal own revenues come firom
levying and collecting local taxes, charges and making sales that municipalities themselves can
control independently of higher levels of government. This evaluation compares a municipality's
own revenues with its total current revenues. The latter total is made up of the own revenues just
mentioned plus current transfers that municipalities receive from higher levels of government as
revenue sharing. As total current revenues can have only these two elements, conclusions about
increased own revenues automatically imply declining current transfers and vice versa.
3.5    Using municipal own revenues' share of total current revenues as an indicator of
municipal financial autonomy, there is evidence that MDP municipalities in both countries
performed better than their non-participant counterparts (Figure 3.1 and Table 3.2). In Brazil,
participants' own revenue shares rose, while non-participants saw their shares declined. In the
Philippines, all municipalities' shares declined as a direct result of govemment policy-the 1991
Local Government Code-that increased revenue sharing from 20 to 40 percent. Nevertheless,
participant municipalities in the Philippines saw their shares erode less over the life of the
Figure 3.1: Impacts upon Financial Autonomy
11.6                 l_
(0 0,         .  . - -                   , cl Participants
6 s  6                                        (Parana)
¢ .0     .   ? r    1.9                  * Participants
1                   ta :';0: a " ^ (RGS)
3  Non-participants
(RGS)
-4
-5.4      I
-9...............
Brazil
_0
< - X -:°                                ,,10  n  Participants
2,       -11.5                 ~~~~~~~~~(Bulacan)
0)20
- 30                                I   (Laguna)
Non-participants
(Laguna)
~ 40                      -36.9
0
-50  _
Philippines
Source: MDP IES database.



11
Table 3.2: Impacts upon Financial Autonomy
Own revenues' share of all current municipal revenues (percent)
B3razil                                            Philippines
1990         1996                                     1990           1996
Participants (Parana)       12.9          14.4      Participants (Bulacan)         56.0           44.7
Participants (RGS)          16.2          16.5      Participants (Laguna)          68.9           61.0
Non-participants (RGS)      14.7         13.9       Non-participants (Laguna)      42.8           27.0   .
Source: MDP IES database.
Notes: For details of participant and non-participant municipalities, see Annex Table AI.
Own (current) revenues = municipalities own taxes, charges and sales.
All current revenues = own revenues plus current transfers from higher levels of govemrnment. RGS = Rio Grande do Sul
projects. Of course, the MDP projects were designed and implemented to encourage and assist
municipalities to mobilize more financial resources of their own. As a corollary, participant
municipalities became less dependent upon fiscal transfers after the projects, unlike non-
participants.
3.6      Another indicator, municipal own revenues per capita, offers additional evidence of
greater municipal financial autonomy achieved through MDP projects (Figure 3.2 and Table 3.3).
These data show the following:
IJ  In both Bra-il and the Plhilippinies, MDP participants succeeded in increasing
mnunicipal owtn revenues per capita more rapidly thaii non-participants didl. Project
impact was greater in the Philippines where these revenues grew faster than in
Figure 3.2: Impacts upon Own Revenue Mobilization
90        .. 
80          71.3    69.4
70
60                                             E Participants
'°o60                      Q. |(Parana)
4 i0                i      g      0.            D  abrticipants
120                           303              (RGS)
I e  Non-participants
al    20                                             (RGS)
0
Brazil
95.8    1 01.2
100
.S C-L                 77.8           M ~~~~~~~Participants
(Bulacan)
0. c  60                                         *Participants
(Laguna)
40                                          INon-participants
20
0
Philippines
Souirce: MDP JES database.



12
Table 3.3: Impacts upon Own Revenue Mobilization
Own revenues per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Brazil                                      Philippines
1990       1996                               1990        1996
Participants (Parana)   24.81      42.50    Participants (Bulacan)     4.51        8.83
Participants (RGS)      38.25      64.78    Participants (Laguna)      6.80        13.68
Non-participants (RGS)  36.96      48.15    Non-participants (Laguna)  3.24        5.76
Source: MDP IES database.
Note: See Table 3.2. Local currency values converted to US dollars using year average exchange rates.
Brazil. Nevertheless, the level of own revenues per capita in the Philippines-with
its lower level of income-is still below Brazil's.
>   Before the MDP projects in 1990, anid in both countries, participant anid nton-
participant mnunicipalities had simnilar levels of own revenue per capita. By project
completioni in 1996, participant municipalities had highier levels thaii Ion-
participants (Table 3.3). Besides confirming MDP project impacts, this points to a
fairly even playing field for municipalities at the outset, a feature particularly
striking in Rio Grande do Sul. It precludes the notion of self-selection that might
have induced only better-performing municipalities to participate in the MDP
projects. The results for Laguna may not be reliable, though, since the province had
only four participants.
3.7     The data point to significant MDP project impacts encouraging and helping greater fiscal
autonomy of participant municipalities. Evidence of this includes rising shares of municipal
income coming from municipal own revenues and from municipal efforts to raise more of their
own revenues from citizens. MDP projects provided important incentives for municipalities to
move in this direction. Mayors understood that more municipal revenue meant greater access to
MDP (and other) credit and greater ease in paying off loans. MDP project design included
requirements that mayors make efforts in this direction in order to qualify for loans. MDP project
technical assistance to encourage tax collection helped municipalities develop and strengthen
instruments to raise more revenues (discussed further in Chapter 4).
Own Revenue Generation through Property Taxes
3.8     One of the main sources of municipal own revenue generation in both countries is from
tax levied on residential, commercial, and industrial properties in urban areas. For the
municipalities in Brazil, such property tax collections typically accounted for 15 to 25 percent of
all municipal own revenues. In the Philippines, the equivalent range was 26 to 33 percent. MDP
project design in both countries focused specifically and explicitly upon improving property tax
collections and provided technical support for local administrations to improve property tax
administration.
3.9     We therefore looked at the performance of property tax collection as an indicator of
municipal effort to enhance fiscal autonomy and improve creditworthiness2 Through this
2. Evidence of improved property tax collection resulting from MDP improvements to property cadastres in Brazil was
also examined, but little was found to support this link. Little cadastral improvement went beyond modemizing the
register in city hall; much of it failed to lead to effective broadening or deepening of collections. More comprehensive
packages of technical assistance-notably those including efforts to improve collections-were found to be more
effective.



13
indicator per capita collection in both Brazil and the Philippines was found to respond positively
to MDP project interventions. While property tax per capita increased for all municipalities in
both countries during the 1990-96 period, it increased more rapidly in MDP participant
municipalities-except for Parana-than in non-participants (Figure 3.3 and Table 3.4).
Figure 3.3: Impacts upon Property Tax Collection
700 
600                547.1
u 57 400                 t                    " Participants
400                             ~~~~~~~~~~(Paran6)
X  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~*Plarticipants
.5 300           259.4                          (RGS)
.!Z 4) 200       t                               Non-participants
= 100         =        *                  E   (RGS)
Brazil
100                 86.8
.0. 80                                         El Participants
0-'I                             o(Bulacan)
*-'7 CO  60      48.1      _                 |  Participants
j:t _ | ~~~~~~~~~(Laguna)-
Philippines
Source: MOP IES database.
Table 3.4: Impacts upon Property Tax Collection
Property tax per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
(a)~~~4   190199                                               99919
Source: MOP IES oatabase.
Notes: See Tables 3.2 and 3.3
3.10 A review of property tax per capita as an impact indicator highlights the following:
Participant municipalities in both countries-except those in Pararna-improved
property tax collections during 1990-96 more than non-participants did (Figure
3. 3). The performance of participants in RGS, where property tax per capita
increased more than fivefold over the life of the MDP, is outstanding. These results



14
reflect work done through MDP financial action plans (FAPs) in Brazil that
consistently emphasized improvements in property tax as a key to municipal
eligibility to participate in the project. Similarly in the Philippines, the favorable
results reflect the successful Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA) Program,
supported by MDP.
> The weaker performance of Parana compared to RGS has three causes: (i) less
rigorous control in Parand than in RGS of project conditionalities that required
improved tax performance through MDP Financial Action Plans (FAPs); (ii)
participants in Parana were second-time MDP participants and, in their eyes, FAP
property tax conditions that the previous MDP did not require may have lacked
credibility; and (iii) MDP project leverage in Parana was weaker; the 100 percent
coverage of municipalities precluded the possibility of excluding municipalities
lacking compliance with FAP conditions.
3.11   Study findings thus point to significant MDP impacts upon property tax performance at
the municipal level. This result was expected as it goes to the heart of the original designs of the
MDP projects. In both countries, the MDP projects focused upon property tax as the principal
instrument for raising local revenue and increasing the financial autonomy of municipalities. A
challenge for the future will be to replicate this impact with other key items of revenue, such as
the municipal service tax (ISS) in Brazil.
Direct Cost Recovery
3.12   In addition to indirect cost recovery through stimulating and assisting the collection of
local taxes, MDP projects also urged municipalities to pursue direct cost recovery from program
investments themselves. In Brazil, this was through levying betterment charges upon families
directly benefiting from the investments made. In the Philippines, MDP operations aimed at
direct cost recovery through allowing municipalities to borrow and invest in revenue-generating
services, such as local public markets. This section of the report discusses the Brazilian case. To
evaluate MDP project impacts in Brazil, the study team examined the performance of betterment
charges levied and collected per capita at the municipal level.
3.13   The cost recovery performance of participant municipalities in RGS was much better than
municipalities that did not participate in the MDP project. For Parand participant municipalities
on the other hand, direct cost recovery performance weakened (Figure 3.4 and Table 3.5).



15
Figure 3.4: Impacts Upon Direct Cost Recovery in Brazil
160        _____
126.3            l
gD110 
110                                      P !barticipants
60                                     (Parana)
C                     '  10I  Participants
0  41 0;n (RGS)
8    -40                                       Non-participants
-52                 ~~~~~(RGS)
-90~~-5
-9 0  ... . ... ......... . .......   ............... .......... . ......... ............... ........................ .......1
Brazil
Source: MDP IES database.
Table 3.5: lmpacts upon Direct Cost Recovery
(Brazil Only)
Betterment charge per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
1990          1996
Participants (Parana)          1.27          0.61
Participants (RGS)             1.37           3.10
Non-participants (RGS)         1.25           1.56
Source: MDP IES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2 and 3.3
3.14    Highlights from the evidence are as follows:
In levying anid collecting betterment charges fromn benieficiaries, MDP participants
in RGS significantly outperfbrmzed noni-participants (Figure 3.4). On a per capita
basis, betterment charges were at a similar level for both participants and non-
participants in 1990, before the MDP project. By 1996, RGS participants were
collecting twice the amount of betterment charge as non-participants. This outcome
was helped by the enforcement of FAP conditions requiring municipalities to levy
betterment charges where possible upon sub-projects financed through MDP.
MDP participants in Parana, on the other hand, had a weaker perfornance. After
the MDP project, betterment charges per capita there were only half the level
observed before the project. The three causes highlighted earlier for the weaker
performance of Parand municipalities also apply here (para. 3.10). Being the second
operation in Parana, MDP II could not have the same demonstration effect upon
municipalities as a first-time MDP project in RGS did, especially when the first
MDP project in Parana did not have the same cost recovery conditionalities.' Among
the specific results: 28 participant municipalities in Parana, who used to collect
betterment charges in 1990, stopped collecting them altogether by 19964
3. Through the initial shock of contact with an MDP project, local mayors in RGS were more ready to embrace
betterment charges which for many of them constituted a new financial instrument, but one which made access to MDP
project finance easier.
4. By contrast, all MDP participants in RGS that collected betterment charges in 1990 still collected them in 1996 and
were joined by 14 more municipalities by the latter year. Thus, by project completion in 1996, 83.3 percent of RGS
participants collected betterment charges. The equivalent share for Parana was 41.8 percent.



16
3.15   This evidence points to the achievement of significant MDP impacts upon increased
direct cost recovery through betterment charges. A necessary condition for such achievements is
for access to MDP funding to be explicitly conditioned upon a municipality's progress toward
adopting and implementing direct cost recovery. The fulfillment of this condition also needs to be
closely monitored by the MDP project team during implementation. The different performances
of participant municipalities in Parana and RGS point to the need to have these conditions
correctly in place at the time of a municipality's first contact with an MDP project.
3.16   In leveraging improvements to direct cost recovery through MDP operations, project
designers need to consider the political aspects of betterment charges in particular. Local mayors
often complain that these charges are unpopular and difficult to administer fairly. Local councils
must also formnally approve them case by case, a process that can involve lengthy political
negotiations with opposition councilors.
3.17   Even when success is obtained, there is an important caveat. When levied effectively,
betterment charges still only account for a very small proportion of own revenues, not more than
5 percent on average. They can nevertheless be significant for recovering the investment costs of
a particular project, up to 70 to 80 percent of the initial outlay, the remaining costs covered
indirectly through property taxes.
Budget Surpluis/Deficit
3.18   Given that municipalities had to remain creditworthy for continued access to MDP
project funding, a key study hypothesis was that participant municipalities would be more
creditworthy than non-participants. The study team therefore looked for underlying evidence of
changing debt capacity of municipalities, since this would affect their access to credit not only
from MDP itself, but also from other sources. Nevertheless, it was not possible to construct a
precise indicator of creditworthiness-such as a municipality's net savings or primary surplus-
since separate data on periodic debt service payments were not available for all municipalities in
the study population. For this reason, the study used a simpler proxy indicator, looking at
municipal budget surplus/deficit data over time to capture the general direction of changes in the
budget situation. This was defined as total municipal current revenues minus total municipal
current expenditures that included debt service payments. Although not a complete and accurate
indicator of creditworthiness-especially for municipalities with a previous history of
borrowing-this budget surplus/deficit indicator nevertheless points to some evidence of
municipalities trying to balance their books as a result of MDP projects.
3.19   The indicator shows clearly, for instance, that MDP participant performance concerning
attempts to balance the municipal budget was better than that of non-participants (Figure 3.5 and
Table 3.6).



17
Figure 3.5: Impacts upon Municipal Surplus/Deficit
0
acn    -2
4a3 Pcrticipants
Bral(Paran)
e 2 =              C       L -6* Participants
(RGS)
E6 Non-participants
(RGS)
.6~~~~~-.
0.  ~~~~~~~~ ~10.5
-12    _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _
Brazil
12                           ........
G)            7.3
e    the    Plarticipants
not~ ~   ~~ sufrsuhsrouuebaklsno-atciat; ceteaddPraapricpns
C
hut t lsd e               0.8                 pariciant
oe   Fhet-96  p     whn-pticipantss
0 5U)  -3    -0.8                  ~~~~~~(Laguna)
0.
budge surpus thy reprtedat th  star of teMD  projct Bulnanparticipants
-126
Buge supu()o-7.3(Ja  hreo oa eene  pret
Philippines
Source: MDP IES database.
3.20    The highlights of study findings conceneing municipal budget surpluses and deficits are:
Despite deterioration of the financial balanee of'all municipalities in Braczil, therc is
evidence that the MDP projects helped slow the decline. Thus, RGS participants did
not suffer such serious setbacks as non-participants; neither did Parand participants,
but to a lesser degree. Thus, MDP projects helped participant municipalities relieve
the negative trend toward increased deficits.
In the Phiilippinies, the contrastinig trends of participant anid noni-participanit
miuniicipalities are, clearer still. Participants there moved out of deficit into surplus
over the 1990-96 period, while non-participants reported a sharp fall in the average
budget surplus they reported at the start of the MDP project. Bulacan participants
actually moved out of deficit and into surplus between 1990 and 1996. On the other
Table 3.6: Impacts upon Municipal Budget Surplus/Deficit
Budget surplus(+) or dertcit(-) as share of total revenues (percent)
Source: MOP tES database.
Notes: Budget surplus/deficit = totat current revenues minus totat current expenditures (inctuding debt service payments).



18
hand, the large surplus of Laguna non-participants was almost completely wiped out
by 1996. These results reflect efforts by participant municipalities to remain
creditworthy in order to gain access to further MDP and other funding.
3.21   We therefore find that participating in MDP projects can help a municipality reduce its
deficit, if not develop a fiscal surplus. MDP projects provided an important incentive in this
direction.
Financial Deepening
3.22   For municipalities in Brazil the study examined how different levels of MDP capital
investment in relation to total municipal investment at the initial phase of project implementation
affected financial performance of participating municipalities. A lack of data on total investment
prevented a similar analysis for the Philippines' municipalities. Applying a simple concept of
project leverage to the case of Brazil, it was hypothesized that the degree of MDP project impact
would rise with the share of MDP funding in a municipality's total investment program. Thus, a
municipality more dependent upon MDP funding would be expected to be more responsive and
subject to the requirements of the MDP reform program and show stronger impacts, and vice
versa.
3.23   To measure the degree of municipal participation in MDP, a "financial depth" indicator
was constructed. This indicator measured MDP investment funding at the municipal level as a
share of a municipality's total 1990-92 investment (funded from all sources, including MDP and
own revenues). From empirical estimates of this indicator, participant municipalities were
grouped into three categories of financial depth: deep, greater than 50 percent; medium, 25 to 50
percent; and shallow, less than 25 percent.
3.24   In search of possible MDP project impacts, the study team examined the own revenue
performance of municipalities-all participants, of course-by the degree of "financial depth."
With one important caveat, discussed below, participants with greater MDP financial depth
performed better than participants with more shallow participation in the MDP projects (Figure
3.6 and Table 3.7).



19
Figure 3.6: Impacts upon Own Revenue by Degree of
Financial Deepening
120          109.5
.s a 100
* -  80
0 0.                         63      60.5            [3 Deep
00
o    60                                             0 Ndium
c cI 
= >  40                                              0 Shallow
$ 20
0
Brazil: Parani
160
138.6
140
.S 'S. 120
,. 100
0 C
',   80            63.9                          |       0Deep
c     60                                             *Mdium
E  4 0                             XShallow
12.5
20 
0
Brazil: Rio Grande do Sul
Source: MDP IES database.
Table 3.7: Impacts upon Own Revenues by Degree of Financial Deepening
(Brazil Only)
Own revenues per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Paranh                               Rio Grande do Sul
1990       1996                         1990         /996
Deep                 20.44      42.82    Deep                32.04        52.51
Medium               26.61      43.38    Medium              42.70        48.03
Shallow              26.28      42.18    Shallow             36.36        86.75
Source. MDP IES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2 and 3.3.
Financial depth is defined as the share of total 1990-92 municipal investment accounted for by MDP project funding. Three groups as
follows: deep = > 50%: medium = 25-50%; shallow = v25%.
3.25    The highlights of the study findings are:
As measured by the increase in the average level of municipal own revenues per
capita, "deep "participant mtunicipalities in both Parana and Rio Grande do Sul
pei-formed better than "medium " ones. This is because deep participant
municipalities are more subject to the policy influence of MDP projects and are
more likely to play according to the rules than medium or shallow participant
municipalities. This outcome is a product of the leverage an MDP project can
exercise over a municipality that is more dependent upon the project as its main
source of funding.



20
>   The contradictory outcomefor "shallow" participant mnunicipalities in RGS ut'/hich
appear to have outperformed all others, results fromn a skewed distribubtioni in which
afew small municipalities reported very high levels of owi revenu(-es per capita in
1996, which significantly raised the mnean observation for that yvear. Own revenues
per capita is, nevertheless, a particularly important impact indicator to use in this
analysis given its demonstrated robustness in the earlier "with/without-project"
evaluation.
3.26    Evidence gathered by the study team therefore points to greater project impacts where
participant municipalities are more closely engaged in the respective MDP projects. This finding
coincides with a widely perceived notion-across many lending sectors within the Bank-that
greater project leverage can lead to more significant impacts upon project outcomes. The result
observed is consistent with the hypothesis that the more closely involved with and dependent
upon an MDP project a municipality is, the more likely that municipality will respond to and
adopt MDP precepts. It should worth noting that the federal government of Brazil provided n1o
subsidies to the participating municipalities. In the Philippines, the property tax improvement
component (RPTA) was part of the national government assistance program implemented by the
Department of Finance independent of the MDP sub-loans.



21
4.  Impacts on Local Government Capacity Building
Direct observation of selected mnunicipalities highliglhts their awareness of the
i,nprovements made under the MDP project. Nearly haIf of PIMES s inlstitutional
development interventions were to strenigthen local tax admninistration7. Amnonig
the different kinds of intervention, participant inunicipalities valued Imiost highl/v
those aimed at making resource inanagement mnore elficient and improvinlg tlle
management of investment sub-projec ts, wlich incltu(led better procu-remnenit
procedures. Professional training was higlhly valued. In termns oJ techniques aend
procedures, municipalities reported tlzat the PIMES project helped thenll better
handle informnation technology and conmmunity participation. Munlicipllity
awareness of these advances had an imilportant side effect. successful participants
openly promoted the project and its principles amnong municipalities still ntot
involved.
Introduction
4.1    This chapter reports the findings of impact evaluation "case studies" of participant
municipalities in the MDP project-called PIMES-in Rio Grande do Sul that was carried out by
the PIMES team in Porto Alegre as part of this evaluation study5 The studies were implemented
in two stages: (i) field visits by team members to 26 municipalitieg during August-December
1997; and (ii) a follow-up telephone/fax survey of the same municipalities during January-March
1998. These municipalities do not constitute a random sample; they were selected from those that
had completed all aspects of sub-loan agreements.
4.2    The PIMES team selected municipalities for these studies by taking into account the
following factors: (i) representation of different population size groups; (ii) wide range of MDP
institutional development actions adopted by them; and (iii) broad geographical coverage across
the state of Rio Grande do Sul. The aim was to evaluate a group of municipalities that had
participated effectively in the MDP project's institutional development (ID) component, but
which were also representative of municipalities throughout Rio Grande do Sul state as a whole.
Twenty-six were chosen as the maximum number of municipalities that could be visited in the
field, given the study's budget constraint.
Field Surveys
4.3     Members of the study team made 1-2 day visits to each municipality to meet with local
officials and collect basic data on the following: (i) municipal administration; (ii) urban planning;
(iii) local taxes; and (iv) municipal infrastructure. To compile the data, the team had prepared
standard checklists to apply to all municipalities. In addition, a study team member sat down with
5. This chapter is based upon a report prepared by Jeanette Lontra in March 1998 as part of this study undcr the
supervision of Aurelio Simon (PIMES, 1998). The terms of reference for the telephone/fax survey was prepared during
the audit mission in December 1997. Roy Gilbert coordinated the survey work and did translation and editing. Sextilio
Giacomini, Aldino Dick, Janise Benneet, and Neusa Cunha of the PIMES team participated in earlier stages of this
work. This task was undertaken fully by the PIMES team without any financial support from the Bank.
6. The municipalities were: Alegrete, Arroio dos Ratos, Bento Gon,alves, Boa Vista do Burica, Butia, Cacique Doble,
Campinas do Sul, Candido Godoy, Caseiros, Carazinho, Chapada, Constantina, Dois Irmaos, Dom Feliciano, Doutor
Mauricio Cardoso, Erebango, Erechim, Farroupilha, Independencia, Jacutinga, Nova Hartz, Novo Hamburgo, Parobe,
Santa Rosa, Sao Borja, Sao Joao da Urtiga.



22
municipal officials to go over a questionnaire with some 70 open-ended questions on the
following topics:
*   profile of the city;
*   real estate cadastre;
*   computerization;
*   municipal tax code;
*   urban master plan; and
*   training and technical assistance.
4.4     Altogether, the study identified 126 institutional development (ID) interventions
sponsored by PIMES in these municipalities. Figure 4.1 and Table 4.1 summarize the breakdown.
Figure 4.1: PIMES Institutional Development Interventions
< 13% s~~trentgth.  P
Ubn rrgnintt  
23%
Sources: PIMES field impact evaluation survey.
Table 4.1: MDP-sponsored Institutional Development Interventions
Means of Delivery
Type of ID                    TOTAL             Training          Technical      Computer hardware
assistance        and software
number     %      number     %      number      %      Number      %
Admin. strengthening        20      15.8       7       20.0      9       18.0       4        9.7
Taxation                    60      47.5      16       45.8      20      40.0       24       58.6
Urban management            29      23.2       6       17.1     21       42.0       2        4.9
Other                       17      13.5       6       17.1      -         -        11       26.8
TOTAL                      126      100.0     35      100.0      50      100.0     41       100.0
rource: PIMES field impact evaluation survey
4.5     The PIMES survey identified taxation as the single most common type of PIMES ID
intervention. Technical assistance was the most widely used means of delivery. Details of each
type of ID offered by PIMES are identified in parentheses:
*    Administrative strengthening (human resource training; internal regulations; payroll,
organization chart)
*   Taxation (accounting; cadastres; control of assets; tax reform; tax collection; tax
legislation; tax inspection)
*   Urban management (land use legislation; limits of urban area; building codes; land
use zoning; aerial photography; mapping; database management)



23
Other (mostly computer hardware and software)
4.6    In order to update information already provided and to survey municipalities' own
perceptions of MDP project impacts upon their administration and operations, the PIMES team
followed up with a simple questionnaire faxed to each one of these 26 municipalities. To
complement the earlier approach of open-ended questions, the fax questionnaire, prepared jointly
with the audit mission (December 1997), asked municipal respondents to rate the quality-
through five categories ranging from highly satisfactory to very poor-of MDP impacts in 13
areas. Among other things these covered local tax collection, betterment charges, procurement
practices, computerization, and community participation.
4.7     The remainder of this chapter summarizes the impacts of the MDP projects as seen from
the perspective of participant municipalities themselves. Each section deals with a distinct area of
MDP project intervention.
Direct and Indirect Cost Recovery
4.8     The PIMES' survey asked participant municipalities to give their opinions about the
quality of the impacts of the MDP project upon: (i) their ability to mobilize their own revenues
more efficiently; (ii) the effectiveness of levying betterment charges for direct cost recovery; and
(iii) the effectiveness of property taxation as an indirect means of recovering the cost of MDP
sub-projects. The results are summarized in Figure 4.2 and Table 4.2.
Figure 4.2: Impact upon Municipal Cost Recovery
165.4
£ X Ow n revenue
4 2 . 4             mrTbilizaten
D Levying betterment
57.8         charges
o3 Raising property taxes
0       20        40       60       80
% highly sat. +sat.
Source: PIMES impact evaluation survey.
Table 4.2: Impacts upon Municipal Cost Recovery
% of all municipal respondents per catego,y
Municipal rating                highly    sat     modest    fair       poor       No
sat.                                           opinion
Own revenue mobilization         11.5     53.9      23.1       -        3.8       7.7
Levying betterment charges       3.8      38.6      46.2      3.8       3.8       3.8
Raising property taxes           15.4     42.4      30.8      3.8       3.8       3.8
Source: PIMES impact evaluation survey of 26 MDP municipalities



24
4.9     Among the highlights are the following:
>   Near unanimity that the impacts of the MDP project had been positive.
> The majority of municipalities thought the project had a very positive impact (highly
satisfactory or satisfactory rating) upon their own revenue mobilization and upon
property tax collections.
>   Municipalities reckoned that project impacts upon betterment charges were positive
but slightly more modest.
4.10    Overall, these results indicate a satisfactory MDP project impact upon cost recovery in
the eyes of municipal participants. This finding applies to municipalities of all size categories,
although small and medium-sized municipalities are more likely to report highly satisfactory
impacts than larger ones. These results are particularly significant given that the MDP project was
implemented during a period of intensive financial change as monetary stabilization took hold in
Brazil. Within this difficult context, MDP municipalities made efforts to increase their own
revenues.
Local Financial Management
4.11    MDP municipalities were asked to rate the MDP project impact upon their capacity to (i)
undertake financial planning; (ii) mobilize funding from other sources apart from the MDP
project itself; and (iii) manage their own resources more efficiently (Figure 4.3 and Table 4.3).
Figure 4.3: Impact upon Municipal Planning and
Management
|| 69.2      gE Financial planning
69.2
MlVbbilizing other
f7   U    ai  hfresources
i   5  Efficient resource
rrianagenent
0               50             100
% highly sat. + sat.
Source: PIMES impact evaluation survey.
Table 4.3: Impacts upon Municipal Financial Planning and Management
% of all municipal respondents per category
Municipal rating                highly    sat.    modest    fair       poor       no
sat.                                           opinion
Financial planning               34.6     34.6      30.8       -         -
Mobilizing other resources       19.2     50.0      30.8       -
Efficient resource management    38.5     46.2      11.5      3.8
Source: PIMES impact evaluation survey of 26 MDP municipalities



25
4.12   Among the highlights from the evidence are the following:
>   A large majority of municipalities report very positively about MDP projects on all
three aspects of municipal financial planning and management.
>   Impacts upon improved management of municipal resources were the best rated.
with 84.7 percent reporting highly satisfactory or satisfactory.
4.13   These results point to a change in the old image of municipalities as mere, public service
providers, toward being modem administrations seeking to promote and leverage local economic
development. As examples of steps toward better management, municipalities most otten
mentioned:
*   more reliable management reports resulting in better internal controls;
*   streamlining of information flow through management information systems.
enabling better-informed management decisions;
*   better understanding of taxation laws and regulations and hence better municipal
relationship with its regulator ("tribunal de contas"); and
*   greater emphasis upon municipal planning.
*   rigorous control over revenue collection.
Sub-project Management and Implementation
4.14   Concerning their ability to manage investment sub-projects, participant municipalities
rated the impacts of MDP technical assistance upon (i) the implementation of routines of
management control of project implementation and (ii) modernizing and streamlining municipal
management. Municipalities were also asked to rate the impact of MDP requirements and
conditionalities upon (i) procurement procedures and (ii) supervision of contractors. 1Figure 4.4
and Table 4.4 summarize the findings.
Figure 4.4: Impact upon Municipal Management of
Investment Sub-projects
84.7         [3~n Control of
irrnplementation
8     Streanrining of
_ 88.5 |   nEtnagenent
88.5    Procurerrent
3 !  84.6                   * procedures
|3 Supervision of
I    contractors
82       84       86        88       90
% highly sat. + sat.
Source: PIMES impact evatuatton survey.



26
Table 4.4: Impacts upon Municipal Management of Investment Sub-projects
% of aOl municipal respondents per category
Municipal rating              highly    sat    modest   fair       Poor       no
sat                                         opinion
Control of implementation      46.2     38.5     11.5       -        -        3.8
Streamlining of management     38.5     46.2     11.5       -        -        3.8
Procurement procedures         26.9     61.6     11.5       -        -        -
Supervision of contractors     34.6     50.0     15.4       -        -
Source: PIMES impact evaluation survey of 26 MDP municipalities.
4.15   Among the highlights:
> Most municipalities give high ratings (highly satisfactory and satisfactory) to MDP
impacts on all aspects of municipal management of investment sub-projects.
> The strongest impact was felt by municipalities upon the control of sub-project
implementation. Through the MDP project, many municipalities learned to apply
control systems to monitor the physical and financial progress of their sub-projects
for the first time.
t Municipalities reported favorable MDP impacts upon how they learned to supervise
private contractors and the works undertaken by them better.
>   Finally, special attention should be drawn to procurement procedures; although the
top rating (highly satisfactory) did not score as high as others, only 1 1.5 percent of
respondents reported that MDP impact on procurement was modest or less.
4.16   These results confirmed what the PIMES team had observed during its day-to-day
management of MDP project implementation. All participant municipalities, small ones in
particular, underwent a major "on-the-job" learning experience as they took advice directly from
PIMES staff or hired consultants to help them manage their investment projects more effectively.
The MDP strategy in this regard was to provide as much information as possible to
municipalities, including model procedures and techniques that they could use to help overcome
their shortcomings.
4.17   Regarding the specific issue of procurement procedures, evidence of favorable MDP
impacts comes also from routine reports of the municipalities' controllers, tribunal de contas.
Tribunal reports (over the 1990-96 period) indicate that the incidence of errors by municipalities
in procurement practices diminished significantly among participants of the MDP project.
Information Technology, Training, and Community Participation at the Municipal Level
4.18   The survey sought municipal opinions upon three other aspects related to the instrunlents
of MDP impacts in a more general sense, rather than to a specific branch of municipal
management. Thus, municipalities were asked their opinions about the effectiveness and the
quality of the MDP impacts through: (i) the use of information technology in the municipality;
(ii) professional training provided under the MDP project; and (iii) community participation in
decision making about investment projects. The answers are summarized in Figure 4.5 and Table
4.5.



27
Figure 4.5: Impacts upon Computerization and Training
o Information
technology
80.9         P rofessional
training
73.1                [3 ~~~~Coarmnity
participation
65        70        75        80         85
% highly sat. + sat.
Source: PIMES impact evaluation survey.
Table 4.5: Impacts upon Computerization and Training
% of all municipal respondents per category
Municipal rating               highly    sat.    modest    fair       Poor       no
sat.                                          opinion
Information technology          42.3      30.8     26.9       -         -         -
Professional training           27.0      53.9      3.8      3.8        -       11.5
Community participation         15.4      57.7     23.1            -              -
Source: PIMES impact evaluation survey of 26 MDP municipalities
4.19   Among the key findings are the following:
'  Municipalities were very enthusiastic about innovations in information technology
provided through the MDP project; nearly half of them rated MDP impact in this
area as highly satisfactory.
> Municipalities also rated MDP training impacts positively, but less so in the higlhest
category.
v   Regarding community participation, all municipalities held positive but more varied
views about MDP impacts.
4.20    With rapid innovation in computer hardware and software, the PIMES team encountered
a strong demand by municipalities for assistance in this area. In many cases, the introduction of
infornation technology even led to behavioral changes among municipal staff. Accustomed to
traditional and obsolete procedures and routines, many of them were obliged to upgrade their
skills to retain a valid professional role within the administration. This in turn led to increased
demand for training programs, many of them provided under the MDP project. The project
offered a wide range of courses and programs, which were highly appreciated by municipal
administrations and their employees.
4.21    The positive results achieved in community participation took different forms.
Sometimes participation was through local community associations, while at other times
nongovernmental organizations were involved. In cases of community facilities-day care
centers and health posts, for instance-financed through the MDP project, a project requirement
called for stakeholders to set up "sectoral committees" and help manage these facilities. For other
projects, consultation more often took the form of merely keeping citizens informed of works
planned and in progress. More still has to be done in this area, but the PIMES team believes that



28
important first steps were taken under the MDP project. OED's performance audit in December
1997 was conducted as a "participatory audit," which provided opportunities for the beneficiaries,
including community representatives, to meet and discuss with those from state and local
government agencies the project experiences in Parana and RGS (OED 1998; Gonzalez and
Gonzalez 1997; Osorio 1997). As documented in the PARs, sub-projects such as street paving.
day care centers, and health posts were implemented in poor communities, and their impacts on
the welfare of the inhabitants were significant. These conclusions were confirmed at the
participatory audit workshops.
Conclusions and Recommendations
4.22   This survey was stimulated by the premise that the PIMES project had a major impact in
promoting sustained institutional development in the municipalities of the state ot' Rio (irande do
Sul. The PIMES project became a major development partner of municipalities during the 1990-
96 period. It also became their only reliable source of funding as alternative sources through ad
hoc transfers from the federal and state governments practically dried up.
4.23   Through this survey, the following advances made in strengthening municipalities have
been identified:
*   fiscal adjustment and increasing own revenues at the municipal level;
*   more intense contacts between municipalities, private companies, and the
community;
*   municipal administrations became more entrepreneurial;
*   municipal employees became more highly valued as staf'f; and
*   more attention given to the environment.
4.24   Apart from these favorable results, the survey demonstrated that municipalities were
aware of the progress made thanks to the support of the project. More generally, awvarelless at the
municipal level helped local administrations seek new initiatives and elaborate successful
projects. This finding was true independent of city size or location within the state.
4.25   Municipal awareness itself had an important side effect. Successful participant
municipalities, whose officials were conscious of progress being made under PIMES, became
staunch promoters of the project concept among municipalities that had yet to sign on.
4.26   The achievements of the PIMES project came at a time of major changes and difficulties
for municipalities in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. The logical conclusion is that by helping
municipalities to stabilize, PIMES contributed to a more balanced approach to economic
development at all levels.
4.27   As a development program, the PIMES project in Rio Grande do Sul has reached
adulthood and today constitutes a reliable source of funds for municipal development. Moreover,
the project has been the object of study as a model for similar programs elsewhere in Brazil-the
states of Minas Gerais and Bahia-and in other countries.



29
5.  Impacts on Local Economic Development
MDPs in the Philippines financed numerous revenue-generatintg sub-projects stuc h as
public markets. The case study of the MDP-financed public market in Pulilan shotwS that
the project had significant impact on the developmnenit qf the local economnyJ. The procct
not only stimulated emnployment and income generation, it also triggered the development
of a new business center near the public market, which had significant vpill-over effects.
Introduction
5.1    Most of the sub-projects financed by MDP in the Philippines were revenue-generating-
economic enterprises such as public markets, bus terminals, and slaughterhouses. Under MDP I
36 out of 42 participating municipalities financed a public market; under MDP II 30 out of 35
participating municipalities did so. OED's performance audits of these two projects confirmed
that the impacts of such sub-projects on the local economy were significant (OED, 1997),
especially for the small poor municipalities. For example, Pulilan, a municipality in Bulacan
province, was in the lowest (sixth) income class of municipalities before it financed a public
market through MDP. By 1995, when the MDP project was completed, the municipality had
moved up to the second income class, and the living standard of its 60,000 people had risen
significantly. During 1991-95, the income of the municipal government rose fourfold from 7
million pesos to 25 million pesos.
5.2    This chapter reports the results of a study7 that compared the impacts of an MDP-
financed public market in Pulilan with conditions in Guiguinto, a municipality in the same
province which did not participate in the MDP program. The study compared a random sample of
60 stall-holders in the Pulilan public market (experiment group) with a random sample of 60 stall-
holders from several locations in Guiguinto (control group). Each sample included stalls selling
meat, poultry, and fish; fruits, vegetables, and grains; and manufactured goods. Cirrus Research
and Software, a consulting firm in Manila, administered the field survey, prepared the data, and
produced the statistical results. A comprehensive but simple questionnaire (Annex C) was used to
gather information about location history, extent of markets, employment characteristics,
commuting, sales, expenses, income, and the quality of infrastructure services at the market. TIhe
questionnaire was designed to capture changes over time from 1993 when the market opened to
1998 when the survey was conducted. The survey also included the owners of 15 shops near the
market to capture the project's indirect impacts on the development of the local economy. The
findings reported below highlight the differences between Pulilan's experience and that of
Guiguinto. Also reported are the results of statistical tests conducted between the two groups
regarding increases in sales and income and improvements in the quality of infrastructure services
at the market.
The Public Market in Pulilan
5.3    Until 1992 when the MDP-financed public market was established, Pulilan had a
traditional market (called "talipapa") near the municipal hall with about 20 vendors. When the
public market opened in 1993 (in the Cutcot area), local entrepreneurs quickly occupied its 170
stalls. Most of the vendors in the old market also moved there. Only two years later, using its own
7. This chapter is based on the results of a survey of public markets conducted by Cirrus Research and Softwarc under
the direction of Mari-jo Luciano and under the overall supervision of Millie Villar and Vic Ignacio of the Central
Project Office. The questionnaire (Annex E) was designed jointly by the study teams in Washington and Manila.



30
resources, the municipal government added 32 stalls to the market to meet increasing demand. In
1997, a second MDP sub-loan' financed 92 more stalls. As of August 1998, when the survey was
conducted, the market had a total of 294 stalls. Besides these fixed stall-holders, on Saturdays
about 300 ambulant vendors come to the market grounds to conduct business.
5.4     The public market area has rapidly become a new business center in Pulilan. More than
40 new small enterprises have opened near the market since its opening, including large
restaurants, drug stores, a gas station, rural banks, gift shops, and others. The market's adjacent
lot has become a busy transport center with a large fleet of tricycles for shoppers and other types
of vehicles. The market not only had direct impact on the welfare of the stall-holders and
Pulilan's inhabitants but also had significant indirect economic impact, creating transport and
commercial linkages with the rest of the province and other parts of the country. The survey
findings reported below support this conclusion.
5.5     Guiguinto, which never participated in MDP, has no markets comparable to the one in
Pulilan. The municipality has one privately established market and several small, inform-lal
markets. Conditions in the municipality today are similar to those of Pulilan before the MDP
project.
Survey Results
5.6     Of the 60 stall-holders in each sample, 16 (27 percent) relocated to the public market in
Pulilan while only 5 (8 percent) moved in Guiguinto, indicating that the Pulilan project triggered
changes in location that may not have otherwise occurred. The stall-holders in Pulilan were
comparable to those of Guiguinto in employment size, number of female workers, hours worked,
and monthly salary (Table 5.1). On average, at each stall about two people worked (with one
female) for 11 hours a day, and the owner's monthly salary was about 18,000 pesos (about
US$430).
Table 5.1. Characteristics of Stall-holders (average value)
Pulilan    Guiguinto   All
Number of workers (persons)        1.97      1.70       1.83
Number of female workers (persons)    1.17   1.20       1.18
Hours worked per day               11.30     10.60      10.95
Owner's salary per month (pesos)   18,138    17,525     17,832
Clhange in Sales and Income
5.7     Table 5.2 shows that monthly sales and net income (after expenses) of stall-holders in
Pulilan more than doubled since they started business in the public market. The stall-holders in
Guiguinto, by contrast, had only a slight increase in sales and net income. This large disparity
could have been influenced by the age distribution of the stall-holders in two groups. Twenty
8. The first MDP sub-loan for the public market was for 6.7 million pesos; the second was for 4.5 million. The public
market project has been self-financing and has a perfect record for meeting its loan repayment schedule. The mayor
would like to pay off the loan balance in advancc if allowed. The market has generated net income (after cxpenscs) of
more than 2 million pesos per year since 1994 and contributed to municipal revenues. In 1997, the public market
operation had a budget surplus of 3 million pesos (total revenue of 6 million less total expenditure of 3 million).
According to cstimates produced by the Central Project Office, as of 1995 its financial rate of return was 27 percent
and its cconomic rate of return was 29 percent. The latter would have been higher had the indirect benefits to the stall-
holders been taken into account.



31
stall-holders in Guiguinto started their business at the present location in 1 997T which implies
that they are vendors without fixed business locations. Taking into account this possible bias, the
change in sales and net income was substantially different the two groups.
Table 5.2. Change in Sales and Income
Pulilan (average)          Guiguinto (average)
First year   1998   % change  First year   1998   % change
Monthly sales (pesos)    45,083   93,551     107.5    82,458    87,075     5.6
Monthly net income (pesos)   10,921   23,783    117.8    17,382    22,726  30.7
5.8    To statistically test this difference without such a bias, the average value of sales and
average net income for each age subgroup were calculated and the average annual increases in
sales and net income were estimated. Based on this constructed data, the null hypothesis--that the
average annual increases in sales and net income (in real terms) were the same between the stall-
holders in Pulilan and those in Guiguinto-can be rejected. The "t" values were 2.7 and 2.0,
respectively, at a 5 percent level of significance.
5.9    For those 16 stall-holders in the Pulilan sample that moved to the public market from
another location, the difference between their mean income at the previous location and that at the
present location was statistically tested. The null hypothesis-that the mean income level was the
same at the two locations-was rejected. The "t" value was 2.4 at 5 percent level of significance.
5.10   Therefore, the impact of the MDP-financed public market in Pulilan on the increases in
sales and income of the stall-holders was significant compared to those in Guiguinto, and also
compared to the level of income at the previous location for those stall-holders who relocated to
the public market from another location.
Commuting
5.11   Table 5.3 shows the median commuting distance from home to the market and the
median travel time for stall-holders in Pulilan and Guiguinto. Although the travel distance in
Pulilan is twice that in Guiguinto, the travel time was about the same for the two groups. Th'lis
resulted from more efficient transport modes such as a large fleet of tricycles in Pulilan thanl in
Guiguinto.
Table 5.3. Commuting Distance and Travel Time
Pulilan   Guiguinto   All
Median commuting distance (kilometers)  3.0    1.5     2.4
Median travel time-one way (minutes)  12       12       12
Quality of Infrastructure Services
5.12   The survey asked respondents to rate the quality of 12 infrastructure and municipal
services (listed in Table 5.4) at the time of the survey (1998) compared with the first year the
9. Age DJistribution ofktall-holders (Number of stall-holders)
Year started    Before 1993   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
Pulilan        11       17     7     8     10     7
Guiguinto      16       4     4      5     11    20



32
stall-holder started business at the market. Four quality criteria were used: excellent, good, fair,
and poor. Table 5.4 shows for each type of services the proportion of the respondents who rated
its quality as "excellent" or "good." For all items but telephone, the quality of services in the first
year at the market was better in Pulilan than in Guiguinto. In the case of the Pulilan public
market, all services improved substantially over time except for the public toilet. Any
improvements in facilities in Guiguinto were small and the quality of water supply, public toilet,
ventilation, storage, and parking space declined during the period.
Table 5.4. Quality of Services at the Market (percent of
respondents answering "excellent" or "good")
Pulilan           Guiguinto
First year   1998   First year   1998
Electricity               58        80       49        55
Water supply              70        87        30       28
Telephone                 27        48        27       35
Police protection         65        75        38       42
Fire protection           70        82        30       32
Garbage collection        87        91        32       32
Sewerage and drainage     80        83        28       34
Public toilet             73        65        22       20
Ventilation               80        82        45       42
Storage                   38        43        22       20
Parking space             85        90        39       35
Driveway                  88        91        38       42
Note: The response rate was 100 percent for the sample of 60 in both municipalities.
5.13    We tested the differences between proportions and rejected the null hypothesis that the
proportions of quality ratings in Pulilan are the same as those of Guiguinto. The "t" values range
from 2.8 to 8.6 at the 5 percent level of significance (1.5 for telephone service, which was equally
poor in both municipalities).
Indirect Impacts
Expanding Market Linkages with othter Municipalities atid Regions
5.14    To evaluate the impact of the public market on the creation of transport and commercial
linkages with other municipalities and regions, the survey asked where the goods stall-holders
sold had originated and where their customers come from. Tables 5.5 and 5.6 report the origins of
goods and customers by three categories: from the municipality, from the province, and from
outside the province.
Table 5.5. Origin of Goods to be Sold at the
Market (mean percentage for each cell)
Pulilan   Guiguinto    All
From municipality      22.3      14.3     18.3
From province          28.4      55.1     41.8
From outside province  49.3      30.6     39.9



33
Table 5.6. Origin of Customers to the
Market (mean percentage for each cell)
Pulilan   Guiguinto   All
From municipality   79.6      90.9    85.2
From province        15.3     7.0     11.2
From outside province    5.1  2.1     3.6
5.15   About half of the goods sold in the Pulilan public market come from outside the province,
while a little over half of the goods sold in Guiguinto come from within the province. More than
90 percent of the customers in Guiguinto markets are from the municipality, while in Pulilan 15
percent come from the province and 5 percent come from outside the province. The findings
show that the public market in Pulilan established wider transport and commercial linkages with
locations outside the province than Guiguinto did.
Employmentt Side-Effects
5.16   Twenty eight percent of stall-holders in Pulilan and 17 percent in Guiguinto said that they
began having a housemaid after they started business at the markets and pay 1,500 pesos per
month for the service. This shows that the public market had an indirect side-effect on
employment generation in addition to the jobs created at the market.
5.17   The survey included 15 small business enterprises near the public market in Pulilan and
15 near the informal markets in Guiguinto to capture indirect impacts. In Pulilan 14 out of 15
enterprises were established since 1995, indicating rapid expansion of economic activities in the
public market area. The types of businesses included car services (gas station), banking, tiles,
restaurants, clothing, electronics, and drug stores. The average size of employment at these
enterprises was 3.3 persons in Pulilan and 2.3 in Guiguinto.
Emerginig Real Estate Market
5.18   According to the municipal government staff in Pulilan, the land price in the public
market area was 55 pesos per square meter in 1992 before the market was established. The
residential area nearby sells at more than 12,000 pesos per square meter in 1998. The survey
found that 10 of the 15 small enterprises interviewed in Pulilan were renters with an average floor
space of 76 square meters, indicating an active real estate market emerging in the public market
area. The average floor space of the small enterprises interviewed in Guiguinto was much less,
only 41 square meters.






35
6.  Agenda for the Future
Changing Demand for Project Finance
6.1   International experience shows that municipalities have different financing needs
depending on their size and their stage of socio-economic development. In the Philippines MDP
program, which is demand-driven without any restriction, small, resource-poor municipalities
tend to finance rather simple, low-risk, revenue-generating projects first, such as public markets.
After successfully completing such a sub-project, they can enhance their creditworthiness with
the increased revenues coming from the project. Then they can expand their investments in public
infrastructure projects such as roads and drainage (OED, 1997). As municipalities grow, they
have an increasing need to finance economic infrastructure for production activities such as
manufacturing and commerce as well as social infrastructure for household consumption. They
are eventually ready to "graduate" from the MDP program and start borrowing from the private
capital market. Experiences in both the Philippines and Brazil show such progress. This catalytic
role is analogous to the role of the World Bank in helping developing countries until they
".graduate" from the Bank.
MDP in Parana
6.2    ParanaCidade (the ongoing Urban Development Fund project financed by the
Interamerican Development Bank) has been expanding its operations as a self-financing private
financial intermediary. ParanaCidade has entered a new phase of providing more diversified
financial services and types of sub-loans. Diversifying the sub-loan product mix to include
revenue-generating sub-projects (with positive externalities such as public markets) could come
sooner than diversifying financial services since the latter would depend on the speed of overall
capital market development in Brazil. New financial services could include managing bond issues
for selected municipalities, introducing risk guarantee functions, and developing mechanisms for
the private sector participation through build-operate-transfer, concessions, and management
contracts for specific services such as certain maintenance functions. As a "best practice case"
ParanaCidade is ready to take these challenges and is pushing the frontier of the MDP program. It
will continue to provide useful lessons for MDPs in Brazil and elsewhere.
MDP in Rio Grande do Sul
6.3    This MDP program regained its momentum and enthusiasm with the return of its original
"champions" in the state government in 1995. In 1998, the fund's operations expanded in
response to high demand and strengthened its financial position. The continued state government
protection of the organizational integrity of PIMES within BANRISUL will be crucial for the
sustainability of FUNDOPIMES as it pursues further institutional growth. As in Parana, the
future will require diversification of the loan product mix to include revenue-generating sub-
projects and eventually diversification of financial services.
MDP in the Philippines
6.4    To meet the strong demand for MDP financing from LGUs, the Central Project Office
prepared a follow-on project, MDP III, which was approved by the Board in March 1992. MDP
III was a continuation of MDP I and II to strengthen the institutional development process being



36
achieved under the program and to expand development assistance to more LGUs. MDP III was
also very timely as it was to help the national government develop and carry out its
decentralization program after the Local Government Code was revised in 1991. The design and
components of MDP III were similar to those of MDP I and II, but it did not target any particular
regions.
6.5    The fourth follow-on project (LOGOFIND) has been appraised and will be negotiated
early in 1999. Within a broad policy reform framework (Llanto, et al., 1996), LOGOFIND will
address the issues associated with the down side of the bottom-up, demand-driven project design.
The self-selection process tends to generate competition among LGUs and only those that are
creditworthy and capable of making necessary policy changes are able to participate in the MDP
and have access to credit. Many LGUs that are poor and non-creditworthy have been left out,
widening interregional income disparities. LOGOFIND intends to implement a policy framework
aimed at "graduating" more successful LGUs to the private financial markets while providing
assistance to weaker LGUs.



37
7.  Conclusions and Lessons
The study concludes that MDP operations help refonr at the local level;
municipalities are aware that participation is a commitment to reform: improved
fiscal performance goes hand in hand with management strengthening that gives
mayors a more entrepreneurial view of their administrations; and mnunicipalities
are more sensitive to MDP impacts the deeper MDP funding goes. Based on these
findings, the study recommends thzat MDP policy reform instruments be diversiJied
to broaden project impacts;for successful impacts, good project design must be
achieved as later course correction is difficult; competition among municipalities
should be promoted through disseminating success stories; MDP projects shoould
be tried even wheen macroeconomic and political change is rife as the projects have
been shown to have favorable impacts in such circumstances. The most imuportant
element fir success, however, is in a sound policy and fiscal decentralization
frainework.
Conclusions
7.1    The principal findings of this study are as follows:
t MDP operations help refbrmn at the level of local government. Participant
municipalities increase their fiscal autonomy through collecting more of their own
revenues-especially property taxes-than non-participants. In a fiscal sense,
autonomy helps municipalities have better chances of access to further MDP funds
and to other loans. It also helps them pay off existing obligations. In a political sense,
more autonomy gives municipalities a greater role in decentralized decision-making.
Local project authorities at the state/provincial level see MDP as an instrument of
reform. Its effectiveness is assured when there are no competing sources of finance on
easier terms for municipalities. Detailed design of MDP projects is crucial in
determining direction of impacts. The MDP projects studied here focused upon
property tax improvements, precisely the area of municipal finance where the project
impacts were strongly felt.
> Municipalities consciously perceive MDP participation as a process of reform.
Municipalities are not just passive agents of MDP. Best practice municipalities of all
sizes consciously buy into MDP's reform program. They are acutely aware of the
improvements planned, conditions attached, what they have to do to take part and, of
course, the final achievements made. They associate successful MDP participation
with innovations in their own administrations and their ability to plan and implement
successful sub-projects.
>   Improvedfiscal performance goes hand-in-hand with management strengthening. The
MDP projects evaluated here started with a level playing field as far as fiscal
performance at the municipal level was concerned. By many indicators-fiscal
autonomy, own revenues per capita, budget balance-the performance of participant
municipalities was better than that of non-participants. As part of the overall
improvement, technical assistance provided through MDP operations helped
municipalities become more entrepreneurial, think more about fiscal adjustment, value
their staff more highly, interact more closely with private companies and the local
communities, and be more environmentally conscious.



38
MDP impacts are sensitive to project leverage. The more closely involved
municipalities were in MDP projects, as measured by the share of all their investments
funded by MDP, the greater the project impacts upon municipal own revenue
generation. Being more closely bound up with-and dependent upon-an MDP
operation makes a municipality more likely to follow project policy prescriptions and
be successful in doing so.
MDP in the Philippines attracted r-evenue-generating projects. Because of the strictly
demand-driven approach followed in the Philippines, MDP first attracted revenue-
generating sub-projects such as public markets. These presented minimum risks for
implementation delays and cost recovery. With the revenues from such projects, the
participating municipalities were able to enhance their creditworthiness with a stronger
financial base. This in tum allowed them to expand their investments to infrastructure
projects such as roads, drainage, water supply, and sanitation.
Lessons for Future Operations
7.2    The MDP project experience offers many lessons. The most important are as follows:
MDP policy ref'Orm instr-umtents tishou)ll be diversified. It is important to replicate the
success of improving property taxes to other revenue items that make up the remaining
three-quarters of municipal own income in both Brazil and the Philippines. In the case
of Brazil, for instance, future MDP attention might focus upon the widespread Local
Service Tax, an increasingly important source of municipal revenue. Designs of future
MDP operations should directly address how to help improving the performance of
big-ticket items such as these. As in the case of the Philippines, MDP financing of
revenue-generating projects such as a public market can play a catalytic role in the
development of local economy.
Good design at the outset is crucial to satisfactoty MDP imnpacts. As a municipality's
first encounter with an MDP program is crucial, setting the tone for future
participation, it is important to carefully calibrate the designs of future MDP
operations at the outset. Conditions and requirements also should be very transparent
and easily understood by new municipal participants. Experience shows that an initial
misconception by a municipality-that direct cost recovery is not an MDP project
requirement, for instance-can prove very difficult to correct later on in a follow-on
operation. It is important to try to get everything right and clear at the outset.
It is important to promnote comnpetition through disseminating success stories. Best
practice municipal participants are an MDP operation's own best promoters. Project
managers should take advantage of this important MDP side effect by disseminating
the experiences of these municipalities, especially among non-participants.
MDP projects can have satisfactoty impacts even when change and volatility are rife.
The experience of the MDP projects in both Brazil and the Philippines-implemented
at a time of major macroeconomic adjustment and political change-demonstrates that
MDP projects can succeed even when macro conditions have yet to stabilize. MDP
projects were implemented during the period of severe macro instability in early 1990s
in Brazil and after the "People's Revolution" of 1986 in the Philippines.



39
References
Davoodi, Hamid and Heng-fu Zou. 1998. "Fiscal Decentralization and Economic Growth: A
Cross Country Study," Journal of Urban Economics. Vol. 43, pp. 244-257.
Gonzalez, Marco and Rodrigo Gonzalez. 1997. Participatory Evaluation Workshop: PIAMES
Project, Novo Hamzburgo. Consultant Report, Operations Evaluation Department, The
World Bank.
Lee, Kyu Sik and Alex Anas. 1992. "Costs of Deficient Infrastructure: The Case of Nigerian
Manufacturing." Urbani Studies. Vol. 29, pp. 107 1-1092.
Lee, Kyu Sik, Alex Anas, and Gi-Taik Oh. 1999. "Costs of Infrastructure Deficiencies in
Manufacturing in Indonesia, Nigeria, and Thailand." Urban Studies (forthcoming). Also
available as World Bank Policy, Research Working Paper No. 1604 (1996).
Llanto. G.M. and et al. 1996. Local Government Units 'Access to the Private C(apital Markets.
Philippines Institute for Development Studies.
Operations Evaluation Department. 1997. Philippines: Performnance Audit Report, Municipal
Development Project (Loan 2435-PH) a7d Second Municipal Developm7ent Project (LoanI
3146-PH). Report No. 16800 (June 12), The World Bank.
Operations Evaluation Department. 1998. Brazil: Performnance Audit Report. Municipal
Development Projects in the State of Paranad (Loan 3100-BR) and in the State of Rio
Grande do Sul (Loan 3129-BR). Report No. 18011 (June 12), The World Bank.
Osorio, Hector Heman. 1997. Participatory Evaluation Workshop, FEDU Project, Sao Jose dos
Pinhais. Consultant Report, Operations Evaluation Department, The world Bank.
Picciotto, Robert and Rachel Weaving. 1994. "New Project Cycle for the World Bank?" Finance
and Development. The World Bank.
Secretariat of Urban Development, State of Parana. 1997. Urban Policy in the State of Parana:
Lessons of Experience, Challenge and Opinions for the Future. International Roundtable
Meetings.
Special Program Department (PIMES). 1998. Avaliacao de Irnpacto do FUNDOPIMES. Rio
Grande do Sul State Development Bank (BANRISUL).






41                                 Annex A
Data and Methodology
Data Collection
Local Finance Data. Brazil and the Philippines
1.    The study designed and developed a database with detailed unpublished data on the
finances of 427 municipalities in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, 323 municipalities in the State
of Parana in Brazil, and 53 municipalities in two provinces, Bulacan and Laguna, in the
Philippines. The database design focused upon 15 selected variables of municipal revenues and
expenditures for each state in Brazil and each province in the Philippines. A very large body of
data was available for each country's municipalities, covering in Brazil up to 75 detailed
variables at the municipal level for every year during 1990-96, the period of project
implementation.
2.     For this reason, the study had to be selective and use only data immediately relevant to
measuring the impacts of these projects. More than 300 analytical tables were produced to obtain
the results reported in this study. The availability of the data for all municipalities in individual
states and provinces made it unnecessary to draw samples, since analysis could include the entire
population of municipalities. Very small (population <2,000) and very large (population
>250,000) municipalities were excluded from the data analysis to keep possible outliers from
distorting observations of the average performance of municipalities. At the design stage of the
study, specific hypotheses of impact were used to help select key variables for evaluation from
among the vast array of data available.
.Suri oeIf Mayors: Rio Grarnd(e do Sal
3.     A sample survey of mayors was conducted for 26 municipalities in Rio Grande do Sul to
evaluate the project's impacts on municipal capacity building in the areas of financial
management and administration including planning, budgeting, and accounting practices;
investment project preparation and implementation; and technical capability of staff. The
questionnaire was drafted jointly with the Bank's audit mission, and the study was coordinated by
a Bank consultant.
Pllblic Market En terprise Survey. Philippines
4.     To evaluate the impacts of MDP-financed public market on the development of the local
economy, Pulilan in Bulacan province of the Philippines was selected as the project municipality.
A random sample of 60 stall-holders in the Pulilan public market were selected as the
"experiment group" and they were asked about their location history, employment characteristics,
commuting patterns, the extent of the markets, changes in sales, expenses, and income during
1993-98, improvements of services, and their potential for further growth. In addition, 15 small
shop owners (retail, services, finance, and manufacturing located near the public market) were
interviewed to document indirect effects of the project on the development of the area covering
employment creation, land price changes, and the emerging business district. To contrast and
compare the "experiment group," Guiguinto was selected as the non-project municipality in the
study, and a random sample of 60 stall-holders in several privately organized informal markets
and 15 shop-owners in Guiguinto were selected as a "control group." The same questionnaire



42                                       Annex A
used in Pulilan was used in Guiguinto to collect the data for a total of 120 stall-holders and 30
shop-owners in the study sample. The questionnaire used is reproduced as Annex E.
Additional Points of Methodology for Chapter 3
5.      Because of the rigorous reporting requirements of official controllers of local government
in both countries, a very large body of information on the finances of municipalities is collected
and made available in Brazil and the Philippines. This allowed the gathering of detailed time
series and cross-sectional data on all municipalities in all four states/provinces where the MDP
projects were implemented. Table Al details the universe of the study at the level of groups of
municipalities.
Table Al: Municipalities Evaluated
Number of study municipalities per cohort
State/province                            All        Large'        Mediumb            Small'
Brazil
Participants (Paranb)                     316          24            156               136
Non-participants (Paran§)
Participants (Rio Grande do Sul - RGS)    132          24             52               56
Non-participants (RGS)                    185          12             67               106
Total:                                    633          60            275               298
Philippines
Participants (Bulacan)                    17           14             3                 -
Non-participants (Bulacan)                 -            -             -
Participants (Laguna)                      4            4             -
Non-participants (Laguna)                 15            -             15
Total:                                    36           18             18                -
Source: MDP IES database
a. population 50.000 - 250,000
b. population 10.000 - 50000
c. population 2.000 - 10.000
RGS = Rio Grande do Sul..
Very large (pop. >250,000) and very small (pop. <2.000) muricipalities were truncated from the population of all muniopalities evaluated by this study.
6.      Thus, the finances of 669 municipalities, 78.7 percent of the total, were reviewed.
Excluded from the study were 140 newly created (and mostly small) municipalities in Brazil for
which time series data did not go back to 1990.0 The Brazilian sample was also truncated by
excluding eight very large municipalities with more than 250,000 inhabitants each and 16 very
small ones with fewer than 2,000 inhabitants each. Besides eliminating "outliers" from the study,
this also gave each country's group of municipalities a similar demographic distribution helping
to make comparative observations across countries more robust. Finally, 17 municipalities were
excluded from the Philippines that had participated only in MDP technical assistance without
borrowing under the program; they qualified neither as MDP participants nor as members of a
control group of non-participants.
7.      A central feature of the evaluation design is a comparison of the performance of MDP
municipalities with the performance of a control group of similar municipalities that did not
participate in MDP. In Rio Grande do Sul, 185 municipalities-represented in all three
population cohorts-did not participate in MDP and provided a natural control group. Parana had
no similar control group, as MDP had covered 100 percent of the municipalities. A second-best
I 0. Most new municipalities were very small. There were 48 such new municipalities in Parana (average pop. 8,090).
In Rio Grande do Sul, 20 participated in the project (average pop. 5,545) and another 72 did not (average pop. 3,929).



43                                  Annex A
solution to evaluate the performance of Parana participant municipalities was to compare it with
that of the control group of non-participants in Rio Grande do Sul. A similar design was used for
the Philippines, where Laguna province offered the best control group since MDP coverage in
Bulacan, as in Parana, had been nearly 100 percent.
8.     Comparisons were made using a series of indicators of municipal fiscal performance.
Empirical observation of the values of these indicators permitted identification of two kinds of
differences: (i) those between MDP participants and non-participants; and (ii) those between the
performance of MDP participants before the project and the same participants after the project.
The values of all indicators were tabulated by estimating mean values across groups of
municipalities. For property tax per capita, for example, the mean value of all municipalities was
estimated across analytical categories (for example, all participants RGS, large non-participants
Laguna). In other words, the estimates were mean values for the indicators of each municipality
within the category; the estimates do not represent the mean value for the category as a whole. By
focusing upon estimates of average values of these indicators across individual municipalities, the
evaluation could more effectively meet its objective of highlighting the effects of MDP impacts at
the level of individual municipalities.
9.     Strictly speaking, within an experiment design, data analysis should be limited to
comparisons between 132 participating municipalities (as the experiment group) versus 185 non-
participating municipalities (as the control group) in the state of Rio Grande do Sul (see Table
Al), since the policy environment and the implementation strategy were different between Parand
and RGS. Nevertheless, the study team decided to report the results of the Parana data together
with those of RGS to evaluate the general patterns of the project impacts across states because the
project design was identical in the two states. In the Philippines, all municipalities in the province
of Bulacan participated in MDP, so Laguna, where a large number of municipalities did not
participate in MDP, was chosen as a control group. Therefore, in the empirical results reported in
this document, the focus of analysis should be given to the comparison between the control and
the experiment groups in RGS and other results should be viewed as being supplementary.






45                                        Annex B
Additional Data Analysis of Municipalities By Population Size
Category
Introduction
I.      This annex presents additional details of the evaluation of MDP project impacts upon
municipal fiscal and financial management reported in Chapter 3. Here the same indicators are
analyzed, but disaggregated by municipal size according to population cohorts. In this annex, the
cohorts are defined as follows: (i) large municipalities are those with 50,000--250,000 inhabitants;
(ii) medium municipalities with 10,000-50,000 inhabitants; and (iii) small municipalities with
2,000-10,000 inhabitants.
Municipal Financial Autonomy Versus Revenue Sharing
2.      As in Chapter 3, the analysis here looks at two indicators of financial autonomy at the
municipal level: (i) municipal own revenues as a share of all current revenues; and (ii) municipal
own revenues per capita. Tables BI-B3 summarize the data regarding the first indicator by
population size of municipality.
Table Bi: Impacts upon Financial Autonomy - Large Municipalities (pop. 50,000-250,000)
Own revenues' share of all current revenues at municipal level (percent)
Brazil                                             Philippines
1990    1996   % change                               1990    1996    % change
(A)     (B)      (B/A)                                (D)      (E)      (EID)
Participants (Parana)    27.5    32.4      +17.8    Participants (Bulacan)     43.9    55.4       +26.2
Participants (RGS)       24.8    23.7      -4.4     Participants (Laguna)      68.9    61.0      -11.5
Non-participants (RGS)   20.2    19.7      -2.5     Non-participants (Laguna)    -       -          -
Source: MDP IES database.
Note: See Tables 3.2 and 3.3
Table B2: Impacts upon Financial Autonomy - Medium Municipalities (pop. 10,000-50,000)
Own revenues' share of all current revenues at municipal level (percent)
Brazil                                             Philippines
1990    1996    % change                             1990    1996      % change
(A)     (B)      (B/A)                               (D)      (E)       (EID)
Participants (Parana)    14.1    15.8      +12.1    Participants (Bulacan)    55.8    45.1       -19.2
Participants (RGS)       17.6    19.1      +8.5     Participants (Laguna)      -        -           -
Non-participants (RGS)    15.1    16.1     +6.6     Non-participants (Laguna)   42.8    27.0     -36.9
Source: MDP IES database.
Note: See Tables 3.2 and 3.3
Table B3: Impacts upon Financial Autonomy - Small Municipalities (pop. 2,000-10,000)
Own revenues' share of all current revenues at municipal level (percent)
Brazil                                            Philippines
1990   1996   % change                               1990    1996    % change
(A)    (B)       (B/A)                               (D)      (E)      (EID)
Participants (Parana)    8.8    9.3        +5.7     Participants (Bulacan)
Participants (RGS)       11.2   11.1       -0.9     Participants (Laguna)
Non-participants (RGS)   13.8   11.8      -14.5     Non-participants (Laguna)
Source: MDP IES database.
Note: See Tables 3.2 and 3.3



46                                           Annex B
3.      Among the highlights:
*    In Brazil, MDP participants in all size categories outperfonn non-participants.
Participants' financial autonomy improved over the 1990-96 period.
*    On average, the own revenue shares of large participants in RGS fell, but not by so
much as large non-participants. The evidence points to MDP having arrested further
undernmining of autonomy.
*    Among all size categories in Brazil, small non-participants report the poorest
performance, while small participants did much better. This finding is consistent
with the idea that MDP projects can be beneficial in stalling the erosion of fiscal
autonomy of small municipalities especially.
4.      Tables B4-B6 present data pertaining to the second indicator of municipal financial
autonomy; namely amounts of own revenue collected per capita.
Table B4: Impacts upon Own Revenue Mobilization -Large Municipalities (pop. 50,000-
250,000)
Own revenues per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Brazil                                            Philippines
1990    1996    % change                             1990    1996    % change
(A)     (B)       (B/A)                              (C)     (D)       (DIC)
Participants (Parana)  44.05    80.92     +83.7    Participants (Bulacan)    4.48    8.63      +92.6
Participants (RGS)     49.60    56.64     +14.2    Participants (Laguna)     6.80    13.68     +101.2
Non-participants (RGS)    30.30    32.92   +8.6     Non-participants (Laguna)  -       -         -
Source: MDP IES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2, 3.3 and 3.7
Table B5: Impacts upon Own Revenue Mobilization - Medium Municipalities (pop. 10,000-
50,000)
Own revenues per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Brazil                                           Philippines
1990    1996    % change                             1990   1996   % change
(A)     (B)       (B/A)                              (C)    (D)      (D/C)
Participants (Parana)  24.38    45.82     +87.9    Participants (Bulacan)    4.65    9.79     +110.5
Participants (RGS)     40.48    58.33     +44.1    Participants (Laguna)       -      -         -
Non-participants (RGS)    31.81    51.93  +63.3    Non-participants (Laguna)   3.24    5.76   +77.8
Source MDP [ES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2, 3.3 and 3.7



47                                        Annex B
Table B6: Impacts upon Own Revenue Mobilization - Small Municipalities (pop. 2,000-
10,000)
Own revenues per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Brazil                                        Philippines
1990    1996    % change                          1990   1996   % change
(A)     (B)     (B/A)                             (C)    (D)      (DIC)
Participants (Parana)  21.80    31.45   +44.3    Participants (Bulacan)    -      -        -
Participants (RGS)    31.31    74.27    +137.2   Participants (Laguna)
Non-participants (RGS)   40.97    50.62  +23.6    Non-participants (Laguna)
Source: MDP IES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2, 3.3 and 3.7
5.     The highlights:
*   The best performance among large municipalities in Brazil is that of Parana
participants. Large participants in RGS also did better than RGS non-participants.
Since large municipalities in both states similarly share strong administrative
capabilities to improve own revenue mobilization, the study team looked for
different project impacts to explain the contrast. Being second-timers in MDP
projects, Parand municipalities had more time than their RGS counterparts to leam
that access to credit is helped by own resource mobilization. For this reason, large
Parana municipalities may have been quicker to respond to respond to MDP
incentives.
*   The less favorable performance by small municipalities in Parana reflects the
difficulty of monitoring the reform process (with FAP) for a large number of
participating municipalities as confirmed by the performance audit (OED, 1998).
*   Smaller municipalities in RGS were more sensitive to the initial MDP shock
impact-when gaining access to credit for the first time-which will be sustainable
in the long run only if they succeed in permanently consolidating their
administrative capacity.
*   Data for the Philippines reveal that participating municipalities in Bulacan did better
than non-participants in Laguna in the medium size category.
Own Revenue Generation through Property Taxes
6.     Tables B7-B9 present data on the performance of municipalities by size category in
mobilizing property tax revenues per capita.



48                                             Annex B
Table B7: Impacts upon Property Tax Collection - Large Municipalities (pop. 50,000-
250,000)
Property tax per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Brazil                                              Philippines
1990    1996    % change                                1990    1996    % change
(A)     (B)       (B/A)                                (C)      (D)       (DIC)
Participants (Parana)    3.82    15.85     +314.9    Participants (Bulacan)      1.31     1.93      +47.3
Participants (RGS)       3.11    15.52     +399.0    Participants (Laguna)       2.43     4.54      +86.8
Non-participants (RGS)   3.61    9.56      +164.8    Non-participants (Laguna)     -        -         -
Source: MDP IES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2 and 3.7
Table B8: Impacts upon Property Tax Collection -Medium Municipalities (pop 10,000-
50,000)
Property tax per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Brazil                                              Philippines
1990    1996    % change                               1990    1996    % change
(A)     (B)      (B/A)                                 (C)      (D)      (D/C)
Participants (Parana)     2.20    7.79     +254.1    Participants (Bulacan)      0.95     0.91      -4.2
Participants (RGS)        3.99    18.35    +359.9    Participants (Laguna)         -        -         -
Non-participants (RGS)    2.06    11.57    +461.7    Non-participants (Laguna)    1.16    1.53      +31.9
Source: MDP IES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2 and 3.7
Table B9: Impacts upon Property Tax Collection - Small Municipalities (pop. 2,000-10,000)
Property tax per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Brazil                                              Philippines
1990    1996   % change                                1990    1996    % change
(A)     (B)      (B/A)                                 (C)      (D)      (DIC)
Participants (Parana)     1.08    3.75     +247.2    Participants (Bulacan)
Participants (RGS)        1.16    16.43   +1,316.4   Participants (Laguna)
Non-participants (RGS)    1.71    9.89     +478.4    Non-participants (Laguna)
Source. MDP IES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2 and 3.7
7.      Among the highlights:
*    In the large population cohort in Brazil, both Parand and RGS participants improved
property tax collections per capita much more than non-participants did. This
reflects the willingness and administrative capability of larger local government
units to respond to MDP requirements and technical assistance to collect more
property taxes.
*    This finding reflects the earlier conclusion in this annex about own revenue
generation and indicates that larger municipalities are able to respond more
effectively to MDP incentives and undertake the complex and politically unpopular
business of raising more property taxes from their citizens.
*    In the Philippines too, larger participants report the strongest property tax
performance.



49                                                  Annex B
*    The ability of small participants to improve property tax collection in Brazil was
varied. Small participants in RGS did substantially better than non-participants,
thanks to intense MDP project supervision and the credibility of a program in which
they were participating for the first time. Small participants in Parana, on the other
hand, were less supervised by an MDP project with 100 percent coverage.
Direct Cost Recovery
8.       Table B lO reports, for Brazil only, municipal direct cost recovery through levying and
collecting betterment charges on investment projects.
Table B1O: Impacts upon Direct Cost Recovery (Brazil only)
Betterment Charge per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
Municipalities by population cohort
Large                          Medium                              Small
1990    1996    % change        1990       1996    % change        1990      1996    % change
(C)     (D)        (DIC)        (E)        (F)       (FIE)         (G)       (H)       (H/G)
Participants (Parana)      1.84     1.63       -11.4        1.36      0.62       -54.4        0.84       0.40       -52.4
Participants (RGS)         0.88     0.95        +8.0        1.62      2.46       +51.9        1.34       4.62      +244.8
Non-participants (RGS)     0.36     0.11       -69.4        0.98      1.44       +46.9        1.53       1.81       +18.3
Source: MOP IES database.
Notes: See Tables 3.2 and 3.7
- Behind the weaker performnance of Paranb is the fact that 26 participant municipalities stopped collecting any betterment charges at all by 1996. so that by project completion
58.2% of all participants did not collect betterment charges. By contrast in RGS, an additional 14 participant municipalities were collecting betterment charges by 1996. so that
by project completion only 16.7% of parlicipants collected no betterment charges.
9.       Among the highlights:
-    In RGS, participants did much better than non-participants in all categories. The best
relative performance of participant over non-participant municipalities is found in
RGS in the small category. Small participant municipalities there responded strongly
and positively to MDP conditionalities and technical assistance provided under the
project. This evidence is consistent with the shock effect and leverage of first time
contact with an MDP project that was discussed earlier in this report.
Budget Surplus/Deficit
10.      Table BI I presents municipal budget surplus/deficit data by population size category:
Table BI11: Impacts upon Municipal Budget Surplus/Deficit
Budget Surplus(+) or Deficit(-) as Share of Total Revenues (percent)
Municipalities by population cohort
Large                           Medium                             Small
1990      1996      Change       1990       1996      change       1990       1996     Change
(C)       (D)       (D-C)        (E)        (F)       (F-E)        (G)        (H)       (H-G)
Brazil
Participants (Parana)        -0.6       -7.8       -7.2       -0.5        -9.4       -8.9       +0.4       -9.4        -9.8
Participants (RGS)           +2.3       -7.2       -9.5       -0.4        -5.2       -4.8       +1.2       -7.4        -8.6
Non-participants (RGS)       +2.3      -15.3      -17.6       +1.5       -6.6        -8.1       +3.6       -7.5       -11.1
Philippines
Participants (Bulacan)       -6.1       +2.0       +8.1       -2.6       +0.5        +3.1         -          -          -
Participants (Laguna)        +5.3       +4.5       -0.8         -          -           -
Non-participants (Laguna)                 -          -        +8.9       +1.6        -7.3
Source: MDP IES database.
Notes: See Table 3.2. Budget surplus/deficit = total current revenues minus total current expenditures (including debt service payments).



50                                           Annex B
11.    Among the highlights:
*   Large participants in both Parana and RGS outperformed non-participants. Large
participants in Bulacan reported a significant improvement as, on average, they
moved out of deficit into surplus. These findings demonstrate a similar
administrative strength of larger municipalities in the Philippines reported earlier for
the case of Brazil.
*    Medium-sized RGS participants also performed better than non-participants, as
medium-sized participants also did in the Philippines.
*    For small municipalities, the differences of performances by participants and non-
participants were not very large, participants performed better over time.
Financial Deepening
12.    For the case of Brazil only, the data in Table B12 report municipal level performance by
degrees of involvement in the MDP projects:
Table B12: Impacts upon Own Revenues by Degree of Financial Deepening (Brazil onlv)
Own revenues per capita (constant 1996 US dollars)
MDP participant municipalities by population cohort
Large                       Medium                         Small
1990     1996       %        1990      1996       %       1990      1996       %
change                       change                       change
(C)      (D)      (DIC)      (E)      (F)       (FIE)     (G)       (H)      (H/G)
Parani
Deep                36.42     87.91    +141.4    19.61     38.65     +97.1    18.06      39.72    +119.9
Medium              43.91     76.54    +74.3    27.79      43.75     +57.4    19.92      32.96    +65.5
Shallow             49.29     80.63    +63.6    26.15      52.83    +102.0    23.70      28.24    +19.2
Rio Grande do Sul
Deep                28.65     46.35   +61.8      39.95     63.60     +59.2    20.75      37.52    +80.8
Medium              63.91     67.39     +5.4     33.49     48.66     +45.3    41.39      38.32     -7.4
Shallow             56.25     56.18     -0.1     36.83     46.77     +27.0    30.00    116.14    +287.1
Source: MDP IES database.
Notes: See: Tables 3.2 and 3.7. Financial depth defined as the share of total 1990-92 municipal investment accounted for by MOP project fundmng Three groups as
follows: (a) 'Deepr = > 50%; (b)'Medium' = 25-50%: and (c)"Shallow" = <25%.
13.    Among the results:
*   The effects of MDP project leverage can be found among all size groups of
municipalities. This means that project leverage can affect MDP impacts within all
three categories of municipalities studied here, large, medium, and small.
*   Apparently, there are two exceptions: (i) unexpectedly medium-sized "shallow"
participants in Parana perform as well as "deep" ones; and (ii) small "shallow"
participants outperform all others within their size category. Both are the
consequence of the exceptional performance of a few municipalities creating bias in
the category means reported here.



51                                 Annex C
Performance Audit of the Brazil MDPs:
Lessons and Recommendations
1.    Following are the lessons drawn and recommendations made at the project level in the
Performance Audit Report (OED, 1998).
2.    In April 1997, a policy seminar was held in Curitiba, Parana, to draw lessons from the
past urban operations for the future work. The lessons were succinctly summarized as follows:
"Current trends in political, fiscal, administrative and operational decentralization entrust the
provision of typically local services to local authorities. The Municipal Development Program of
Parana has greatly reduced local dependence on State grants through a mechanism that is
increasingly self-financing. This relieves the State of some responsibilities and helps reduce
social tensions by offering a direct response to local needs. It also stimulates municipal tax
collection as a means to improve creditworthiness..." (Secretariat of Urban Development, 1997,
p. 41). The overall findings of the audit support this statement. More specific lessons follow.
3.    Demand side. The Financial Action Plan, with its stringent conditions for sub-loans, was
an effective incentive for municipal reform. This design, with follow-up monitoring at the time of
subsequent sub-loan applications, enabled a "wholesale" approach that covered a large number of
municipalities.
4.     Supply side. The MDP program in Parana demonstrated the institutional evolution of an
urban development fund from a government-operated disbursement mechanism to an
independent, self-financing, private financial intermediary for providing long-term credit to
municipalities. ParanaCidade is a "best practice" case for the MDP program; it can be replicated
in other states in Brazil and in other countries.
5.     Sequencing ofproject components. The project design, which aimed at setting the
institutional framework right and putting financial reform in place before undertaking physical
investments, reduced the risks for implementation delays and cost recovery.
6.     Chiampions and political support. During implementation, the MDP program in Parand
was not affected by government changes. The MDP program in RGS did suffer from such
changes and was on the verge of collapse until the original "champions" (those who prepared the
project) returned to power in 1995. Continued political support over time is crucial for successful
project implementation.
7.     The dynamics of municipal development. The MDP program was most effective in
assisting smaller, less creditworthy municipalities in remote regions of the states. Large cities had
access to alternative sources of financing and better technical capacity. As in the Philippines, in
Brazil too, the urban (municipal) development fund is catalytic in helping smaller, resource-poor
municipalities become more creditworthy and financially strong, and in helping them to make a
transition to "graduating" from the MDP program and eventually participating in the capital
market. But international experience shows that direct participation of municipalities in the
capital market has been slow in most developing countries.
8.    MDP as an instrument for rural development. The project's financial and institutional
impacts were most significant for small and medium-size municipalities in remote regions.



52                                    Annex C
Enhancing the efficiency and productivity of these market towns should contribute significantly
to the economic and social development process of rural regions. As an important side-effect, this
process would reduce regional income disparities between large urban centers and rural areas.
Recommendations
9.     Diversify the types of subprojects to be financed. Both ParanaCidade and FUNDOPIMES
should expand the scope of the lending program by allowing revenue-generating projects (with
positive externalities) where the private sector can participate.
10.   Diversifyfinancial services. ParanaCidade has reached a phase where it could consider
diversifying its financial services to include credit guarantee service: debt financing; and a
catalytic role for build-operate-transfer, concessions, contract management, or other services for
private sector participation. FUNOPIMES could soon follow ParanaCidade's path.
11.   Emphasize training. The MDP program in Brazil lacks a continuing training program
with a formal training institute. Since the Brazil MDP is implemented in a "wholesale"' manner
for numerous municipalities, it may be useful to explore the feasibility of establishing a training
institute (possibly jointly by several states) to build municipal capacity. This in turn would
enhance the local capacity to generate high-quality sub-loans and lessen the need for close
supervision by the state's implementation agencies.
12.   Streamline municipal administration and mantagemttent. Computerizing the accounting
and budgeting systems and updating financial data would enhance the efficiency of municipal
administration and management. It would also make it easier for ParanaCidade and
FUNDOPIMES to monitor continuously the financial health of participating municipalities by
sharing a common database. ParanaCidade is heading in this direction by adopting sophisticated
data management and operations simulation systems.
13.    Use the betterment tax effectively fbr direct cost recovery. This tax for a new
infrastructure service is a one-time "connection fee" to the service. Studies show that low-income
households and small enterprises tend to have a greater willingness to pay at the margin for
reliable services than high-income households and large firms (Lee, Anas, and Oh, 1999; Lee and
Anas, 1992). Therefore, this tax measure could be an effective means of direct cost recovery if
the government commits itself to its implementation.
14.   Protect PIMES and FUNDOPIMESfrom political interference. With a healthy cash
position and the high demand for sub-loans, the PIMES program is entering a critical phase for
institutional growth and financial stability. Therefore, it is important to protect its organizational
integrity, financial independence, and its highly dedicated staff in a period of ongoing state
reform.
15.   Monitor the creditworthiness of municipalities in Parana. Ninety-nine percent of
municipalities are participating in Parana. For such a large number of participants, more stringent
monitoring of the Financial Action Plan will be desirable to maintain healthy financial conditions
of both municipalities and the fund.
16.   Disseminate lessons learned. The evaluation coordinator of the Federal Ministry of
Planning participated in the audit mission. He suggested that, upon completion of OED's ongoing
impact evaluation study, a dissemination seminar be held in Brasilia for the Brazilian local
government officials involved in MDPs.



53                                Annex D
Performance Audit of the Philippines MDPs:
Lessons and Recommendations
I.    Following are the lessons drawn and recommendations made at the project level in the
Performance Audit Report (OED, 1997).
2.    Demand-driven approach, participation, anid ownership. A "bottom-up," demand-driven
program approach to project financing is more efficient and effective for project implementation
than the "top-down," pre-selected, project-specific approach. Beneficiary local governments
perform better and show greater commitment to the project when they have primary
responsibility for project preparation, management, and implementation.
3.    Sequencing project comnponents. The institutional framework for project financing (MDF)
was put in place before undertaking physical investments. Because of the demand-driven
approach, MDP attracted revenue-generating sub-projects that presented minimum risks for cost
recovery. This outcome showed that sequencing of project components in response to the
preference of the beneficiaries can avoid implementation delays and cost-recovery problems that
often occur in a complex urban development project prepared in a "top-down" manner.
4.    Piloting to mainstreaming analogy. After the participating municipalities complete a
rather simple, low-risk, revenue-generating project such as a public market, they tend to enhance
their creditworthiness with a stronger financial base, and expand their investments to
infrastructure projects (such as roads, drainage, water supply, and sanitation). The logic of the
"New Project Cycle" (Picciotto and Weaving, 1994) is supported by the experiences of the MDP
program.
Recommendations
5.    Local government finance reformn and changing role of MDF. The MDF attracted mainly
revenue-generating projects with a minimum risk. The LGUs were initially reluctant to finance
social/infrastructure projects with cost-recovery features. These experiences suggest that
segmenting the demand side of the market, that is, targeting particular types of LGUs for
particular types of sub-projects, should be avoided. Even under LOGOFIND, the credit window
for the first-time borrowers (poor and less experienced) should continue to be open for simple
revenue-generating projects, while the loan product mix with more complex projects should be
offered to more mature LGUs.
6.    Expanded role of local government acadenmy. The role of LGA for training municipal
officials should be expanded from training at the project level (preparation, financing, and
implementation) to building LGU capacity building for planning and implementing a city-wide
infrastructure investment program and managing rapidly expanding urban areas. For example,
Santa Rosa faces a tremendous challenge to meet a sharp increase in demand for residential and
non-residential land and all types of infrastructure services as the city is attracting large
multinational firms. The LGA should also expand its dissemination program whereby the
experiences accumulated by the LGUs graduating from MDP can be shared with the newcomers.
Mayors and senior officials of Bauan and Pulilan, for example, are already serving as lecturers in
the LGA seminars, but a more proactive program such as "twinning" could be effective.



54                                    Annex D
7.    Reducing disincentives for local revenue generation. The increase in the IRA (revenue
sharing) ratio to 40 percent as part of the revised Local Government Code dampened the
incentives to generate local revenues. To reduce this disincentive, the audit recommends: (i) the
introduction of matching grants above the standard allocation of IRA tied to the extent of local
revenue collection or of successful cost recovery; (ii) continued support of the RPTA program to
capture tax revenues from the rapidly rising property values, in particular, from the expanding
non-residential tax base in rapidly growing LGUs; and (iii) the introduction of a "presidential"
award system according to the level of financial autonomy measured by the ratio of IRA receipts
to the total municipal revenue. For the four cities the audit mission visited, this ratio was: Bauan.
16 percent; Santa Rosa, 23; Pulilan, 49; and Butuan City, 79.
8.    Private sector participation in maintenance and contract management. To make the
project achievements sustainable in the absence of recurrent budget funds for maintenance and
technical personnel, LGUs should consider farming out the maintenance activities to private firms
or resort to contract management based on user fees. To protect the financial viability of the
MDP-financed economic enterprises (public markets, bus terminals, and slaughterhouses),
contract management or other forms of private sector participation could be adopted.
Mandaluyong City in Metro Manila has been using a management contract arrangement for its
public market, and Santa Rosa is considering such an arrangement for its market.
..



55                                     Annex E
Public Market Survey Questionnaire
Time and Date:
Name of Interviewer:
IMPACT EVALUATION OF MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
IN THE PHILIPPINES
PUBLIC MARKET SURVEY QUESTIONNAIRE
OF STALL HOLDERS AND SMALL ENTERPRISES
A. CLASSIFICATIONS
Al.   Identification Number: Ito be pre-coded.]
[First number isfor municipality,followed by the serial numbers.1    / / / 
1. Pulilan; 2. Guiguinto
A2.   Classification by business type:                                  11
[First three categories arefor stall-holders.J
1.        Meat, poultry, and fish
2.        Fruits, vegetables, and grains (rice, corns, etc.)
3.        Manufactured goods (clothing, toys, kitchen wares, etc.)
4.         Business enterprises outside the market
A3.   Name of stall-holder or business enterprise:
Stall number:                                                    1111
Telephone number, if any:
Name of respondent:
Position of respondent, if not owner:
B. LOCATION CHOICE
B 1.   When did you start conducting your business at this location?     19/1/
B2.   Did you move here from another location'?    1. Yes: 2. No        11
B3.   If yes, where was your previous business located'?
Name of the subdivision (neighborhood):                    /*'
B4.   Why did you choose this location'?
[Pick the most important reason./                                Il
I .       Availability of space
2.        Accessibility to customers
3.        Close to your residence
I. *Codes to be prepared.



56                                   Annex E
4.        Good transport access
5.        Safety
6.        Others, please specify:                           *
C. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Cl.   For stall-holders: what goods do you sell?                     / / /*
For business enterprise: what kind of business is your enterprise engaged in'?
ifor example, gas station, bank, restaurant, taxi company, pharmacy, etc./
C2.   If you sell goods, where do your goods come from?
[Please give a rough percentage distribution.J
1. From this municipality                / / I / %
2. From this province                    /1// %
3. Outside this province                 1//1%
Total                100 %
C3.   Who are your customers?
[Please give a rough percentage distribution.]
1. Residents of this municipality        /1 / %
2. Residents of this province            ////%
3. People from outside this province     1111%
Total         100 %
D. EMPLOYMENT
Dl.   How many people are working here including yourself? / / / / persons
D2.   How many are member of the owner's family?       / / / / persons
D3    How many are female workers'?                    / / / / persons
D4    How many hours do they work per day'? Owners      / / / hours
Helpers       1/1 hours
D5.   On average, how much do you pay per month'?
1. For manager/Caretaker/owner                  / / / pesos/month
2. For helper                                    /i/pesos/month
D6.   How much do you spend in kinds (meals, transportation and others) per person per
month?
1. For manager/caretaker                        /   pesos/month
2. For helper                                   /   pesos/month



57                                   Annex E
E. COMMUTING
El.   Where do you live?
Name of your subdivision:                            / /1*
E2.   How do you come to work?
11
1. walk             4. tricycle
2. jeepney                 5. private car
3. bus                     6. others, please specify        *
E3.   How far is your residence from your work place?          / kilometers
E4.   How much fare do you pay for one way?                   I 1  pesos
two-ways?                  / /  pesos
E5.   How long does it take to come to work (one way)?  / / / / minutes
E6. Has the traffic condition improved or become worse than when you moved here? //
1.       improved
2.        remained the same
3.        became worse
E7.   Do you have a plan to move your residence near your work place? /1
1. Yes; 2. No; 3. Already near
If yes, is it easy or difficult to find a place near here?  / /
1. Easy; 2. Difficult
F. SALES AND EXPENSES
F1.   Please give your best estimated amounts for the following items without looking at your
accounting books. Please convert all items into monthly values--in pesos per month.
[Note: The first year should be the same as the answer to Question BJ above.J
19                  1998
First Year          Now
a. Monthly sales                         /11111               1111//
b. Purchases of goods and materials      111111               1111111
c. Wages and other benefits (transportation,
meals, etc.)paid forall employees     1111111             1111111
d.Rentpaidforstallorshop                 1111111              11/I11I
e. Property Taxes (for enterprise only)  I//I//I               II//I/
f. Interestpaymentsonloans               /11111/              11//
g. Electricity                            ////1                /////
h.GWater                                  I/11                 //1/1
i. Garbage collection11111111



58                                   Annex E
j Communication expenses                  //I//l                 l//Il
k Delivery costs (both buying and selling)  I    / l l l l       /1/11
1. Any other expenses
Pleasespecify.       .    .. *        1//////              /ll
m. Total Expenses (in 1000 pesos)         /I/II II/I
F2. Roughly, how much monthly income do you (stall-holder or business enterprise) make per
month
after paying all expenses?  First year:    1 l / / / / l / pesos per month
1998:        //////pesospermonth
If B2 is "yes," monthly income at previous location:./ / / / / / / / l pesos per month
NOTE: SECTIONS "G," "H,"AND "I" ARE FOR STALL-HOLDERS ONLY.
G. PUBLICMARKETFACILITIES
[Questions GI through G6 are for stall-holders only.]
G1.   How much was the amount of goodwill payment when you moved in?  1 l / / / //pesos
G2.   How did you pay your goodwill money?
[Pick the most important source.]                                    /I
1. Your savings
2. Borrowed from a bank
3. Borrowed from relatives and friends
4. Private money lenders (five-six)
5. Others, please specify                                       *
G3.   How many stalls do you use now?                                1/
1. When did you started using the second stall?               19/ / /
2. When did you start using the third stall?                  T9// /
3. If you have one now, when do you expect to have a second stall?  19/ I /
G4.   Do you have a plan to establish your own business place outside the public market?
1. Yes; 2. No.                                         1
G5.   If yes, when do you expect to move to the new place?           19/11
G6.   How was the quality of the following services in the market when you moved here and
now?
[Note: The first year should be the same as the answer to Question BI above.]
Excellent = 1; Good = 2; Fair 3, Poor = 4; Not Applicable = 4
19               1997
First year          Now
a. electricity                                                      I I/l
b. water                                                            111



59                                  Annex E
c. telephone                                                      11l
d. police protection                                              1/ /
e. fire protection                                                1/ /
f. garbage collection                                             11/
g. sewerage and drainage                                           /I
h. public toilets                                                 / /1
i. ventilation                                                    11/
j. storage                       _                   __            //
k. parking space                                                  / /1
1. driveway                                                       /11
H. HOUSEHOLD
[Questions HI through H7 are for stall-holders only.]
HI.   How many people are in your family?                           / / persons
H2.   How many members of your family work?                         / / / persons
H3.   Are you the main income earner?          1. Yes; 2. No              1.1
H4.   Has your family's living condition improved since you started business here?   / /
I.    significantly
2.    moderately
3.    no change
4.    became worse
H5.   Did you begin to have maids and/or house-helpers since you started business here?
1. Yes or hired additional maids; 2. No               I
H6.   If yes, how many?                                            / I persons
H7.   How much do you pay her/him per month?                 / / / / /pesos/person.
I. OPINIONS ABOUT THE PUBLIC MARKET
[Questions IH through I6 are for stall-holders only.]
II.    Are you satisfied with the market place ?
Very satisfied =1; Satisfied = 2; Not satisfied  3          / /
I2.    What are some of the problems that could be improved in the market?
[List three in order of importance.]
a.                          -                                      /1*
b.                                                                 _*
C.                      _/1*
13.   Is there a need to expand the market?                        /1
1. Yes; 2. No



60                                    Annex E
14.    Do you belong to a market vendor's association?                11
1. Yes; 2. No
I5.    How much fees do you pay to the association per month?         1111
pesos/month
16.    What services does it provide for you ?
[List three in order of importance.]
a.                                                             /1*
b.          /__*
c._ _               _ _
NOTE: SECTION "J" IS FOR BUSINESS ENTERPRISES ONLY (OUTSIDE THE
MARKET).
J. CAPITAL IN VESTMENT
[Questions J6 through Questions J14 are for business enterprises only.]
J6.    How large is the total floor space?       / i / 11  square meters
J7.    Do you own this place or rent?     1. Own; 2. Rent      11
J8.    If you own the place, how much did you pay for this space when you moved here?
[The year in Question BRh          / / / / / / 1000 pesos per square meter
J9.    How much will you get if you sell it now?  / / / / / /1000 pesos per sq. m.
J1O.   If you rent, how much do you pay per month?  1 / / / / / pesos per month per sq. m.
JI 1.   How much did you spend to set up your business and improvements (i.e., investment for
facilities, equipment, etc.) since you moved here?  / / / / / / 1000 pesos.
J12. Do you have a plan to expand your business at this location? 1. Yes; 2. No 11
J13.   What is the price of land at this location now (1998) per square meter?
/ / / / / / pesos per square meter
J14.   How much was the land price when you moved here? [The same year in Question BII
1  // //Ipesos per square meter
K. OTHER GENERAL COMMENTS ON PROBLEMS, AND SUGGESTIONS FOR
IMPROVEMENTS REGARDING ANY ASPECTS OF YOUR BUSINESS
CONDITIONS OR SURROUNDING AREAS.



61                      Annex E
K. COMMENTS BY INTERVIEWERS ON ANY PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED OR
ANY UNUSUAL INFORMATION TO BE NOTED.



