Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16741
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
(Lii. 3146-PHI)
JUNE 9, 1997
Infrastructure Operations Division
Counltry Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS (annlual averages)
Currency Unit = Philippines Peso.s (P)
1984      US$1.00   P16.7              1991      US$1.00   P27.5
1985      US$1.00   P18.6              1992      US$1.00   P25.5
1986      US$1.00   P20.4              1993      US$1.00   P27.0
1987      US$1.00   P20.6              1994      US$1.00   P27.7
1988      US$1.00   P21.0              1995      US$1.00   P25.7
1989      US$1.00   P21.7              1996      US$1.00   P26.2
1990      US$1.00   P24.3
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)= 0.62 miles (mi)
I hectare (ha)= 10,000 square meters (sq.m.) or 2.47 acres (Ac)
1 linear meter (1m)= I meter (in)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROX\i ER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRC)NYMS
BLGF                       Bureau of Local Governenit Finanice
CPO                        Central Project Office
DOF                        Department of 1Finance
DPWH                       Department of Public \X orks and Highways
GFI                        Government Finanicial Institution
IDF                        Institutional Development Fund
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
IRA                        Internal Revenue Allotmenit
LGA                        Local Government Ageiicv
LGC                        Local Govermenit Codc
LGU                        Local Governmeit UJnit
LOGOFIND                   LGU Finance and Development Project
MDF                        Municipal Development Fund
MDP                        Municipal Developmenit Project
MMINUTE                    The Metro Manila Infrastructure and Engineering Program
MTP                        Municipal Training Pro rram
OED                        Operations Eval uationi I)epartment
ODA                        Official Developmienit Aid
PMO                        Project Management Olftice
PSC                        Project Steering Coin ni ittee
RCDP                       Regional Cities Devclopment Project
RPTA                       Real Property Tax Adminiistration
RPTU                       Real Property Tax L.1n it
SAR                        Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:              Jean-Micliel Severino, EAP
Acting Director:                Walter Schwerilmer, EAI
Acting Division Clief:     Mohamiliad larhandi, EAIIN
Task Manager:                   To-u LHasliimoto, EAI IN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3146-PH)
Table of Contents
Page No
PREFACE ....................                                                       (i)
EVALUATION SUMMARY...................               .                              (ii)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMEN T
A. Evaluation of Objectives .
B.  Achievement of Objectives                            .2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                      .3
D. Project Sustainability                              .4
E. Bank Performance                                  .5
F. Borrower Performance                                .7
G. Assessment of Outcome                                .8
H. Future Operations                                 .8
1. Key Lessons Leared                                  .9
J.     Evaluation of Programme Objective Categories .10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursement: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operations
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8a:     Summary of Project Costs
Table 8b:     Summary of Project Financing
Table 9a:     Direct Benefits
Table 9b:     Summary of Economic and Financial Impact of Selected Sub-Projects
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Input
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Evaluation
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3146-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Municipal
Development Project in the Philippines, for which Loan 3146-PH in the amount of US$
40 million equivalent was approved on December 14, 1989 and made effective on March
2, 1990.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996. As of June 9, 1997, about 98.1 % of
the loan was disbursed. A final withdrawal application of peso 4,226,800.13 is pending
and will be disbursed in June, 1997. The unutilized balance of US$ 758,793.85 will be
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Toru Hashimoto (Urban Planner) and Carol Gabyzon
(Consultant) of EAlIN and reviewed by J. Shivakumar, Chief, EAIIN and Walter
Schwermer, Project Advisor, EAIDR. The borrower provided comments that are
included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in
January to February, 1997 and finalized during the completion mission in May, 1997. It
is based on material in the project file, discussions with implementing agency officials,
and comments received from former task managers for the project. The borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution, providing statistical data, and conducting ex-post impact analysis in several
sample local governments.






- (ii) -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3146-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Second Municipal Development Project (MDI' 11) belongs to a series of Bank-
funded Municipal Development projects in the Philippines. The MDP II was approved in
December, 1989 and completed in December, 1996 as scheduled. Subsequent projects include
the ongoing Third Municipal Development Project (Ln. 3455-PH), which was approved in 1992,
and the proposed Local Government Finance and Development Project. Those projects support
the Government's emphasis on promoting local government autonomy by providing LGUs with
access to long-term credits for priority municipal investments.
Project Objectives
2.     The principal objectives of the loan were to: (a) assist local government units (LGUs) in
Metro Manila and the surrounding provinces to provide basic infrastructure, services, and
facilities, especially to the lower income communities; (b) improve the LGUs' investment
planning, financing, and implementation capabilities; and (c) expand the coverage of the
Municipal Development Fund (MDF) to include all LGUs in the Philippines.
3.     The objectives were clearly defined and generally consistent with the Bank's evolving
strategy for the urban/municipal sector in the Philippines. The project design incorporated key
lessons learnt in the previous urban sector projects. The project, as designed, was generally
responsive to the borrower's circumstances and priorities. The approach was consistent with the
national policy on decentralization which aimed at enhancing autonomy and institutional
capabilities of LGUs.
Implementation Experiences and Results
4.     The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The project successfully achieved
its physical objectives of assisting LGUs in Metro Manila and the surrounding provinces to
provide basic municipal infrastructure, services, and facilities. Based on a sample calculation of
economic rates of return, the project has an acceptable ERR at final development. The project
also achieved its institutional development objectives. It successfully established national
support mechanisms for financial and technical assistance to LGUs. The institutional
development impact on the participating LGUs was also substantial. For the first time in the
Philippines, those LGUs had "hands-on" experiences of capital investment planning,
procurement, contract supervisions, and operations of basic municipal services, which can be
applied to their future capital investment and municipal service operations. The project achieved
its financial objectives. The real property tax component provided a substantial expansion of the
tax bases in rapidly urbanizing LGUs in and around Metro Manila and will provide a solid basis
for future own-generated fiscal resources.



- (iii) -
5.     The project was completed on schedule. The final project cost of the IBRD-financed
portion at Peso 1,019 million (US$ 39.2 million) compared with the appraisal estinate of Peso
982 million (US$ 40.0 million). The discrepancy in Peso termns can be totally attributed to the
exchange rate fluctuation. Even though the MDP 11 suffered initial implementation delays in
sub-loan disbursement and cash releases to the contractors, the implementing agencies were able
to complete the project on schedule. During project implemenitation the Bank agreed to increase
the portion of loan proceeds for civil works that were carried out by the DPWH from 60% to
80% in order to mitigate the negative impact of the tight budgetary situation after the Gulf crisis.
As a result, the local counterpart contribution was decreased to Peso 400 million (US$ 15.1
million) from the appraisal estimate of Peso 423 million (lJS$ 17.2 million). Even though the
project cost remained at the same level, the executing agencies were not able to achieve fully the
physical output level at the appraisal estimate due to price escalation and adoption of higher
engineering standards.
6.     MDP II suffered initial disbursement delays mainly due to slow cash releases to the
participating LGUs. Initially, the implementing agency encountered some difficulties in
ensuring compliance by LGUs of the sub-project conditionalities such as the provision of
required local equity, enactment of ordinances specifying tariff rates, setting up separate trust
fund accounts, etc. While the above factor adversely affected the overall pace and coverage of
project implementation, the project benefited from the experiences gailed and the solid
institutional framework developed under the MDP I and other previous Bank-financed urban
projects. The staff of the Central Project Office (CPO) were transferred from the Project
Management Office (PMO) of the Metro Manila Infrastructure and Engineering Program
(MMINUTE) under the Third Urban Project (Ln. 1821-PH) and were, therefore, trained and
qualified. Most of the participating LGUs cited timely and appropriate technical support from
the CPO as the single most important reason for timely sub-project completion.
7.     Sustainability of the sub-projects is likely. All the participating LGUs maintain local
ordinances to impose appropriate public market and slaughterhouse fees, and the newly created
municipal facilities are generating sufficient revenues for operation and maintenance. However,
lack of adequate maintenance for other non-revenue generating infrastructure has been a
recurring problem. This reflects the underlying endemic problems of inadequate financing and
limited technical capacities in the LGUs. LGUs' performance enhancement in maintenance and
revenue mobilization including real property tax administration (RPTA) will be one of the main
focuses under the proposed LGU Finance and Development Project (LOGOFIND).
Sustainability of the MDP institutions, namely the MDF and the CPO is likely. The GOP
envisages undertaking further strengthening of MDP institutions under the LOGOFIND. The
GOP is planning to expand and strengthen the training, technical assistance, out-reaching
programs to LGUs, improve its own capacity to monitor and evaluate LGU performance, and
revise the MDP national grant component to better target grants on the basis of clear criteria like
equity, efficiency, and externalities.
8.     The Bank's performance during each phase of the project was satisfactory. The concept
and design of the MDP II effectively incorporated the innovative institutional framework
devised in the MDP I, and the lessons learnt from the previous urban sector projects. During the
project implementation, the Bank adequately reported and monitored issues and concerns, and
recommended actions to be taken by the borrower to solve problems. Even though each Bank
supervision mission spent sufficient time in Manila, it had limited time to visit various LGUs to



- (iv) -
conduct physical investigations. The Bank, the GOP and the executing agencies worked well
together. Regular formal and informal exclhanges took place throughout project implementation.
This close interaction helped develop a collaborative working relationship which ensured the
completion of the project on schedule, and with most of the stated objectives achieved.
9.     The borrower's project preparation was satisfactorv. The Government took initiatives to
combine elements from the MMINUTE component of the rhird Urban Project and from the
institutional framework developed under the MDP 1. In the MDP II, the design of the
MMINUTE was modified to allow LGUs to play a direct role in planninig, implementing and
financing municipal infrastructure and services. Despite a stringent budgetary situation and
delays in sub-loan disbursement, which caused initial implemenitationi delays, the borrower made
every effort to complete the project on schedule. The Borrower complied with all legal
covenants in a timely fashion except for recurrent delays in submitting project audit reports and
the separate audits on SOEs and special accounts. As a parallel effort to the ongoing MDP Ill,
the Bank started to provide assistance to the Government to assist the Commission of Audit
(COA) in strengthening its capacity to perform its constitutiolal mandate.
Summary of Findings. Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned
10.    Municipal development projects distinguish themselves from the previous Bank-assisted
projects in the urban sector in the Philippines by relying on a "bottom up" demand-driven
approach that promotes competition among a large number of participating LGUs for scarce
long-term credit funds. The positive results of the MDP 11 confirmed the earlier findings in the
MDP I regarding the efficiency and effectiveness of the bottom-up approach. The participating
LGUs had a greater sense of ownership and showed a greater commitnent to achieve the higher
performance by assuming responsibilities for project identification, preparation, financing and
implementation.
11.    The participating LGUs started the operation and mainitenanice of the assets created in
the project according to the respective sub-loan agreements. The main conditionalities of the
sub-loan agreements which have direct implication on the future operations are: (a) full
repayment of the sub-loan; (b) maintaining local ordinance on market and slaughterhouse fee
structures; and (c) sustaining the LGU Maintenance Trust Funld. Key indicators for adequate
operation and maintenance of the assets created in the project need to be compiled by the LGUs
and to be monitored by the Bureau of Local Government I inance of the Department of Finance
during the follow-up projects.
12.    The key lessons for future urban projects in the Philippines include: (a) Local political
commitment is essential. National support mechanisms in technical and financial assistance are
also important; (b) Size and complexity of sub-projects should match the capacities of LGUs.
This leads to a future capacity building need for inter-municipal coordination to provide large-
scale trunk infrastructure; (c) Capital investments of the LGUs need to be based on appropriate
strategic planning and network analysis to maximize their impact; (d) Fiscal incentives, such as
national specific matching grants, should be provided for LGUs to engage in social and
environment related projects; and (e) Given the relativelv low share of real property tax in
municipal finance, more comprehensive assistance should be provided to LGUs for their revenue
enhancement and mobilization in addition to real property tax administration.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3146-PH)
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.1    The principal objectives of the loan were to:
a) assist local government units (LGUs) in Metro Manila and the surrounding
provinces to provide basic infrastructure, services, and facilities, especially to the
lower income communities;
b) improve the LGUs investment planning, financing, and implementation capabilities;
and
c) expand the coverage of the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) to include all
LGUs in the Philippines.
1.2    These objectives were to be achieved through a series of physical investment
interventions by Department of Public Works (DPWH) and LGUs, local resource mobilization
efforts for Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA), and technical assistance to the main
national implementing agencies such as DPWH, and Department of Finance (DOF). Based on
the demonstrated success of the First Municipal Development Project (MDP I, Ln 2435-PH), the
Second Municipal Development Project (MDP II) adopted a "bottom up" demand-driven
approach that encourages competition among a large number of participating LGUs by
presenting an extensive menu of sub-projects. Sub-projects included:
a) Basic infrastructure: installation of communal faucets; construction of wells;
construction of communal sanitation facilities; construction and rehabilitation of
drainage canals and pipes; and improvement of existing alleys, footpaths and local
roads.
b) Public facilities: construction and rehabilitation of public markets, slaughterhouses
and motorpools.
c) Equipment: provision of road and drainage maintenance equipment, utility vehicles
and computers for record management.
Eligible LGUs had to initiate and prepare investment proposals and agree to make the necessary
fiscal, administrative and managerial improvements in order to receive financing through the
project.
1.3    The objectives were clearly defined and generally consistent with the Bank's evolving
strategy for the urban/municipal sector in the Philippines. The project design incorporated key
lessons learnt in the previous urban sector projects in the Philippines. More specifically, it
aimed at: (i) introducing low-cost designs and approaches to optimize use of limited local
resources and enhancing affordability by the urban poor; (ii) strengthening LGUs to plan
investments, implement projects, operate and maintain services, ard institute proper pricing for
cost recovery; and (iii) providing LGUs essential access to financial and technical resources for
basic municipal services. The third project objective to extend the coverage of MDF, however,
was too ambitious to be tackled only through this project. Although the project initially included
some technical assistance to DOF and DPWH on supervision and monitoring capabilities and



- 2 -
streamlining MDF disbursement procedures, development of MDF's capacity to enable its
coverage extension was too substantial to be achieved in the project. Eventually the proposed
TA support component was dropped from the project, and financed with modified focuses by
other grants such as PHRD grant of the Japanese Government and Institutional Development
Fund (IDF).
1.4    The project, as designed, was generally responsive to the borrower's circumstances and
priorities. The project recognized and attempted to address basic physical, institutional, and
financial constraints to growth and productivity in the LGUs in Metro Manila and surrounding
provinces, with emphasis on the needs of the poor. The approach was consistent with the
national policy on decentralization which aimed at enhancing the autonomy and institutional
capabilities of LGUs.
B. ACHIEVEMENTS OF OBJECTIVES
2.1    The project substantially achieved and, in some participating LGUs, exceeded its
physical objectives related to the provision of basic infrastructure, services, and facilities. Thirty
five LGUs participated in the MDP II. The participating LGUs selected priority infrastructure
from the sub-project menu. As in the MDP 1, the majority of the sub-projects were revenue-
generating facilities, such as public markets (30 LGUs) and slaughterhouses (4 LGUs). Other
sub-projects includes roads, drainage, bridges, motorpool building, and maintenance equipment.
The MDP II public markets provided more sanitary and hygienic facilities, better circulation and
ventilation, increased market capacity to meet demand for nmore permanent stalls, improved
accessibility, and reduced congestion on adjacent streets. Revenue derived from market
operations have also significantly increased the total revenue of LGUs. A more detailed
description of direct benefits is contained in Table 9a.
2.2    Sample Economic Rates of Return (ERR) for 7 public markets are calculated. For the
new markets, market rental values are used as the measurement of benefits, and for the market
rehabilitation, incremental values and maintenance savings are used. Six out of the seven sample
public markets showed ERRs, ranging between 13 to 29%, which are higher than the 12%
opportunity cost of capital in the Philippines, and therefore acceptable. Due to the low
occupancy rates of the vendors, one public market had an ERR below 12%. Table 9b shows the
sample ERR calculation for sub-projects in different cities.
2.3    The institutional development impact was substantial. The MDP II effectively promoted
local government autonomy by providing the needed financial access and technical assistance to
eligible LGUs. The MDF was successfully established as a mechanism to provide local
govemment with direct access to long-term development finance. The Central Project Office of
the DPWH established itself as a capable project implementation agency at the national level and
acted as a technical intermediary to assist LGUs in sub-project formulation and implementation.
The Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF) effectively supervised the tax mapping
program of 87 municipalities which participated under the RPTA program in the MDP II.
Institutional development impact on the participating LGUs were also substantial. The LGUs
had "hands-on" experiences of capital investment planning, procurement, contract supervision,
and operation of basic municipal services. Although the Municipal Training Program (MTP)
was not a component of the MDP II, local government officials were able to join the training
organized under the MDP I and the MDP III. The Local Government Academy (LGA) of the
Department of Interior and Local Government organized training sessions which are linked to



- 3 -
specific aspects of the sub-project implementation and operations such as municipal finance and
revenue administration, construction supervision, contract management and procurement, public
market administration, etc. This linkage further enhanced the "on-the-job" training aspects of
the sub-projects, and enhanced the demand for and relevance of the training.
2.4    The achievement of the project's financial objectives was substantial. As in the case of
the MDP I, the demand for MDP 11 funding was also over-subscribed. An excess of 7 eligible
LGU applications had to be referred to the MDP 111. High demand for the MDF resulted in a
large number of LGUs receiving sub-loans, with a consequent substantial increase in MDF's
accumulated repayments of interests and principals. The MDF also had relative success in
collecting sub-loan repayments. As of December 1996. sub-loan collection rate was 100 percent:
93 percent through normal LGU sub-loan repayments of principal and interest due, and the
remaining 7 percent through the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) intercept application. The
Real Property Tax component provided a substantial expansion of the tax bases in rapidly
urbanizing 87 LGUs in and around Metro Manila. According to the preliminary data in the
BLGF, assessed Real Property Tax Units (RPTUs) in the participating LGUs increased 30.4%
from 1991 (before the RPTA) to 1995 (after the RPTA). Total assessed RPT value increased 2.4
times. Actual RPT collection also indicates the following increases: 234% in the National
Capital Region; j37% in the Region Ill; and 162% in the Region IV. The RPTA component
provided solid institutional bases for the participating LGt Is to tap the buoyant fiscal bases in
their jurisdictions.
2.5    The project only partially achieved its sector policy objectives and public sector
management objectives. The project design provided little incentive for LGUs to extend
coverage of non-revenue generating infrastructure in social and environmental sectors to the
lower income communities. Due to the perceived potential cost recovery risks only few public-
goods type infrastructure were financed in the MDP II: roads (6 LGUs), drainage (4 LGUs), and
sanitation (2 LGUs). The MDP II did not completely achieve the objective of evolving the MDF
as a self-sustaining financial intermediary as envisaged in the SAR. The MDF is starting to
operate as a revolving fund under the subsequent MDP Ill. The macroeconomic policy
objectives were not applicable to the project.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
3.1    The project was completed as scheduled even though the MDP II suffered initial
implementation delays in sub-loan disbursement. In 1990 and 1991 mainly due to delays in cash
releases to the participating LGUs. During the project start-up period, the implementing agency
encountered some difficulties in ensuring compliance by l GUs to the sub-project
conditionalities such as the provision of required local equity, enactment of ordinance specifying
the tariff rates, setting up separate trust fund accounts, etc.
3.2    While the above factor adversely affected the overall pace of project implementation, the
following factors facilitated the executing agencies to complete the project as scheduled. The
project benefited from the experiences gained and the solid institutional framework developed
under the MDP I and the other previous Bank-financed urban projects. The staff of the Central
Project Office (CPO) were transferred from the Project Management Office (PMO) of the Metro
Manila Infrastructure and Engineering Program (MMINtUTE) under the Third Urban Project (Ln.
1821-PH) and were, therefore, trained and qualified. Project supervision was relatively easier
than in the MDP 1, because the areas covered by the project were more easily accessible than the



-4-
remote areas covered by the MDP I. Most of the participating LGUs cited timely and
appropriate technical support from the CPO as the single most important reason for timely sub-
project completion. As the project framework was replicated from the MDP 1, the staff of the
CPO and the BLGF were able to further deepen their understanding of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines and disbursement procedures.
3.3    Other factors adversely affecting project implementation included:
a) Factors beyond government control, such as: change of mayors and city council
members after the local elections in 1992 and loss of support for and/or political
interference in the sub-project implementation; overall shortage of construction
materials and skilled labors in some local areas; and other natural constraints such as
the Mt. Pinatubo eruption, and bad weather conditions due to severe typhoons and
floodings;
b) Factors subject to government control, such as: passage of the Local Government
Code (LGC) in 1991, which substantially increased the national grant (IRA) to
LGUs and raised the minimum threshold for all residential properties tax exemption
to 175,000 pesos. The LGC downgraded the significance of RPTA in the municipal
finance system and provided disincentive for RPTA component expansion; and
c) Factors subject to implementation agency control, such as: weak technical
capabilities at the LGU level to manage and supervise civil work contracts;
unfamiliarity of LGU officials with the Bank Procurement Guidelines; delays related
to land acquisition; and inappropriate feasibility studies and detail engineering
designs by consultants.
3.4    Other factors facilitating project implementation included:
a) Factors subject to government control, such as: given the demand-driven, bottom-up
approach, LGUs had positive incentives to select priority sub-projects, and to
manage their implementation effectively. The project had built-in public
consultation mechanisms to secure positive support by affected vendors and
consumer patronage for most of the new facilities; and
b) Factors subject to implementation agency control, such as: simple project execution
arrangements for the national component (i.e. the CPO, instead of DPWH District
Offices as in the MDP I, executed this component); and selection of small-scale
municipal infrastructures which were manageable even with LGUs' limited
capacities.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
4.1    Overall project sustainability and sustainability of the sub-projects are likely. All the
participating LGUs maintain local ordinances to impose appropriate public market and
slaughterhouse fees. The newly created municipal facilities are generating sufficient revenues
for operations and maintenance. However, the BLGF needs to monitor whether LGUs will set
up and maintain the Maintenance Trust Fund with appropriate appropriations as condition of the
sub-loan agreements, since most of the LGUs have not set up this trust fund to date. The
performance of LGUs in maintaining other non-revenue generating infrastructure has been poor
and could pose a constraint to future sustainability. Lack of adequate maintenance has been a
recurring problem in the MDP I and the MDP II as well as in the previous urban sector projects



- 5 -
in the Philippines. This reflects the underlying endemic problems of inadequate financing and
limited technical capacity in the LGUs. The MDP III tries to address this issue by implementing
a pilot program for maintenance activities in some LGUs. This pilot program focuses on
formulations of infrastructure inventories in participating LGUs and unit costs for maintenance.
The methodology adopted in the pilot program should be replicated to other LGUs in the future.
The BLGF will also monitor the LGUs' maintenance of updated real property tax bases. LGU's
performance enhancement in maintenance and revenue mobilization including RPTA will be one
of the main focuses under the proposed LGU Finance and Development Project (LOGOFIND).
4.2    Sustainability of the MDP institutions, namely the MDF and the CPO is likely. The
GOP's commitment to overall decentralization and national out-reach support programs remains
high. High demand for MDF financing has resulted in a large number of LGUs receiving sub-
loans, with a consequent substantial increase in MDF's accumulated repayments of interests and
principals (second generation fund). The MDF started to function as a revolving fund under the
MDP III with 30% of the sub-loans coming from this second generation fund. The MDF has
also experienced relative success as a long-term municipal finance mechanism. As of December
1996, the MDF sub-loan collection rate was 100 percent. Of this total, 93 percent of collections
came through normal LGU sub-loan repayments of principal and interest due. The remaining 7
percent of collections have been obtained through the application of the Internal Revenue
Allotment (IRA) intercept.
4.3    The CPO has continuously upgraded the skills of its staff and established itself as a
capable technical intermediary for LGU capital investment planning and execution. Under the
MDP III, the CPO and BLGF staff in charge of the MDF have begun to work more closely. The
BLGF staff are involving themselves more with the CPO's appraisal activities, and both the
BLGF and the CPO staff are cooperating to determine loanable amounts for sub-projects and to
monitor the financial performance of LGUs. A key question remaining to be answered is how to
retain the qualified staff in the public sector. The MDP II project staff of the CPO were hired as
co-terminus bases with the project and less than half of the MDP II staff are currently retained in
the CPO.
4.4    The GOP envisages undertaking further strengthening of MDP institutions under the
LOGOFIND. To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the MDF operations, the GOP
plans to consolidate its financial and technical functions into a separate, more autonomous unit
in the DOF. The GOP also intends to strengthen the policies and institutional capacity of the
MDF over time to carry out its new responsibilities. The GOP is also planning to expand and
strengthen the training, technical assistance, out-reaching programs to LGUs, improve its own
capacity to monitor and evaluate LGU performance, and revise the MDP national grant
components to better target them on the basis of clear criteria like equity, efficiency, and
externalities. In the future, the MDF will focus its attention more on the resource-poor LGUs
and encourage the social and environmental projects of LGUs, while allowing the Government
Financial Institutions (GFIs) and the private sector to meet the financing needs of the more
credit-worthy LGUs. The GOP has recently issued a new policy framework for LGU financing
which articulates this intention.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
5.1    The Bank's performance during each phase of the project (identification, preparation,
appraisal and supervision) was satisfactory. The concept and design of the MDP 11 effectively



- 6 -
incorporated the innovative institutional framework devised in the MDP I, and the lessons learnt
from the previous urban sector projects. As in the MDP 1, the Bank designed a simple and
focused project with a limited number of components unlike the early urban sector projects. It
relied on the innovative "bottom-up" demand-driven approach which induced strong local
participation and project ownership. The design of the project was consistent with the
Government and the Bank strategies to strengthen the financial autonomy of LGUs and to
improve their capacity for managing urban growth. The Bank's performance in project
preparation and appraisal was also satisfactory.
5.2   In general, the Bank performed satisfactorily in supervising the project, which included
three distinct components: the national capital investment, the sub-projects, and the RPTA.
Formal supervision was performed regularly once or twice a year. The Bank adequately reported
and monitored issues and concerns, and recommended actions to be taken by the borrower to
solve problems. Some noteworthy interventions and guidance included:
a) at the early stage of the project implementation, the Bank mission clarified and
provided appropriate guidance on the procedures to be followed for procurement of
civil works;
b) the Bank was flexible in increasing the portion of loan proceeds for civil works that
were carried out by the DPWH from 60% to 80% in order to mitigate the negative
impact of the tight budgetary situation (cf part C. Major Factors);
c) the Bank closely monitored and provided extensive comments on the quality and
contents of Sub-Project Appraisal Reports (SPARs) in order to accelerate the sub-
project approval process and to enhance the sub-project substances. Through close
dialogue the Bank helped the CPO to improve staff skills and to streamline the sub-
project preparation process;
d) the Bank recommended a more "impact-oriented" approach to the RPTA component.
Subsequently, the BLGF started monitoring progress in terms of actual revenue
yield materialized through the RPTA and revised the LGU selection criteria so that
more urbanized LGUs which have larger revenue increment potential through RPTA
assistance would receive premiums; and
e) a Bank long-term consultant based in Manila continuously assisted the CPO and the
BLGF staff in reviewing project implementation progress and addressing issues in
advance to avoid problems in project implementation.
5.3   Even though each Bank mission spent sufficient time in Manila, it had limited time to
visit various LGUs to conduct physical investigations. The Bank mission could not closely
monitor the engineering quality of the civil works performed in the various LGUs. In some
cases, civil works have been found to be inadequate during the construction.
5.4   The compliance with loan covenants was regularly monitored. However, the Bank had
difficulty in ensuring compliance with financial covenants. This is mainly due to lack of
appropriate municipal accounting and national monitoring systems. This issue is being
addressed under the preparation of the LOGOFIND.
5.5    The Bank, the GOP and the executing agencies worked well together. Although the task
manager changed four times from the time of project identification to the time of completion, the
Bank continued to provide effective supervision with smooth transitions. Regular formal and
informal exchanges took place throughout the project implementation. This close interaction



- 7 -
helped develop a collaborative working relationship which ensured the completion of the project
on schedule and achieving most of the stated objectives.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.
6.1    The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory. Project preparation by the
borrower was satisfactory. The Government took initiatives to combine elements from the
MMINUTE component of the Third Urban Project and the institutional framework developed
under the MDP I. In the MDP II, the design of the MMINUTE was modified to allow LGUs to
play a direct role in planning, implementing and financing municipal infrastructure and services.
The project scope was also adequately expanded from providing non-revenue generating
infrastructure such as roads, drainage, and communal sanitation facilities to include revenue-
generating projects such as public markets and slaughterhouses for which LGUs had expressed
interest in borrowing sub-loans.
6.2    The GOP was able to maintain an appropriate multi-agency institutional framework for
project implementation. The DPWH was the lead agency for the project, and chaired the Project
Steering Committee (PSC). The PSC provided policy guidance and coordination among the
various agencies involved in the project. The CPO, under the DPWH, appraised and evaluated
sub-projects for financing, provided technical assistance, monitored project implementation, and
acted as liaison with the Bank. The MDF was set up under the DOF, as a principal mechanism
responsible for channeling long-term credit to LGUs, and is supervised by the DOF's Bureau of
Local Government Finance (BLGF). The BLGF also successfully supervised and administered
the RPTA component. LGUs were the executing agencies and were responsible for the
identification, preparation and implementation of the sub-projects. This ensured that LGUs
would select projects they considered to be a priority. However, this often led LGUs to select
revenue-generating sub-projects instead of maintenance and non-revenue generating
infrastructure projects.
6.3    Despite delays in sub-loan disbursement, which caused the initial implementation delays,
the borrower completed the project on schedule. Some noteworthy actions included:
a) in 1994, the Government reprogrammed US$ 6.7 million of budgetary authority to
disburse funds from the completed Regional Cities Development Project (Ln. 2257-
PH) to alleviate budget constraints for that year and to be utilized for the MDP II;
b) upon the Bank mission's suggestion, the GOP reviewed issues related to budgetary
appropriation procedures for the MDF sub-loans. In 1995, the GOP moved MDF
sub-loans off the budget lines of the DOF and put them in line of the unprogrammed
fund, thereby removing the DOF budgetary ceiling constraints; and
c) by 1995, the CPO and the BLGF started working closely in identifying and
appraising sub-projects for financing, with the two units carrying out joint sub-
project appraisal missions. This arrangement streamlined the sub-project
formulation procedures and allowed the GOP to appraise LGUs' financial
capabilities well before the substantial preparation work would be done on a specific
sub-project.
6.4    The Borrower complied with all legal covenants in a timely fashion except for the
recurrent delays in submitting project audit reports and the separate audit on SOEs and special
accounts. As a parallel effort to the MDP III, the Bank started to provide assistance to the



- 8 -
Government that will assist the Commission of Audit (COA) to strengthen its capability to
perform its constitutional mandate.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
7.1   In view of the principal objectives of the project, the overall outcome of the project was
satisfactory.
7.2    The project successfully achieved its physical objectives of assisting LGUs in Metro
Manila and the surrounding provinces to provide basic municipal infrastructure, services, and
facilities. Based on sample calculation of ERR, the project has an acceptable ERR.
7.3    The project achieved its institutional development objectives. The project successfully
established national support mechanisms for financial and technical assistance to LGUs. The
MDF has established itself as a long-term credit window for eligible LGUs. The CPO became a
capable technical agency to support LGUs in municipal infrastructure planning and provisions.
7.4    The institutional development impact on the participating LGUs was also substantial.
For the first time in the Philippines, the participating LGUs had "hands-on" experiences in
capital investment planning, procurement, contract supervisions, and operations of basic
municipal services to be applied to future capital investment and municipal service operations.
7.5    The project achieved its financial objectives. The project substantially achieved the
national fiscal objective to shift gradually from grant financing to loan financing for capital
investment projects undertaken by LGUs. The real property tax component provided a
substantial expansion of the tax bases in rapidly urbanizing LGUs in and around Metro Manila
and will provide a solid basis for future own-generated fiscal resources.
7.6    The project partially achieved its sector policy objectives and public sector management
objectives. However, under the MDP 1, the MDF continued to function merely as an accounting
and disbursement mechanism for various ODA funds to LGUs and did not evolve into a
revolving fund as the SAR envisaged. The separation of national support functions between the
two agencies, namely the CPO (technical/appraisal) and the BiLGF (financial/sub-loan
disbursement), created some inefficiencies in the overall project implementation. The project
design of the MDP 1I provided little incentive for LGUs to extend coverage of non-revenue
generating infrastructure in social and environmental sectors, especially to the lower income
communities.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
8.1    The participating LGUs started the operation and maintenance of the assets created in
the project according to the respective sub-loan agreements. The main conditionalities of the
sub-loan agreements which have direct implication on future operations are: (a) full repayment
of the sub-loan; (b) maintaining local ordinance on market and slaughterhouse fee structures; and
(c) sustaining the LGU Maintenance Trust Fund. Most of the LGUs had some experience in
operating and maintaining similar assets in the past. The basic institutional framework already
exists, staff are mostly on board and generally familiar with their roles and functions.
8.2    Key indicators to monitor sub-project operations are described in Table 6 of the Part II.
In the absence of performance indicators in the SAR, and in view of the nature of some of the



-9-
assets created (roads, drainage, etc.), it is difficult to develop comprehensive monitorable
criteria. Key indicators for future project operations would focus only the quantitatively
monitorable aspects of the sub-projects and the RPTA components. The BLGF will start
monitoring these indicators for which the LGUs will compile the basic data.
8.3    Adequate operation and maintenance of the assets created in the project need to be
monitored during the follow-up projects with the MDF.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.1    The key lessons learnt from this project relevant for other urban sector projects in the
Philippines are discussed below.
9.2    Demand driven "bottom-up" project structure
Municipal development projects distinguish themselves from the previous Bank-assisted
projects in the urban sector in the Philippines by relying on a "bottom up" demand-
driven approach that promotes competition among a large number of participating LGUs
for a scarce long-term credit fund. The positive results of the MDP 11 confirmed the
earlier findings in the MDP I regarding the efficiency and effectiveness of the bottom-up
approach. The participating LGUs had a greater sense of ownership and showed a
greater commitment to achieve the higher performance by assuming responsibilities for
project identification, preparation, financing and implementation.
9.3    Ownership and commitment by LGUs and national support mechanisms
The substantial impact of the MDP 11 was largely based on strong local commitments.
For future Bank projects in the Philippines. it is essential to secure local commitments
before proceeding with project preparation activities. LGUs must show their
commitment and capacitv by adhering to their obligations, and imposing required
institutional and fiscal reforms as a pre-requisite. Ideally, LGUs should assume
responsibility for project identification. preparation, financing and implementation, since
it increases their commitment to a project and enhances sustainability. National support
mechanisms for technical and financial assistance, such as the CPO's and BLGF's (on
RPTA) technical intermediary roles were proven to be very important for project
success.
9.4    Size and complexity of capital investments and matching LGU capacities
Capital investment packages should address the most basic needs first, which are
considered a pr.ority by LGUs, and should be compatible with the technical capacity and
financial resources of the implementing LGUs. Smaller sub-projects and shorter time
frames (2 to 3 years) for project implementation reduce the financial burden on the
LGUs and the risk that LGUs will not meet their revenue targets. However, this leads to
a future capacity building need for inter-governmental and inter-municipal coordination
to provide large-scale trunk infrastructure.
9.5    Need for appropriate strategic planning and network analysis
The lack of strategic planning and network analysis of infrastructure at the local level
was identified as one of the weakness of the MDP approach. This is especially
problematic for the national component in which supplementary investment by the
DPWH in roads and drainage were delivered to the participating LGUs on an ad-hoc
basis and without appropriate considerations of alternatives. The impact of the DPWH's



- 10-
investments could have been maximized if they had been based on appropriate network
analysis. Appropriate prioritization of local capital investment needs is also essential.
DPWH is proposing to address this issue under the proposed Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Program (IUINPRO).
9.6    Limited demand for credit financing of non-revenue generating "public goods" type
infrastructure provision
The experience of the MDP II indicates that the LGtJs have little incentive to borrow for
non-revenue generating infrastructure in social and environmental sectors. Provision of
those infrastructure and services tend to be sub-optimal from an economic point of view
as there exists a disparity between costs to individuals and costs to the society as a
whole. Experiences in other countries prove that specific matching grant systems are
quite effective to change incentive structures and local government's behaviors. In the
future urban projects, the national grant component should be provided based on more
explicit and clear rules such as mitigation of externalities, achieving efficiency gains
through service regionalization, and achieving geographical and/or social equity.
9.7    Need for comprehensive revenue enhancement and mobilization for LGUs
The MDP II focused exclusively on RPTA for LGUs revenue enhancement. While
RPTA components succeeded in providing buoyant own-generated tax bases for the
participating LGUs, the relative share of RPTA was downgraded in municipal finance
after the passage of LGC. More comprehensive assistance should be provided to LGUs
for their revenue enhancement and mobilization. The future Bank projects should assist
LGUs in exploring a wider range of revenue enhancement and mobilization of funds
through user charges, business licensing, and private sector participation through
exaction, development impact fees, management contracts, franchises, concessions
(including BTO, BOT, and BOO, etc.). The national government needs to monitor the
LGUs' financial improvements as an integral part of its assistance to LGUs.
J. EVALUATION OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
10.1   Poverty reduction objectives aimed at providing basic municipal infrastructure and
services to the lower income communities were only partially achieved. Due to the demand-
driven structure of the project, most of the LGUs applied to revenue-generating projects, such as
public markets and slaughterhouses, which presented minimum risks for cost recovery. Only
two sanitation sub-projects were completed, and no application were received for communal
water supply and other sub-projects that directly focus on poverty alleviation.
10.2   The environmental objectives were only indirectly programmed into the project. They
were addressed in the national and local components concerned with drainage and flood control,
and sanitation facilities.
10.3   Private sector development objectives were not directly built into the project. Still, the
project had substantial impacts on enhancing commercial activities in participating LGUs
through the provision of high quality public markets. The project had a limited impact on
developing local contractors and consultants in the private sector.



PART-II
STATISTICAL TABLES






Table 1. Summary of Assessment
A. Achievements of objectives            Substantial           Partial           Negligible            Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                                               x
Sector policies                                                  X
Financial objectives                         X
Institutional development                    X
Physical objectives                          X
Poverty reduction                                                X
Gender issues                                                                                                x
Other social objectives                                                                                      X
Environmental objectives                                                                                     x
Public sector management                                         X
Private sector development                                                                                   X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                  Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                                   X
Preparation assistance                                           X
Appraisal                                                        X
Supervision                                                      X
D. Borrower Performance              Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory          Deficient            Not applicable
Preparation                                                      X
Implementation                                                   x
Covenant compliance                                              X
Operation (if applicable)                                                                                    x
E. Assessment of Outcome             Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory      Highly unsatisfactory
x



Table 2. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit Name                 Purpose             Year of approval     Status     Comments
Manila Urban             Upgrade Tondo Foreshore        27-May-76        Complete   PCR issued; PPAR
Development Project      & Phase I of Dagat-                                         no. 7092 dated
(1282-PH)                Dagatan site and service                                    January, 1988
project
Second Urban             Extend service sites and       21-Dec-78        Complete   PCR issued; PPAR
Development Project (Ln.   upgrading to regional                                     no.7092 dated
1647-PH)                 cities.                                                     January, 1988
Third Urban Development   Expand slum upgrading in       5-Mar-80        Complete   PCR no. 7897
Project (Ln.1821-PH)     Metro Manila.                                               issued July 14,
1986
Urban Engineering        Assist in preparation of the    8-Dec-81        Complete   PCR no. 7009
Project (Ln. 2067-PH)    Regional Cities                                             issued November
Development and Second                                      16, 1987
Central Visayas Regional
Project.
Regional Cities          Stimulate economic             31-Mar-83        Complete   PCR no. 14330
Development Project      decentralization by                                         issued Apr. 13,
(Ln.2257-PH)             improving basic social                                      1995. PPAR no.
infrastructure, and                                        14780 issued on
strengthening municipal                                    June 30, 1995.
institutions to manage
urban facilities.
Municipal Development    Provide financing to local     14-Dec-89        Complete   PCR no. 15100
Project (Ln. 2435-PH)    governments for                                             issued November
infrastructure, improving                                  3, 1995. PPAR
municipal services, and                                    under preparation.
increasing local technical
and administrative
capacity.
Housing Sector Project   Improve institutional and      24-Jun-88        Partially    PCR no. 15810
(Ln. 2974-PH)            policy framework to                             canceled    issued June 25,
promote efficiency and                                      1996.
redirect new housing to
lower income.
Third Municipal          Continue municipal             31-Mar-92         Active     Closing Date is
Development Project (Ln.   development program                                       June 30, 1999.
3455-PH)                 begun under MDP and
MDP II



Table 3. Project limetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                                May, 1988
Preparation                                                November 16, 1988
Appraisal Mission                 February, 1989            March 11, 1989
Loan Negotiations                  June, 1989             November 3, 1989
Board Approval                      July, 1989            December 14, 1989
Loan Signing                      August, 1989              January 19, 1990
Loan Effectiveness                October, 1989              March 2, 1990
Project Completion                June, 1996              November 30, 1996
Loan Closing                    December 31, 1996         December 31, 1996



Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative. Estimated and Actual
(Us$ Million)
Stage of Project Cycle                        1990       1991        1992       1993        1994       1995       1996       1997    Total
Appraisal Estimate                             3.2         3.4        5.8        7.2         7.4        7.1        5.9                 40.0
Actual                                         2.5         1.2        6.5        8.9         9.3        2.6        5.1         3.1      39.2
Actual as % of estimate                       78.1        35.3      112.1      123.6       125.7       36.6       86.4                 98.0
Cummulative Total             Estimate         3.2         6.6       12.4        19.6       27.0       34.1       40.0                 40.0
Actual          2.5        3.7        10.2       19.1       28.4       31.0        36.1       39.2      39.2 a/
Date of Final Disbursement:        June, 1997
a/ Final disbursement figures will be provided after the approval of pending withdrawal application No. 31 with 4,226,800.13 pesos
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(Indicators are not available)



Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operations
I. Key operating indicators in SAR/President's Report                            Estimated             Actual
N/A
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
N/A
III. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)
1. Full recovery of subloan repayment                                                   100%               93%
2. Maintaining local ordinance (regarding market and slaughterhouse fees & others)  100% of LGUs          100%
3. Sustain LGU Maintenance Trust Fund with appropriate appropriation            100% of LGUs    to be monitored
4. RPTA Maintenance with positive increase on assessed value and actual collections.  95% of LGUs    to be monitored
5. Achieve physical target: 100% occupancy rate for public markets and number of  95% of LGUs    to be monitored
livestock to be slaughtered at slaughterhouse.
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
(No study conducted)



Table 8.a. Summary of Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                                                  Actual
Pesos (Million)                US$ (Million)                   Pesos (Million)                 US$ (Million)
Local    Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign           Total    Local   Foreign   Total
1. Local Component        278.4      198.4    476.8      12.9        9.2      22.1       79.9      431.3      511.2      3.1       16.7      19.8
2. National Component    174.0       115.3    289.3       8.1        5.4       13.5     107.3      320.4       427.8      4.2      12.4       16.6
3. RPTA                   114.0       76.0     190.0      5.3        3.5       8.8       91.4       139.8      231.3      3.5       5.4       8.9
4. Technical Assistance/    14.2      10.6      24.8      0.7        0.4        1.1      89.4        0.0       89.4       3.5       0.0       3.5
Advisory Service
Base Cost              580.6      400.2     980.9      27.0       18.6      45.6     368.1       891.6     1259.7    14.2       34.5      48.8
Contingencies
Physical              51.4        26.6      78.1      2.4        1.2       3.6       9.9        39.1       49.1       0.4       1.5       1.9
Price                 206.3      140.1     346.4      4.7        3.2       8.0       22.3       88.5       110.8      0.9       3.4       4.3
Total Cost             838.4      567.0    1405.4    34.1         23.1      57.2     400.3      1019.2      1419.6     15.5     39.2      54.9
Note: Conversion Rate Average: $1.00 = P24.56                                      Average: US $1.00 = P25.86
May not add up due to rounding



Table 8.b. Summary of Project Financing (in P Million)
Appraisal Plan
Component             Total          LGU          DPWH           DOF         Bank Loan   Loan Share
1. Local Component            677.7          109.3                                      568.4          84%
2. National Component          424.0                        175.3                       248.7           59%
3. RPTA                        272.9         107.6                                       165.3          61%
4. Technical Assistance/       30.8                         24.5           6.3                          0%
Advisory Service
Total Financing        1,405.4        216.9         199.8          6.3           982.4          70%
Actual
Component             Total         LGU           DPWH           DOF         Bank Loan   Loan Share
1. Local Component            595.0          93.0                                       502.0          84%
2. National Component          503.9                        126.5                       377.5           75%
3. RPTA                        231.3          80.4                        11.1          139.8           60%
4. Technical Assistance/       89.4                         89.4                                        0%
Advisory Service
Total Financing        1,419.6        173.4         215.9          11.1         1,019.2         72%



Table 9a. Direct Benefits
Project Component               Physical Target                     Projected Benefits                   Actual Accomplishments
Appraisal         Actual    I
Local Projects
Market rehabilitation          40 units        31 units     *  Hasten the development of              *   Structurally sound and
and construction                              (3 units         LGUs as commercial trading                convenient facilities
rehab)          center.                                   established in the markets
*   Improve general hygiene and           *   Congestion and traffic
sanitation for occupants and              problems within the
shoppers.                                 market vicinity is satis-
factorily reduced
*  Improve mobility, comfort and
convenience for vehicles'             *   Ambulant/transient vendors
loading/unloading goods and               given permanent stalls.
pedestrian
a   Shortage in number of units
*   Increase market capacity to               but still improved general
meet demand for stalls                    hygiene and sanitation for
occupants and shoppers.
*  Increase local revenues brought
by the improvement introduced         *   Proper stall sectioning.
under the new market facilities
and its operational system.
Motorpool buildings            9 units          o units     *  Decrease deterioration of vehicles     *   Improved maintenance tor
and equipment and                             8 equipt.        and maintenance and construction           construction equipment and
construction                                                   equipment                                  vehicles.
*  Improve maintenance capacity.          *   Regular maintenance for
street and drainage brought
________________________  _____________                                          by   equipm ent.
Slaughterhouse const.          9 units          4 units     *  Improve slaughterhouse capacity        *   Increased slaughterhouse
and acquisition of                                                                                        capabilitv due to acquisition
equipment                                                  *  Improve slaughterhouse adminis-             of equipment,
tration and revenue collection
*   Unhygienic and illegal
*  Minimize illegal and unhygienic            backyard slaughtering
backyard slaughtering                     were minimized.
*  Reduce diseases resulting from         *   hicreased local revenues
improper handling and processing          due to improved adminis-
of meat.                                 tration and revenue



Project Component               Physical Target                      Projected Benefits                     Actual Accomplishments
|  Appraisal         Actual    l                                            l
Local Projects, continued
Sanitation                      6 units          2 units      *   Improved health and sanitation         0   Shortage in the number
condition of project sites                 of units due to presence
of MWSS pipe water
*   Reduced morbidity and mortality            supply for individual
rates due to improved sanitation           house connections.
condition
*   Market vendors and
*   Lower economic losses due to               consumers were able
reduced incidence of sanitation-          to avail of clean and
related diseases like diarrhea,            sanitary bathhouse
parasitism, skin disease and               and toilet.
the like.
Drainage                      6.610 kms.       25.049 kms.    *   Elimination of flooding and stag-      *   Improved health and
nant water in the project sites            sanitation condition of
project sites due to
*   Reduced flood damages to life              elimination of flooding
and property and limited public            and stagnant water.
contact to foul sewer
*   Increase in land value
*   Contribution to sanitation related
projects.
Street                        42.339 kns.      22.043 kms.    *   Improved access and traffic            *   Improved access and
mobility                                  traffic mobliity brought by
widened and paved
*   Shorter travel time                        road.
*   Lower running and maintenance          *   Increase in local revenues
cost for vehicles                          due to increase in land
value.
*   Increase in land value.
________________________  _____________    ______________                      ~~~~~~~~~* Shorter travel time,  lower



Project Component               Physical Target                      Projected Benefits             |       Actual Accomplishments
Appraisal         Actual    I                                            I
__________________        __________      ___________        National Projects
Bridge Construction            418.0 im         127.0 Im      *  hmprove accessibility to bridges        *   Improved access and
traffic mobility.
*   Reduce maintenance and repair
cost.                                 *   Shorter travel time.
Drainage                      145.503 km.      50.268 kms.    *   Elimination of flooding and stag-      *   Shortage in target due to
minor drainage   minor drainage      nant water in the project sites            Price Escalation.
2.695 kms.      0.932 kms.
major drainage  major drainage    *   Reduced flood damages to life          *   Change in design from open
and property and limited public            canal to covered canal that
contact to foul sewer                      serve as sidewalk for improved
pedestrian mobility.
*   Increase in land value
*   Eliminate of flooding and
*   Contribution to sanitation related         stagnant water in the project
projects.                                  sites.
*   Reduced flood damages to
life and property and limited
public contact to foul sewer.
*   Increase in local revenues
due to increase in land
value.
Street                       181.391 kms.    120.493 kms.   *   Improved access and traffic              *   Shortage in target due to Price
mobility                                   Escalation.
*   Shorter travel time                    *   Increase in width and thickness
of pavement that increased
*   Lower running and maintenance             traffic mobility and durability of
cost for vehicles                          project.
*   Increase in land value.                a   lncrease in local revenues
brought by increase in land
value.



Table 9.b. Summary of Economic and Financial Impact of Selected Subprojects
Appraisal            Actual         Increase/ Decrease
Actual vs. Appraisal
Project Center       FIRR       ERR       FIRR    ERR
Marikina, Metro Manila    14.56     15.48     19.07    22.07           increase       High collection efficiency. Increase the market rate in special
stalls.
Taytay, Rizal             17.06     18.01     13.67    14.53           decrease       Stalls not fully occupied in the first two years of operations.
Tanza Cavite              12.92      13.8     14.75    16.09           increase       Collect "goodwill money" (guarantee deposit) from permanent
stallholders which increase the financial status of the
municipality. High collection efficiency.
Sta. Rosa, Laguna         14.92     15.78     12.50    13.20           decrease       The market rate in the appraisal were not fully implemented.
Pulilan, Bulacan          19.64     20.76     26.83    29.01           increase       Collect "goodwill money" (guarantee deposit) from permanent
stallholders which increase the financial status of the
municipality. High collection efficiency.
San Rafael, Bulacan       13.23     14.22     12.45    13.23           decrease       Stalls not fully occupied in the first two years of operation.
Cardona, Rizal            12.29      13.2      4.12     4.67           decrease       Stalls not fully occupied in the fist two years of operation.



Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section           Covenant type          Present status           Description of Covenant        Comments
Loan 3146-PH   4.01           Accounts/Audits        soon to be complied with  Project Audit to be submitted by  FY 95 project audit was
9/30 each year.                submitted at the end of
February, 1997. The
separate audit on special
account to be submitted
soon.
3.01 (b) &     Institutional         complied with            Project Management Office      None
Sch.5                                                         satisfactory to Bank
3.01 (b) &     Financial             complied with            Municipal Development Fund    None
Sch.5                                                         satisfactory to Bank
3.01 (b) &     Sub-project/sub-loan    complied with          PMO to submit subloan           Bank approved these
Sch.5          criteria and procedures                        applications to Bank for review    documents in 1993, 1994,
and acceptance.                1995, and 1996.
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Mon-ial Statements
No issues of non-compliance.
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preappraisal         Appraisal             Negotiations                Supervision                      ICR               Total
StaffWeeks          31.7                18.3                    6.3                        72.2                          9                137.5
US$ 000             68.1               38.1                    15.1                        156.4                        18.8             296.5



Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
Mission Data             Date         No. of      Specialization   Types of problems
(month/year)   persons         represented
Identification          May-88           I               A          N/A
Preparation             Nov-88           3             A,A,E        Project preparation work slowed down because budget
releases are delayed due to lack of final Investment Co-
ordinating Committee (ICC) project clearance.
Appraisal               Mar-89           3             A,A,E        Delay in obtaining final Investment Co-ordinating
Committee (ICC) approval for the project.
Supervision I            Jan-90         N/A             N/A         N/A
Supervision II          Apr-90           1               A          No major problems.
Supervision III         Dec-90           2              A, B        No major problems. Some confusion over the
procedures to be followed for procurement of civil
works contract.
Supervision IV          Aug-91          N/A             N/A         Contract bidding rescheduled because of delay in
approving the 1991 budget.
Supervision V           Aug-92           2              A, B        Delays in cash releases for subproject expenditures due
to potential unavailability of funds and untimely release
of approved budgets. This resulted in some contractors
suspending construction.
Supervision VI          Jan-93           3             A,B,C        Delays in cash releases and budget ceilings for sub-loan
releases to local governments. Progress is already being
aftfected in a number of cases, with contractors reducing
the pace of work or suspending work.
Supervision VII         Aug-93           3             A,B,C        Contract award in the project centers for local
components is being delayed by the limited annual
budgetary allocations for on-lending through the MDF.
Supervision VIII        May-94                      (File missing)    (File missing)
Supervision IX          Aug-94           2              C,D         Despite repeated requests from DOF and the Bank, the
Department of Management and Budget has been
reluctant to apply the full IRA intercept against
delinquent sub-borrowers.
Supervision X           Mar-95           2              G,E         Potential institutional bottlenecks due to budgetary
mismatch between national components (DPWH) and
sub-loans (DOF).
Supervision Xl           Jul-95          3             D,G,E        Potential institutional bottlenecks due to budgetary
mismatch between national components (DPWH) and
sub-loans (DOF).
Supervision XIl         Jan-96           2              G, E        No major problems.
Supervision XIII        Jun-96           3             E,F,G        No major problems.
Supervision XIV         Jan-97           2              G, E        No major problems.
Completion              May-97           2              G, E
Key to specializations:
A-Economist                         E-Consultant
B- Engineer                         F-Operations Officer
C-Financial Analyst                 G-Urban Planner
D-Urban Financial Specialist






APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide memoire
B. Borrower's Evaluation






THE WORLD BANKJIFC/M.I.G.A.                                               Appendix A
Aide Memoire
DATE:  May 22, 1997
TO: Mr. Danilo Trajano
Project Director, DPWH-PREMIUMED/MMINUTE
COPY TO:  Ms. Lorinda Carlos
Director, MDF-BLGF/DOF
SUBJECT:  Philippines: Second Municipal Development Project (Ln. 3146-PH)
Completion Mission: May 1997
INTRODUCTION
1.    A World Bank mission comprising of Mr. Toru Hashimoto (Urban Planner)
visited Manila between May 13 to 24, 1997 to conduct ICR mission of the Second
Municipal Development Project. The local expert, Mr. Jose League (Urban Expert)
provided extensive support for the mission. The main objective of the mission was to
discuss with CPO, BLGF, and LGA on the content of the draft ICR Mr. Hashimoto have
prepared, and record the view of the Bank, borrower, implementing agencies on project
implementation and operation. This mission was a follow-up to the last supervision
mission in which the mission have collected preliminary statistical data of the project and
conducted site visits to inspect sub-project performance financed under the project. The
mission's main findings were discussed during the Technical Sub-Committee Meeting on
May 21, 1997, which was chaired by Assistant Secretary Bonoan of DPWH, and attended
by officials of NEDA, DILG, DOF-BLGF, CPO, and LGA.
2.    The mission would like to express their appreciation for the extensive and ready
support given by all agencies. This aide memoire summarized the mission's findings
which are subject to confirmation by the Bank's management.
STATEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The MDP II was approved in December, 1989 and completed in December, 1996
as scheduled. The principal objectives of the loan were to: (a) assist local government
units (LGUs) in Metro Manila and the surrounding provinces to provide basic
infrastructure, services, and facilities, especially to the lower income communities; (b)
improve the LGUs investment planning, financing, and implementation capabilities; and
(c) expand the coverage of the Municipal Development Fund (MDF) to include all LGUs
in the Philippines.
4.    The objectives were clearly defined and generally consistent with the Bank's
evolving strategy for the urban/municipal sector in the Philippines. The project design
incorporated key lessons learnt in the previous urban sector projects. The project, as



- 2 -                    May 22, 1997
designed, was generally responsive to the borrower's circumstances and priorities. The
approach was consistent with the national policy on decentralization which aimed at
enhancing autonomy and institutional capabilities of LGUs.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES AND RESULTS
5.   In view of the principal objectives of the project, the overall outcome of the
project was satisfactory. The project substantially achieved and, in some participating
LGUs, exceeded its physical objectives related to the provision of basic infrastructure,
services, and facilities. The participating LGUs selected priority infrastructure from the
sub-project menu. As in the MDP I, majority of the sub-projects were revenue-
generating facilities, such as public market (31 LGUs) and slaughterhouse (4 LGUs).
Other sub-projects includes roads, drainage, bridge, motorpool building, and maintenance
equipment. The MDP II public market provided more sanitary and hygienic facilities,
better circulation and ventilation, increased market capacity to meet demand for more
permanent stalls, improved accessibility, and reduced congestion on adjacent streets.
Revenue derived from market operations have also significantly increased the total
revenue of LGUs. CPO calculated sample Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for 7 public
markets. 6 out of the 7 sample public markets showed the ERRs which are higher than
the opportunity cost of capital, and therefore acceptable. Due to the low occupancy rates
of the vendors, one public market has an ERR below 12%.
6.   Institutional development impact was substantial. The MDP II effectively
promoted local government autonomy by providing the needed financial access and
technical assistance to the resource-poor LGUs. The MDF was successfully established
as a mechanism to provide local government with direct access to long-term development
finance. The Central Project Office of the DPWH established itself as a capable project
implementation agency at the national level and acted as a technical intermediary to assist
LGUs in sub-project formulation and implementation. The Bureau of Local Governmn.t
Finance (BLGF) effectively supervised the tax mapping program of 87 municipalities
which participated under the RPTA program in the MDP II. Institutional development
impact on the participating LGUs were also substantial. The LGUs had "hands-on"
experiences for capital investment planning, procurement, contract supervisions, and
operations of basic municipal services. Although the Municipal Training Program (MTP)
was not a component of the MDP II, local government officials were able to join the
training organized under the MDP I and the MDP III. The Local Government Academy
(LGA) organized training sessions which are tied up to specific aspects of the project
implementation and operations such as municipal finance and revenue administration,
construction supervision, contract management and procurement, public market
administration, etc. This unique structure further enhanced the "on-the-job" training
aspects of the sub-projects.
7.    The achievement of the project's financial objectives was substantial. As in the
case of the MDP I, the MDP II was also over-subscribed. An excess of 7 eligible



-3                      May 22, 1997
applications had to be turned over to the MDP III. High demand for the MDF resulted in
a large number of LGUs receiving sub-loans, with a consequent substantial increase in
MDF's accumulated repayments of interests and principals. The MDF also had relative
success in collecting sub-loan repayments. As of December 1996, sub-loan collection
rate was 100 percent: 93 percent through normal LGU sub-loan repayments of princip.1i
and interest due and the remaining 7 percent through the Internal Revenue Allotment
(IRA) intercept application. The Real Property Tax component provided a substantial
expansion of the tax bases in rapidly urbanizing 87 LGUs in and around Metro Manila.
According to the preliminary data in the BLGF, assessed Real Property Tax Units
(RPTUs) in the participating LGUs increased 30.4% from 1991 (before the RPTA) to
1995 (after the RPTA). Total assessed RPT value increased 2.4 times. Actual RPT
collection also indicates the following increases: 234% in the National Capital Region;
337% in the Region III; and 162% in the Region IV. The RPTA component provided
solid institutional bases for the participating LGUs to tap the buoyant fiscal bases in their
jurisdictions.
8.    The project only partially achieved its sector policy objectives and public sector
management objectives. Under the MDP II, the MDF continued to function merely as an
accounting and disbursement mechanism for various ODA funds to LGUs and did not
evolve into a revolving fund as the SAR envisaged. The separation of national support
functions between the two agencies, namely the CPO (technical/appraisal) and the BLGF
(financial/sub-loan disbursement), created some inefficiencies in the overall project
implementation. The project design of the MDP II provided little incentive for LGUs to
extend coverage of non-revenue generating infrastructure in social and environmental
sectors, especially to the lower income communities. Due to the perceived potential cost
recovery risks only few public-goods type infrastructure were financed in the MDP II:
roads (6 LGUs), drainage (4 LGUs), and sanitation (2 LGUs).
9.    Sustainability of the sub-projects is likely. All the participating LGUs maintains
local ordinances to impose appropriate public market and slaughterhouse fees and the
newly created municipal facilities are generating sufficient revenues for operations and
maintenance. Lack of adequate maintenance for other non-revenue generating
infrastructure has been a recurring problem. This reflects the underlying endemic
problems of inadequate financing and limited technical capacities in the LGUs. LGU's
performance enhancement in maintenance and revenue mobilization including RPTA will
be one of the main focus under the proposed LGU Finance and Development Project
(LOGOFIND). Sustainability of the MDP institutions, namely the MDF and the CPO is
likely. The GOP is planning to expand and strengthen the training, technical assistance,
out-reaching programs to LGUs, improve its own capacity to monitor and evaluate LGU
performance, and revise the MDP national grant components to better target them on the
basis of clear criteria like equity, efficiency, and externalities.
10.   The Bank's performance during each phase of the project was satisfactory. The
concept and design of the MDP II effectively incorporated the innovative institutional



-4-                      May 22,1997
framework devised in the MDP I, and the lessons learnt from the previous urban sector
projects. During the project implementation, the Bank adequately reported and
monitored issues and concerns, and recommended actions to be taken by the borrower to
solve problems. The Bank, the GOP and the executing agencies worked well together.
Regular formal and informal exchanges took place throughout the project
implementation. This close interaction helped develop a friendly working relationship
which ensured the completion of the project on schedule and achieving most of the stated
objectives.
11.   The project preparation by the borrower was satisfactory. The Government took
initiatives to combine elements from the Metro Manila Infrastructure and Engineering
Program (MMINUTE) under the Third Urban Project (Ln. 1821-PH) and the institutional
framework developed under the MDP I. In the MDP II, the design of the MMINUTE
was modified to allow LGUs to play a direct role in planning, implementing and
financing municipal infrastructure and services. Despite a stringent budgetary situation
and delays in sub-loan disbursement, which caused the initial implementation delays, the
borrower made every effort to complete the project on schedule. The Borrower complied
with all legal covenants in a timely fashion except for the recurrent delays in submitting
project audit reports and the separate audit on SOEs and special accounts. The project
benefited from the experiences gained and the solid institutional framework developed
under the MDP I and other previous Bank-financed urban projects. The staff of the CPO
was transferred from the MMINUTE Project Management Office (PMO) and were,
therefore, trained and qualified. Most of the participating LGUs cited timely and
appropriate technical support from the CPO as the single most important reason for
timely sub-project completion.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
12.   The participating LGUs started the operation and maintenance of the assets
created in the project according to the respective sub-loan agreements. Main
conditionalities of the sub-loan agreements which have direct implication on the
operations would be: (a) full repayment of the sub-loan; (b) maintaining local ordinance
on market and slaughterhouse fee structures; and (c) sustaining LGU Maintenance Trust
Fund. Most of the LGUs had experiences to operate and maintain similar assets in the
past. Basic institutional framework already exists, staff are mostly on board and
generally familiar with their roles and functions.
13.   Key indicators to monitor sub-project operations are agreed as follows:
(a)   Full recovery of sub-loan repayment;
(b)   Maintaining local ordinance regarding market and slaughterhouse fees;
(c)   Sustain LGU Maintenance Trust Fund with appropriate appropriation;
(d)   RPTA maintenance with positive increase on assessed value and actual
collections; and



May 22, 1997
(c)    Continue to achieve physical target: I 00%) OCCLIpancy rate lor pLiblic
markelts and numbiiiler ol oliveslock to he slallughtCred aIt slaughterhouse.
'h hIc B(LGF will start mlloilitol-ilig tlhese indicators lfr which the l G lis will comiipilc the
basic data. AdeatLeLC operltaion and imaintcnance ol' tlhc assets cr-cated ini the project lced
to be monitilored tidring tlle I`Ilow-up proiccts witli tIhe MDF)l.
KEY LESSONS LEAIRNEI)
14.   'Ihle kcy lessons lcarint Iroii thilis project relevant for othier urbail sector pro jects in
tllc P'hilippines arc discussed below.
15.   DLetmiaid driven "bottom-up" projcct structure
Municipal Development projects distinguishl themselves from the previous Bank-
assisted projects in the urban sector in the Philippines by relying on a "bottom up"
demand-driven approach that induces competition among a large number of
participating LGUs for a scarce long-term credit fund. The positive results of the
MDP 11 confirmed the earlier findings in the MDP I regarding the efficiency and
effectiveness of the bottom-up approach. The participating LGUs had greater
sense of ownership and showed greater commitment to achieve the higher
performance by assuming responsibilities for project identification, preparation,
financing and implementation.
16.   Qwnership and commitment by LGUs and national support mechanisms
The substantial impact of the MDP II was largely based on strong local
commitments. For future Bank projects in the Philippines, it is essential to secure
local commitments before proceeding with project preparation activities. LGUs
must show their commitment and capacity by adhering to their obligations, and
imposing required institutional and fiscal reforms as a pre-requisite. Ideally,
LGUs should assume responsibility for project identification, preparation,
financing and implementation, since it increases their commitment to a project
and enhances sustainability. National support mechanisms for technical and
financial assistance, such as the CPO's technical intermediary role was proven to
be very important for project success.
17.    Size and complexity of capital investments and matching LGU capacities
Capital investment packages should address the most basic needs first, which are
considered a priority by LGUs, and should be compatible with the technical
capacity and financial resources of the implementing LGUs. Smaller sub-projects
and shorter time frames (2 to 3 years) for project implementation reduce the
financial burden on the LGUs and the risk that LGUs will not meet their revenue
targets. However, this leads to a future capacity building need for inter-
governmental and inter-municipal coordination to provide large-scale trunk
infrastructure.



- 6 -                      May 22, 1997
1 8.   Need lor appropriate strategic planning and network analysis
The lack of'strategic planning and network analysis of inl'rastructure at the local
level was ideentified as onc of the weakness of the MDP approach. Tlhis is
especially problematic for the national component in which supplementary
investmiienit by the DPWHI in road and drainage were delivered to the participating
LGUs oil an ad-hoc basis and without appropriate considerations of alternatives.
The impact ol' the D'WIl's investments could have been maximized if they had
been based on appropriate network analysis. Appropriate prioritization of local
capital investment needs is also essential.
19.   Need for incentive scheme for non-revenue generating "public goods" tYvpe
infrastructure provision
Thle experience of the MDP II indicates that the LGUs have little incentive to
provide non-revenue generating infrastructure in social and environmental sectors
by borrowing. Provision of those infrastructure and services tend to be sub-
optimal from an economic point of view as there exists a disparity between costs
to individuals and costs to the society as a whole. Experiences in other countries
prove that specific matching grant systems are quite effective to change incentive
structures and local government's behaviors. In the future urban projects, national
grant component should be provided based on more explicit and clear rules such
as mitigation of externalities, achieving efficiency gains tlb.ough service
regionalization, and achieving geographical and/or social equity.
20.   Need for comprehensive revenue enhancement and mobilization for LGUs
The MDP II focused exclusively on RPTA for LGUs revenue enhancement.
While RPTA components succeeded in providing a buoyant own-generated tax
bases for the participating LGUs, the relative share of RPTA was downgraded in
the municipal finance after the passage of LGC. More comprehensive assistance
should be provided to LGUs for their revenue enhancement and mobilization.
The future Bank projects should assist LGUs in exploring a wider range of
revenue enhancement and mobilization of funds through user charge, business
licensing, and private sector participation through exaction, development impact
fee, management contract, franchise, concession (including BTO, BOT, and BOO,
etc.).
AGREED ACTIONS
21.   The mission obtained the Borrower's evaluation of the Project. The CPO will
submit the comments on the draft ICR before June 4, 1997 with inputs from the BLGF
and the LGA.



Appendix B
THE BORROWERS
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR
WORLD BANK LOAN NO. 3146-PH
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HIGHWAYS
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LN. 3146-PH)
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.1   The Second Municipal Development Project (MDP II) was the combination of two
(2) previous Bank financed projects in the Philippines. The first was the Metro Manila
Infrastructure, Utilities and Engineering Program (MMINUTE) which was considered to be a
successful component of the Third Urban Project and had been noted to have developed a
methodology for identifying and prioritizing infrastructure investments and expertise in
community organization. 'The second was the First Municipal Development Project (MDP
1) otherwise known as the Program for Essential, Municipal Infrastructure, Utilities
Maintenance and Engineering Development (PREMIUMED) which provided sub-loan funds
to Local Government Units (LGUs) outside Metro Manila through the Municipal
Development Fund (MDF)2 and which enabled the LGUs to meet the growing needs of their
fast growing urban population. Under MDP II, the MMINUTE project area was expanded
from the LGUs in Metro Manila to the LGUs in the surrounding fringe provinces of Cavite,
Laguna, Rizal and Cavite. The project was renamed MMINUTE II-FRINGE.
1.2   The government's major objectives for the MDP II were two-fold: meeting the needs
of the urban poor and strengthening the financial, technical and managerial capabilities of
LGUs. The specific objectives of MDP II were aimed at:
a)    assisting the LGUs in Metro Manila and the surrounding provinces to provide
basic municipal infrastructure, services and facilities, especially to the lower
income communities;
b)    improving the LGUs investment planning, financing and implementation
capabilities and;
c)    expanding the coverage of the MDF to include all LGUs in the Philippines.
1.3   The project included:  (i) basic infrastructure, public facilities, maintenance
equipment, and consultant services for project preparation and construction supervision at
the local level; (ii) Real Property Tax Administration Program; (iii) technical assistance
to DPWH and DOF.
1.4  The project was very timely and proved to be successful with all its project
objectives fully achieved because actual execution coincided with the government's
implementation of the 1991 Local Government Code promoting full local government
WB Staff Appraisal Report, MDP 2, p.6, November 17, 1989.
2 MDF was created under P.D. 1914 as a Special Revolving Fund
I



autonomy. Under the project, a total of 35 project centers/LGUs were provided with funds
to finance their priority investment projects located at low income areas. These LGUs have
also indicated improvement in their planning, financing and implementation capabilities
through the technical assistance and capability building programs provided for in the
project.
1.5    A total of P501.963 million sub-loan funds from the MDF were re-lent to the 35
LGUs. As of March 31, 1997, collection efficiency for MDP II project centers was reported
at 90.0%. At appraisal, the total project cost, excluding taxes and duties was estimated at
about P1,405 Million (US$57.2 Million). The foreign exchange component was planned to
finance about P567.0 Million (US$23.1 Million) or 40% of the total project cost while the
local costs involved about P838.4 Million (US$34.1 Million) representing 60% of the total
project cost.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2.1   Poverty alleviation and local government autonomy are two of government's major
goals for sustainable development. The project objectives were in full support of these two
(2) major goals. About 3 Million people located in low income communities of the 35
LGUs benefitted from the various infrastructure and facilities completed under MDP II.
Project design which put emphasis in meeting the needs of the urban poor was appropriate
in achieving the said objectives. Sixty nine percent (69%) or 24 LGUs of the 35 LGU
beneficiaries belonged to the 3rd to 5th class low income LGUs. The total 35 LGUs
exceeded the number of 33 LGUs targetted during appraisal stage. The improvement of
sanitation and health, especially in low income conmmunities was one of the major benefits
of the project. PMO survey results on the impact of market projects indicated that 72% of
the 18 LGUs surveyed responded that the project provided sanitary and hygienic facilities in
the market site.
Physical Objectives
2.2   Physical objectives were substantially met.  A total of 329 subprojects were
implemented in the 35 LGUs while 87 LGUs participated under the RPTA component.
2.3   The solid waste study (DPWH) and the MDF Management system study (DOF)
under the technical assistance component were deferred and subsequently cancelled under
MDP II. It was informed that financing for these studies were taken up in subsequent Bank
financed projects.
2.4   Project design was appropriate in fully achieving the objectives.  Key physical
indicators were provided at appraisal making it easy to quantify the variance of project
outputs at completion time. Variances in physical works were primarily due to the demand
driven approach of the project which resulted to the realignment of projects based on LGU
priorities and consequently, the reallocation of loan funds within the subprojects.
2



2.5   Market projects ranked first in terms of the subprojects prioritized by MDP II LGUs.
A total of 31 units of market subprojects were constructed in 30 LGUs3. Of these 31 market
projects, 20 were new construction at the same sites while 11 were new construction at new
sites.
2.6   Other subprojects consisted of slaughterhouse (4 units), sanitation (2 units), roads
(142.536 km.), drainage (76.249 km.), bridge (127.00 LM), motorpool building (6 units)
and maintenance equipment (8 units).
2.7   The Economic Internal Rate of Returns (EIIR) of market projects calculated for
selected market projects in 7 project centers after the project completion showed a high
positive rate of return (4 LGUs) although some were lower than the target (3 LGUs).
Pulilan market project indicated the highest EIRR from appraisal (20.76%) to project
completion (29.01%).4 Cardona Public Market indicated the lowest at appraisal (13.20%)
and also at project completion (4.67%). The high EIRR for Pulilan was due to the 1 00%
stall occupancy rate, collection of substantial goodwill money including the full
implementation of the market ordinance tariff structure. The Cardona Public Market, on the
other hand, had problems in low stall occupancy rate especially in the fish (21.88%), meat
(50%), fruits and vegetables (53.85%) and dry goods (66.67%) sections. Interview with the
Cardona Mayor, however, indicated a positive view on his part that there will soon be
100% stall occupancy rate in the Cardona Public Market. Similarly, with regards to the
calculation of the Financial Internal Rates of Return (FIRR) for the same centers, Pulilan
also had the highest FIRR from appraisal (19.64%) to project completion (26.83%) while
Cardona also indicated the lowest (12.29% at appraisal and 4.12% at completion time.
2.8   The FIRR and EIRR calculations for the 7 selected market projects are shown in
Table 1.
Financial Objectives
2.9   As of April 30, 1997, actual loan availment was placed at US$39.425 million out of
the US$40.0 million loan. About US$0.287 million allocated to subloans in 12 LGUs were
not released due to their failure to submit necessary project requirements for final fund
releases. These are allocations for the 10% retention for equipment, civil works and
consultancies. About US$0.192 million for the National Component were likewise not
disbursed. About US$0.096 million remained undisbursed for the RPTA component.
2.10  In general, however, the achievement of financial objectives was substantial. Actual
total project cost reached Pl,419.557 million inclusive of local taxes as against P1,405.4
million appraisal estimate. There was substantial decrease in local cost (peso terms) from
P828.4 million at appraisal to P400.315 million at loan closing date which was due to a
lower application of percentage to contingencies. The increase in foreign cost from P567.0
million at appraisal to P1,019.242 million at loan closing date was primarily due to the
3     Two (2) units of public markets were implemented in Valenzuela.
4 FIRRs and ERRs were calculated for the 7 selected markets which had at the least 2 years operations from
project completion.
3



increase in the percentage grant of the national component (150% of local cost) for lower
income LGUs and the increase in the loan share from 60% to 80%.
TABLE I
Summary of Economic and Financial Impact of Selected Subprojects
Center/Project              Appraisal              Actual
FIRR  EIRR           FIRR  EIRRE
Marikina, Metro Manila          14.56%  15.48%       19.07% 22.07%
Market
Taytay, Rizal                   17.06% 18.01%        13.67%  14.53%
Market
Tanza, Cavite                   12.94%  13.80%       14.75%  16.09%
Market
Sta. Rosa, Laguna               14.92%  15.78%       12.50%  13.20%
Market
Pulilan, Bulacan                19.64% 20.76%        26.83% 29.01%
Market
San Rafael, Bulacan             14.22%  13.23%       12.45%  13.23%
Market
Cardona, Rizal                  12.29% 13.20%        4.12%  4.67%
Market
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
3.1 The MDP 11 loan of US$40.0 million was signed in January 19, 1990 but only became
effective in March 2, 1990. The project had an original physical completion date of
December 31, 1995 and a loan closing date of December 31, 1996. While the actual
project completion date was extended up to November 30, 1996, the loan closing date of
December 31, 1996 remained the same.
3.2   During project implementation, there were also a number of factors that affected
achievement of project objectives.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control.
a)    The Qoup D Etat, Gulf War Crisis and the major earthquake which all happened in
1990 and the 1991 Mt. Pinatubo eruption  had created major setbacks in project
execution of MDP II. This has resulted to major economic crisis in the country. In
1990, US $1.00 was P23.58. In 1994, US$1.00 was highest at P34.00.
b)    Due to the 1990 Gulf war, Bank loan share for the National component civil works
was increased from  60%  to 80%.  This necessitated the realignment of loan
allocation for the national component which also resulted to increased loan share
4



from US$10. I million at appraisal to US$14.662 million at loan closing date. Loan
share for local component decreased from US$23.2 million to US$19.358 million at
loan closing date.
c)   The Bank's guidelines of awarding bid out contracts to the lowest evaluated
responsive and complying bids had significant increase in project costs resulting to
increased LGU equity. Average LGU equity contribution was placed at 15%.
Paombong, registered the highest with about 28% equity.
d)   Others such as inefficient consultants, political problems, weather disturbances, right
of way problems, lack of support from vendors, change in local leadership, weak
political will, political grandstanding/credit grabbbing, delay in delivery of
construction materials and lack of skilled labor to perform masonry works, among
others, also affected project implementation..
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
a.   Interdependence of project components where local components could not be started
without completion first of national components. Sample cases were construction of
access roads leading to market and slaughterhouse projects in Kawit, Morong,
Cardona and Los Baflos.
b.   Change of project priorities due to change in local leadership (1992 elections)
specifically in Marikina, San Juan, Pasig, Malabon and San Miguel.
c.   Land acquisition took longer than originally estimated as in the cases of Paranaque
(total sub-loan cancelled), Los Banos, Tagig, San Miguel and Bacoor.
d.   Expiration of sub-loan closing dates which could no longer be further extended
beyond loan closing date which resulted to the cancellation of sub-loan balances
amounting to about P58.724 million in 19 LGUs and grant funds (national
component) amounting to P8.000 million in 5 LGUs.
e.    Failure to provide remaining equity requirement in some LGUs.
Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency control
a.   Revisions of plans
b.   Red tape in project approval
e.   Delays in review of plans
d.   Delays in approval of plans by DPWH
e.    Cancellation of grant
5



1). PXR(OJIECT StJSTAINAIBILITY
Sustainability of Suh-projects
4.1    Susta1inability ol' subprojects is likely. 13oth the I]WRs and lRRs ol'f market projects
in selected project ceilters ([able I ) indicate highi positive rates ol' returin althougIl some are
lower than the targets but are neverthieless still positive. Increase in market fees as a result of'
the Ml)l' ll projects thlOulgh loca; COuIlCil ordinanice were all complied by the LGUs since
this was a conditioin b'(.r suLb-loani fund releases. I-lowever, five (5) 1,GlJs were not able to
implemiienit the recoiimmenlded increase on a one tine basis but preferred to collect goodwill
mioniey (advance payment) or impleinenit the increase in a staggered basis.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
5.1    rlhe Borrower takes cognizance of the satisfactory performance of the Bank in all
aspects from identificationi, appraisal, supervision phases.
5.2    Identification. At the onset, right after completion of MMINUTE I in 1987, Bank
Mission was already very supportive to the continuation of MMINUTE under a modified
project design. Such positive support enabled the Borrower to pursue the next phase under a
collaborative partnership with the Bank's staff mission consistent with  the overall
governmenit's policy on poverty alleviation and promotion of local government autonomy.
5.3    Project Preparation. Bank's assistance to the project was noteworthy, especially
with the assignment of well capable financial specialist and engineers to guide the PMO in
packaging the project. In this aspect, the Borrower notes the technology transfer from Bank
staff to PMO staff most especially in financial and economic analysis.
5.4    Appraisal,   Bank  mission's  constructive  comments  to  Appraisal Reports
prepared/submitted by PMO had substantially improved the quality of subsequent appraisal
reports incorporating such important concerns like project acceptability both on the political
and social aspects. The Bank had flexibility in appraising proposed projects and in most
cases  advised PMO to put more emphasis in monitoring compliance on the mitigating
measures to minimize project risks.
5.5    Supervision. The borrower notes the diligence of Bank staff mission in monitoring
progress of implementation especially in reporting as well as LGUs' compliance of the
conditionalities of their sub-loans. Although there was a turnover in the Bank's supervision
mission at midpoint of project implementation (1993), there was smooth transition,
continuity and flexibility in supervision. Quantity and quality of Bank staff consultants were
adequate and supervision missions were timely with sufficient time durations.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
6.1   In general, the borrower notes the satisfactory performance of PMO and BLGF in
acting as technical intermediaries to LGU sub-project formulation and implementation.
6



PMO staff had wide implementation experience considering that previous staff involvement
included direct exposures in planning, design preparation, procurement and construction
supervision including community development under MMINUTE I (URBAN III) as well as
project preparation skills under earlier Bank financed projects (Urban I and 11). Under MDP
11, PMO extended technical assistance to LGUs in detailed design preparation and
construction supervision of local subprojects while at the same time served as the
implementing agency for the national subprojects. At appraisal, national subprojects were to
be implemented by the DPWH District/Regional Engineering Offices. At implementation
stage, DPWH Central Office gave authority to PMO to directly implement the national
subprojects in cognizance of its technical capability and readiness to supervise construction
works. Procurement for both local and national subprojects were, however, delegated to the
respective LGU-PBACs under close guidance and assistance from PMO. In 1990 alone,
PMO processed 15 On-lending Agreements (OLAs ); 1991, 5 OLAs; in 1992, 12 OLAs and
in 1994, 3 OLAs. Another 7 project centers were also processed by PMO as early as 1993
and 1994 but their package investment amounting to P147.750 million were only politically
cleared after the 1995 local elections and subsequently approved by the PSC and PGB in
1995. It was noted however, that their project execution and funding were no longer realistic
under MDP II project implementation timetable so they were approved instead, for financing
under the MDP III.
6.2    While the performance of most sub-borrower LGUs was satisfactory, it was deficient
in few LGUs especially in term of delays in project execution which led to the expiration of
their sub-loan closing dates and resulted to the cancellation of their unutilized sub-loans.
This was the case of Paranaque (P29.034 Million) whose local project had to be cancelled
because of unresolved ownership of the market site. Tagig (P10.649 Million) and Hagonoy
(P5.352 Million) also incurred delays in complying with sub-loan conditionalities resulting
to the expiration of their subloan closing dates which could no longer be further extended.
The separate category for subloan allocated to finance consultancies for subproject
preparation was not realized because all project LGUJs had set out separate LGU funds for
such purposes. All LGU subloans v.ere fully utilized for detailed engineering plans and
supervision as well as civil works.
6.3   The setting up of a Special Account amounting to US$2.5 million during the third
quarter of 1990 (Application No. 1) helped so much in keeping up with disbursement targets.
Although actual disursements to contractors/LGUs started only in early 1991, the US$2.5
million special account advanced in 1990 was already retlected as actual loan availment for
year 1990. By end of 1994 which was two years before loan closing date, actual cumulative
total loan availment (US$28.40 M) was 3% higher than the appraisal estimate (US$27.0 M)
and was already advanced at 71% over the total loan of US$40.0 million. As early as April
of 1996 (Application No. 18), government started to replenish the Special Account and by
March 14, 1997 (Application No. 23), the full US$2.5 million special account had been
replenished.
6.4    Although project completion was extended by almost one year from December 3 1.
1995 to November 30, 1996, loan closing date was on schedule in December 31, 1996. As of
April 30, 1997, actual loan availment was placed at (JS$39.425 million.
7



G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Development Impact
7.1    Project outcome is highly satisfactory primarily because of the substantial
development results. This has been fully documented from the results of the PMO survey of
1 8 LGUs on their perceived impact of public market projects: improved market facilities
(78%); provided convenience and safety (78%); provided sanitary and hygienic facilities
(72%); increased land values (67%); reduction in traffic (61%); improved accessibility
(56%). Other positive impact cited were: increased number of establishments within the
market area; increase in economic activities; upsurge of commercial activities at surrounding
areas; establishments of banks; construction of subdivisions; brisk business transactions; low
prices on commodities; employment generation; increase in municipal revenues; greater
opportunities for farmers to sell products at competitive prices; center of trade; center of
people's interaction.
7.2    Preliminary analysis of Slaughterhouse project (Malolos) indicated improved public
health through the provision of good quality of meat, increased capacity for meat production
for local consumption and provision of additional income to the municipality.
7.3    Likewise,for roads drainage and bridge projects, it was noted that there were
increased  land  values,  improved  accessibility,  increased  development/business
establishments and reduced travel time and vehicle operating costs.
7.4    After the project, 60% (21 LGUs) of the 35 LGUs moved from lower income class
status to higher income class category. The impact of MDP projects especially the market
projects is overwhelming in many MDP II project centers. For example, Pulilan before the
project (1990) had only about P30,000 market income. After the project (1995), Pulilan
market had income of P2.8 million. Binan market had greater results: market income before
the project (1990) was only P1.741 million; after the project (1995) market income was
P10.856 million. Income from business taxes and real property taxes likewise had substantial
increases. Table 2 shows a comparative financial profile of 14 MDP 11 project centers before
and after the project.
Training Impact
7.5    MDP II centers availed of trainings funded out of MDP III at midstream of project
implementation (late 1993). Not all the thirty five (35) LGUs attended the trainings provided
for the MMINUTE Centers. Also, since the MMINUTE Centers were already in its
implementation stage, training programs conducted for these Centers only include modules
on Detailed Engineering, Construction Supervision, Financial Accounting and Monitoring
Control, Municipal Enterprises (Market/Slaughterhouse) Administration and Management,
Municipal Finance and Revenue Administration and the workshop on the preparation of the
Project Completion Report.
8



TABLE 2
MMINUTE 11- FRINGE PROGRAM
COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL PROFILE OF SELECTED PROJECT CENTERS
May 1997
Before the Project                                                             After the Project                                           Percent Increase
CENTER                       Total      Market     % to     RPT       X to [ Busmess    % to          |   Total       Market    r%to      RPT      % to FesmenS    % to       Total     Market      RPT        usmness
Y-ear  In-ome (PM)  In ome (PM)   Total   Income    Total    Taxes  Total    Year  Income (PM)  Income (PM)   Total   Income    Total    Tases    Total   Inrome     Income     Income      Taxes
Marikina, Metro Manila     1990       66.477       3.902   5.9%      12.454  18.7%     13.588  20.4%     1995      234.182       7.598   3.2%     86.758  37.0%     72.479  30.9%      252.3%      94.7%     596.6%     433.4%
Malolos, Bulacan           1990      12.706       3.307  26.0%        2.317  18.2%      1.713   13.5%    1995       51.874      8.430   16.3%      4.920   9.5%       7.580  14.6%     308.3%     154.9%     112.3%     342.5%
Sta. Rosa, Laguna           1990     12.263        0.315   2.6%       4.782  39.0%      2.252   18.4%    1995      101.856       1.385    1.4%    36.705  36.0%      25.975  25.5%     730.6%     339.7%     667.6%    1053.4%
Kawit, Cavite              1990       6.519        1.247  19.1%       1.028  1 5.8%     0.643    9.9%    1995       24.422      1.484   6.1%       1.754   7.2%       2.585  10.6%     274.6%      19.0%      70.6%     302.0%
Plaridel, Bulacan           1990      6.651        2.069  31.1%       0.925  13.9%      0.723  10.9%     1995       29.577      4.421   14.9%      3.980  13.5%       5.609  19.0%     344.7%     113.7%     330.3%     675.8%
Pulilan, Bulacan            1990      3.627       0.030    0.8%       0.755  20.8%      0.459   12.7%    1995       25.249      2.880   11.4%      1.634   6.5%       4.024  15.9%     596.1%    9500.0%     116.4%     776.7%
Calumpit, Bulacan           1990      4.770        0.223   4.7%       1.298  27.2%      0.361    7.6%    1995       27.543       1.989    7.2%     2.562   9.3%       2.393   8.7%     477.4%     791.9%      97.4%     562.9%
San Rafael, Bulacan         1991      7.041        0.330    4.7%     0.439    6.2%      0.540    7.7%    1995       21.121      0.550    2.6%      0.774   3.7%       0.829   3.9%     200.0%      66.7%      76.3%      53.5%
Tanza, Cavite               1991       5.963       0.555    9 3%     1 228   20.6%      0 645   10.8%     1995      32.347      2.204    6.8%      5.862  18.1%       3.427  10.6%     442.5%     297.1%     377.4%     431.3%
Cardona, Rizal              1991       3.919       0.037    0.9%     0.370    9.4%      0.271    6.9%    1995       12.476      0.168    1.3%      0.235   1.9%       0.364   2.9%     218.3%     354.1%      -36.5%     34.3%
Binan, Laguna               1991     21.615        1.741    8.1%     1.404    6.5%      2.837   13.1%    1995       76.326     10.856   14.2%0     3.885   5.1%       6.963   9.1%     253.1%     523.5%     176.7%     145.4%
Morong Rizal                1991      4.931        0.168    3 4%/    0.866   17.6%      0.563   11.4%    1995       14.358      1.045    7.3%      2.296  16.0%       0.934   6.5%     191.2%     522.0%     165.1%      65.9%
Taytay, Rizal               1991     24.969        1.757   7.0%      8.863   35.5%      4.221   16.9%    1995       62.661      2.298    3.7%      4.674    7.5%     15.924  25.4%     151.0%      30.8%      -47.3%    277.3%
Paombong, Bulacan           1991     12.150        0.009   0.1%      0.715    5.9%      0.199    1.6%    1995       20.877      0.283    1.4%      0.909   4.4%      0.648    3.1%      71.8%   3044.4%       27.1%     225.6%
j   TOTAL      j       j   193.601 j    15.690 j 8.1%j   37.444 j 19.3%j    29.015   15.0% j69                           45'591i 62%1  156.948    21.4%1  149.734 4  20.4%    27         190.6%     319.2%  41
ol23r4woarnplelPro2



7.6    An Impact Assessment of trainings conducted for MMINUTE Centers was made
based on the actual participation of the LGUs and on training modules they have attended.
Said Impact Assessment conducted yielded satisfactorily results such as Improved
Performance of Individual Skills: improved/new skills acquired, improved skills in revenue
generations, improved general supervision, improved project management and Improved
Performance of the LGU: Enhanced revenue generation capacity (revised tax structures,
improved   skills  and   strategies  in  revenue   generation),  better   general
supervision/management, improved management of assets, improved project implementation
capacity; improved bidding procedures, improved construction supervision skills and
detailed engineering know how, better project management; better fiscal management;
increased participation of People's Organizations (Pos) and Non-Government Organizations
(NGOs) in local development and improved profitability of public markets and
slaughterhouses.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
8.1    Regular monitoring of LGU  performance after project completion must be
undertaken to ensure documentation and the sustainability of full development impact. MDP
II project staff were hired as co-terminus with the project. As of closing date, only 42% of
the 76 PMO staff were retained. BLGF-DOF is mandated to take on the monitoring
responsibility. PMO, however, has developed key monitoring indicators which can be used
as baseline data for future monitoring. Future monitoring should also take into account the
setting up of separate maintenance trust funds/accounts, a key issue in MDP 1.
8.2   Project replicability is likely sustainable as MDP 3 proceeded shortly in 1993 and its
loan closing date is on June 30, 1999 As of April 30, 1997, a total of 600 LGUs applied for
MDP III financing but only about 60 LGUs could be accomodated. A follow through project
called the LGU Finance and Development Project (LOGOFIND) is now in the pipeline
which could consider unserviced MDP III applicants. While LOGOFIND is DOF initiated,
DPWH has been requested by DOF to assist in project preparation. Another project called
the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Project (IUINPRO) is now being developed by DPWH
aimed at formulating area-wide development plans for each of the priority urban
conurbations to provide a common development framework for national agencies, local
governments and the private sector-identifying their respective roles and contributions to the
development process.
8.3    Highly important is the resolution of the key issue on the continuity of service of
PMO staff. Majority of the selected staff retained up to December 31, 1997 have been with
the Bank projects since 1976 (Urban 1). Government has to take cognizance of the need to
maintain selected high quality staff to continue the instititutional learning process. At the
moment, project staff are now being involved in MDP 3 project preparation and project
supervision and others will also be tapped for the LOGOFIND and IUINPRO project
preparationas well as the  Metro  Manila  Urban  Transport lmprovement Project
(MMURTRIP).
10



I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.1    MDP 2 project results confirmed earlier findings in MDP I regarding the efficiency
and effectiveness of a "bottom-up" demand-driven program approach to project financing
than the "top-down", pre-selected, project specific approach. LGU beneficiaries had greater
sense of ownership and showed greater commitment resulting to better performance given
the active and direct role In planning, financing, and implementation activities.
9.2    Under a modified project design approach, a shorter project duration for each LGU
specific investment package (up to 2 to 3 years duration) with strong monitoring system is
more achievable than a inulti-sectoral program mix ol longer project duration (usually 5
years).
9.3    Political and social acceptability of projects, political will of Local leadership and
good team  work of both the LGU and the PMO ensure a most likely smooth project
implementation results minimizing possible delays and occurrence of cost overruns
associated with the project.
9.4    Training assessment also indicated that training tied up to the implementation of the
project could yield more tangible results at a shorter period of time than regular staff
development courses. Strong technical assistance especially to lower income LGUs in
project preparation and project management is still necessary to guide them in the complex
procedural requirements of foreign-assisted projects like the MDP .
9.5    Strong monitoring system  is needed to ensure project sustainability after project
completion, most especially in areas of provision of maintenance funds under separate
Maintenance Trust Account for completed MDP projects and the revenue enhancement
programs of project LGUs.
9.6    The setting up of a Special Account (US$2.5 million under MDP 11) proved very
helpful in expediting disbursements of funds due to the availability of ready cash. For future
projects, special accounts should be maintained.
11






IBRD 21292R
. k                      ~~~~~NUEVA ECIJA_
J'HILIPPINES
t  t   \                   {                      %4w ila~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nila
DNA. R. TRINIDAD  -EA
PAMPANGA   |              
N~~~~~~~~
SLI SE-A 
l  B U LACAN           /\              X         Xt~~~214>\
quu^>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ao ,.o  o9    fo' .,*o.  o' 
BATANGASNAGARAY
),UIGI~lONT: TAS  9   RIA 
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT~ PROECTN
METRO MANILA A~~~~~~ND FRNGTAEA
IAW Icptig G=Us8M
~~~~~~~~ Prvic Boundarie
w L L  A      N :                   F   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T AN AYLO) 
ALF~~~~~~~~ONZ                              MARI
BATANGAS                        V /       {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BT
ASPHILIPNEN
City and Municipality Boundaries
J _
SA~~~~JNE19









IMAGING
Report No.           16741
Type:      ICR



