Document of
The World Bank
FoR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 7t7 3-PP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 17, 1989
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Asia Refional Office
Ts docmnt has a resricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officl duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.
gag= BLDUIYALIM
Currency Unit - Peso (P)
P 1 - US$0.048
P 21 - US$1.00
(As of September 1989)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)  -  10.76 square feet (sq ft)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BLGF      -  Bureau of Local Government Finance
CPO       -  Central Project Office (First Nunicipal
Development Project)
DLG       -  Department of Local Government
DOF       -  Department of Finance
DPWH      -  Department of Public Works and Highways
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
LOU       -  Local Government Unit
MDF       -  Municipal Development Fund
MDP I     -  First Municipal Development Project
MDP II    -  Second Municipal Development Project
MKINUTE   -  Metro Manila Infrastructure and Engineering
Program
NEDA      -  National Economic Development Authority
PHO       -  Project Management Office
RPTA      -  Real Property Tax Administration



FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
PHILPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Progect Summary
Borroer:       Republic of the Philippines
Amount:        US$40 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would assist local governments in
Metro Manila and the surrounding provinces: (a) provide
basic municipal infrastructure, services and
facilities, especially to lower income communities, and
(b) improve investment planning and management in local
governments. The project would include: (i) basic
infrastructure, public facilities, maintenance
equipment, and consultant services for project
preparation and const-uction supervision at the local
level; (ii) Real Property Tax Administration Program to
improve real property tax data, records management,
billings and collections; and (iii) technical
assistance to DPWH and DOF. The main project benefits
would be: (a) enhancing the ability of the local
governments in the fast developing metropolitan area to
meet their investment needs; (b) improving sanitation
and health, especially in low income communities; and
(c) strengthening the institutional framework for
fviancing local government investments and increasing
rev.nue generation at the local level.
Risks:         The primary risk is that the local governments would
not undertake measures to improve property tax
collections or market revenues required to qualify for
MDF subloans. To minimize this risk, subloans would be
for short periods with local governments successfully
carrying out fiscal improvements qualifying for follow-
up subloans. Local council approval of fiscal reforms
would be obtained prior to start of implementation to
assure political support. A second risk is that this
project could overwhelm the institutional framework
developed under the First Municipal Development Project
which is still in an early stage. However, a second
project is considered a managable expansion since the
two projects cover different geographical areas and
would be implemented in parallel by two separate
project offices which are presently fully operational.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                   Local   Foreign   Total
---- -(US$ Million)------
Subprojects                                  21.0      14.6    35.6
Real Property Tax Administration              5.3       3.5     8.8
Technical Assistance
Solid Waste Study                            0.1      0.2      0.3
Advisory Services                            0.6       0.2     0.9
Base Cost                27.0      186     4.
(in Sep. 1989 prices)
Contingencies:
Physical                                     2.4      1.2      3.6
Price                                        4.7       3.2     8.0
Total Proiect Cost aJ             34.1             5.
Financing Plan:                                  Local   Foreigrn   Total
---(US$ Million)------
Local Governments                             8.8         -       8.8
DPWH                                          7.6        0.5      8.1
DOF                                                      0.3      0.3
World Bank                                   17.7       22.3     40.0
Total           34.1      23.1
Estimated Disbursements:   -------------------Bank FY-------------------
90    91    92    93    94    95    96    97
----------------(US$ million)----------------
Annual        2.5   2.4   4.6   6.5   7.3   7.3   7.0   2.4
Cumulative    2.5   4.9   9.5  16.0  23.3  30.6  37.6  40.0
Economic Rate of Return:       16%
aJ Net of taxes and duties; may not add up due to rounding.



- iii -
SECOND HUNICIPAL4 .EVE0PM         PROJKa
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...............................         i
I. SECTOAL CONTMXT
A. Urban Grcwth in the Philippines  .....        ................  1
B. Local Government Structure  ..........................         2
C. Issues in Local Government Management  ....       ...........  3
D. Bank Urban Strategy and Experience from
Previous Projects  .............................. ....         5
II. THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Program Objectives and Organizational Structure    .....       8
B. Subproject Selection  ................................    10
C. Subloan Terms and Conditions and Onlending Agreements.    11
D. Implementation to Date  ..............................   12
E. Bank Municipal Sector Strategy  .....        .................    13
III. THE PRDJCT
A. Project Origin and Formulation  .....        .................   16
B. Project Rationale  ...................................    16
C. Project Objectives  ..................................    16
D. Project Description  .................................    17
E. Project Costs and Financing Plan  .....        ...............   20
F. On-lending Arrangements  .............................    22
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION. IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Implementing Arrangements ....    24
B. Implementation Schedule ..............................   27
C. Procurement and Disbursements  .......................   29
D. Accounts and Audits  .................................    31
E. Progress Reporting and Monitoring  .....        ..............    31
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Institutional Impact  ................................    32
B. Environmental Impact  ................................    33
C. Urban Poverty Impact  ................................    33
D. Economic Analysis  ...................................    34
E. Risks  ............      ...................................    34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. Y. Uchimura (Economist), C. S. Yu (Economist)
and E. Munasinha (Consultant Engineer) which visited the Philippines
between February 14 and March 10, 1989.



- iv -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .................    36
1. Municipal Development Fund Subloan Financial Flows
2. Subproject Evaluation Methodology
3. Real Property Tax Administration Program
4. Outline Terms of Reference: Solid Waste Management Study
5. Outline Terms of Reference: Municipal Development Fund
Advisory Services
6. Detailed Cost Estimates
7. Local Revenue Enhancement Measures
8. Local Government Finances Summary
9. The NMINUTE Project Management Office
10. Implementation Schedule
11. Disbursement Schedule
12. Economic Analysis Summary
13. Documents in Project Files
1. Municipality of Pasig
2. Organization for On-lending Facility to Local Governments:
First Municipal Development Project
3. Organization for On-lending Facility to Local Governments:
Second Municipal Development Project
4. MMINUTE Project Management Office
M2AP
IBRD 21292



PHILIPPNP
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Urban Growth in the Philipoines
1.01      The Philippines is experiencing rapid growth in its urban
population.  The number of people living in the urban areas increased
from 18 million (37% of total population) in 1980 to an estimated 24
million (42% of total population) in 1988, an average growth of about
4% per annum or about 1.6 times the overall population growth rate.
In 1985 close to half the urban population was living below the urban
poverty line, i.e. having incomes below that required to purchase
minimum food and basic needs 1J_.
1.02      Metro Manila 2_/, with an estimated population of 7.6
million in 1988, accounts for one out of every three urban residents,
reflecting Metro Manila's importance as the country's main political,
administrative and economic center. Metro Manila's population is
estimated to increase to around 10.5 million by the year 2000, an
average increase of about 2.7% per annum or over 200,000 persons every
year. Growth of Metro Manila is spillIng over into the surrounding
provinces. Given the continued importance of the capital region in
the economy, maintaining Metro Manila and its fringe areas as a
functioning urban center will be critical to the country's overall
development.
1.03      The provision of basic urban services and infrastructure has
not kept pace with this rapid growth in population.  Provisiei of
affordable housing has not been sufficient to meet demand, resulting
in squatting in the cities. The lack of drainage facilities has
prevented urban development and/or resulted in residents (mainly low-
income families) living in areas prone to flooding during the rainy
season. Stagnant water, improper sanitation facilities and inadequate
solid waste disposal are posing health hazards in high density urban
communities. Low income communities suffer most from the lack of
services. It is estimated that about 30% of Metro Manila's population
live in slum areas lacking adequate water supply, sanitation and
drainage, health and community facilities.
1.04      Both the local governments and several national government
agencies are responsible for meeting the basic urban service and
1J  The incidence of urban poverty is 42% using the Bank estimated
poverty line of P 5,010 per capita in 1985 prices or 50% using
government estimated poverty line of P 6,042 per capita in 1985
prices (see "The Philippines: The Challenge of Poverty", October
17, 1988).
2J Metro Manila consists of the cities of Manila, Caloocan, Pasay
and Quezon, and 13 municipalities.



-2-
infrastructure needs of the population. The cities and municipalities
are generally responsible for constructing and maintaining minor roads
and drains, operating public markets and slaughterhouses, and
providing garbage collection and other municipal services. The
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) prepares and executes
larger urban road, drainage and flood control projects which are
designated 'national" infrastructure. The National Housing Authority
produces low income housing through sites and services projects and
upgrades slum areas, providing basic services and land tenure for slum
residents. The Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage System is
responsible for development, operation and maintenance of the water
supply and sewerage system in Metro Manila while outside Metro Manila,
the Local Water Utilities Administration provides loans for projects
requested by the autonomous water districts set up at the local level.
B. Local Government Structure
1.05      The local government structure in the Philippines consists
of 75 provinces, 60 cities and over 1,500 municipalities which include
both urban and rural areas. The provinces are completely subdivided
into municipalities over which they maintain administrative controls.
The cities on the other hand are administratively equal to and
independent from the province. Both cities and municipalities are
further subdivided into barangays (community organizations).
1.06      The provinces and cities are organized into 13 Regions
including Metro Manila (the National Capital Region). Regional
Development Councils, consisting of provincial governors, city and
municipality mayors, and regional directors of the main national
agencies, co-ordinate planning and programming of national agencies
and the local governments. In the case of Metro Manila, a Metro
Manila Commission was established with power to carry out
metropolitan-wide service activities, such as solid waste management,
in addition to playing a co-ordinating role. The Metrc Manila
Commission was legally abolished with the introduction of the new
constitution in July 1987 but continues to function while legislation
establishing a Metro Manila Authority is under consideration by the
Congress.
1.07      The cities and municipalities (to be referred to as Local
Government Units, LGUs) are headed by Mayors who are elected officials
and report to elected local councils. They have the authority to set
and collect charges and taxes, prepare budgets, hire staff and invest
in and manage local services and enterprises within limitations set by
the Local Government Code and various national government regulations.
The organization of a LGU would generally consist of: (a) the
Treasurer's Office which collects and disburses local funds, maintains
accounts, and prepares actual and projected income and expenditure
statements; (b) the Assessor's Office which assesses and maintains
records on real property; (c) the Budget Office which prepares annual
and supplemental budgets; (d) the Planning and Development Office
which carries out studies, prepares development plans, and monitors
and evaluates development programs; and (e) the Engiraer's Office



which prepares plans, maps, specifications, and other estimates for
and carries out construction and maintenance of buildings, streets,
bridges and other public works. The larger cities would also have
legal, health, social services and city administration offices. The
organization of Pasig Municipality in Metro Manila is presented in
Chart 1 as an example.
1.08      Several national government agencies are responsible for
administrative oversight of the local governments. The Departm3nt of
Local Government (DLG) is concerned with the jurisdiction and changes
in status of the local governments and their political relationship
with the national government. The Department of Finance (DOF)
oversees the distribution of national government support grants and
financial management and revenue operations of local governments.
While all local government officials report to the Mayor, the
Treasurer and Assessor are appointed by DOF. Nationa. government
regulations require LGUs to set aside funds for specific expenditures
or set ceilings oi personnel expenditures. The Department of Budget
and Management reviews local government budgets to ensure their
accordance with statutory requirements, while the Commission on Audit
is responsible for auditing the financial records of the local
governments.
1.09      Total revenues of the LGUs in 1987 were P 7,481 million,
about 1% of GDP. The LGUs are highly dependent on national government
grants which accounted for 32% of total revenues in 1987 (Table 1.1).
Business and real property taxes are the main local source of revenue
for the LGUs. Borrowings by IGUs are negligible. LGUs in Metro
Manila depend less on national government grants and more on business
and property taxes which accounted for 65% of total revenues in 1987
reflecting the capital's stronger economic base. Total expenditures
of LGUs in 1987 were P 7,026 million, the bulk of which (94%) was for
recurrent expenses. Metro Manila accounted for 38% of total LGU
expenditures.
C. Issues in Local Government Management
1.10      The LGUs are having difficulty providing services,
maintaining existing infrastructure and facilities, and planning
future investrments. The WLUs' financial and managerial capabilities
have clearly not kept pace with the increase in demand for services
which accompanied the shift in population from rural to urban areas.
1.11      Lack of funds has been a major constraint.  Despite the fact
that the LGUs are responsible for providing many of the basic services
and facilities that directly impact the living standards of their
residents, they have played a limited role in the Philippine economy.
Total expenditures by LGUs in 1987 (P 7,026 million or about US$338
million) amounted only to 18 of CDP, 5% of national government
expenditures and P 123 (US$5.89) per resident (Table 1.1). Capital
expenditures accounted for only about 6% of total expenditure. Most
LGUs lacked medium-term working plans for the construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of their infrastructure and facilities.



- 4 -
Zah  1g.: Revenues and Expenditures of Cities and
Municipalities in the Philippines, 1987
(in P millions)
Metro
Manila    Others     Total
Tax Revenues
Business Taxes                    680        544     1,224
Real Property Taxes             1242         22     Z.-=
1,922     1,339     3,261
Non-tax Revenues
Economic Enterprises               92        622       714
Fees. Charges & Others            l03        611     1.114
595     1,233     1,828
National Government Grants         421      1,971     2,392
Total Revenues                 2.938      4.543     7.481
Recurrent Expenditures           2,479      4,120     6,599
Capital Expenditures               178        249       427
Total Expenditures             2.657      4.369     7.026
Surplus/Deficit                  281        174       455
Source: Department of Finance
1.12      Despite the shortage of funds, many LGUs do not adequately
utilize their existing revenue base due primarily to administrative
weaknesses. On average, the LGUs collect only around 60% of the real
property taxes due because of poor record keeping and administration.
Property transactions are not always recorded so that ownership
records are out of date. Notices of payments due are not sent out to
taxpayers in most LGUs. Payments of taxes are recorded manually so
that it is not possible to monitor adequately the status of
delinquencies. Legal sanctions are rarely enforced against delinquent
tax payers.
1.13      In addition, the property values are under-assessed.  Under
the Real Property Code, properties are revalued every three years.
However, the Government has deferred revaluations or phased them in
over several years to avoid sudden increases in tax payments. Current
assessment levels date back to the early 1980s. Furthermore, many
L6Us do not adjust property assessments to incorporate improvements



- 5 -
and changes in land-use between regular revaluations. This is a major
problem in rapidly growing urban areas where development of
residential and commercial buildings increases demand for
infrastructure and services but does not necessarily result in more
revenues because propertias continue to be recorded and assessed as
agricultural land. Assessment values were increased by about 30% in
several Metro Manila LGUs after real property tax records were updated
to reflect actual land-use.
1.14      Operatie-s of public markets are an important function and a
major source of revenue for most LGUs. However, most LGUs do not
maintain separate accounts for markets, making it difficult to
determine the actual operating costs. Market rents generally are not
revised on a regular basis and have not kept pace with inflation. The
conditions in tLe markets have been allowed to deteriorate because of
lack of regular maintenance and rehabilitation, making it more
difficult for the WU to raise rents.
D. Bank Urban Strate&v and Exoerience from ?revious Projects
1.15      The Bank's strategy in the urban sector as a whole has been
to assis: the Government to meet the needs of the growing urban
population, especially the low-income groups, by:
(a) introducing low-cost designs and approaches to optimize use
of limited resources and enhance affordability by the urban
poor;
(b) strengthening sector institutions to plan investments,
implement projects, operate and maintain services, and
institute proper pricing for cost recovery ; and
(e) providing financing for investments.
To date, a total of 15 urban, water supply and sewerage projects have
been approved by the Bank for US$756 million in Bank loans and US$22
million in IDA credits. Initially the Bank addressed urban
infrastructure deficiencies through complex, multi-component, multi-
agency projects. However, these operations proved difficult to
prepare and supervise. This subsequently gave way to operations
structured along narrower subsectoral lines which allowed a sharper
focus on institutions and issues. Four subsectors emerged: (a)
shelter, (b) water supply and sanitation, (c) urban transport, and (d)
municipal development.



-6
The MMINUTE Proeram
1.16      The Metro Manila Infrastructure and Engineering Program
(MMINUTE) Was a component of the Bank's Third Urban Project (Loan
1821-PH), one of the last complex multi-component projects supported
by the Bank 3_.  MINUTE was developed as a community based program
with DPWIH to provide roads and drainage works, communal sanitation
facilities (grouped household toilets with septic tank or sewer
connections) and communal faucets and water systems to the lower
income communities in Metro Manila. I*INUTE was designed to
complement or-oing programs by other agencies such as the National
Housing Av-- . y by providing minimal services to those communities
which were not covered by these programs. Under MINUTE, improvements
were restricted to existing rights-of-way with no provision of tenure
or movement of existing plate or buildings.
1.17      HMINUTE was considered to be a successful component of the
Third Urban Project. It developed a methodology for identifying and
prioritizing infrastructure iwivestments and expertise in community
organization. By end 1987, thki program had constructed 226 km of
drainage, 153 km of street improvements, 203 communal faucets, 41
communal sanitation facilities, 12 water storage tanks, 9 deepwells,
and one communal septic tank. Project investments totalled P 345
million. While the program was not as comprehensive as the National
Housing Authority's slum uLpgrading programs, MMINUTE was able to move
more rapidly since no major land acquisition or relocation was
involved. It is estimated by the government that over 1 million
people benefited from MMINUTE.
1.18     While MMINUTE was successful in constructing the facilities,
the program was not able to recover &velopment costs. Since the
program did not provide for maintenance of the completed facilities
which was left to the LGUs, performance in this regard was mixed. The
LGUs which were handed over the completed facilities, were not
involved directly in financing and implementing of MKINUTE. The two
key problems of lack of cost recovery and spotty maintenance also
reflected the managerial weakness of the LGUs. Project costs which
were planned to be recovered indirectly through property taxes have
not been collected because of delays in reassessments of properties
(para. 1.13).  Lack of adequate maintenance is not limited to MNINUTE
investments and reflects the underly)ig endemic problems of inadequate
financing and planning in the LGUs (para. 1.12).
3_/ The Third Urban Project was a multi-faceted project addressing
the basic shelter, municipal service and employment needs of low-
income families in fast growing Metro Manila. The project was
approved in 1980 and closed in 1987. The Project Completion
Report was issued on June 30, 1989. The lessons learned through
the Third Urban Project and reflected in the Project Completion
Report (para. 1.18 above) were taken into consideration in
designing the proposed project (para. 1.19 below).



- 7 -
1.19      After the completion of the Third Urban Project, the LGUs
not only in Metro Manila but those in the adjacent provinces,
expressed interest in continuing with MMINUTE. The design of MMINUTE
was modified to allow the LGUs to play a direct role in planning,
implementing and financing project investments and the project scope
was expanded to include public facilities such as markets and
slaughterhouses which were considered a priority by the LGUs. It was
decided to use the framework developed under the Bank's First
Municipal Development Project (Loan 2435-PH) to on-lend loan funds to
the LGUs. This framework is described in detail in Chiapter II.
Rezional Cities Development Proiect
1.20      The Bank altered its approach and first on-lent funds
directly to the LGUs in the fourth urban development project, the
Regional Cities Development Project (Loan 2257-PH). This project
addressed the comprehensive investment needs of the four larger
regional cities: Bacolod, Cagayan De Oro, Davao and Iloilo. A loan of
US$60.0 million 4J was approved in 1983 to finance drainage, solid
waste management, roads, markets, slaughterhouses and other municipal
infrastructure to be implemented by DPWH and the LGUs, and a
traditional shelter component to be implemented by the National
Housing Authority. A portion of the Bank loan was on-lent to LGUs.
As of September 30, 1989, 39% of the losn has been disbursed.
1.21      The approach adopted under the Regional Cities Development
Project where designs and contracts for each facility are individually
reviewed by the Bank clearly limited the number of participating
cities. Considering the large numbers of LGUs in the Philippines, the
diversity of their needs and the structural issues facing them, an
approach was needed where intermediary institutions were developed at
the national level to assist LGUs in the preparation, implementation
and financing of local investments. The First Municipal Development
Project, discussed in the next chapter, was the Bank's first step
towards developing such institutions.
4J US$20.0 million was cancelled in 1987 to adjust for the
devaluation of the peso and US$ 4.921 million was cancelled in
1989.



- 8 -
II. THE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Program Objectives and Organizational Structure
Program Objectives and Components
2.01      To assist the local governments to meet the infrastructure
and service needs of the growing urban population, the Government,
with Bank support, initiated a Municipal Development Program in the
early 1980s that allowed a flexible response to key LWU financial and
managerial constraints. The program was designed to:
(a)  assist LGUs to identify infrastructure investment priorities
and plan and implement development projects;
(b)  provide LGUs with direct access to long-term development
finance (initially from foreign sources); and
(c) strengthen local technical and financial capacity for
project implementation, service management and maintenance.
2.02      The main components of the Municipal Development Program
are:
(i) Subprojects to finance infrastructure investments and
equipment purchases at the local level;
(ii) Real Property Tax Administration Program (RPTA) through DOF
to update real prcperty cadasters and improve tax
collections; and
(iii) Municipal Training Program through DLG to strengthen
financial and project management at the local level.
2.03      Under the program, LOUs receive financing for subprojects on
condition that they undertake measures to improve municipal
management. Based on a review of their deficiencies and priorities,
LGUs identify priority investments which are packaged into a
subproject and divided into two categories: (a) National Components
funded and implemented by DPWH; and (b) Local Components funded and
implemented by the LGUs. Loans are provided to the LGUs to finance
part of the Local Component investment costs. Those areas such as
trunk roads and major drainage which have traditionally been the
responsibility of the national government are implemented by DPWH,
while the remaining areas which have been the responsibility of the
local governments are implemented by the LWUs. To generate revenues
to repay loans, participating LOUs receive assistance through RPTA to
finance additional contractual staff, equipment and supplies to
conduct tax mapping, update real property tax records, prepare tax
notices and follow-up with delinquent taxpayers. LWU staff also
receive training through the Municipal Training Program in project
planning and project development, municipal finance and revenue
administration, municipal enterprise management, engineering and



- 9 -
contract management, and infrastructure maintenance and equipment
management.
Orgainizational Struetur
2.04      The key feature of the program is the establishment of an
institutional framework at the national level to finance LGU
investments and co-ordinate national government assistance to LGUs.
The main elements are:
(a) The Project Steering Committee consisting of Under-
secretaries or Assistant Secretaries of the DPWH, DOF, DLG,
NEDA and the Department of Budget and Management and chaired
by DPWH, which: (i) formulates policy and sets overall
priorities and directions for the program; (ii) approves
appraisals of subprojects; and (iii) co-ordinates among the
different agencies involved in the planning, financing and
implementation of the program.
(b) The Central Prolect Office (CPO) under DPWH which: (i)
prequalifies LGUs for inclusion in the program; (ii) assists
LWUs to develop subprojects; (iii) appraises subprojects
proposed by LWUs for approval by the Steering Committee;
(iv) monitors implementation and advises LGUs during
subproject implementation, including coordination with other
national agencies providing support to LGUs; (v) prepares
annual budgets and cash flow requirements, monitors flow of
funds, and recommends fund releases to LWUs; and (vi)
evaluates impact of programs.
(C) The Municipal Development Fund (NDF) a loan account
administered by DOF which: (i) administers release of
subloan funds to LGUs; and (b) maintains subloan accounts.
This organizational structure largely mirrored existing institutional
responsibilities and strengths. The MDF was established within the
DOF which had administrative responsibility over LGU finances and
appointed the key local financial officers (para. 1.08). DOF lacked
the technical expertise to assist LGUs in project planning or evaluate
investments submitted by LWUs. A separate CPO under DPWH was set up
to handle project preparation, appraisal and supervision. This
institutional framework is shown in Chart 2.
The First Municinal Develonment Proiect
2.05      The Bank supported the Municipal Development Program with a
loan of US$ 40.0 million equivalent in 1984 through the First
Municipal Development Project (MDP I, Loan 2435-PH). This was
expected to be the first of a series of Bank projects to assist the
Government to establish and gradually expand the Municipal Development
5J Presidential Decree 1914, dated March 29, 1984, formalized this
organizational structure.



- 10 -
Program. The Bank loan was broken down as follows: (a) subloans to
LGU through the MDF (US$28.2 million equivalent); (b) RPTA under DOF
(US$3.6 million equivalent) 6J; (c) Municipal Training Program under
DLG (US$3.3 million equivalent); (d) technical assistance to DPWH, DOF
and other national agencies for advisory support and studies (US$4.8
million equivalent); and (e) the front-end fee. The project
anticipated financing comprehensive investment programs covering most
of the major infrastructure and service deficiencies in a limited
number of LGUs (about 15) through subprojects implemented over a 4 to
5 year period. The project emphasized development of regional cities
and municipalities and provided funding to LGUs outside of Metro
Manila. The operational procedures for the Municipal Development
Program were developed for implementing MDP I. These procedures and
the present status of MDP I are described below.
B. Subnroiect Selection
2.06      The process under MDP I for the selection of project LGUs
and the appraisal of subprojects is as follows. Interested LGUs
submit requests to participate in the project to the CPO which
evaluates the LGUs' eligibility and borrowing capacity and recommends
inclusion the Project Steering Committee. To be included in the
project, LGUs are required to have populations over 10,000, serve a
regional economic function, have significant infrastructure
deficiencies and high incidence of poverty, and be willing to
undertake fiscal improvement. After LGUs have been cleared for
participation in the project, there is a "self-selection" process in
determining project LGUs: i.e. those LGUs with the willingness and
ability to prepare viable investment projects are provided access to
financing.
2.07      LGUs then prepare subprojects for financing under the
project (with guidance from the CPO) and submit them to the CPO for
review. Possible subproject components are: (a) construction and
rehabilitation of sanitation facilities, drainage, roads, markets,
slaughterhouses, bus terminals, and solid waste facilities; (b)
maintenance and solid waste equipment; and (c) consultancies for
construction supervision.
2.08      The subprojects are appraised by the CPO and submitted to
the Steering Committee for approval. Subprojects are evaluated on the
impact on low-income groups, demand and the technical, financial and
administrative feasibility of the Individual components, and on the
ability of the LGUs to service the proposed debt obligation. Larger
components are evaluated to determine whether the proposed investments
are the most efficient use of funds based on economic rates of return.
LGU finances are analyzed, and revenue and expenditure projections
made to determine whether the investment package as a whole is
6J Both the RPTA and Municipal Training Program are being
implemented nationwide so that the beneficiaries would not
necessarily be limited to those LGUs with subprojects.



- 11 -
affordable to the LGU concerned: i.e. whether the LWU can provide the
necessary counterpart funds and service the debt obligations. LGUs
are required to maintain a minimum Debt Service Coverage of 1.2 7_J.
The LGU is also required, where necessary, to implement measures to
improve fi3cal performance, such as enforce collection of arrears on
real property taxes and revise market tariffs.
2.09      Subprojects approved by the Steering Committee are eligible
for financing through NDF for the Local Components and through DPWH
budget funds for the National Components. Once a subproject is
approved by the Steering Committee, a Subproject Agreement is signed
between DPWH and the LGU outlining the obligations of the LGU, DPWH
and CPO with respect to the subproject (including both National and
Local Components), and a Subloan Agreement signed between the LGU and
DOF outlining both parties' obligations with respect to the MDF
subloan. The subloan terms and conditions, and onlending agreements
are discussed below. The CPO monitors implementation of both national
and local components and administers the release of funds to the LGUs
together with the DOF.
C. Subloan Terms and Conditions and Onlending Agreements
§ubloan Terms
2.10      MDF subloans finance up to 90% of the Local Component costs
with the IOUs providing the remainder (at least 10%) from their own
funds as counterpart. The MDF subloans to LGUs are made over 20 years
including five years of grace at a variable interest rate.  The
foreitn exchange risk is borne by the Government. At the start of the
MDF, the interest was set at 14% per annum based on the Bank's
interest rate (10.08% for the first semester of 1984) with a margin
(about 3% to 4%) to reflect the front-end fee, commitment fee and
foreign exchange risk. In 19h', the NDF interest rate was reduced to
the current level of 11% per annum to reflect the drop in the Bank's
lending rate. The interest rate is reviewed annually with the Bank.
Repayments to the MDF are made on equal payments of interest and
principal.
Subproiect Agreement
2.11      The Subproject Agreement between DPWH and the LGU provides
details on implementing arrangements and includes, in addition to the
definition of the subproject, understandings reached on implementation
arrangements and co-ordination between the different agencies involved
in the project. While the text of the Subproject Agreement follows a
standard format, the detailed arrangements for each LOU are specified
in schedules attached to the Agreement. These schedules would
7J Debt Service Coverage is defined as the yearly revenues from all
sources (including local taxes, rents, fees, charges and grants)
less operating costs and maintenance expenditures, divided by
yearly debt service liabilities to all creditors.



- 12 -
include, among others: (a) detailed subproject description and costs;
(b) financing arrangements, including estimated annual budget
requirements; (c) an implementation schedule; (d) conditions for fund
releases; (e) a flow chart outlining the responsibilities of the
various agencies at different stages of implementation; (f) municipal
organization for subproject implementation and the manpower
requirements; (g) LGU financial projections and measures required to
improve revenues; (h) procurement guidelines; and (i) detailed
monitoring, reporting and auditing requirements. The Subproject
Agreement would include fiscal performance targets and measures to
increase fiscal performance.
Subloan Agreement
2.12      The Subloan Agreement between DPWH and DOF defines the
amount and terms and conditions of the subloan from the MDF and
contains several standard clauses requiring LGUs, among others, to:
(a) maintain separate accounts for subproject expenditures; (b)
establish an escrow account (trust fund) for MDF releases, LWU
counterpart funds, and debt service payments; (c) undertake measures
to improve municipal finances, including establishing separate
accounts for municipal enterprise operations; and (d) limiting
borrowings to maintain a debt service coverage of at least 1.2. The
agreement also includes a provision that the DOF would reserve the
right to suspend subloan releases and recover debt outstanding from
national government transfers in the case of noncompliance with the
Subloan and Subproject Agreement.
2.13      In MDP I, the Bank adopted a programmatic approach to
subloans and approves LGUs for financing under the project based on a
review of the CPO's subproject appraisal report and draft Subproject
and Subloan Agreements. The cost-sharing arrangements between the MDF
and the LGU differ depending on the amount of funding being provided
from the LGU's own funds (para. 2.10). Under MDP I, the Bank is
disbursing against 100% of subloans to LGUs funded through the MDF in
order to accommodate different cost-sharing arrangements.
D. Implementation to Date
2.14      Because of the disruption that followed the "People's
Revolution" in February 1986, one year after project effectiveness,
implementation of MDP I has been much slower than anticipated. The
new Government dismissed elected local officials and replaced them
with national government appointees. Project implementation was
delayed as the new appointees replaced local staff and reviewed the
decisions and commitments made by their predecessors. Furthermore,
the Government scheduled local elections which politicized the
situation in the LWUs making it difficult for the interim local
officials to pursue necessary but potentially unpopular measures such
as increasing market tariff rates. After several postponements, the
elections were eventually held in early 1988 which resulted in a
further change in leadership in many of the LW s. As of September 30,



- 13 -
1989, 22% of the loan had been disbursed compared to 84% projected at
the time of appraisal.
2 15      Project implementatton is picking up now that the local
elections have been completed.  The newly elected mayors are eag&r to
carry out investment projects to promote development in their cities
and municipalities and appear to be willing to implement fiscal
reforms if they can produce tangible improvements by 1992 when the
next local elections are scheduled. During 1989, subprojects were
approved for an additional 12 LGUs bringing the total number of cities
and municipalities in the project to 25 or double the number as of
end-1988.
E. Bank Municipal Sector Strate&X
Long-Term Goals
2.16      The long-term objective of the Bank's municipal strategy is
to develop an effective mechanism at the national level to assist
local governments to meet the growing needs of the urban population.
A critical element of the program is the establishment of an effective
financial intermediary for LGUs, capable of appraising and supervising
loans to LGUs and mobilizing resources from both domestic and foreign
sources.
2.17      During the preparation of MDP I, it was decided that the
functions of the intermediary would be divided between the CPO under
DPWH which would be responsible for subproject preparation, appraisal,
supervision, and the MDF under DOF which would be responsible for
releasing and accounting for loans. The Project Steering Committee
would function essentially in the capacity of a board to ensure policy
coordination 8J_. To enable the fund to grow and become self-
sustaining over time, the Government infused Bank loan funds under
MDP I as equity into the MDF and became responsible for the payment of
all finance charges and principal on the Bank loan. Payments of
interest and repayments of principal from the LGUs are reinvested in
the LGUs. At present only Bank loan funds are being on-lent through
the MDP to the LGUs and the MDF is being used primarily as a mechanism
for channeling and monitoring releases of Dank loan funds 9J_.
8J  Alternatives considered were: (a) establishing a new financial
institution; and (b) utilizing an existing bank as a conduit.
However, these alternatives were not adopted since the Government
was reluctant to establish a new institution and a bank could not
provide the necessary close coordination among the national
agencies (DOF, DPWH and DLG) which would have been involved.
9J  Subsequently, it was decided to channel funds to project cities
under the Regional Cities Development Project (other than the
shelter component implemented by the National Housing Authority)
also through the MDF.



- 14 -
Revised Approach
2.18      Based on the experience to date under MDP I, the Bank's
approach would need to shift from financing larger subprojects in a
limited number of LGUs to financing smaller subprojects in a larger
number of LGUs. Large subprojects taxed the implementation capacity
of the lGUs. The corresponding large subloans increased financial
burden on the LGUs and increased the risk of the LGU being unable to
meet revenue targets since larger improvements over current
performance and more drasti$- revenue enhancement measures were be
required. A shorter time frame (2 to 3 years instead of 4 to 5 years)
would facilitate implementation and reduce the financial burden on the
LGU. The long-term investment needs of LGUs would still be met by
allowing LGUs to apply for further subloans after successfully
completing previous subprojects and implementing fiscal improvements.
2.19      This shift would require introducing measures to strengthen
the LGUs' capacity to prepare subprojects and the CPO's ability to
assist in subproject preparation and to conduct subprojects
appraisals. Subproject preparation would need to be undertaken
simultaneously in many LGUs, most which lack the means to
systematically prepare subprojects.  With fewer LGUs, the CPO could be
relied on to provide technical assistance to LGU staff preparing
subprojects. However, this approach is no longer viable with larger
numbers of participating LGUs.
2.20     Finally, loans would be provided to financially stronger
LGUs in developing regions while an alternative mechanism would need
to be developed for poorer LGUs in the less developed regions. Many
of the smaller LGUs applying for subloans have weak revenue bases
limiting their capability to borrow from the NDF. However, these LWUs
have a legitimate need for funds and are generally located in the
poorer regions which are targeted by Government for poverty
alleviation.
The Proposed Project
2.21     The revised approach is reflected in the proposed Second
Municipal Development Project (MDP II) which would expand the
Municipal Development Program to include LOUs in Metro Manila and its
surrounding areas which were excluded under MDP I. Changes would be
int-oduced in the proposed project to overcome some of the problems
encountered in NDP I, namely, subprojects would be for shorter time
frames and a separate category of subloans would be created to allow
LOUs to borrow from the MDF to finance consultants for subproject
preparation (para. 3.20).
2.22      Despite the relative poor performance under MDP I to date
(para. 2.14), it is proposed to expand the approach to Metro Manila
and surrounded areas because of the strong demand for financing for
infrastructure investments among the LGUs in Metro Manila and the
stabilization of the political situation following the local elections
in 1988. The LGUs in Metro Manila and the surrounding provinces are



- 15 -
appropriate candidates for subloans through the MDF, given their
stronger and more dynamic local revenue base.
2.23      Under the proposed project, the MMINUTE Project
Management Office (PNO), established to implement the MNINUTE Program
under the Third Urban Project (para. 1.16), would be brought in to
perform the functions of the CPO. While this would be introducing a
second project office, it would significantly increase DPWH's capacity
to assist LGUs in subproject preparation and to appraise and supervise
subloans lOJ. In addition, the PMO would bring to the proposed
project its experience in implementing infrastructure projects and
dealing with LGUs in Metro Manila and the methodologies for
identifying and prioritizing investments and for community
organization developed under MMINUTE. There would be no conflict
between the PMO and CPO since the projects cover a different
geographical areas. After further experience is gained under both MDP
I and MDP II, further changes could be introduced to strengthen the
Municipal Development Program and the CPO, PMO and MDF could be
consolidated tc form a single entity. The organizational structure of
the proposed project is shown in Chart 3.
2.24      Even with a second project, the Municipal Development
Program would cover only a small portion of the total number of LW s
in the Philippines, many of which are too poor to qualify for loans.
The estimated number of LGUs and the funds flow for the MDF subloans
is presented in Annex 1. It is estimated that the total number of
L5Us obtaining financing from the MDF would be around 90, including
those to be financed out of debt service payments from MDP I and MDP
II but not adjusting for those which may receive more than one
subloan. The financially weaker smaller LGUs in less developed
regions cannot be dismissed given the Government's emphasis on
decentralization and the promotion of local autonomy. Their needs
would be looked into as part of a current Government review of
national-local government relations.  The Bank is scheduling sector
work to assist the Government to review the functions and finances of
LGUs and relations between different levels of government; it is
expected to address the issue of assisting and financing the poorer,
smaller LGUs.
lOJ The alternative of consolidating the CPO and PMO was considered
and dropped since this would prove to be disruptive when
implementation of MDP I was picking up.



- 16 -
A. Project Origin and Formulation
3.01      The Government started preparation of a subsequent phase of
MMINUTE (para. 1.16) in 1987 after many cities and municipalities in
Metro Manila and the adjacent provinces expressed interest in
continuing the program. It was decided to combine elements of the
MKINUTE and MDP I by on-lending loan funds to LEUs through the MDF
since it would: (a) allow the LGUs to play a direct role in planning,
financing and implementing project components, addressing a
shortcoming of MMINUTE under the Third Urban Project (para. 1.18); and
(b) enhance the Municipal Development Program developed under MDP I
(para. 2.21 and 2.22). Given the expansion of urbanization to areas
surrounding Metro Manila, the NMINUTE project area was expanded to
include LGUs in the provinces adjacent to Metro Manila, the Fringe
Areas ll1 (see Map 21292). The program was renamed MNINUTE-Fringe.
B. Proiect Rationale
3.02     The proposed Second Municipal Development Project (MDP Ii.)
builds on the institutional framework developed under MDP I, combining
experience from both MKINUTE and MDP I, and is in line with the Bank's
sector strategy emphasizing low-cost approaches and developing sector
institutions. Continuation of Bank involvement is important for the
success of this strategy. The project supports the Government's
emphasis on promoting local government autonomy by providing LGUs with
access to loan funds through the MDF to finance priority investments.
C. Proiect Obiectives
3.03      Meeting the needs of the urban poor and strengthening the
financial, technical and managerial capabilities of LGUs are two major
objectives of the government. Within these overall objectives, the
proposed project would aim at:
(a) assisting the LGUs in Metto Manila and the surrounding
provinces to provide basic municipal infrastructure,
services and facilities, especially to the lower income
communities;
(b) improving the LGUs investment planning, financing and
implementation capabilities; and
(c) expanding the coverage of the MDF to include all LGUs in the
Philippines.
llJ The Fringe Areas include the Bulacan, Rizal, Laguna and Cavite
Provinces adjacent to Metro Manila.



- 17 -
D. Project DescriRtion
3.04      lhe proposed MDP II would cot   t of:
(a) SubDrojects (about 11S$45 million);
(i) National Components (about US$17 million):
- Basic Infrastructure: wells; dredging, construction and
rehabilitation of collector drains, creeks and other
major drainage facilities; improvement of national and
barangay roads.
(ii) Local Components (about US$28 million):
- Basic Infrastructure: installation of communal faucets;
deepwells; construction of communal sanitation
facilities (consisting of toilets, bathing facilities,
laundry taps and standpipes); construction and
rehabilitation of drainage canals and pipes; and
improvement of existing alleys, footpaths and local
roads.
- Public Fcilities: construction and rehabilitation of
public markets, slaughterhouses and motorpools.
- £guiment: road and drainage maintenance equipment;
utility vehicles; computers for records management.
- Consultancies: hiring of consultants for subproject
preparation, detailed design and engineering, and/or
construction supervision.
(b)  Real Progerty Tax Administration (about US$11 million):
preparation of tax maps and improvement of real property
taxes records, records management and tax collections in the
LGUs; and
(c) Technical Assistance (about US$1 million):
(i) study of solid waste collection, disposal and management
in the Fringe Areas; and
(ii) technical assistance to DPWH and DOF.
Subproiects: the MKINUTE-Fringe Program
3.05      Investments would address the basic infrastructure, facility
and equipment needs of the LIUs and would be packaged into subprojects
for each LGU. The identification of project LGUs, subproject
preparation, subproject evaluation, on-lending agreements and
implementation would follow the process developed under MDP I. In
addition to financing basic infrastructure, public facilities and
equipment, the LGUs would be able to obtain subloan financing through
the NDF for consultancies to carry out subproject preparation,
detailed design and engineering and construction supervision. Based
on the experience under MDP I, the ability of LGUs to prepare
subprojects would be essential if the project is to be sustained
(2.19). Since consultants would be required prior to the approval of



- 18 -
a subproject, a separate on-lending arrangement would be established
(para. 3.20).
3.06      Basic infrastructure and public facility investments would
be evaluated on their impact on low-income groups, need, and the
technical, financial and economic feasibility of the proposed
investments. The point scoring system developed under MNINUTE would
be used to prioritize investments, with higher scores given to those
in low-income, high density communitiss with high degrees of
infrastructure deficiencies, and strong community commitment to the
subproject. The system for subproject selection is described in more
detail in Annex 2.
3.07      Cost recovery and pricing for municipal enterprises would be
a key consideration and financial evaluation would be carried out on
markets and slaughterhouses to ensure that revenues would be
sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs and debt service
obligations. In the case of communal faucets and sanitation
facilities targeted towards the very poor, the capital costs would be
borne by the LGUs and the user associations would be responsible for
paying only the operating and maintenance costs. An analysis would be
carried out to determine whether the proposed communal charges are
within the affordability of the low-income beneficiaries.
3.08     Economic rates of return (ERR) would be required for larger
drainage, road and market investments costing over P 5 million (about
US$250,000); major investments would need to have an ERR over 12t.
3.09     The estimated maintenance needs, proposed usage of the
equipment, availability of existing equipment, the possibility of
leasing, and the availability of budget funds would be taken into
consideration in determining the type and number of equipment to be
included under a subproject. LGUs purchasing maintenance equipment
would be required to set aside funds for the purchase of fuel,
lubricants, spare parts and other operational and maintenance
expenditures.
3.10      Subprojects would be divided into Local Components funded,
implemented and maintained by the LGUs, and National Components
funded, implemented and maintained by DPWH. The LGUs would obtain a
subloan through the HDF to finance up to 90% of local component costs.
The LGU's finances are analyzed and revenue and expenditure
projections made to determine whether the LGU can provide the
necessary counterpart funds and service the debt obligations.
Real Property Tax Administration
3.11     The proposed project would include the extension of the RPTA
begun under MDP I. Additional financing would be required under the
proposed project for: (a) supplemental needs of LGUs under MDP I which
resulted from discovery of undeclared and under-declared properties;
and (b) LUs not included in MDP I (including those in Metro Manila
and the Fringe Areas). The project would fund additional contractual
staff, equipment and supplies necessary to: (i) conduct field surveys



- 19 -
to prepare up-to-date tax maps; (ii) update assessments to adjust for
improvements and changes in land use identified through the surveys;
(iii) update and streamline tax records; and (iv) follow up on
collection performance. A detailed implementation plan, including
schedule of completion of each phase, required inputs (contractual
staff, equipment, supplies, office space, etc.) and estimated costs,
would be prepared for each LCU. RPTA, administered by DOF, is
implemented nationwide and would not be limited to Metro Manila and
the Fringe areas. The project -would include RPTA programs for about
100 WGJs.  Details of the RPTA program are summarized in Annex 3.
3.12      The DOF is providing a grant to the LGUs to finance part of
the cost for additional contractual staff, equipment and supplies
required to implement RPTA.  The Bank loan would fund the national
government grant to the LCUs. Cost sharing between the LGU. nd the
DOF would differ depending on the classification of the LGU, with the
richer LGUs receiving national grants to cover 60% of costs (with
remaining 408 being provided by the LGU), intermediate LGUs receiving
70% grant, and the poorer LOUs receiving 80% grant.
Technical Asgistance
3.13      The project would also include the following consultant
services to:
(a)  DPWH for a Fringe Area Solid Waste Management Studl  to
recommend improvements in the collection and disposal of
refuse in the rapidly growing LGUs in the adjacent
provinces (about 60 staffmonths);
(b) DPWH for Advisory Services to assist the PMO in subproject
evaluation and supervision of subproject implementation
(about 675 staffmonths); and
(c)  DOF for Advisory Services to review and recommend
improvements to the accounts, financial nonitoring systems,
procedures and organization of the MDF to facilitate its
development from a disbursement and monitoring mechanism for
foreign Loans to a self-sustaining revolving fund (about 24
staffmonths).
The PMO is presently using local consultants to assist them with
subproject preparation and evaluation. These consultants are expected
to continue to provide the necessary technical support during project
implementation. The Solid Waste Management Study and MDF Advisory
services are new initiatives and the draft Terms of Reference for the
proposed corsultancies are provided in Annexes 4 and 5.
Status of Project Preparation
3.14      The proposed MDP II would finance the initial three year
investment program of HNINUTE-Fringe: i.e. those LGUs scheduled to
start implementation between 1990-92. At present there are
approximately 33 LGUs which are considered to be strong candidates for



- 20 -
inclusion in the project. Of these, five municipalities which passed
local council resolutions expressing their interest in participating
in MNINUTE-Fringe have been selected as the first package of project
LGUs (Package I) for appraisal and start of implementation in 1990.
Detailed feasibility studies have been conducted for the Package I
LBUs scheduled to start in 1990 and detailed design and engineering
has been completed for the first year's investment program. The Bank
appraised the Package I LGU subprojects which account for 22% of total
project costs. Implementation of Package I is scheduled to start
during 1990. Preparation work has also been started for subsequent
packages of project LGUs which would be included in the project after
subprolect appraisal by the PHO.
Table 3.1:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS aJ
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total Foreign
-- million peso --    --- US$ million --- as 8 of
Total
Subprojects
National Components      174.0  115.3   289.3    8.1    5.4   13.5   40%
Local Components         278.4  198.4   476.8   12.9    9.2   22.2   42%
Real Property Tax
Administration           114.0   76.0   190.0    5.3    3.5    8.8   40%
Technical Assistance
Solid Waste Study         0.7    5.3      6.0    0.1    0.2    0.3   88%
Advisory Services        13.5    5.3    18.8    0.6    0.2    0.9   28%
Base Cost              580.6  400.2   980.9   27.0   18.6   45.6   41%
(in Sep. 1989 prices) -  ----  -  -
Contingencies:
Physical              51.4   26.6    78.1    2.4    1.2    3.6   34%
Price                206.3  140.1   346.4    4.7    3.2    8.0   40%
Total Project Costs       838.4  567.0 1,405.4   34.1   23.1   57.2   40%
aJ May not add up due to rounding.
E. Project Costs and Financing Plan
Project Costs
3.15      The total project cost, excluding taxes and duties, is
estimated at about P 1,405 million (US$57.2 million equivalent). The
foreign exchange component is about P 567 million (US$23.1 million



- 21 -
equivalent) or 40% of the total project cost. Project costs are
summarized in Table 3.1. As under the NMINUTE component of the Third
Urban Project, there is no land acquisition required in the project
which should facilitate implementation (para. 1.17).
3.16      The total project cost and breakdown by type are indicative
since the Bank is taking a programmatic approach under the proposed
project and project   Cost estimates for the Package 1 LGUs were based
on detailed engineering designs. A detailed breakdown of the
estimated costs is presented in P-nex 6. Since most of the proposed
MMINUTE-Fringe investments are t mple civil works or structures, the
unit costs for Package 1 LGU were used to estimate costs for the
remaining works. Estimates for Package 2 LGUs scheduled to start
implementation in 1991 were based on requests for financing from LGUs
reviewed by the PHO.  Costs for Package 3 LGUs scheduled to start
implementation in 1992 were estimated assuming that: (a) the PHO would
appraise on average one LGU per month (12 per annum); and (b) the
sectoral breakdown and cost would be about the average of Packages 1
and 2. A total of 33 LGUs are expected to participate in the project.
Quotations received by DPWH for purchases of similar equipment were
used as base costs for maintenance equipment. The RPTA costs were
estimated based on actual costs from MDP I. Consultant costs include
fees, local allowances, international travel (where applicable) and
other overheads.
3.17      The base costs are expressed in September 1989 prices.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 5% of base costs for
infrastructure and public facilities under Package 1 and 10% to 15%
for Packages 2 and 3. Price contingencies are based on increase of 9.0%
p.a. between 1989 and 1991 and 8.0% in 1992 and thereafter for domestic
prices and on increases of 7.2% in 1989 and 1990 and 4.4% in 1991 and
thereafter for international prices.
Financing Plan
3.18      The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million equivalent (P
982.3 million) would finance about 70% of the total project cost net
of taxes and about US$17.7 million equivalent (about 52%) of local
costs. The Bank loan would be allocated as follows:
(a) US$23.2 million equivalent (P 568.4 million) of the loan
would be on-lent through the MDF to the LGUs at the MDF's
prevailing terms and conditions;
(b) US$6.7 million equivalent (P 165.3 million) would be passed
on as budgetary allocations to DOF for RPTA; and
(c) US$10.1 million equivalent (P 248.7 million) would be passed on
as budgetary appropriations to DPWH for the MKINUTE-Fringe
Program investments (national components).
Counterpart funding for the subprojects and RPTA would be provided by
the LGUs from local funds and DPWH from the national budget.
Financing for consultancy services for the solid waste study and



- 22 -
technical assistance to the PHO and the MDF would be provided by DPWH
and DOF. In addition, the DOF would provide about P 10.0 million for
the administration of the RPTA program and DPWH about P 49.1 million
for the staffing and administration cost of the PNO. The financing
plan is summarized in Table 3.2. These arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan By Agency
(in P millions)
Bank    Loan
Total  LWU    DPWH   DOF   Loan   Share
MINUTE-Fringe
Local Components      677.7   109.3      -     -  568.4   84%
National Components   424.0      -   175.3    -  248.7   59%
RPTA                  272.9   107.6      -     -  165.3   61%
Technical Assistance
Solid Waste Study       7.3      -      7.3    -     -      0%
P1O                    17.2      -     17.2    -     -      0%
DOF                     6.3      -       -   6.3    -       0%
Total         1,405.4   216.9   199.8   6.3  982.4   70%
E. Onlending Arrangements
Subloan Terms and Conditions
3.19      The on-lending terms and conditions of the MDF subloans
would be same as that under MDP I (para. 2.10) which are: (a) subloan
financing up to 90% of the Local Component costs; (b) MDF subloans to
be made over 20 years with five years of grace at a variable interest
rate; and (c) equal payments of interest and principal. The foreign
exchange risk is borne by the Government. The MDF on-lending rate,
currently 11% per annum, is based on the Bank's interest rate with a
margin (between 3% to 4%) to reflect the commitment fee and foreign
exchange risk, and is reviewed annually with the Bank.
3.20      Under the proposed project, a separate category of subloan
would be created to finance consultancies for subproject preparation.
These subloans would be made to the LWU at the NDF's prevailing
variable interest rate to finance up to 90% of the consultant contract
for subproject preparation. The WU would provide the remainder (at
least 10%) from their own funds as counterpart. If the MDF



- 23 -
subsequently approves a subproject for the LGU and a new subloan is
made for subproject implementation, the amount on-lent for subproject
preparation would be repaid to the MDF from the proceeds of the new
subloan: i.e. incorporated in the new subloan. If no subproject is
approved within 18 months of the completion of the consultant
contract, the amount on-lent to the LGU would be repaid over five
years in equal payments of principal and interest. The terms and
conditions of the subloan would be defined in a Subloan Agreement
between the DOF and the LGU. These arrangements were confirmed during
negotiations.
Oniending Agreements
3.21      Details of the subproject, onlending terms and conditions,
implementation arrangements, etc. would be included in two separate
on-lending agreements between the national government and the LGU: (a)
a Subproject Agreement between DPWH and the LGU; and (b) a Subloan
Agreement between the LGU and DOF. The format of the two agreements
would be based on those used under MDP I (paras. 2.11 and 2.12).
Special conditions for fund releases to the LGUs under the project
would include a commitment to set aside funds for equipment operation
and maintenance (para. 3.09) and establishment of a Community
Development Unit in the LGU as a condition for communal faucets and
sanitation facilities (para. 4.07). LGUs would be required to
increase local revenues through improved real property tax collections
and municipal enterprise management. Local councils would be required
to endorse the proposed financial targets prior to subproject
approval. These revenue enhancement measures are discussed in Annex 7
and the financial projections for the Package 1 LGUs are summarized in
Annex 8.
3.22      The Subproject and Subloan Agreements would cover investment
needs of the LGUs over a two to three year period compared to the four
to five years under MDP I. If a LGU successfully implements their
subproject, they will be eligible for further subloans. A shorter
time frame and a smaller subloan package would allow the LGUs to
concentrate implementation on a few high priority components and allow
for closer supervision by the PMO. In cases where LGUs are expected
to take steps to improve management, the leverage of the PMO would be
increased since the PMO would evaluate past performance before
recommending the LGU for a subsequent subloan.
3.23      Draft Subloan and Subproject Agreements for the Package 1
LGUs were reviewed at negotiations. The appraisal of the LGUs which
are expected to start implementation in subsequent years, 1991 aad
1992, would be conducted by the PMO. These LGUs would be included in
the project and become eligible for Bank loan financing subject to
Bank review and approval of: (a) the PM0's appraisal of their
investment program; and (b) the Subproject and Subloan Agreements.
Bank prior review and approval would not be required for approval of
Subproject Preparation Subloans. These arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION. IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Implementing Arrangements
4.01       The implementation arrangements for the proposed project
are based on those developed under MDP I (para. 2.03). At the
national level, the Project Steering Committee would be providing
co-ordination between the project agencies, while the PMO would be
responsible for management of the MHINUTE-Fringe Program and the DOF
for the RPTA Program. At the local level, project implementation
would be carried out by: (a) the LGU for the MMINUTE-Fringe Local
Components and RPTA; and (b) DPWH (Regional and District Office for
the Fringe Areas and by PMO for Metro Manila) for the National
Components.
The Project Steering Committee
4.02      The Project Steering Committee would provide overall policy
guidance and co-ordination among the agencies involved in the project.
The Project Steering Committee for MDP I, consisting of Under-
secretaries or Assistant Secretaries of the DPWH, DOF, DLG, NEDA and
the Department of Budget and Management and chaized by DPWH, would
also serve as the Steering Committee for the proposed MDP II. The
Metro Manila Commission or any agency that takes over its role of
coc-dinating investments in Metro Manila would also be included in the
Steering Committee for the project. The Project Steering Committee
would be supported by a separate Technical Subcommittee for the MDP
II, which would carry out routine co-ordination between the different
agencies and review the LGU appraisals programs and on-lending
agreements, annual budgets, etc., prior to their submission to the
Project Steering Committee. The Technical Committee would consist of
Assistant Secretaries and Bureau Directors (or equivalent) of the
agencies in the Project Steering Committee with DPWH as chairman. It
would also include other agencies which would need to be consulted in
planning and implementing the project investments: (a) Metropolitan
Waterworks and Sewerage System, Local Water Utilities Administration
and National Housing Authority which implement or fund investments in
related areas; and (b) National Meat Inspection Committee which
approves slaughterhouse designs and certifies them upon completion.
The roles of these four additional agencies and their relationship
with the LGUs and the PMO would be confirmed in an Inter-Agency Co-
ordination Memorandum of Agreement. The draft Memorandum of Agreement
was reviewed during negotiations.
The MNINUTE Project Management Office (PMO)
4.03      The PMO plays a critical role in managing the proposed
project.  The functions of the PMO would be to:
(a)  LGU evaluation: recommend to the Project Steering Committee
LGUs which are eligible for funding and assistance from the
MDF; appraise subprojects proposed by the LGUs for approval
of the Project Steering Committee;



- 25 -
(b) technical assistance: assist the LGUs in the subproject
preparation, including facilitating links between the
national and regional agencies and the LGUs; assist LGU in
the design, implementation and monitoring of local
components; co-ordinate training with DLG;
(c) implementatlon: conduct detailed design and engineering and
construction supervision of the National Components in Metro
Manila; supervise the Fringe Area Solid Waste Study;
(d) fund adminis£ration: review requests from LGUs and DPWH
Regional/District Offices and recommend release of Bank loan
funds from the MDF to DPWH and LGUs; prepare annual budget
and cash flow requirements; maintain a consolidated project
account for MMINUTE-Fringe; and
(e) monitoring and evaluation: review construction works;
monitor compliance with on-lending agreements; monitor LGU
finances (in collaboration with DOF); evaluate impact of
subprojects.
The role of the PMO is the same as that of the CPO under MDP I with
one exception, PMO would also be implementing National Components in
Metro Manila because the DPWH National Capital Regional Office is
unable to accommodate the additional work within its program given its
existing work load. PMO has experience implementing minor civil works
under the Third Urban Project and would be capable of carrying out the
work. Given PMO's expanded responsibilities under the proposed MDP II
and limited staff, the city/municipal engineer's office would provide
assistance in supervising construction of national components within
their jurisdictions.
4.04      The PMO would consist of a Project Manager, Assistant
Project Manager and staff from DPWH assisted by consultants and would
be organized into three divisions and two staff units: Engineering
Development and Technical Evaluation Division; Management and Co-
ordination Division; Planning, Programming and Loan Disbursement
Division; Administrative Staff; and Executive Staff. The functions of
the various divisions are summarized in Annex 9 and the organization
of the PMO is presented in Chart 4.  Adequate staffing of the PMO
would be essential for the success of the project. It is estimated
that the PMO would need to increase its professional staff
(architects, area coordinators, community development officers, etc.
including consultants) from 44 at present to a maximum of about 80 by
end 1994 to implement and sustain the project. The proposed project
includes about 56 staffyears of consultant assistance for the PMO. It
was agreed during negotiations that the PMO would be adequately
staffed and funded.
DOF Bureau of Local Government Finance (BLGF)
4.05      MKINUTE-FrinMe  The BLGF through the MDF would be
responsible for: (a) releasing subloan funds to the LGU based on
recommendations from the PMO; (b) administering Bank loan releases to



- 26 -
DWPH Regional/District Office and the PMO for NatLonal Components; and
(c) maintaining subproject loan accounts and billing LGUs for interest
payments and principal repayments. The regular monitoring of LGU
finances and compliance with Subloan Agreements would be carried out
by the PMO which would have frequent contacts with the LGU staff
during its supervision of subproject implementation. BLGF, which has
supervisory powers over local government treasury and assessment
offices, would assist the PMO in resolving issues in cases of major
financial difficulties in the LUs or gross noncompliance with
Subloan Agreements.
4.06      RP=   The BLGF would also be responsible for overseeing
implementation of the RPTA Program. An unit, with seven professional
staff (to be increased to 14) and nine administrative staff, has been
created in the BLGF to administer the RPTA component under the on-
going MDP I. The functions of the unit are to: (a) review
applications for LGUs requesting assistance for RPTA; (b) monitor and
co-ordinate implementation of the program; (c) conduct orientation and
organize training of LGU staff; and (d) act as a liaison with the
Bank. Supervision of RPTA activities in the LGUs would be carried out
by the regional units set up within each BLGF regional office. This
arrangement would be continued under the proposed MDP II.
Particinating Local Governments Units
4.07      MXINUTE-Fringe Program   Each LGU would implement the
subproject through its respective departments. A Local Project
Officer, either the Planning Officer or Engineer, woul. be designated
as the program co-ordinator in the LGU. The Planning Office would be
responsible for project identification, prioritization and feasibility
studies. The Community Development Office would be responsible for
the organization and follow-up of barangay associations for water
supply and sanitation components. Experience from MMINUTE under the
Third Urban Project indicated that strong barangay organizations are
essential for the proper operation and maintenance of communal water
supply and sanitation facilities. Those LGUs which do not have a
Community Development Office would be required to establish a
Community Development Unit as a condition of obtaining subloans (para.
3.21).
4.08      The Municipal/City Engineer's Office would implement the
Local Components and carry out: (a) survey, design and cost estimate
preparation based on established standards required under the program;
(b) preparation of tender documents and conduct of bidding; (c)
construction supervision; and (d) monitoring and maintenance of
completed projects. In Metro Manila, the Municipal/City Engineer's
Office would also assist the PMO in construction supervision of
national components (para. 4.03). The Treasurer's Office would
maintain subproject accounts, administer the subloan and prepare the
necessary documents to seek releases from the MDF. The City Auditor
would audit the subproject accounts annually. The LGU departments,
especially the Planning and Engineer's Office, would be assisted as
necessary by consultants.



- 27 -
4.09      R     Implementation of the RPTA Program would be carried
out by the staff from the Assessor's and Treasury's Offices. In the
case of the smaller municipalities with limited staff, assistance
would be provided by the Provincial Assessor's and Treasurer's
Offices. Each LGU and the DOF would enter into a service contract
specifying the additional staff, equipment and supplies required by
the LGU to conduct the tax mapping, records administration and
collection activities. The amount of the DOF grant would be based on
this contract (para. 3.12).
DPWH Regional and District Engineering Offices
4.10      The DPWH Regional and District Engineer's Offices would
prepare detailed design and engineering, conduct bidding and award,
and supervise construction of all National Components funded through
DPWH in the Fringe Areas as part of their regular operations. The
District Engineering Offices are authorized to approve designs of
civil works up to P 1.0 million and award contracts up to P 0.5
million. Civil works above P 1.0 million but below P 10.0 million are
prepared, awarded and implemented by the Regional Engineering Offices
of DPWH.
4.11      The implementation arrangements described above are
summarized in Table 4.1.
B. Implementation Schedule
4.12      The implementation period is estimated to be six years based
on past experience. The project would be implemented from 1989 to
1995 and is scheduled to be completed by December 30, 1995. The
implementation schedule is presented in Annex 9. The project could be
implemented faster than the average for Bank urban projects and the
P10 is planning a five year implementation period. Any cost savings
resulting from a faster implementation of the project would be used to
finance subprojects additional to those in the 33 LOUs programmed for
inclusion in the project.



- 28 -
Table 48X: SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
DPWH   LGU  PMO   DOF
NMINUTE-Fringe Program
Subproject Preparation                         x
Subproject Appraisal                                x
Subproject Implementation
National Components
Detail Design and Engineering         f          m
Tendering and Award                   f          m
Construction Supervision              f          m
Operation and Maintenance             f          m
Local Components: Civil Works
Detail Design and Engineering               x
Tendering and Award                         x
Construction Supervision                    x
Operation and Maintenance                   x
Local Components: Equipment aJ
Preparation of Specifications               x
Tendering and Award                         x
Supervision of Delivery                     x
Operation and Maintenance                   x
Release of Funds
Review of Application for Release                 x
Disbursement of Funds                                  x
Real Property Tax Administration
Preparation of Program                                  x
Implementation of Program                    x
Fringe Area Solid Waste Studs                         x
Overall Project Monitoring and Accounts               x
x - primary responsibility
f - Fringe Areas only
m - PHO with support from LGUs; only in Metro Manila
aJ Whenever possible, equipment to be purchased by the LGUs
would be packaged and procured by DPWH through ICB (para.
4.14).



- 29 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurestent
4.13      Civil Works The estimated value of civil works under the
project is about US$35.7 million equivalent. Procurement arrangements
for the project are summarized in Table 4.2 below. All the contracts
would be minor works valued less than US$750,000 each and are not
expected to attract foreign bidders. Therefore, the civil works
contracts would be awarded in accordance with Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Local procedures
for civil works contracts are governed by Presidential Decree 1594.
The Government revised the Implementing Rules and Regulations of
Presidential Decree 1594 in 1988 which resulted in certain local
procedures not conforming with Bank procurement guidelines. The
Government has revised the Implementing Rules and Regulations in
consultation with the Bank to address any inconsistencies with Bank
guidelines. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that Bank
guidelines would apply to procurement of civil works under the
project.
Table 4.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS aJ
(in US$ millions)
Total
Project Component      ICB     LCB     Other     Cost
Civil Works             -      35.7      -       35.7
(24.1)            (24.1)
Goods                  4.0       -       6.8     10.8
(4.0)             (5.7)    (9.-7)
RPTA Services           -        -       8.1      8.1
(4.8)    (4.8)
Consultant              -        -       2.6      2.6
Services                                (1.4)    (1.4)
TOTALS                 4.0     35.7     17.5     57.2
(4.0)   (24.1)   (11.9)   (40.0)
aJ Included physical and price contingencies; excludes
taxes and duties.  Numbers in brackets are Bank loan
amounts.



- 30 -
4.14      Goods Maintenance equipment would be grouped whenever
possible into contracts valued at US$200,000 or more and would be
procured through ICB by DPNH on behalf of the L6Us to benefit from
economies of scale and DPWH's expertise in equipment procurement.
However, it would not be possible to package all maintenance equipment
purchases since some LOUs would have different requirements in
specification (e.g. through the need for standardization with existing
equipment) and timing. Therefore, equipment packages for maintenance
equipment, costing less than US$200,000 each and totalling US$3.1
million equivalent, would be procured by the LGU through International
and Local Shopping with quotations received from at least three
suppliers. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes,
whichever is less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers under
ICB. The MKINUTE-PMO would review the bid documents and the bid
evaluation results of equipment procured by the LGUs. EquipEent
contracts for tools, parts and micro computer costing less than
US$50,000 each for a total of US$700,000 equivalent would be purchased
through Local Shopping. Drafting tables, calculators, tape measures
and other miscellaneous equipment and supplies required for RPTA
totalling about US$3.0 million would be purchased by each LMU through
Local Shopping.
4.15      RPTA services  The additional personnel required for the
RPTA would be hired by the LGUs as contractual staff for the duration
of the RPTA program using their own procedures for hiring such labor.
4.16      Consultant Services  Consultants services for subproject
preparation, construction supervision and technical assistance,
totalling about US$2.6 million equivalent, would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Use of Consultants'.
4.17      prior Review All equipment contracts under ICB would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation.
About 37% of the equipment contracts would be subject to the Bank's
prior review. For the remaining minor civil works and equipment
costing less than US$200,000, the PHO would develop standard bid and
contract documents which would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Subsequent contract documents would be subject to selective post-award
review.
Disbursement
4.18      The disbursement procedures for subloans through the NDF to
the LGUs would follow those under MDP I. Disbursements would be made
against the following categories of expenditures:
(a) 100% of MDF releases to LGUs for subproject preparation
subloans;
(b) 100% of MDF disbursements to LOUs for subproject
implementation subloans;



- 31 -
(c) 60% for civil works implemented by DPWH; and
(d) 100% of DOF disbursements to the LOUs for RPTA.
Except for ICB equipment contracts, disbursements would be made
against Statements of Expenditure. The PMO would maintain the
necessary documentation on releases for subloans through the HDF and
the BLGF on RPTA for review by the Bank.
4.19      A Special Account, totalling US$2.5 million equivalent to
about four months' estimated disbursements would be set up in the
Central Bank to expedite disbursements. Disbursements are projetted
to take place over a seven period, based on the Bank's disbursement
profile for urban projects in the Philippines. Estimated
disbursements are provided in Annex 11. The Closing Date is December
31, 1996.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.20      DPWH and each project LGU would maintain separate project
accounts. PMO and DOF would maintain separate accounts for technical
assistance. PMO would: (a) maintain a consolidated project account of
MMINUTE-Fringe and DPWH technical assistance expenditures for
monitoring and audit purposes; and (b) prepare an annual financial
statement in the form of a Sources and Application of Funds Statement.
DOF/BLGF would: (a) maintain a consolidated account for RPTA and DOF
technical assistance expenditures; and (b) prepare annual financial
statements in the form of a Sources and Application of Funds
Statement. DPWH and each project LGU would prepare annual financial
statements for their respective agency project accounts which will be
certified by their agency auditors. While these audits would not be
sent to the Bank, they would be used to support the consolidate
project annual financial statement to be prepared by PMO and DOF.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Bank would be
furnished audit reports prepared by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank within nine months of the close of each fiscal year by: (a)
PMO for MMINUTE-Fringe and DPWH technical assistance; and (b) DOF/BLGF
for RPTA and DOF technical assistance. The audits would include
separate opinions on the Special Account and withdrawals utilizing
Statements of Expenditures.
E. Progress Reporting and Monitoring
4.21      PMO would be responsible for monitoring progress of
the MHINUTE-Fringe program and would prepare and forward to the Bank a
progress report every quarter. DOF/BLOF would prepare and forward to
the Bank, quarterly progress reports on the RPTA component. These
arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.



- 32 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Institutional Impact
5.01      Investment PlManini  The proposed project would strengthen
institutions both at the national and local goerrment levels. At the
national level, the project would further develop the institutional
framework established through the ongoing MDP I to assist LGUs plan
and finance investment programs. The technical assistance under the
project would assist DOF to improve financial management of the MDF.
With the addition of LGUs in Metro Manila and the Fringe Areas, access
to MDF funds wouid be extended to all LGUs in the Philippines.
5.02      At the local level, the proposed project would help the LGUs
to establish credible investment plans by providing access to long
term financing. Uncertainty over the availability of funds had made
planning over a multi-year period difficult, and many investment
decisions were made on an ad hoc basis. The project wouli transfer
the techniques developed under the MMINUTE Program for identifying,
evaluating, designing and implementing low cost basic infrastructure
investments from DPWH to the LGUs.
5.03     LGU Financial Mana2ement Most LGUs would be required to
undertake measures to improve real property tax collections and market
operations to qualify for MDF subloans. LGUs would be required to
improve real property tax administration and collection performance
through better records management and systematic follow-up of
delinquencies. Those LGUs lacking tax maps would receive assistance
through the RPTA component of the project 12J_. Improvement of tax
maps and updating of cadasters in selected Metro Manila LGUs resulted
in an increase in real property assessments of about 30% from
undeclared and under-declared properties. Assuming that real property
taxes account for about one-third of locally genera-,ed revenues
(excluding national grants), it is estimated that an increase in
assessments between 20% and 30% together with an improvement in tax
collections of 10% would result in an increase in locally generated
revenues of around 11% to 14%.
5.04      LGUs would be required to introduce adequate accounting
procedures and pricing policies for municipal markets. In many LOUs
especially outside Metro Manila, market operations are fragmented
among several LGU departments. In such cases, the LGUs would be
required to appoint a market administrator to be in charge of all
market operations and set up separate accounts to accurately monitor
revenues and expenditures. Market tariffs would be set to fully
recover operation, maintenance and debt service costs.
12J 13 LGUs in Metro Manila have completed preparation of tax maps
through the Bank's Third Urban Project and the RPTA under MDP I.



- 33 -
5.05      Over the long term, the strengthening of investment planning
and management capabilities in the LGUs together with regular access
to long-term loan financing would reduce the LGUs dependence on
national government grants and promote local autonomy.
B. Environmental Impact
5.06      The project is expected to have a significant health and
environmental impact at the community level. The supply of municipal
infrastructure has not kept pace with increased demand, leading to
deterioration in living standards in most LGUs, especially those in
the rapidly developing metropolitan area. Deficiencies are higher in
the low-income areas, where water for drinking and washing is
inadequate, toilets are generally unsanitary, and drainage for waste
water is practically nonexistent. The provision of communal water
faucets, showers and laundry facilities would improve access to safe
water for daily household needs. The construction of public toilets
as part of the sanitation facilities would provide sanitary disposal
of human wastes which otherwise would have been disposed into open
drains. Improvements in the drainage would result in less stagnant
water and flooding which would reduce the incidence of water borne
diseases to the area residents.
5.07      The markets and slaughterhouses in the project LGUs are
generally old and in poor condition, lacking adequate space,
equipment, drainage and sanitation facilities. The renovation and
construction of markets and slaughterhouses would have a significant
health impact through hygienic handling of meat and other foodstuffs
which would reduce the health risk to the locai residents who rely on
public markets for their daily needs.
C. Urban Poverty Imoact
5.08      The basic infrastructure investments are targeted towards
the low-income communities which are given priority under subproject
evaluation (Annex 2). The Government estimates that approximately 44%
of the population in Metro Manila and 47% of the urban population in
the Pringe Areas have incomes below the poverty threshold, i.e. the
minimum needed to meet nutritional requirements and other basic needs
13J_. Based on the Government poverty threshold, it is estimated that
approximately half of the beneficiaries of the investments under
Package 1 would be from the poverty group.
13J The poverty thresholds in 1985 prices are: (a) P 3,282 per family
per month in Metro Manila; and (b) P 3,100 per family per month
in the Fringe Areas, i.e. average of urban poverty thresholds in
Regions 3 and 4 (from "A Monograph on the Estimation of the 1985
Poverty and Subsistence Thresholds and Incidences").



- 34-
D. Economic Analysis
5.09      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the Package 1
investments appraised by the Bank was estimated by obtaining the
weighted average ERR for five markets and minor road investments
included in this package. The remainder consists of minor water,
sewerage and sanitation improvements which are not considered
appropriate for a formal economic evaluation because they are small
and have significant health benefits (para. 5.06). The weighted
average ERR is 16% and covers approximately 39% of investments in
Package 1. The ERR for Package 1 can ba taken as a proxy for the
project ERR since the composition of the investments in LGUs to be
appraised and subsequently included in the project would be similiar
to that of Package 1. Details of the estimation and methodology are
provided in Annex 12.
E. Risks
5.10      Erosion in Revenue Enhancement.  The primary risk associated
with the project is the potential delay or overt failure of the LGUs
to improve collections on property taxes or increase market rents.
The resulting reduced revenues would restrict both matching
counterpart funds during implementation, and subsequent repayment of
loan funds to the MDF. Experienca under the first project indicates
that significant political pressure can be exerted by residents to
prevent increases in market or slaughterhouse fees.
5.11      To minimize this risk, the loan size would be restricted to
finance a shorter time frame of an LGU's investment program (2 to 3
years relative to 4 to 5 years under MDP I). This would reduce MDF
exposure to individual LGUs and facilitate performance evaluation
against agreed targets prior to approval of a further subloan
(individual LGUs would be eligible to borrow more than once).
Endorsement by the Local Council of the agreed financial targets would
be required prior to approval of the subloan, to help ensure political
support during implementation. In addition, for market investments,
the level of works (and therefore cost) has been limited to avoid the
need for sudden major increases in rents. Thus the combination of
small, stepped price increases and early political commitment is
expected to help address the risk of potential delay or failure in
achieving revenue increases.
5.12      The generation of early and sustained political commitment
to the project's fiscal and financial goals is essential to its
success. The recent local elections were an important factor limiting
local executives' willingness to increase market tariffs or take other
potentially unpopular decisions. However, the local elections were
completed in early 1988 with the Mayors and local council members
having been elected to five year terms (1988-1992). Therefore local
executives are now able to take a longer view of municipal and
political strategy and have expressed their willingness to undertake
unpopular measures if such initiatlves can show tangible results
within a three to four year time horizon.



- 35 -
5.13      MDP  Ovrlo    Another concern is that the extension of the
HDF to Metro Manila and the surrounding areas would overwhelm the
administrative capacity of the fund, which is still in its early
st'ges of development. As noted in para. 2.14, implementation of the
first project was delayed, and is still in the initial phases of
execution.
5.14      This risk has been addressed by utilizing a separate project
office, the PM0, for the proposed project. Under both the ongoing
MDP I and proposed MDP II projects, the project offices, CPO and PM0,
contain the bulk of professional staff and carry out all the
substantive functions required for project implementation (e.g. LGU
selection, subproject appraisal, performance monitoring, etc.).
Consultants would be funded through the project to strengthen the PM0.
The MDF functions at present solely as a disbursement/accounting
mechanism for subloans. The proposed project includes technical
assistance to DOF to develop procedures and accounting and management
information systems for the MDF to allow it to function as a revolving
fund. The utilization of the PM0 and technical assistance provided
through the project should address this second concern.



- 36 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHE AND REGO9MMNAION
6.01      The terms and conditions of the subloans for project
preparation were confirmed with the Government during negotiations
(para. 3.20). Draft Subproject and Subloan Agreements for Package 1
LOUs (para. 3.23) and the draft inter-agency memorandum (para. 4.02)
were reviewed during negotiations.
6.02      The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a) DPWH would provide the necessary counterpart funds for the
national components and would finance the solid waste study
and technical assistance to the PMO (para. 3.18);
(b) DOF would finance the advisory services to the NDF
(para. 3.18);
(c) the PMO would submit to the Bank for review and approval,
prior to award of a subproject, the PMO's appraisal of the
LGU investment program and the draft Subproject and Subloan
Agreements (para. 3.23);
(d) DPWH would adequately staff and fund the PMO (para. 4.04);
(e) Bank procurement procedures would be followed in the bidding
and award of civil works contracts (para. 4.13);
(f) PMO and DOF/BLGF would submit audit reports within nine
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.20); and
(g) PMO and DOF/BLGF would submit a progress report every
quarter (para. 4.21).
6.03      Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent to the Republic
of the Philippines for a period of 20 years including five years of
grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



ANEX I
PHILIPPINES
SECOND RJNICIPAL DEVELOPWENT PROJECT
NInicIpst Development Fund Subloan Financial Flows
(P millions)
..................................... ............................................................................. ........ ............... ......................................... ...............................................................
Actul                                                                                          Projected
. ...... .......... .... ...... ~~~~~~... .... ............... ................ ..........................
1985            1966            198I             1968             1969            1990             1991            1992             1993            1994             1995
... .. ........ ............... .... ...... ... .... ............ ....................... ............... .............................. .............................................................................................. ..... ..........
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Balance Brought Forward                        -          0.000           0.318            2.644           S.709           11.911          34.3ff          71.259           90.920          88.162           72.679
Bank Loan:  DP I                         2.279          26.494           17.664          24.039          133.924         167.020          156.189          64.591            0.000            0.000           0.000
UDP It                         -                -                -               -                -        36.504           79.287          74.066           54.911         109.989         132.197
LGU Debt Service Payments:
UDP  I                                  0.000           0.318            2.327           3.065            6.202          22.484          40.856           48.625          52.250           52.250          52.250
MOP  it                                                               -                        -                                           2.008           8.376           16.812          23.906          38.022
Nan-project                                  -                -               -                -               *                                -          0.660            4.180           8.360           11.000
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, .....  ....  ........  ............ ........  ----- ........  .......  .. .. ....  ...... .....    ........        ....... .. 
2.279          26.812          20.308           29.748         145.835          237.919         312.73s          267.597         219.073         282.668          306.148
APPLICATION OF FUtOS aj
Sbloan Disburseaents:
MDP  I                                  2.279          26.494           17.664          24.039         133.924          167.020         156.189           64.591            0.000           0.000            0.000
MDP II                                       -                                                                 -         36.504          79.287           74.086          54.911          109.989         132.197
Non-project                                  *                -                                                -                -          6.000          38.000          76.000          100.000         100.000
........        ........... ..... ......-   ..........            . ...........  ... ... ....      ... .... .      . ......... . ......... ........                  ........... ...
2.279          26.494          17.664           24.039         133.924          203.524         241.476          176.677         130.911         209.989          232.197
BALAJCE                                   0.000            0.318           2.644            5.7C9          11.911           34.395          71.259           90.920          88.162           72.679          73.951
Nuiber of LGUs with Subloans:
"DP I                                        5                6               8               11              19              25               25               11               0                0               0
NDP  11                                                       -               -                -                                7              14               24              26               19               9
Non-project                                  -                -               -                -                        -                       1                6              11               1S              1S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  ....... .   .......  ......  ....... .. .......  .......      ..... .. .   ... ....            .... . ..        . .....
5               6                8              11               19              32              40               41              37               34              24
Atual SUbloan Commitments:
PDP  1                               244.755           35.700          33.349           66.521         113.000           98.875            0.000            0.000           0.000            0.000           0.000
MDP 11                                        -                                -               -                -       13.595          117.167           67.381         150. 43            0.000            0.000
Non-project                                                   -                -               -                        -                 20.000         100.000         100.000          100.000         100.000
244.755          35.700           33.349           66.521         113.000         27r.470          137.167         267.381          250.643         100.000          100.000
..... ....... .... .... ................ .............................. ............................................... ........................................................................ ................................ ..............
a_/ Excludes subloan administratfve costs borne by DPIH end DOF and excludes Sank loan commitment fee and interest payments and loan repeyments WAich
are being pald by the Governoent in lieu of equity contributions at the start of the MDF.



- 38 -
ANNEX-2
Pa&2 1 of 3
PHILIPINfSi
SECOND MUNEIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subyrolect Evaluation Net1iodolo_y
1..       A LGU's request for financing would be evaluated on its
impact on low-income groups, need and technical, financial and
administrative feasibility of the proposed investments and the ability
of the LGU to service the proposed debt obligation.
2.        Subproject components are identified through a "bottom-up"
approach where the LGU receives requests for potential investments
from the barangays (local communities). The proposed investments are
evaluated to determine whether they qualify for inclusion in the
project based on the following considerations: (a) income of the
community residents; (b) population densities; (c) infrastructure
deficiencies; and (d) status of tenure. The criteria used in the
evaluation (the Criteria for Area Consideration) differs by type of
investment and are as follows:
A. Water SUpnlY. Sanitation. Drainage and Streets
(a) social-physical status (max. 10 points): lower income areas
score higher;
(b) population density (max. 10 points): higher densities score
higher;
(c) infrastructure and service deficiency (max. 10 points): areas
with worse conditions score higher;
(d) occupancy status (max. 6 points): areas with more owners score
higher;
(e) other considerations (max. 4 points): urgency, etc.;
(f) Equivalent rating in percentages - total score (items a through
e above) x 2.5.
B. Naior Drainage and Streets
(a) Average Total Score (ATS) using scoring system of items a, b,
d and e of Set 1 criteria;
(b) Score of Infrastructure Deficiency (SID) using scoring system
of item c Set 1 criteria;
(c) Equivalent rating in percentages - (ATS + SID] x (5].
C. Slaughterhouses and Markets
(a) population served (max 15 points): higher or lower than
standard;
(b) area affected (max. 10 points): higher or lower than average;
(c) infrastructure and service deficiency (max. 10 points): areas
with worse conditions score higher;



- 39 -
Page 2 of 3
(d) other considerations (max. 5 points): urgency, etc.;
(e) Equivalent rating in percentages - total score (items a through
d above) x 2.5.
A point scoring system is used where low-income, high density
communities with high degrees of infrastructure deficiencies and
higher ratio of lot owners would score higher. Households with
incomes below p 3,500 per month in 1985 prices in Metro Manila and
p 2,500 per month in areas outside Metro Manila are defined as being
low-income. As under the MMflINUTE program, areas with high  nbers of
squatter or uncertain ownership would be given a lower priority to
avoid issues relocation and/or tenure and facilitate implementation.
These areas would be addressed by the NHA through its slum upgrading
programs (Zonal Improvement Program) which provides a more
comprehensive package of assistance including provision of tenure. A
site will need to score a minimum of 70% to qualify for inclusion in
the subproject.
3.       After the need for the investment and its potential impact
on the low-income communities have been established, the proposed
investments are then ranked based on the extent of community
commitment, priority, beneficiaries and cost. The Critera for
SUbDroiect Prioritizati   are as follows:
(a) commitments (max. 10 points): greater the extent of community
commitment, the higher the score;
(b) order of priorities (max. 10 points): based on total scores
under Criteria for Area Qualification described above;
(c) highest impact/benefits (max. 10 points): number of
beneficiaries;
(d) cost (max 10 points): costs below or above average for
category;
(e) Equivalent rating in percentages - total score (items a through
d above) x 2.5.
The proposed investments are ranked on a point scoring system with a
higher ranking given to those investments with a greater level of
community commitment, higher score under the Criteria for Area
Consideration, larger number of beneficiaries per unit cost, and costs
lower than standard costs developed for that category. Sites scoring
higher than 70% would qualify for inclusion in the project. Those
investments with a higher score would be given priority.
4.        A financial evaluation would be carried out on revenue
generating activities (markets and slaughterhouses) to ensure that
revenues would be sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs
and debt service obligations. In the case of communal faucets and
sanitation facilities, only operation and maintenance costs would be
recovered directly from the beneficiaries who are expected to be
primarily low-income households. An analysis will be carried out to



- 40 -
Pagg 3 of 3
determine whether the proposed user charges for the faucets and
sanitation facilities are within the affordability and willingness to
pay limits of the beneficiaries.
5.        Economic rates of return (ERR) would be obtained for larger
drainage, road and market investments costing over p 5 million (about
US$ 250,000). The measurement of benefits would be as follows: (a)
increases in rental value of the land for drainage investments; (b)
vehicle operating cost savings and passenger time savings for road
investments; and (c) rental values for new markets and incremental
rental values and maintenance cost savings for rehabilitation of
existing markets. Components would need to have an ERR over 12% to be
included in the project.
6.        The LOU's finances are analyzed and revenue and expenditure
projections made to determine whether the investment package as a
whole is affordable to the LOU concerned: i.e. whether the LWU can
provide the necessary counterpart funds and service the debt
obligations. The LWU would be required to maintain a minimum Debt
Service Coverage (revenues minus recurrent expenditure divided by debt
service) of 1.2. The LOU would also be required, where necessary, to
implement measures to improve fiscal performance, such as enforce
collection of arrears on real property taxes and revise market
tariffs.



- 41 -
ANNU 3
P4Z2 1 of 2
PHILIPPINE
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Real Propertv Tax Administration Program
1.        The Real Property Tax Administration (RPTA) Program aims at
improving real property tax administration by updating tax records to
reflect present ownership and use. The RPTA process is relatively
simple and consists of: (a) sorting of existing real property tax
records; (b) preparation of base maps from existing records; (c) field
surveys to verify and/or update information on boundaries, ownership
and land use; (d) assessment of newly identified properties; (e)
updating of assessments roles; (f) preparation of assessment notices
and tax bills; and (g) follow-up with delinquent taxpayers.
2         RPTA is executed by the Local Assessor's office and the
Treasurer's Office in each LWU under the supervision of DOF's regional
offices. In the smaller municipalities, staff from the provincial
assessor's and treasurer's office would augment the LGU staff. While
the process itself is relatively simple, the LWUs would require
additional staff and resources to deal with the large volume of data
that need to processed within a short period of time given the number
of existing real property tax records.
3.        DOF is providing a grant to the LGUs to finance part of the
cost for additional contractual staff, equipment and supplies required
to implement RPTA. DOF and the LGU agree to a detailed implementation
plan, including schedule of completion of each phase, required inputs
(contractual and regular staff, equipment, supplies, office space,
etc.) and estimated costs, is prepared for each LGU. The number of
existing real properties on record in the LGU is used as a base for
preparing these estimates. Field surveys may identify unrecorded
properties and the estimates for the subsequent phases would need to
be adjusted.
4.        Cost-sharing between the LGU and the DOF differs depending
on the classification of the LGU with the richer LGUs receiving less
national grants. The cost-sharing formula are presented in Table 1.
Table 1: RPTA Cost Sharing
Class of LGU          Govt. Grant   LGU Contribution
First & Second            60%             40%
Third & Fourth            70%              30%
Fifth and Below           80%              20%



- 42 -
AN 3
aggg 2 of 2
5.        The Bank project would finance the national government grant
to the LGUs.   Loan disbursements would be made against a service
contract between DOF and the LGU, which would specify the additional
staff and supporting expenditures required by the LGU (para. 3 above)
and the cost sharing between DOF and the LGU. Since the cost sharing
would differ among LGUs, the Bank would disburse against 100% of DOF
grant releases to the LWU.
6.        The detailed composition of the RPTA Program under the
proposed project is presented in Table 2.
Table 2: Proposed RPTA Program
MKINUTE-Fringe      Metro
Priority LGUs  Manila LGUs    Other LGUs
No. of LGUs                   'A              17           54
No. of RPUs/TDs aJ        57 ,029       1,165,463       704,113
Total Cost (p mil) bJ        52.6            69.9          67.5
Govt. Grant (p mil) cJ       34.7            41.1          47.0
RPU per LOU ('000)           23.9            68.6          13.0
Cost per RPU (peso)           92              60            96
aJ RPU - Real Property Unit; TD - Tax Declarations
b_J Base costs (September 1989 prices)
c_J Grants are allocated by the formula in Table 1.



- 43 -
ANNE 4
Page I of 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference
Solid Waste Management Study
1. Introduction
1.        Philippines is experiencing a rapid growth in urban
population which increased from 18 million (37% of total population) in
1980 to an estimated 24 million (42%) in 1988. Bulk of the urban
population is concentrated in Metro Manila, the country's main
political, administrative and economic center. Growth of Metro Manila
is now spilling over to cities and municipalities (Local Government
Units, LGUs) in the surrounding provinces (the Fringe Areas) which are
also experiencing high population growth rates.
2.        In many cases, the LGUs capacity to provide adequate
municipal services has not kept pace with the increase in demand.
Refuse collection and disposal system set up for smaller populations are
not able to deal with the increase volumes generated by new residents.
Similarly, traditional dumping of household waste into waterways and
open areas, which may have been acceptable in rural areas, are not
appropriate in urban settings with increased population densities.
2. Objectives
3.        The objective of the Solid Waste Management Study would be
to:
(a) review the current system of refuse collection and disposal
in a pilot LGU (to be determined) in the Fringe Areas;
(b) identify problems and priority issues to be addressed; and
(c) recommend improvements in organization and implementation of
refuse collection, including preliminary estimates of
investment requirements.
The study would analyze refuse collection and disposal in one rapidly
growing LGU in the Fringe Areas which would act as a sample since the
issues in solid waste management are considered to be similar in most
developing LGUs in the Fringe Areas. The results of the study would
be used to develop detailed solid waste investment plans for other
LGUs in the Fringe Areas.



- 44 -
MM 4
Page 2 of 3
3. Scope of Work
4.        The study would review current refuse collection and
disposal operations and would include, among others, the following
topics:
(a) characteristics of refuse being generated by households,
commercial establishments and industries.
(b) method of refuse collection including area of coverage by
municipal collection services, design of household and
communal storage containers, existence of communal
collection systems and informal collection and recycling,
etc.
(c) organization of refuse collection including size and
productivity of collection crews, supervision of workers,
frequency of pickup, efficiency of collection and transfer
routing, work scheduling, etc.
(d) existing equipment and facilities including utilization and
age of equipment, maintenance, availability of supplies and
spare parts, etc.
(e) existing disposal facilities including location and
capacity, operational procedures, environmental impact, etc.
(f) planning, budgeting and financing (including cost recovery)
of refuse collection.
The consultant should carry out sample household surveys, time and
motion studies and other analysis as needed.
5.        The study would carry out projections on future refuse
generation. Based on the review of current practices and future
needs, the study would identify: (i) immediate problems and issues to
be addressed based on current practices; and (ii) anticipated problems
based on future projections.
6.       The study would produce recommendations on improvements in
the method of refuse collection, organization and staffing of refuse
collection and method and operation of disposal. The study would also
identify capital investment required to implement the improvements.
The study would include a discussion of the alternatives explored in
developing the recommendations and investment requirements, including
a comparison of the staffing, operational, maintenance and investment
costs. Given the administrative and financial constraints in LGUs, a
phased program of improvements and investments would need to be
considered. Similarly, the possibility of mobilizing additional
resources and manpower through utilization of private contractors and
community organization should be explored.



- 45
A-  4
Page 3 of 31
7.        The study is expected to involve about 60 manmonths of both
foreign and local consultant inputs. The duration of tha proposed
study would be 18 months.
4. Ex,ected Outputs
8.        The consultants are expected to produce the following
reports during the course of the study:
(a) Interim Report (after six months) which would summarize the
review of current refuse collection and disposal operation,
projected needs and problems and issues; and
(b)  Final Reg=  (after 18 months) which would include a
description of the existing system, outline of problems and
issues, discussion of the alternative approaches, and
recommendations for improvements and estimated investment
needs.



- 46-*
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference
Municipal Development Fund Advisory Services
1. Igtroduction
1.     The Government of the Philippines created a Municipal
Development Fund in 1984 to channel funds from foreign sources to
Local Government Units (LGUs) and promote self reliance of LGUs in
undertaking their socioeconomic development programs. Presidential
Decree 1914, dated March 29, 1984, established the organizational
structure which consisted of:
(a) the Municipal Development Fund (lDF), a special revolving
fund in the Department of Finance (DOF), for onlending
foreign funds to the LGUs;
(b)  a Steering Committee consisting of DOF, Department of Public
Works and Highways (DPWH), Department of Budget and
Management, Department of Local Government, and the
National Economic Development Authority, the main national
agencies dealing with LGUs, to provide policy direction; and
(c) a Central Project Office (CPO) under the direction of the
Steering Committee to assist LGUs in preparing projects for
financing through the MDF and co-ordinate projects carried
out by DPWH with the LGUs.
The MDF was placed within the Bureau of Local Goveranent Finance
(BLGF), DOF, which had administrative responsibility for overseeing
LGU finances. Since DOF lacked the technical expertise to assist LGUs
in project planning or evaluate investments submitted by LGUs, a
separate CPO under DPWH was setup to handle project preparation,
appraisal and supervision with the MDF functioning as a disbursement
mechanism. Co-ordination with the DPWH which carried out
infrastructure investments in the LGUs through its own funds was
facilitated by having DPWH staff the CPO and chair the Steering
Committee. HDF loans to LGUs were co-ordinated with DPWH national
funds which were also channelled through the MDF.
2.        Payments of interest and repayment of principal from the
LGUs would be reinvested in the LGUs in order to enable the fund to
grow and become self-sustaining. The Government became responsible
for payment of all finance charges and principal on the foreign loan.



* 47 -
Pai8e I of 3
3.       Loan disbursements through the MDF have been limited to date
because implementation of foreign funded investment projects in the
LGUs have been proceeding slowly. The MDF is currently being used as
a disbursement and monitoring mechanism for foreign funded loans to
LGUs. The organization and operating procedures of the MDF has been
setup accordingly. The detailed operating guidelines for the MDF are
provided in a Joint Circular (6/87) issued by DOF, the Department of
Budget and the Commission on Audit. The Joint Circular focuses
primarily on the procedures to be followed in withdrawing funds from
the MDF.
2. Obiectives
4.        While the MDF is presently functioning as a disbursement
mechanism, the long-term objective, as expressed in Presidential
Decree 1914, is to develop the MDF into a self-sustaining revolving
fund for financing LGU investments. Project implementation in the
LGUs is projected to pickup. Together with the addition of LGUs in
Metro Manila and surrounding provinces under the proposed Second
Municipal Development Project, disbursements from the MDF are projected
to increase so that appropriate policies, procedures and accounts would
need to be setup to allow the M1F to re-lend amortized loan payments
from the LOUs. The objective of the proposed technical assistance would
be to assist the BLGF, DOF, develop improved organization and procedures
for the MDF to allow it to function as a revolving fund.
3. Sc2    Y of Work
5.        The proposed institutional support for the MDF would require
an input from a consultant advisor over a two year period. The advisor
should be knowledgeable and experienced in operating lending operations
involving local governments. The consultant advisor would report to the
Director, BLGF, who is concurrently Executive Director of the MDF.
6.        The consultant advisor would assist the BLGF staff review
the present operations and procedures of the MDF and identify areas
for improvement in:
(a) operational policies and procedures
(b) planning and budgeting MDF releases
(c) records management and management information systems
(d) organization and staffing



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Pago 3 of 3
4. Expected Oututs
7.        At the end of the first quarter, the advisor would produce a
report outlining the areas for improvement in NDF operations and
proposed action plans for review by the Steering Committee (para. 1).
The advisor would subsequently prepare brief quarterly reports to the
Steering Committee (para. 1) summarizing activities undertaken,
problems identified (if any), and further actions to bx taken. At the
end of his assignment, he will produce a report summarizing his
recommendations and further follow-up action to be taken by BLGF.



- 49 -
AMUNX 6
PHILIPPtNES
SECOND MAUICIPAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Oetalted Project Costs
..................................................................................................
As X For. Ex.
Local  Foreign    Totat    Local  Foreign    Total  of Bee        As X
*-- peso millions ..---      -    US$ itllions ---       Cost Of Total
..................................................................................................
NINUTE- Fringe                452.4    313.7    766.1   21.029   14.606   35.635       78.4%       41%
mm_   mm. D           m..  tam..        -     .mm
Vater Supply                10.2      6.8      11.1    0.477    0.318    0.795        1.7X      40%
Sanitation                   9.6      6.4      16.0    0.446    0.297    0.743       1.6X       40%
Local Drairnage             11.8      9.6      21.4    0.609    0.498    1.10?       2.7X       45%
Local Roads                 16.5      8.9      25.4    0.720    0.38?    1.107       2.1%       35%
Narkets                    116.5     38.8    155.3    5.388    1.796    7.184        9.6X       25%
Slaughterhouses             42.5     14.2      56.7    1.976    0.659    2.635       3.5%       25%
Notorpools                  14.1      4.7      18.8    0.657    0.219    0.876        1.2%      25%
National water Supply        6.0      4.0      10.0    0.280    0.187    0.467       1.0%       40%
National Drainage           74.4     60.8    135.2    3.459    2.830    6.289       15.2%       45%
National Roads              93.6     50.4    144.1    4.356    2.346    6.702       12.6X       35%
Equipment                   27.2    109.0    136.2    1.267    5.069    6.336       27.2%       80%
Technical Assistance        30.0      0.0      30.0    1.394    0.000    1.394       0.0%        0%
municipal Nanagement          114.7     81.3    196.0    5.336    3.780    9.116       20.3%       41X
=        .        u     ..m
Real Property Tax
Administration            114.0     76.0    190.0    5.302    3.535    8.837       19.0%       40%
Solid Waste Study            0.7      5.3       6.0    0.033    0.246    0.279       1.3%       88X
Institutfonal Development      13.5      5.3      18.8    0.628    0.246    0.874       1.3%       28%
NNIMUTE-PPN                 13.5      0.0      13.5    0.628    0.000    0.628       0.0%        0%
Department of Finance        0.0      5.3       5.3    0.000    0.246    0.246       1.3X      100%
............................................................................................................................................. 
Base Costs                    580.6    400.2    960.9  26.993   18.632   45.625    100.0X          41X
Physical Contingencies         51.4     26.6      78.1    2.392    1.239    3.631       6.6%       34%
Price Contingencies           206.3    140.1    346.4    4.747    3.224    7.971       17.3%       40%
................................................................................................I..
Total Costs                   838.4    567.0  1,405.4   34.132   23.095   57.227    124.0%         40%
aJ Key not add up due to rounding.



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
Pate 1-of 2
2HILIPPIME
SECOND  =9iICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loc,al Revenue Enhancement Measures
1.        Efforts to increase local revenue collections would fe.cus
on two major sources of local revenues: real property taxes and public
markets and slaughterhouses.   The Subproject Agreement would include
fiscal performance targets and measures to be taken to increase
collections in these two areas. The PMO would monitor the LGUs fiscal
performance with assistance from DOF which would take punitive action
such as suspension of disbursements of loan funds or reductions in
national government grant transfers in case of gross noncompliance
with the targets in the Subproject Agreement.
Real Pronerty Taxes
2.        Potential exists in the LGUs to increase real property tax
revenues. Arrears in real property tax collections of 40% to 60% are
common in most LOUs. Incomplete real property cadasters, poor records
management and lack of systematic follow-up of non-payers are the
major causes for the poor collection performance. Many of the tax
records are out of date and do not accurately reflect changes in
ownership or land-use which are taking place in a rapidly growing
metropolitan area. Furthermore, existing tax records are being kept
manually so that it would be time consuming to prepare data on status
of tax collections or on the identity of non-payers.
3.        The proposed project would include measures to encourage
project LGUs to improve their real property tax collection
performance. The immediate focus would be on reducing current levels
of arrears. LGUs would be required to prepare lists of delinquent tax
payers and systematically follow-up. Most of the municipalities in
Metro Manila have completed preparation of the base tax maps through
RPTA under the Bank's Third Urban Project and MDP I 1J_. They are
presently updating and computerizing their tax records which is
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1989. Computerization should
facilitate billing and collection administration and follow-up of
delinquent taxpayers. The project includes additional financing for
the computerization and tax collection phases of the RPTA program in
Metro Manila (Annex 3). LGUs in the Fringe Areas and those in Metro
Manila yet to be tax mapped would receive assistance in improving
their tax maps and property tax cadasters through the RPTA component
1J The cities of Manila, Quezon and Caloocan were not included in
the RPTA program of either project. San Juan Municipality was not
included because tax mapping was already well advanced.



- S1 -
rA&22 o  2
of the proposed project. Even without updated tax records and
computerized systems, the LGUs would be able to compile manually lists
of major delinquent taxpayers.
NunicipAl Entrrises
4.        Market). are a significant source of revenues, especially for
LGUs outside of Metro Manila.   Market revenues comprise of monthly
stall rents which are charged to the permanent stall holders and the
aisle fees which are collected daily from the transient vendors within
the market. LGUs are able to set market rents through ordinances
passed by the local councils. However, in many markets, %3ntal fees
have not been adjusted to keep up with increases in operation costs.
Many of the LGUs outside of Metro Nanila do not have separate accounts
for the markets and slaughterhouses so that it is not possible to
accurately account for all the costs. In many cases, only direct
operating costs such as water and electricity costs are included under
market costs while maintenance and administrative costs may be
budgeted separately under the different municipal departments
(Treasurer's, Engineering, etc.) responsible for these activities. A
similar situation exists for public slaughterhouses. While the LGUs
may have revenues from their market and slaughterhouse operations,
they may not be necessarily generating a profit.
5.        In order to improve the management of municipal enterprises,
the WUs obtaining financing for markets and slaughterhouses would be
required to establish a pricing policy to fully recovery of operating,
maintenance and the debt service requirements of the MDF subloan of
municipal enterprises. If not already done so, they would be required
to appoint a market administrator in charge of all market operations
and set up separate accounts for municipal enterprises to accurately
monitor revenues and expenditures.



- 52 -
ANNE 8
Page 1 of 10
PHILIRRINKS.
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Government Finances Summary
1.        The financial situation of the Package I LGUs differs from
each other with Pasig having a profile similar to the average for
Metro Manila (para. 1.09) and Malolos located in Bulacan Province
similar for LGUs outside of Metro Manila. The financial data for the
five Package I LGUs are attached to this Annex. Overall revenues in
1988 range from P 7.6 million in Malolos to P 86.6 million in Pasig.
The major local taxes are the real property tax and the business tax.
Revenues from local taxes averaged 51% of total revenues for 1984-88
in the five Package I LGUs (see Table 1). Malolos was the exception
where local taxes averaged only around one fourth of total revenues
between 1984 and 1988. The public market was the main source of
locally generated revenues accounting for 29% of revenues between 1984
and 1988.  Most of the LGU8 rely on the national government grants
which averaged about one fifth of the total revenues. Between 1984-
88, total revenue increased 5.2% per annum whereas total expenditure
increased 4.0%. Most local governments have significant accumulated
savings which they can fall back on when actual revenues fall short of
budget projections and are insufficient to meet expenditures.
Table 1: Local Government Revenue Structure
Average for 1984-88
(in percent)
Property  Business    Govt.
Taxes     Taxes    Grants  Borrowings  Others    Total
Malolos       10.4     13.2       35.1       0.0      41.3     100.0
Marikina      26.9     23.4       21.3       0.0      28.4     100.0
Pasig         27.9     26.2      14.1        1.1      30.6     100.0
San Juan      17.0     27.3      27.7        0.0      28.0     100.0
Valenzuela    18.4     40.2       14.4       1.3      25.7     100.0
Average       22.8     28.5       18.9       0.7      29.1     100.0



- 53 -
ANENX 8
PaMe 2 of, 10
2.        The financial projections for the five Package I LGUs
appraised by the Bank indicate that the LGUs are able to provide the
necessary counterpart funds during construction, meet debt service to
the MDF subloan, and maintain the minimum Debt Service Coverage of 1.2
during the life of the subloan as required by the MDF. The financial
projections assume that the LGUs would undertake specific measures to
improve their revenues as specified in the on-lending agreements,
namely revise tariffs for market and slaughterhouses, updating real
property cadasters, improving records management, and reducing arrears
on real property tax collections. Furthermore, the growth rate of
current expenditures was assumed to be kept lower than past trends for
those LGUs which experienced rapid increase in current expenditures
(through the increase hiring of casual employees). The assumptions
used are presented together with the projections.
table 2: Status of Real Property Tax Collections 1988
(in p millions)
Collectables        Actual   Arrears
aJ   Collections        b_/
Malolos                     1.0            0.5       52%
Marikina                   19.6            7.9       59%
Pasig                      60.1           20.7       65%
San Juan                   13.9            6.5       53%
Valenzuela                 13.7            8.2       40%
a J  Collectables - Assessments x tax rate
b_J Arrears - (l-(Actual Collections/Collectables)) x 100
3.        Real property tax revenues could be increased through more
efficient collection from the existing tax base. In most project
LGUs, arrears on real property tax collections average between 40% to
65% each year (see Table 2). The assumptions for reducing arrears in
real property taxes are conservative, improving by around 3% per
annum. The Government is presently carrying out a campaign to improve
real property tax collections and has set more ambitious targets for
the LFUs. Tax mapping has been completed and computerization is
expected to be significantly completed by end 1989 in Marikina, Pasig
and Valenzuela and tax mapping is underway in Muntinlupa.
Improvements of tax maps alone in Metro Manila LGUs increased
assessments by 30% through the discovery of unrecorded residential and
commercial development. The increase in assessments have been



- 54 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 10
incorporated in the projections but potential increases in collection
efficiency from computerization have not been factored in since it
would be difficult to estimate the impact, especially during the start
up period.
4.        Financial projections were preparovd for the markets and
slaughterhouses. The actual costs of operation and maintenance of the
markets were obtained for the base year (1988) to adjust for
expenditures carried out by other parts of the LGU. In order to fully
recover the operation and maintenance costs and debt service
requirements, average market rents would need to be raised between 30%
in Malolos to a maximum of 478% in Valenzuela by 1994. In the case of
Valenzuela, the average rent would be raised from an average of p 24
per month per sq. m. for stalls and p 4 per day for transient vendors
to p 114 per month per sq. m. for stalls and p 19 per day
respectively. The political situation in the LGUs would be stabilized
with the election of local mayors and councils members to five year
terms in 1988 and barangays officials in early 1989 so that the LGUs
would not be as susceptible to political pressures to maintain market
rents at unrealistically low levels. Finally, the local councils
would be required to approve the increases in market prices and other
fiscal reforms prior to the start of implementation. Financial
projections for each market in Package I LGUs are available in the
Project Files.



PHILIPPINES                                                     Annex 8
Page 4
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FtNANCIAL PROJECTIONS : NALOLOS WINICIPALITYWBULACAN PROVINCE)
(thousand peso)
.................................................................................................................................... .....................................................................................................
Actual                                                             Projected
1964        1965        1986        1987        1988         1989        1990        199i        1992        1993         1994
............................................................................................................................................................
Revenue
Real Property Taxes            546         616          654         982         666         852          902         954       1,013       1.063       1,153
8usiness Taxes                 65S         822          923         952       1,043       1,199        1,379       1,58S       1,824       2,098       2,433
Other Local Sources          2,180       2,767        2,902       2,871       2,991       2,901        3,106       4,246       4, 725      5,396      5SA06
Central Govt. Grants         1.758       2,243        2,756       2,000       2,895       2,351        2.S86       2.84S       3,129       3,442       3,787
Borrowing: Nonproject            0           0            0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0           0
"DP it                0           0            0           0           0           0         586       10,388       9,521           0           0
5,139       6,448       7,235       6,805       7,595        7,304       8,559      20,019      20,213       12.000      12,978
Expenditures
Nonproject                   4,494       5,676        6,391       5,769       6,128       6,391        6,665       7,222       7,909       8,566       9.287
Current Expend1ture        4,074       5,476        6,227       5,721       6,045       6,308       6,582        7,098       7,723       8,333       8.996
Capital Expenditure          420         200          164          48          83          83           83         125         187         233         292
NOP 11 Project                   0            0           0           0           0            0         586      11,733      10,667           0            0     un
Debt Serv.: Nonroject          935          935         935         928         967         800          400         300         300           0           0
"DP 11               0           0           0            0           0           0           0          32          636       1,731       2,254
5,429       6,611       7,326       6,697       7,095        7,191       7,651      19,287      19,S12       10,297      11,541
Surptus (Deficit)              (290)        (163)        (91)        108         500          113         908         732         700       1,702        1,43?
Accumulated Surplus             391         228          137         245         745         858        1,766       2,498       3,198       4,900       6,,37
(Parameters)
Property Tax/Revenues          10.6X        9.6X         9.0X       14.4X        8.8X        11.7X       10.5X        4.8X        5.0X        8.9S        8.9S
Business Tax/Revenums          12.7X        12.72       12.88       14.0X       13.7X        16.4X       16.12        7.92        9.02       17.5S        18.7S
Grants/Revenues                34.2X        34.8S       38.1X       29.4X       38.1S       32.20        30.28       14.28       15.52       28.78       29.22
"DP Il/Expenditure                                                                           0.02         7.78       61.02       57.92       16.88        19.52
Debt Service Coverage            1.1         1.0         1.1         1.2         1.6          1.2         3.5         7.6         3.2         2.1          1.8
RPT Collectfon Efficiene       53.3X        42.8X       43.7X       51.8X       48.5X       55.0X        58.0X       60.02       62.02       63.02       65.0S
............................................................I.................................................................................................
NALOLOS MUNICIPALtTY BASIC ASSUMPTIONS:
a. Assessed property value increases 5X per aennu.
b. Business tax increases 152 per aneum.
c. Nunicipal(city) enterprises Income  increases 15X per artwn.
d. Other non-tax income increases at 152 per arena.
e. Central govermeent grants: 102 increase per arnan for SIR and STA. Other grant increases 0X
f. Current expenditure growth outside the project Is held down to 42, Capital expenditure 02 until 1990. Thereafter, 112 and 252 increase respectively.



PHILIPPINES                                                      Annex 8
Page 5
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS : ARIKINA WUNICIPALITY(CETRO MANILA)
(thousand peso)
............................................................................................................................................................
Actual                                                             Projected
1984        t985        1986        1987        ¶988         1989        1990        1991        1992        1993         1994
............................................................................................................ ....................................................................................................................... ..................
Revenues
Real Property Taxes          6,386       6,196        6,735       7,699      10,074      10,989       12,547      14,252      16,134      18,210      2. 203
Business Taxes               5.060       6,044        6,371       6,664       8,223       9,456       10,875      12,506      14,132      15,969       14,364
Other Local Sources          6,584       6,255        7,888       9,075       9,407       10,387      11,674      13,149      16,941      18,820      20,982
Central Govt. Grants         5,945       5,749        5.958       5,588       6,233       6,856       7,542        8,296       9,126      10,038      11,042
Borrowirig: Nornproject          0           0            0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0           0
"DP 11                0           0            0           0           0           0      10,110       19,606       5.833           0           0
23,975      24,244      26,952      29,026      33,937       37,689      52,748      67,808      62,165      63,037       70,591
Expenditures
Noaproject                  21,542      24,843       25,026      28,956      32,455      36,038       40,439      45,286      50,768      57,049      64,115
Current Expenditure       20,240      22,381       23,826      26,630      29,780      33,096      37,202       41,72       46674       52,341      58.700
Capital Expenditure        1,302       2,462        1,200       2,326       2,675       2,942       3,237        3,560       4,094       4,708       5,41S
MOP tl Project                   O           0            0           0           0           0       11,728      21,991       5,833           0           0
Debt Serv.: Norproject         300         300          300         300         300         500          500         500       1,000       1,000       1,000
"DP it               0           0            0           0           0           0           0          556       2,190       3,590       3,910
21,842      25,143      25,326      29,256      32,755       36,538      52,667      68,333      59,791      61,639       69,025
Surplus (Deficit)             2,133         (899)      1,626        (230)      1,182       1,151          81         (524)      2,374       1,398       1,566
Accumulated Surplus           4,401       3,502        5,128       4,896       6,080        7,231       7,312       6,788       9,162      10,560      12,126
(Parameters)
Property Tax/Revemnes          26.6X        25.6X       25.0X       26.5X       29.7X       29.2X        23.8X       21.0X       26.02       28.9X       28.6X
Business Tax/Revenues          21.1X        24.9X       23.6X       23.0X       24.2X       25.1X        20.6X       18.4X       22.7X       25.3X       26.0X
Grants/Revenues                24.82        23.7X       22.1X       19.32       18.4X        18.2X       14.32       12.22       14.72       15.9X        15.6X
hDP II/Expenditure                                       0.02        0.02        0.0         0.02       22.32       33.02       13.42        5.82        5.72
Debt Service Coverage          12.5          6.2        10.4         8.0        13.9         9.2         10.9         6.1         3.0         2.3         2.4
RPT Collection Efficienc       30.72        30.82       29.62       34.22       40.52       44.02        48.02       52.02       56.02       60.02       63.02
....................... .... ............................................... .............. ...... .. ............................ ..... ........ .......................................... ...........................................
NARIKINA CITY 8ASIC ASSUMPTIONS:
a. Assessed property value increases 7X per arnn.
b. Business taxes increase 152 per ennun.
c. Municipal(city) enterprises income increases 152.
d. Other non-tax increases at 152 per annum.
e. Central goverrnient grants : 102 per annum for SIR and STA;Other grants increase 02.
f. Current expenditure growth outside the project is held down to 122 per anrvnn; Capital expenditure increase 102 untit 1991, 15X thereafter.



PHILIPPINES                                                    Annex 8
Page 6
SECOND IMICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS: PASIG MUNICIPALITY(METRO MANILA)
(thousand peso)
,........ ............... .... ........ .. ..........................................................................................
Actual                                                           Projected
1964       1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990       1991        1992        1993        1994
............................................................................................................................................................
Revenues
Reel Property Taxes         13,490     15,653      20,497      21,360      26,317      29,338      33,907     39,013      45,613      52,049      59,395
BsAfness Taxes              14,557     17,495      18,256      19,219      21,985      24,184      26,602     29,262      32.188      35,407      38,948
Other Loael Sources        24,265      19,567      22225      17,499      23,423      25,329      26,355     29,779      32,170      35.034      37,937
Goverunent Grant            0,975      12,093      10,168       6,618      11,438       7,779      8,557       9,412      10,353      11,389      12,528
Borrowing: Noproject        1,000       3,000           0           0           0           0          0           0           0           0           0
NDP It               0           0           0           0           0           0      13,301      16,494     20,026           0           0
62,287     67,808      71,146      64,696      83,163      86,629     108,721     123,961     140,350    133,879     148,80?
Expeditures
llonproject                70,678      67,289      69,298      71,291      77,144      85,027      92,701     102,175    113,755     126,086     140,199
Current Expenditure     56,744      54,419      57,491      56,615      62,179      69,015      75,568     83,842      93,039     103,091     114,44S
Cepital Expenditure     13,934      12,870      11,807      14,616      14,965      16,013      17,133     18,333      20,716      22,995      2S,754
IP II Project                   0           0           0           0           0           0      15,415      18,117     22,349           0           0
Debt Serv.: Nonproject          0         200         400         500         500         500         500        500         500         700         700
MDP It              0           0           0           0           0           0           0        732       2,370       4,379       5,480
70,678     67,489      69,698      71,791      77,644      65,527     108,616     121,524    138,974     131,165     146,379
Surplus (Deficit)           (8,391)        319       1,448      (7,095)      5,519       1,102         105      2,437       1,376       2,715       2,428
Acecumlated Surplus          6,439       6,758       8,206       1,111       6,630       7,732      7,836      10,274      11,650      14,364      16,792
(PARAMETERS)
Property Tax/Revenues         21.7X       23.1X       28.8X       33.0X       31.62       33.9X      31.22       31.5X       32.5X       38.9X       39.92
Bwiness tax/Revenues          23.4X       25.8X       25.7X       29.7X       26.4X       27.92      24.5X       23.6X       22.92       26.4X       26.22
Grants/Revenues               14.42       17.82       14.32       10.22       13.8X       9.02        7.92        7.6X        7.42        8.52        8.4S
NDP II/Expenditure                                     0.02        0.02        0.02        0.02       14.2X      15.52       17.8X        3.32        3.72
Debt Service Coverage          0.0        66.9        34.1        16.0        42.0        35.2       39.7        19.2         9.5         6.1         S.6
RPT Collection Efficienc      42.6X       40.02       42.62       27.82       34.52       37.02      40.02       43.02       47.02       50.02       53.02
............................................................................................................................................................
PASIG MUNICIPALITY BASIC ASSUIPTIONS:
a. Assumed property value increases 92 per annum.
b. Business taxes increase 10% per anmun.
C. Municipat enterprises income increases lOX per annun.
d. Other non-tax increases at 102 per annun.
e. Central goverment grants: 102 per annun for SIR and STA, and other grant increase 02.
f. Current expenditure growth outside the project is 11X per annum;Capital expenditure will increase 7X until 1991, then 132 thereafter per annun.



PHILIPPINES                                                       Annex 8
Page ?
SECOND MUICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS : SAN JUAN MUNICIPALITT(NETRO hANILA)
(thousand peso)
.................. ........................................   ...............................................
Actual                                                           Projected
1984        1985        1986         1987        1988         1989        1990        1991         1992        1993         1994
Revenues
Resl Property Taxes           S,281       5,240        6,351       6.673       7,881        8.322       8,983       9,770       10,721      11,690       12,708
Business Taxes                8,489       9,235        9,873      10,337       12,449      13,694      150,63       16,570      18,227      20 049       22,054
Other Local Sources          18,134       7,679        8,281       8,657       8,905        9,796      10,775       11,853      13,038      14,342      1t,776
Central Govt. Grants         14,056      21,663       4,910        5,164       5,381        5,919       6,511        7,162       7,878       8,666        9,S33
Sorrowing: Norproject             0           0            0           0            0           0           0            0           0           0            0
MDP 11                0            0           0            0           0           0        2.659       7,89S       6,993            0           0
45,960      43,817      29,415       30,831      34,616       37.731      43,991       53,249      56,85?      S4,747       60,070
Expenditures
nEprnJett                    41,122      39,129       30,620      32,974      32,743       35,814      39,106      43,161       47,643      52,599       57.275
Current Expenditure       29,835       25,210      23,491       26,179      29,851       32,922      36,214      39,835       43,819      48,200       52,349      n
Capital Expenditure        11,287      13,919       7,129        6,795       2,892        2,892       2,892       3,326        3,825       4,398        4,926      OD
NODP II Project                   0           0            0           0            0           0       4,059        8,567       6,993           0            0
Debt Serv.: Norproject            0           0            0           0            0           0           0            0           0           0            0       I
NDP It               0            0           0            0           0            0           0         146          72t       1,546       1,930
41,122      39,129      30,620       32,974      32,743       35,814      43,165       51,874      55,363      54,145       59,205
Surplus (Deficit)              4,838       4,688       (1,205)     (2,143)       1,873      1t917          826        1,37S       1,494         603          866
Accumulated Surplus            3,859       8,547        7,342       5,199       7,072        6,989       9,815       11,190      12,654      13,287       14.153
(PARAMETERS)
Reel Property Tax/Revenu        11.5%       12.0%        21.6X       21.6%        22.8%       22.1%       20.4%        18.3%       18.9X       21.4%        21.2S
Business Tax/Revenues           18.5%       21.1%        33.6X       33.5%       36.0%        36.3%       34.2%        31.1%       32.1X       36.6%        36.7X
Grants/Revenues                 30.6%       49.4%        16.7%       16.7%        15.5%       15.7%       14.8%        13.5%       13.9X        15.8X       15.9X
KDP Itl/Expenditure              0.0%        0.0%         0.0%        0.0%         0.0%        0.0%        9.4%        16.8%       13.9%         2.9%        3.3%
Debt Service Coverage            0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         37.8         8.3         4.2          4.0
RPT Collection Efficiene        34.8%       34.2%        37.7%       39.7%       46.9%        48.0%       51.0%        55.0%       60.0%       65.0%        70.0%
............................................................................................................................................................
SAN JUAN MUNICIPALITY BASIC ASSUKPTIONS:
a. Assessed property value increases 3% per annum.
b. Business taxes increase 10% per anson.
c. MunicipalZcity) enterprises income increases 10% per annum.
d. Other non-tax increases at 10% per annum.
e. Central government grants : 10% increase per annum for BIR and STA.Other grant increase 0%.
f. Current expenditure growth outside the project is 10% per annum; Capital expenditure increase 0% until 1990, then 13% thereafter.



PHILIPPINES                                                               Armex 8
Page 8
SECOND NUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PRWECT
FINAICIAL PROJECTIONS : VALENZUELA NUNICIPALITY(METRO iAUILA)
(thousand peso)
.............................................................................................................................. .............................................................................................................
Actual                                                                   Projected
1984          1985          1986          1987         1968           1989         1990          1991          1992          1993          1994
................................           ................................................................... ................................................................................................................................... ....... 
Revemes
Reat  Property Taxes              5            6,083         6,216          7,004        9,727         8.879         9,827        tO,812        11,708        12.341        13,082
Business Taxes                  12,           14,128        14.298        15,641        19,273        20 237        22 665        25,385        28,431        31.843        35.664
Other Local Saorces               6,,           8,169         8,500        12,797        12.429        13.871       15,236        16*925        19.657        22M093        24,743
Central Govt. Grants             6,047          5,122        4,836         5,616         5,734         6,305         6,935         7,627         8.3B9         9,226        10,148
Borrouing: Nonroject                  0             0         2,500             0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0
NDP It                   0             0             0             0             0             0        5,234        15,807        15,tU               0             0
31.466        33,502        36,350        41,058       47,163         49,292       59,896        76,5S6        83,330        75,504        83,637
Expenditures
Nleproject                      30,591        33,832        35,524        40,846        47,159        48,182        51,243        55,783        61,695        69,118        77,396 
Current Expenditure           28,049        26,523        30,524        35,346        41,159        42,182        45,243        49,783        54,795       61,390        68,741
Capitat Expenditure            2,542         7,309         5,000         5,500         6,000         6,000         6,000         6,000         6.900         7.72B         8,655         %O
NDP It Project                                                                                              0        6,008        17,367        16,606              0             0
Debt  erv.:  onproject                0             0             0           500           800           500        1,000              0             0             0             0         1
"DP II                  0             0             0             0             0             0             0          288         1,445         3,148         3,981
30.591        33,832        35,524        41,346        47,959       48,682        58,251        73,438        79,746        72,266        81.377
Surplus (Deficit)                    875          (330)          826          (288)         (796)          610        1,646         3,118         3,585         3,238         2,260
Accwatlted  Surplus                2,382         2,052         2,878         2,590         1,794        2,404         4,050         7,168        10,752        13,990        16,249
(PARAMETERS)
Property Tax/Revenues               18.3X         18.2X         17.1%         17.1%         20.6X         18.0%         16.4%         14.1%         14.0X        16.3X         1S.6%
Business Tax/Revenues               40.6%         42.2%         39.3%         38.1%         40.9%         41.1%        37.8X         33.2%         34.1%         42.2%         42.6X
Grants/Revenues                     19.2%         15.3%         13.3X         13.7%         12.2%         12.8%         11.6%        10.0%         10.1%         12.2X         12.1%
lDP  I1/Expenditure                                              0.0%          0.0%          0.0%          0.0%         10.3%        24.0%         22.6%          4.4%          4.9S
Debt Service Coverage                0.0           0.0           0.0          11.4           7.5          14.2           9.4         38.1           9.3           4.5           3.7
RPT Coltection Efficienc            40.3%         42.9%         39.7%         44.6%         60.3%        52.0%         55.0%         58.0%         60.0%         60.0%         60.0%
................................ .................................................................. ......... ................. "....... ............ .. ......................................................................... ... . ....
VALENZUELA MUNICIPALITY BASIC ASSUMPTIONS:
a. Assessed property value increases 6% per anrun.
b. Business taxes increase 12% per arnun.
c. tunficfpal(city) enterprises income increases 10% per anrsn.
d. Other non-tax increases at 12% per anmu.
e. Central goverrnent grants: 10% increase per anun for BIR and STA.Other grant increase 0%.
f. Current expenditure growth outside the project is 10% per annun until 1992, 11%  thereafter; Capital expenditure increase 0% untit 1991, 12% thereafter.



- 60 -
A1L.
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The MMINUTE Project Management Office (P=O}
1.        The PMO was established under DPWH to implement the MNKINUTE
component of the Bank's Third Urban Project. Under the MNINUTE-Fringe
Program, the PMO would play more of a planning and management role
although it would continue to be responsible for implementation of the
national components in Metro Manila.
2.        The functions of the PMO were redefined in line with its now
responsibilities under the MKINUTE-Fringe Program through DPWH
Department Order No. 78, Series of 1989, issued by the DPWH Secretary
on June 6, 1989. The PMO would consist of a Project Manager,
Assistant Project Manager and staff from DPWH assisted by consultants.
The PMO has 102 positions approved and would be organized into three
main divisions and two staff units whose functions would be as
follows:
(a) Engineering DeveloRment and Technical Evaluation Division
responsible for engineering review, procurement,
construction evaluation and maintenance planning.
(b)  Management and Co-ordination Division responsible for liason
with local executives, formulation of on-lending agreements,
appraisal of administrative capacity of project LGUs,
overall project monitoring and reporting, and coordination
of community development and other assistance to project
IGUs.
(c) Planning. Programming and Loan Disbursement Division
responsible for programming and budget preparation, economic
and financial evaluation of subproject investments, overall
municipal financial analysis, release of funds (through
recommendations to MDF) to project LGUs and implementing
agencies, and preparation of financial reports.
(d) Administrative Staff responsible for administrative support.
(e) Executive Staff responsible for assisting the Project
Manager and the Assistant Project Manager.
The organization of the PMO is presented in Chart 4.



- 61 -
PHILIPPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imp:lqZg=tLpm-nSchedule
.......................................................................................
It990: 1991: 1992: 99    19944: 1995|
................----                                                         ................
INNI1UTEFringe Prgrsm                                                         - _|-----
jRtat  Prcperty Tax Adlnistratfcn          ,,:s.sssss: :lA,issu,:s.s:,,:                             I
jTechnical Assistance                  j         :
I  Soltd  aste Study                             :m                        :                         I
I                                      I                              a
I  PND Advisory Support                I 
I                                      I         s
j NDF  Advisosy  support                         I :_                           :         : I
l                                      l         :         :         :I  



- 62 -
ANE 11
PHILIPPINE
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(i- ITS$ million)
Disbursements            Profile
Semester
Bank FY       Ending          Annual   Cumulative    Project  Country
90      Jun. 30, 1990         2.5         2.5            6%       18
91      Dec. 31, 1990         0.7         3.2            7%       4%
Jun. 30, 1991         1.7        4.9           12%        8%
92      Dec. 31, 1991         1.7         6.6           16%      12%
Jun. 30, 1992         2.9         9.5          24%       16%
93      Dec. 31, 1992         2.9        12.4           31%      21%
Jun. 30, 1993         3.6        16.0          40%       29%
94      Dec. 31, 1993         3.6        19.6           49%      39%
Jun. 30, 1994         3.7       23.3           58%       54%
95      Dec. 31, 1994         3.7        27.0           68%      65%
Jun. 30, 1995         3.6        30.6          76%       76%
96      Dec. 31, 1995         3.5        34.1           85%      85%
Jun. 30, 1996         3.5       37.6           94%       93%
97      Dec. 31, 1996         2.4        40.0          100%      97%
aJ  Special Account: US$ 2.5 million.
b_J  Closing Date:    December 31, 1996.



- 63 -
ANNEX 12
Pagem I of 2.
PHILIpPINES
SECOND MIUNCIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analylsig ASumnla
1.       The selection of project components would be based primarily
on a point scoring system which would give priority to low-income
communities and areas with greater deficiencies 1J. The majority of
the subproject components would not be suited for a conventional
economic rate of return analysis since many have significant health
benefits and the majority of coaponents would be small, costing less
than P 1 million (about US$ 50,000). Communal faucets and sanitation
facilities would provide low-income households with access to safe
water and proper bathing and toilet facilities, drainage improvements
would remove stagnant water and eliminate a major source of disease,
and the rehabilitation of markets and slaughterhouses would improve
the sanitary handling of foodstuffs. Many of the road and drainage
improvements would be for rehabilitation of existing local road
sections or drainage works of less than 1 km.
2.       Economic Rates of Return (ERR) would only be obtained for
the larger roads, major drainage schemes and markets costing over P 5
million (about US$ 250,000). No ERR would be calculated for
slaughterhouse components although some may be over P 5 million
because most slaughterhouse fees are regulated by law and benefits are
largely in improved health.  The measurement of benefits would be as
follows:
(a) Roads: vehicle operating cost savings and passenger time
savings;
(b) Drainage: increases in rental value of the land benefiting
from the investment; and
(c) Markts: new - market rental values; rehabilitation -
incremental rental values and maintenance savings.
An ERR of 12% would be required for inclusion in the project.
3.       Most of the Package 1 components reviewed by the Bank feel
below the cutoff point of P 5 million and were not subject to a
formal ERR analysis. The ERR was therefore obtained for only the five
markets estimated to cost over p 5 million 2J. All the components
being evaluated were rehabilitation of existing public markets.
1J The evaluation criteria is discussed in more detail in Anrex 2.
2J Malolos Market, Marikina Market, Pasig Market, Valenzuela Marulas
Market and Valenzuela Polo Market.



- 64 -
AlNNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
Incremental revenues resulting from the project and the maintenance
cost saving were taken as proxies for economic benefits. The proposed
project would fund basic repairs necessary for the safe functioning of
the market, such as repairs to water systems, drainage, roofing,
wiring, which the LGUs would eventually have had to make. It was
assumed that the LGUs would increase their maintenance operations to
make these repairs over the next 12 to 15 years without the project
and the maintenance costs of the market without the project was
assumed to increase to reflect these repairs. The investment costs
were adjusted by standard conversion factor for construction (0.84) to
reflect the economic cost. Weighted ERR for the five markets,
reflecting 19% of base costs under Package 1, was 15.8%. The economic
analysis working sheets are available in the Project File.
3.        The ERR estimated from a sample of road improvement under
the Bank's Third Urban Project Project Completion Report was used as a
proxy for the smaller road components below P 50 million in the
Package 1 LGUs since the road components under the Third Urban Project
would be similar to those under the proposed project.  Based on
information on land values, areas affected by the project investments,
and project costs available in the Third Urban Project Project
Completion Report 3J_, the ERRs were estimated assuming a return on
investment in rental property of 12% per annum and 10% increase in
property values from the project based on a survey conducted by PM0 on
the impact of MMINUTE investments on property values 4J_.  The
increase in imputed rental values was taken as project benefits. It
is estimated that the ERR for the MNINUTE road components was 17.0%.
The detail calculations are available in the project files.
4.        The (cost) weighted average ERR for the Package 1 market and
road investments, accounting for 39% of base costs, was 16.4%.
3J  PN0, "Third Urban Development Project Project Completion Report:
Calculations on Economic Re-evaluations", available in the
Project Files.
4J  PM0, "Report on the Pilot Real Property Assessment Study on Zone
14 Manila Barangays 153 & 158", available in the Project Files



- 65 -
ANNEE 13
PHILIpPINES
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents in Project Files
1.  MNINUTE-Project Management Office
a. "Third Urban Development Project NMINUTE: Project Completion
Report'
Volume 1: Main Text
Volume 2: Calculations of Economic Re-evaluation"
b. "Pre-Appraisal Report Main Volume'
c. "Report on the Pilot Real Property Assessment Study on Zone 14
Manila Barangays 153 & 158"
d. "Financial Feasibility Study: Slaughterhouse Project" Sep. 1989
"Financial Feasibility Study: Public Markets" Sep. 1989
e. "Report for Loan Negotiations" Nov. 1989
2.   Mission Working Papers
a. Cost Estimates and Financing Requirements
b. Municipal Financial Analysis
c. Municipal Enterprise Financial Analysis
d. Urban Poverty Impact Estimates
e. Economic Retes of Return Calculations
f. Municipal Development Fund Funds Flow Projections



CHART 1: MUNICIPALITY OF PASIG
a~~ce  oPRce           MUMOUA~MN                                                           1    o MAI
TRFSRE           ASSCESO          OMIC PNK                MYR             FICAL~. OFFICE                     OFGICER
ACOINTIM mu     AD 'MINITAE            PROPDERTY                                                                PLANNt.m=  NG 
SECTION            SECTION             APECTIAD ON                                                              RORMMN
- -IECIlutORNC
PROP W                                 | | o 11.|                                        |DERTY  TAX MAPPINGi |OA CONSTRUCTION,    OULFINE MA|  ENANCE
CASN SECTiOECN         N                                              RAINAM &           a CONSTRUCTION
MAINTENANCE SECTO SlSCION
WTIONt .CASH SECTKZ       .      TAX bt|APPrM  c 
|TlAX SECTION   I   ENSEC MTION      {     SEC                                              | SURVEY SECMOTOR POOL
r~~~~~~ ~~  SECT                                                                                              SECTION
SECTIONF8
EK%1W44800A



CHART 2: ORGANIZATION OF ON-LENDING FACILITY TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
(FIRST MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
PROJECT STEERING COMMrTTEE
DPWVH   DOF  DLO  DSM   NEDA
|  DPWH   i                        l  ~~~~~~~~DOF l
CPO                                  MDF
REGIONALIDISTRICT                                                LOCAL
OFFICE                                                   GOVERNMENTS
(EXCLUDING                                                  (EXCLUDING
METRO MANILA)                                               METRO MANILA)
I



CHART 3: ORGANIZATION OF ON-LENDING FACILITY TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
(SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
DPWH    DOF |DLO  DSM  NEDA
|MDP 11 TECHNICAL SUJBCOMMffTEE      
DPWH                                          DOF
P140    ~ ~ ~~POMDF
REGIOALIDITRICTRBGIOALIDITRICTLOCAL                          LOCAL
OFFICESUD18TT          OFFICES             GOVERNMENTS            GOVERNMENTS
OFFICE8OFCES          (EXCLUDING           (METRO MANILA
(REGIONS 3 S 4)         (OTH ml               METRO MANILA)            FRINGE)
MDP I
MDP II
00*4M



CHART 4: MMINUTE PROGRAM MANAGEMENT OFFICE
Organizational Chart
FONSIJ                                                IPROJECT
ADVOM            ~~~PROJCT MMANGE                  AUDITOR
ASST
PROJECT MANAPER j
____  |EXECUTVE
STAFF    rSTAFF
|    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
I   .                               |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ENODGERNO DEVEROJLTOMONTORIG                             ACOUNIGR&LAMMNG
'    TECHNICALN OEVELCSNENTON     MANAGEMENT AND             PLANNI DI,SRSEMEN8
8 P@ASEO SNE             CCRXNSTIOG DMSION           LOAN DIBRjSECENT DION ON
CC^Q^NY DEVECPMENTPLANNNK PRCXUS2SC
~~~~~~~~~DASAM a                                 E       ULA"N];PROWECT WKKR3|;ACCOUITSN L8CA 
ENZ =    ZTM        C~~~31=TRAIIONG                 BUGEINGANCIAL
_ MSl UALON$EMONtRACT            SAIECTION     j                  SECTION
_ MARNTPNANCE]
SECTIONnIoN
K/W4480913



MAP SECTION
I
I



18RD 21292
NUEVA ECIJA                                                _
_ ~~~~~~~~~P"ILIPPINES
) SA~~~~N MIGUEL   ffxmv
t                                                  .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Manila
PAMPANGA                SAN MEFON5  '.:1;4
|BULACAN 1/  -:
(J   SAN lAUFAt|.
XIU^G           ~~~~ANGAT                              .    SJJ5          .-        7
--AN    SuTO             NORZGAKY              {      \_                             -    g,.
g       ~~~P - RIEt  PWDI.                                                                    \. ..
> S /    ~~RIZ-L   QUEZON
TRO   1 <   ~~MATEO                                A 
QW UEZON CITY    ANTIPOEES\
NAItNO PASIGt                        TANAY -o
740UE  Ar         nN   g       UUA               ttOU\
AR                        )                          iBrrAC   PNIL,\
5 8800    lL^SPINAS                                        PAK esL
NaV%tA 9 ~~Mt                                                      PAETE\
DAMRNAS    I S\                           JSTA autZ      A
/ NAIC   TRECE TRtAS                                        fC VI
~ ~~$           ~~~~AUtY ESY                                  AVICIOA  UENA 
F1AACCNVNON CAVITE             SILANG        CALMBA      LO/AJYA
WNDkNG                             HMBAOS      LAGUNA uw             |
> ~~~GEN. E            AMADEO
AGUINALDO                                        S E AY             fIZAL      /
MINbU                               CALAUA    SNPW
BATANGAS                                                        /
PHILIPPINES 
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
METRO MANILA AND FRINGE AREAS
_Province Boundaries
City and Municipality Boundaries
NOVEMBER 1989



