Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14499-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
JUNE 2, 1995
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit            =              CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                                 CFAF 486.2
CFAF 1 million           =              US$   2.057
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                  U.S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)                             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =              0.62 miles (mi.)
I square kilometer (km2)                0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
I hectare (ha)                          2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)         =              2,205 pounds (lb.)
1 kilogram (kg)          =              2.2046 pounds (lb.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP            Agence d'execution de travaux d'interet public
CNES          .   Conseil national des employeurs du Senegal
CNPS              Conseil national du patronat du Senegal
CRG               Competitiveness Review Group
LRC               Legal Reform Committee
MEFP              Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PSAC              Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness credit
PSF           ;   Private Sector Foundation
SAZFI         .   Societe d'amenagement de la zone franche industrielle
SODI              Societes des domaines industriels
SONEPI            Societe nationale d'etudes et de promotion industrielle
SPIDS             Syndicat professionnel des industries du Senegal
UNACOIS       .   Union nationale des commerCants et de l'industrie du Senegal
WAEMU             West African Economic and Monetary Union
ZOPP              Zielorientierte Projekt-Planung or Project Planning by Objectives



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Contents
Credit and  Program   Summar                                         ..........             ................................................  i
1.  THE  MACROECONOMIC  AND  SECTORAL  CONTEXT  ..........................................................                                                               I
A .    B ackground ..........................................................                                                                                        I
B.  Recent Macrocconomic Performance ..........................................................                                                                      I
C.  The Role of the Private Sector in the Economy ..........................................................                                                         3
[I. THE ENVIRONMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR ..........................................................                                                                     5
A.  The Policy  and  Regulatory Environment ..........................................................5 
B.  The Legal Environment of the Private Sector .......................................................... 6
C.  The Institutional Support to Private Sector Activities .......................................................... 6
III. STRATEGY FOR PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING .......................................................... 9
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT                                                         ........................................................... 12
A. Project Objectives ...........................................................                                                                                   12
B.  Project Description ..........................................................            .                                                                    12
1. The Private Sector Capacity Building  Component ..........................................................                                                  13
2.  The Policv and  Legal Reform   Component ..........................................................                                                        16
3.  Specialized  Services to  Strengthen  Government Capacity ..................................                                   ......................... 18
C.  Status of Project Preparation ............................................................                                                                     20
D.  Project Costs and  Financing Plan ...........................................................                                                                  21
E.  Project Implementation ...........................................................                                                                             22
F.  Procurement and  Disbursement .......................................................... 23
G.  Accounting. Auditing and Reporting ..........................................................                                                                  27
H.  Environmental Aspects ...........................................................                                                                              28
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................................... 28
A         . Benefits ..........................................................                                                                                    28
B. Risks .......................................................... 28
VI. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONALITIES AND RECOMMENDATION ................................................ 29
This operation was prepared by a team consisting of Mr. Cherif Azi (Sr. Operations Officer, mission leader), Mr. Pierre Morin
(Public Enterprise Specialist), Ms. Ana Novaes (Economist), Ms. Marianne Fay (Economist), Mr. Sangone Amar (Operations
Officer), Mr. Kishor Uprety (Counsel), Mr. Jan Hendrik Van Leeuwen (Consultant), Mr. Michael Brennan (Consultant).
Mr. Brendan Horton was the peer reviewer, Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib is the Department director, Mr. Emmerich Schebeck is
Departmental Project Advisor, Ms. Silvia Sagari is the Division Chief. Technical support was provided by Brigitte Wiss.



Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
Annex 1:         Letter of Private Sector Development Policy
Annex 11:        Private Sector Foundation -- Table of Key Activities, Evaluation Criteria,
Performance Indicators, and Implementation Timetable
Annex III (a):   Competitiveness Review Group -- Table of Key Activities, Evaluation Criteria, and
Performance Indicators
Annex III (b):    Competitiveness Review Group -- Implementation Timetable
Annex IV (a):    Legal Reform Committee -- Table of Key Activities and Evaluation Criteria
Annex IV (b):    Legal Reform Committee -- Implementation Timetable
Annex V (a):     Privatization Component -- Preliminary Planning and Performance Indicators
Annex V (b):     Terms of Reference for Recruitment of an Advisor to the Cellule de Contr6le et de
Gestion du Portefeuille de I'Etat
Annex VI (a):    Communications Component -- Preliminary Planning and Performance Indicators
Annex VI (b):    Terms of Reference for the Preparation of a Communications Program
Annex VII:       Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
Annex Vill:      Supervision Plan
Annex IX:        Disbursement Schedule
Annex X:         Documents in project file
Map: IBRD 27057



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Senegal
Beneficiaries:     The Government of Senegal and the private sector
Amount:           IDA Credit: 8 million (US$12.5 million equivalent)
Terms:             IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Program Obiectives The overall development objective of the proposed Private Sector
Capacity Building project is to accelerate the growth of the private
sector. To this end, the proposed project will help the Government of
Senegal (GOS) complete the implementation of a three-pronged strategy
aimed at enabling the private sector respond to the recent improvements
in the policy environment.  The two first elements of this strategy
consisting of restoring and maintaining economic equilibria and
removing policy constraints are being implemented in the context of the
Policy Framework Paper for the period 1994-1997 and the Private
Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Credit. The third element of the
GOS strategy, the implementation of which will be supported by the
proposed  credit,  is  aimed  specifically  at:  (i)  increasing  the
competitiveness and efficiency of private enterprises and business
associations; (ii) deepening the policy reform process by analyzing
remaining constraints to private sector activities and devising appropriate
measures to eliminate them; (iii) improving the legal framework for
private sector activities; (iv) accelerating the implementation of the
government divestiture program; and (v) carrying out a program of
communications and information to ensure that the main stakeholders in
the economy understand and support the reform process.
Project Description  In support of these objectives, the project will help finance the
implementation of three components: (i) a private sector capacity
building component (US$6.3 million) to help private enterprises and
business associations gain better access to business advisory services



ii
through a Private Sector Foundation established by representatives of the
private sector associated with APDF, an affiliate of IFC; (ii) a policy
and  legal  reform   component  (US$2.51  million)  to  assist  a
Competitiveness Review Group (CRG) and a Legal Reform Committee
(LRC), composed of representatives of the private sector and of the
GOS, in continuing to identify and propose concrete measures to
alleviate policy and regulatory constraints to the development of the
private sector and in strengthening the legal framework for private sector
activities; and (iii) a component of specialized services (US$1.9 million)
to help the GOS accelerate the transfer of public enterprises to the
private sector and carry out a communications program to widen and
consolidate national consensus on reforms needed to promote the
development of the private sector.
Project Benefits:   The project's most important expected benefit is its contribution to
promote  Senegal's  economic  growth  by  improving  enterprises
performance and strengthening the private sector, notably through
interventions in an estimated 600 firms over the life of the project. At
the enterprise and business association level, it will: (i) increase
efficiency and competitiveness; and (ii) most importantly improve
management skill and raise awareness among private entrepreneurs that
benefits from business advisory services might outweigh their cost. The
project will also contribute to foster Senegal's economic growth by
laying the ground for a sustainable supply response of the private sector
which will be encouraged by: (i) a favorable policy, legal and
institutional environemnt; (ii) an increased potential for expansion in
particular through the implementatition of the government's divestiture
program; and (iii) the creation through through public debates within the
CRG and the LRC and through the communications program of a
national consensus on the importance of a private sector development
culture.
Project Risks:      The most important risk is the possibility that the GOS relaxes its
adjustment efforts or back-tracks on reforms already implemented. This
risk is very small, however, because these reforms have been initiated
after an intense national debate and have now gained a wide
constituency. The second risk lies with the Private Sector Foundation
whose role will be to improve the access of the private sector to external
support services. In the event that this institution becomes inefficient
and unresponsive to the need of the private sector, an important
objective of the project might be in jeopardy.  This risk should be
mitigated by the fact that its Managing Director, recruited from the
private sector after a strict selection process, is highly qualified and that
careful attention has been paid to the preparation of a detailed and
precise Manual of Procedures that should reduce the potential for poor



iii
management practices. Finally, the private sector might prove to be
unresponsive to the improvement of its policy environment and
institutional support framework. This risk appears to be small in view of
the substantial growth that has taken place since the devaluation in some
sectors of the economy like manufacturing, fisheries and tourism.
Environmental Risk: The proposed project which primarily aims at providing consultants
services does not present the prospect of any environmental impact. It is
therefore classified category C.



iv
Estimated Project
Costs and Financing Plan:
(in USSOO0s)
LOCAL        FOREIGN         TOTAL
Estimated costs
1. Policy and Legal Reforms                 2630            330          2960
2. Private Sector Foundation                5000           7400         12400
3. Technical Assistance to the GOS           1650           700          2350
4. Project Monitoring and Audits              100            150          250
5. Refund of PPF Advance                     400            200           600
6. Contingencies                             1120           620          1740
TOTAL                    10900           9400        20300
Financing Plan
IDA                                         3100           9400         12500
Government/Private Sector                    7800                        7800
Total                                       10900          9400         20300
Estimated IDA Credit Disbursements
(in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Years
1996   1997   1998   1999    2000   2001
Annual       2.61   2.34   2.86   2.25    2.02   0.42
Cumulative    2.61   4.95   7.81   10.06   12.08   12.5



I. THE MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
1.01  Senegal is a Sahelian country with limited natural resources and a population of
/.4 million in 1990.  Social indicators, such as life expectancy, primary school
enrollment rate and infant mortality, are at the lower end of the range recorded in Sub-
Saharan Africa. Per capita GDP, which was estimated at US$730 in 1993, places
Senegal at the level of middle-income countries.
1.02  Senegal's economic perfornance during its first 30 years of independence
(1960-1991) has been disappointing. Population grew at 3% per annum, while GDP
grew at only 2.5%. Senegal's agricultural base has been steadily deteriorating because
of poor weather conditions and resource management. Industrial production grew at
4.5% per annum between 1960 and 1985, and at 4.1% between 1986 and 1991.
Export performance during this period compared unfavorably with most other West
African countries and averaged only 2.4% growth per annum.
1.03  Given the private sector's predominant position in the Senegalese economy and
the poor performance of the public enterprise sector, sustainable economic growth in
Senegal can only come from the growth of the private sector. This sector, which
contributed about 87% of GDP in 1987, consists of a small modern or formal sector
and an informal sector which together employ 90% of the work force. The dynamism
of the informal sector attests to the potential for private sector growth given an
adequate environment. In contrast with the vitality of the informnal sector, the formal
private sector, which has operated since Senegal's independence with excessive
protection from imports and restrictive market-sharing arrangements, has been
characterized by decreasing productivity and competitive efficiency, high costs, and
slow growth.
B. Recent Macroeconomic Performance
1.04 In the late 1980s, economic growth, which had reached 4.3% per annum on
average during the 1984-1988 period, deteriorated because of an overvalued exchange
rate and postponed necessary adjustments.  Since the beginning of the 1990s, the
economy experienced a serious decline with a contraction of output in key sectors. In
1991, in particular, fish processing declined in volume terms by 66.4%; phosphates by
24.1%; textiles by 36.8%; and food processing by 45.8%.  Groundnuts exports
declined in value by 41% during the same year. Low economic activity resulted in a
shrinking tax base which forced the government to reverse import tariff reduction and
to increase the taxation of petroleum products. In 1992-1993, the economy declined
even further as the difficulties of pursuing an adjustment strategy based on internal



2
deflationary policies became more acute. The fiscal deficit and the balance of payment
positions worsened; the fiscal balance (excluding grants) declined from a 0.2% surplus
in 1991 to a 3.9% deficit in 1993. During the period 1988-1993, Senegal's economic
growth stagnated at an average of 1.7% per annum.
1.05  In an attempt to reverse this economic deterioration, in August 1993 the
Government of Senegal (GOS) adopted a series of internal adjustment measures
including cuts in public sector wages. However, these measures were not sufficient to
restore the competitiveness of the economy and its growth prospects. The extent of the
appreciation of the real exchange rate, coupled with Government's inability to remove
structural rigidities, made it more difficult for Senegal to restore competitiveness
through internal adjustment alone. The decline in investments and exports, widespread
smuggling and custom fraud, and increasing macroeconomic imbalances made
inevitable the January 1994 devaluation of the CFAF.
1.06  With the devaluation, Senegal has now gained a unique opportunity to restore
competitiveness and export-led growth, taking advantage of its strategic location and its
sizable human resource base. Following an intense national debate which took place
immediately after the devaluation, the GOS came to realize that this measure alone
could not generate the indispensable supply-response of the private sector, particularly
in terms of new investment and exports. Consequently, in early 1994 it outlined, and
started to implement, a medium-term strategy for the development of the private sector.
the key elements of which are: (i) a stable macro-economic environment; (ii) policy
reforms favorable to sustained economic growth; and (iii) increased assistance to the
private sector to help it expand and improve its competitiveness and expand its
activities. The GOS's macro-economic objectives for the 1994-1997 period include a
GDP growth rate increasing from the 2% achieved in 1994 to 4.5% in 1995, a return
to low inflation after an initial adjustment in prices in response to the devaluation, with
the inflation rate projected to decline from the 32% observed in 1994 to 8% in 1995
and 2.5% thereafter, a reduction of the current account deficit from 9.8% of GDP in
1994 to 7.3% in 1996, and a reduction of the budget deficit from the 5.7% of GDP
reached in 1994 to 2.6% in 1995 and 2.4% 1996. In terms of policy reforms, the GOS
has already implemented, in the context of a Private Sector Adjustment and
Competitiveness credit supported by the Bank, most of the measures aimed at
liberalizing prices and trade, eliminating rigidities in the labor code, liberalizing
maritime transport and anticipates to improve, in 1995, the investment and export
incentive systems. The third element of the GOS's strategy aims at encouraging the
supply-response of the private sector by continuing to improve its environment, and
facilitating the provision of business services to enhance the productivity and
competitiveness of private enterprises, while resuming and accelerating the
implementation of the Government's privatization program.



3
C. The Role of the Private Sector in the Economy
1.07  Senegal's private sector is large, dynamic and constitutes the backbone of the
economy that it dominates in terms of contribution to GDP, employment and
investment. According to a 1994 Private Sector Assessment (Senegal -- Private Sector
Assessment, The World Bank, June 1994), the share of the private sector in the
country's GDP is estimated at about 82% and represents virtually 100% of the value
added in the primary sector, about 80% in the secondary and 77% in the tertiary
sectors. Informal activities, including those of the agricultural sector that are largely
carried out by small farmers, are those which contribute the most to the country's
economy. The informal sector absorbs about 90% of Senegal's employed labor force.
In con.rast. the modern sector, accounts for only about 2% of total employment, the
remainder representing employment in the public sector.
1.08  Tile Informal Sector. In Senegal, as in most African countries, the informal
sector dominates economic activity in the primary and tertiary sectors, i.e. in
agriculture, trade and transportation. Several factors have contributed to encourage the
growth of the informal sector. In addition to repeated periods of droughts of the last
decades which have accelerated rural exodus, employment opportunities in the modern
sector were linited because of sluggishness in the economy and, most importantly, of
persistent rigidities in labor regulations. As employers of the modem sector kept the
number of their employees at a minimum, large numbers of unemployed people,
including school and university graduates, had no other choice than to resort to
informal activities.   Complex  regulations and government controls have also
encouraged small businesses to remain informal.  In the Dakar area alone, where
unemployment reached 24% in 1991, there are about 30,000 informal micro-enterprises
employing a total of 57,000 people as compared to the 38,000 that are employed in the
modern sector.
1.09  The characteristics of informal businessmen attest to the existence of a class of
entrepreneurs striving to make a living. According to the Private Sector Assessment,
about 80% of all informal entrepreneurs financed the creation of their enterprise with
their or their family's savings, and bank credit plays a verv minor role at any stage of
operation of informal firms. Informal entrepreneurs are young, between 25 and 44
years old on average, and almost half of them (40%) come from rural areas. Despite
the numerous difficulties that they face, informal enterprises appear to be resilient and
about 50% of them have been in existence for five years or more. An increasing
number of college graduates and educated people that cannot find a job in the formal
sector have turned to informal activities and, as a result, about two-thirds of informal
entrepreneurs are fluent in French, which is the official language. Nevertheless the
majority (90%) of them need training in accounting, management, machinery operation
and want to know better the administrative regulations related to their business. They
also declared that they were prepared to contribute to the cost of such training.



4
1. 10 The Modern Private Sector. Although employing a much smaller portion of
Senegal's labor force, the modern private sector plays an important role in the
economy. In 1987 it contributed about 26% of the countrv's GDP or about a third of
the contribution of the whole private sector. Most of the enterprises of the sector are
large,  often  with  substantial  foreign  ownership,  and  operate  generally  in
manufacturing, construction, trade, tourism and in insurance and banking. In 1988, the
sector was estimated to include about 1,000 firms, of which 264 were in industry, 69 in
construction and public works and 667 in services.
1.11  Private manufacturing is very concentrated.  While a dozen fish processing
enterprises compete on the export market, there are only two tomato paste canning
factories, two flour mills, one sugar refinery, one factory producing edible oil, one
major producer of milk products and one petrol refinery.  Tourism, a potentially
important sector in Senegal, has been reasonably successful in attracting private
investors.  In 1992, this activity contributed CFAF 42 billion to the balance of
payments (equivalent to 10% of the country's total export receipts).
1.12  After the 1988 restructuring of the banking system, which resulted in the
closure of several state-owned banks, the nine banks remaining in the system are
largely private, with a substantial participation of foreign capital. The GOS holds up to
20% of the equity in only two of them. Three of the five major banks are controlled by
French banks and a fourth by an American bank.  With the exception of the
Agricultural Development Bank (CNCAS), a first impact of the devaluation has been
an improvement in the cash position of banks since most were creditors of foreign
banks.
1.13  Public/Private Sector Interface. Since the Government initiated a divestiture
program  in 1987, 26 enterprises were privatized and 21 liquidated.  Forty (40)
enterprises are still Government-controlled.  Of these only 13 have commercial or
industrial activities. Public enterprises play an important role in strategic sectors and
have a monopoly in water and power supply, in telecommunications and in processing
and marketing of agricultural products such as rice, groundnuts and cotton.  Since
1990-1991, the privatization process stalled partly because of deteriorating economic
conditions marked by a continued recession and decreasing capacity utilization.
Following the recent adjustment of the exchange rate, the GOS decided to resume its
divestiture efforts as part of the reforms being implemented in the context of the 1994-
1997 Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and supported by the PSAC and the forthcoming
Agriculture Sector Adjustment project.  Presently 18 enterprises are earmarked for
privatization --for six of them, privatization had been previously envisaged but not
completed.   Ongoing  Bank supported operations include the restructuring  and
privatization of the water company, the strengthening of the railroad company and the
privatization or liquidation of the airline company. The power company is expected to
be restructured, and the role of the private sector in the energy sector redefined, in the
context of an upcoming energy project for which the GOS has requested Bank's
assistance.



5
1.14  Since Senegal's independence, the modern private sector has been operating
with substantial protection from imports and restrictive market-sharing arrangements.
It has, therefore, never become very efficient. In contrast with the informal sector, it
has exhibited less dynamism and has been characterized by decreasing productivity and
competitive efficiency, worn out equipment, high labor and transaction costs, and
relatively slow, if not negative, growth.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
A. The Policy and Regulatory Environment
2.01. Until recently, the policy and regulatory environment impaired the
competitiveness and development of the private sector. In addition to an overvalued
currency. Senegale ;e enterprises benefited from excessive protection through high
import tariff duties. Some public as well as private enterprises were further protected
by a system of prior authorizations to import competitive products, an arrangement
resulting from special agreements (Conventions Speciales) that gave them a
monopolistic position in the local market and substantial tax benefits. Following the
January 1994 devaluation, and as condition of the PFP for the 1994-1997 period, the
GOS committed itself to: (i) provide a stable macro-economic framework; and (ii)
eliminate all constraints to the development of the private sector. In early 1994, it took
m-easures to restore macro-economic equilibria by containing the fiscal deficit while
reducing its internal and external arrears. Along with measures to contain inflation, it
lowered imports tariff duties to a maximum of 45%, not including a 5% stamp duty.
The GOS anticipates to curtail further the level of nominal protection, which is still
high by international standards. This will be done in the context of the harmonization
of the tariff structures of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU)
member countries. The common tariff structure expected to be implemented by 1996
will include three tariff categories ranging from 5 to 30%. In late 1994 and early
1995, under the PSAC, the GOS took decisive steps to: (i) complete the liberalization
of internal and external trade; (ii) improve exports and investments incentive regimes;
(iii) liberalize maritime transport and reduce its cost; and (iv) eliminate rigidities in the
labor market. As a result, only 11 prices remain administered, all special agreements
have been terminated and all prior authorizations to import and export eliminated
(except for imports of gold bars, silver bars and second hand clothes). Maritime
transport has been liberalized while rigidities in the labor market have been
significantly reduced through amendments to the Labor Code.  The export and
investments regimes are being reviewed with assistance from IFC's Foreign Investment
Advisory Services (FIAS) with the objective of making them more supportive of
private sector development. The review is expected to be completed during 1995.



6
B. The Legal Environment of the Private Sector
2.02   Senegal has one of the most comprehensive legal systems in the region and has
been a legal training center for neighboring countries. The Civil and Commercial
Code, as well as the Corporate Law include the basic provisions on contract law and
secured interests. The Bankruptcy Law is quite modem compared to legislation on
similar matters in other countries of the region.  It includes provisions for judicial
settlement of claims and allows receivers to carry out recovery procedures under the
control of a judge. However, there is a lack of alternative means to settle business
disputes quickly.   Representatives of the business community, as well as law
practitioners, agree that the content of the laws relating to private sector activities is
quite adequate, although some gaps -- such as the opening up of the legal framework to
the informal sector -- and some updating, simplification and refining might be
warranted.
2.03   Problems facing the legal environment for private sector activities relate more to
the cumbersome institutional framework, and regulatory and administrative hurdles
than to the content of the law  itself.  Entrepreneurs perceive that the legal and
regulatory environment is unreliable, that the application of business laws is complex,
and that it does not ensure the efficient settlement of disputes in accordance with the
law. Lack of trained and competent legal practitioners to apply the law (judges,
receivers, clerks etc..) is often mentioned as being the major cause of the ineffective
functioning of the legal system.  This is aggravated by poor working conditions,
dramatic shortages of material and equipment and dilapidated physical infrastructure.
Finally, erratic publication of the Journal Officiel (Gazette), virtual absence of law
reports, lack of information on prevailing regulations and procedures contribute to
reduce the transparency of the system and lead to inconsistent treatment of business
operators by the judicial system. As a result, access to the courts is costly, lengthy
delays are common and the uncertainty regarding the enforcement of judgments adds to
the transaction costs associated with doing business in Senegal.
C. The Institutional Support to Private Sector Activities
2.04       In addition to a supportive policy and regulatory environment and to an
adequate legal system, the availability of appropriate support services is indispensable
for a sustainable development of the private sector.  In Senegal, the institutional
framework supposed to provide these services is comprised of: (i) about 40 public and
private institutions that were established to provide assistance to private entrepreneurs,
to promote laws and regulations favoring their interests and facilitate their dealings with
the administration; and (ii) close to two hundred consulting firms offering advisory
services in all areas of business operations.
2.05 Government Institutions. The Government created a number of public
institutions to foster private Senegalese investments and facilitate operations of existing



7
enterprises.  The most important of these are the Dakar Chamber of Commerce
Clhambre de commerce de Dakar (CCD), the Societe nationale d'etudes et de promotion
industrielle (SONEPI), the Societes des domaines industriels (SODIs) and the Sociegt
d 'amnnagement de la zone franche industrielle (SAZFI). The role of the CCD, created
during the colonial period, is to disseminate and explain the legislation applying to
private enterprises and help private entrepreneurs overcome administrative hurdles.
Although members of the CCD elect its Chairman, its employees are appointed by the
Government ai.d act as civil servants rather than as efficient providers of business
services. As a result, CCD is perceived as being another administrative outlet of the
Government.
2.06 The three other institutions mentioned earlier were established in the 1970s.
The role of SONEPI is essentially to promote the development of Small Scale
Enterprises (SSEs) by assisting potential investors in preparing feasibility studies and in
obtaining the required financing from  the banking system.  Despite substantial
assistance received from various external donors, including the Bank, SONEPI has
globally been ineffective. An assessment of its future role is presently underway and
its privatization, if feasible, is envisaged. The SODIs are a network of institutions
which administer industrial estates with a view to providing adequate infrastructure and
facilities to new enterprises. The most important of these is SODIDA, the institution in
charge of the Dakar industrial estate. SODIDA, which has succeeded in attracting 46
enteiprises is relatively well managed. Three other SODIs are in charge of smaller
industrial estates in other parts of the country that house altogether 29 small-scale
enterprises. Along with the decision to sell Government land to private entrepreneurs
and to overhaul the land tenure laws, the GOS has recently decided to privatize the
SODIs, starting with the SODIDA.  The SAZFI was created to encourage the
development of export-oriented enterprises. Enterprises established in the free trade
zone benefit from total exemption from all direct and indirect taxes provided that they
export more than 60%  of their production.  The zone also offers to prospective
investors, land and adequate facilities and utilities. Despite a promising start, only 10
of the 32 enterprises whose application to operate in the zone was approved are still in
business. Exports from the zone dwindled from about CFAF 5.5 billion in 1989 to
about CFAF 3.3 billion in 1993 or a mere 1.5% of Senegal's total import. Three main
reasons contributed to the relative failure of the SAZFI: (i) the enterprises' non-
competitiveness due to the overvaluation of the CFAF; (ii) Government's denial,
because of budgetary constraints, of some fiscal benefits initially granted under the
zone regime; and (iii) the cumbersome and weak administration of the zone. In 1994,
the GOS undertook to review, with the assistance of the FIAS, all existing export
assistance schemes, including the free trade zone regime, to consolidate them into a
unified and improved system. This new system is expected to be implemented in 1995.
2.07  Private Institutions. The most prominent of the private associations and trade
unions is the Conseil national du patronat du Senegal (CNPS), a confederation of 14
associations of employers of the modem sector. The members of CNPS own about 600
enterprises employing about 75,000 workers. Two of the largest member organizations



8
are the Conseil national des employeurs du Senegal (CNES) which represents about 130
enterprises owned by Senegalese entrepreneurs and the Syndicat Professionnel des
Industries du Senegal (SPIDS) representing about 100 enterprises with foreign
participation in their capital. Entrepreneurs of the informal sector have various
associations, the most important of which is the Union Nationale des Commerfants et
de l'Industrie du Senegal (UNACOIS) established by traders in 1988. Despite being
relatively recent, this institution has about 25,000 members .
2.08  Recently created with Bank support, the Agence d'ex&ution de travaux d'interet
public (AGETIP) has been very successful in helping small, formal and informal
enterprises of the private sector. Operating principally in the building and public works
sector, AGETIP is a private sector non-profit association, which sub-contracts small-
scale and informal construction businesses to execute labor-intensive, municipal public
works contracts.  Since its creation in 1990, AGETIP has greatly increased the
efficiency, timeliness and quality of municipal public works.  It has also greatly
expanded small contractor participation in public sector contracts and has demonstrated
remarkable efficiency and tangible results. In its first three years, it channeled funds to
119 sub-projects generating about 11,000 jobs of 30 days duration, average.
2.09   Business Advisory  Services.   In  Senegal, there are numerous private
companies, including some local branches of large international consulting firms, that
offer business advisory services to private entrepreneurs. A recent survey of private
sector demand for business services (Etude sur la Demande/Fondation du Secteur
Prive, Africaine d'Ingenierie pour le Developpement, September 1994) identified 100
firms, 15 individual consultants and 65 research institutes and training institutions that
propose consulting and business services. However, the range of services that they
offer is generally limited to project feasibility studies and accounting in the area of
enterprise management, and to technical advice in agriculture, hydraulics and public
works. The quality of their services is unequal and the survey found that, on the
whole, the expertise of local consulting firms is weak in such areas as personnel
management and marketing, and is virtually non-existent in production management,
manufacturing and product quality. This is one of the reasons which explains that,
according to the survey, few enterprises use their services and of the 64 consulting
firms or individuals questioned, only 26 percent have had contracts with the private
sector, the others preferring to compete for government contracts.
2. 10 The Private Sector Demand for Business Services. The recent elimination of
protection, market distortions and the overvalued currency constitutes an opportunity
for the private sector to develop and, at the same time, a threat for some existing
enterprises. The private sector can now freely expand its activities in segments of the
local market which were highly protected or in exports markets. However, some
enterprises that were used to operating in a protected domestic market where
considerations of competitiveness in quality and price were not relevant, will now have
to face tough competition from imports or from more efficient local enterprises. The
survey mentioned in the above paragraph was carried out during project preparation to



9
assess the demand of the private sector for external assistance. This survey questioned
67 fom,al and informal enterprises, 12 business associations, all major employers'
associations, all Chambres de commerce and Chambres des metiers, as well as 64 firns
and individuals providing expert services. It revealed that although most of the private
enterprises and associations surveyed felt that they needed assistance in technical
services. less than 20 percent of them have had recourse to such assistance.  The
findings of the survey indicate more specifically that there is a strong demand from
private enterpr-ses for expertise in such areas as production management, product and
packaging design, quality control methods, equipment selection and maintenance
methods, cost accounting and product pricing, market research, personnel management
and project feasibility analysis.  Private sector associations expressed an interest in
obtaining expert assistance in setting up information services and data bases, in
organizing training courses for their members, in improving their capacity to enlarge
their membership or raise funds, and in creating and commercializing technical
publications.
2.11  Despite  the existence  of numerous support institutions, under existing
institutional arrangements many Senegalese entrepreneurs cannot receive appropriate
technical and managerial advice to improve their operations. While the large firms that
need technical services can have recourse to their overseas partners or parent
companies, smaller enterprises are handicapped in their search for expert advice. The
main reasons explaining this situation are: (i) inability of small entrepreneurs to
properly identify their needs; (ii) lack of information about the services that are
available; (iii) limited range of services available locally; and (iv) lack of financial
resources or the difficulty to assess whether the gain resulting from external assistance
will be commensurate with its cost.
III. STRATEGY FOR PRIVATE SECTOR
CAPACITY BUILDING
3.01  Government Strategy. Following the January 1994 devaluation of the CFAF,
the GOS realized that sustainable economic growth could not be achieved without a
significant development of the private sector. The GOS recognized also that, although
the devaluation removed a key constraint to the expansion of private sector activities,
this measure alone could not generate the indispensable supply response of the private
sector. Immediately after the devaluation, it prepared therefore the three-pronged
strategy for the development of the private sector mentioned earlier (para. 1.06), and
described in a Letter of Sector Development Policy (Annex I) which served as a basis
for the design of the Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness credit (PSAC).
With regard to the first element of the strategy aimed at restoring macro-economic
equilibrium for the period 1994-1997, except for external arrears (due to slower IDA
disbursements than expected), the criteria and benchmarks agreed for 1994 with the
Bank and the IMF in the context of the PFP have been respected. As indicated earlier
(para. 2.01), in the context of the ongoing PSAC approved by the Bank in February



to
1995, all monopolies previously granted to industrial or commercial enterprises, except
for utilities, have been eliminated, internal trade and external trade as well as domestic
prices liberalized and rigidities in labor code removed. The strengthening of the
incentive systems for investment and export promotion is presently underway. The
Government has now decided to implement the third element of its strategy aiming at
pursuing the improvement of the policy and legal environment of the private enterprises
and of strengthening institutional support to increase their competitiveness, both
measures that are indispensable to ensure a sustainable development of the private
sector.
3.02  To successfully implement this strategy, the GOS sought to ensure full
participation of the private sector. A dialogue on the reforms needed to strengthen the
sector supply-response to the change in CFAF parity was initiated in January 1994
during a seminar on enterprise competitiveness which was attended by representatives
of the Government, the business community and the labor unions. Following this
seminar, the GOS established two think-tanks to identify the key policy and legal
constraints to private sector development and to propose solutions to eliminate them:
the Groupe de Reflexion sur la Croissance et la Competivite (Competitiveness Review
Group or CRG) and the Comite de Reforme Juridique (Legal Reform Committee or
LRC).   Both  think-tanks are comprised  of concerned  government officials,
representatives of private professional associations and labor unions. The CRG started
to review, in February 1994, the policy and regulatory environment of the private
sector. It has since participated to the design of the Government's reform program
aiming at liberalizing prices and trade, eliminating rigidities in the labor market,
liberalizing maritime transports, and improving the export and investment incentive
regimes.  In early 1994, the GOS created a Working Group to analyze the legal
environment of the private sector. This group, assisted by a consultant financed by a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), issued a report in May 1994 that identified areas
requiring substantial reforms. Since then, the Legal Reform Committee -- which has
been operating informally since November 1994 and was formally established in
February 1995-- has continued to prepare a program of reforms of the legal framework
and follow-up on its implementation. Finally, to improve the institutional environment
of the private sector, the GOS recruited consultants to prepare the creation of a Private
Sector Foundation (PSF) the purpose of which is to help private enterprises and
business associations get the support services that they need to improve their operations
and competitiveness or efficiency.
3.03 Rationale for IDA's Involvement. Since the devaluation, the GOS, with the
Bank's support. decided to resume its adjustment efforts. In support of this decision, in
March 1994, the Bank's Board of Directors approved an Economic Recovery Credit to
help improve the country's macro-economic equilibria and control inflation in the post
devaluation period. This was followed by the PFP for the period 1994-1997 which
presents the Government's macro-economic objectives as well as the strategy for the
development of the private sector. The Bank initiated at the same time the preparation
of a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and of the PSAC, both approved by the Board



11
of Directors in February 1995. With a policy environment that has already been
substantially improved, the proposed Capacity Building project will complement the
Bank's support for the implementation of the Government's strategy towards the private
sector by helping it pursue the reform of the policy and legal environment while
strengthening the competitiveness of the private enterprises. It will therefore respond
fully to the Bank's objective, spelled out in the Country Assistance Strategy, of helping
Senegal achieve sustainable growth with equity and targeted poverty reduction.
3.04  Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Experience.  In the past, the Bank
undertook to provide assistance to the private sector through Industrial Development
and Finance (IDF) type-projects, the latest being the Investment Promotion project
approved in 1981. This project provided technical services to SONEPI, the
Government agency described in para. 2.06 above to improve its delivery of support
services to private entreprereurs and a line of credit to a now defunct development
bank (SOFISEDIT) to finance private investments in the industrial sector. As shown in
the Project Completion Report of this and other similar projects, these attempts failed
bzcause: (i) the policy environment of the private sector was inadequate; (ii) the private
sector was practically not involved in the project design; and (iii) the assistance to the
private sector was delivered through a supply-driven process and by govermment
institutions that proved to be weak, bureaucratic and inefficient. The proposed project
draws, therefore, on this experience. First, the proposed project will take place in the
context of a greatly reformed policy and regulatory environment where the exchange
rate has been readjusted, monopolies have been abolished and price and trade totally
liberalized. Second, all key stakeholders of the private sector have been fully involved
in the preparation of the project. As mentioned earlier (para. 3.02), representatives of
the private sector participated actively in all stages of the project preparation. Through
the CRG and the LRC, they contributed to the design of policy and legal reforms that
are indispensable to a sustainable development of the private sector.  Third, the
assistance to the private sector will be delivered on a demand-driven and cost sharing
basis. It will be delivered by the PSF which is a private institution created with the
collaboration of the private sector.
3.05  The project design also takes into account OED's findings regarding the Bank's
previous technical assistance projects, as well as the recommendations of the Bank's
report on Free Standing Technical Assistance for Institutional Development in Sub-
Saharan Africa. The assistance and training to be provided by the PSF will be on-the-
job and of a short-term nature. Local consultants' input will be sought whenever
possible in order to minimize incremental costs and ensure an adequate transfer of skills
and know-how. During project appraisal a series of ZOPP workshops (Zielorientierte
Projekt-Planung or Project Planning by Objectives) were organized with the support of
GTZ (Gesellschaft fiJr Technische Zusammenarbeit) for the CRG, the PSF and the
LRC. These workshops, carried out with all stakeholders, assured broad ownership
and resulted in the preparation of project implementation planning that will facilitate a
precise and timely assessment of implementation results and allow the design of
corrective measures whenever necessary.



12
3.06 Coordination with IFC. The Bank and IFC have already cooperated closely in
preparing the Private Sector Assessment on the basis of which a common strategy was
agreed upon to assist the private sector in Senegal. The Abidjan-based African Project
Development Facility (APDF), an affiliate of IFC in association with other
development institutions, will participate in the proposed project as a founding member
of the Private Sector Foundation. APDF, whose purpose is to provide assistance to
African entrepreneurs in setting up new business, will share its experience with the
Foundation while it plans to use the Foundation to gain better knowledge of the
Senegalese business community. In terms of operations, IFC has made investments in
three ventures in the financial sector, four in industry. one in services, two in
agriculture and two in fish processing. IFC's current loan and equity investment
portfolio is composed of five operations: ICS (phosphoric acid and fertilizers), African
Seafood (fish processing), Africamer (fish processing), a leasing company and an
agribusiness project. These projects did not perform well because of a combination of
external factors, particularly high factor costs and low international prices, aggravated
by an overvalued exchange rate. The performance of these projects is expected to
improve after the devaluation and the improvement of the environment of the private
sector.
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01   The overall development objective of the proposed Private Sector Capacity
Building project is to help the private sector respond to the recent improvement in
policy environment and to enable it to take advantage of new opportunities to expand.
To achieve this goal the project will support the GOS strategy for the private sector
described earlier (para. 3.01) that it has started to implement in the context of the PFP
and the PSAC. The specific objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) increase the
competitiveness and efficiency of private enterprises and business associations; (ii)
deepen the policy reform process by analyzing constraints to private sector activities
and devising appropriate measures to eliminate them; (iii) improve the legal framework
for private sector activities; (iv) accelerate the implementation of the government
divestiture program; and (v) carry out a program of communications and information to
ensure that the main actors in the economy understand and support the reform process.
B. Project Description
4.02  In line with the objectives mentioned above, the proposed project -- which will
involve an IDA credit to the Government of Senegal of US$12.5 million equivalent--
will have three components: (i) a private sector capacity building component; (ii) a
policy and legal reform component; and (iii) a component of specialized services to
strengthen the GOS capacity. The proposed project will finance, over a five-year



13
period, consultants' services, expert advice, equipment and operating expenses needed
by the project institutions described in the following paragraphs. As mentioned earlier
(para. 3.02), the project has been designed in parallel to the PSAC with the active
participation of the representatives of the government and of the private sector who will
be involved in its implementation. This collaboration was pursued during appraisal
through workshops that helped finalize, for the PSF, the CRG and the LRC, their work
program and a timetable to implement it, and identified appropriate criteria for periodic
monitoring and evaluation of progress achieved. These workshops used the ZOPP
method wxhich has proved a useful tool to build up ownership, and ensure adequate
planning in other Bank supported projects.
1. ThLe Private Sector Capacity Building Component
4.03   The purpose of this component is to help private business associations and
enterprises increas,. their competitiveness and efficiency through better access to
business advisory services. Project preparation work revealed that none of the existing
support institutions was capable of helping the private sector get the assistance it needs.
While government controlled institutions were found to be bureaucratic and inefficient,
private institutions lacked the organization and technical skills required to assist
efficiently the private sector. It was, therefore, decided that the help envisaged in the
proposed project would be better delivered by a Private Sector Foundation (PSF) to be
created. The PSF will not, however, directly provide technical services to the private
sector. It will act as a catalyst and intermediary between firms and institutions of the
private sector that need assistance, and local and international suppliers capable of
providing it. As reported earlier, to adequately design the role of the PSF, a survey
was carried out during project preparation to assess the demand of the private sector for
business services and the conditions under which these services could be efficiently
delivered. Along with the findings reported in para. 2.10, the survey indicated that
private entrepreneurs and institutions agreed that the assistance that they would get
through the PSF should be: (i) demand-driven, with private institutions defining for
themselves the type of service that they need; and (ii) delivered on a cost-sharing basis
with the beneficiaries contributing to the cost of the services that they receive. The
rationale for providing matching grants to private entrepreneurs is based on the fact that
the private sector should not bear the full cost of external services needed to alleviate
significant barriers to its development such as the relative infancy of entrepreneurship,
market imperfections and externalities. This concept was used to provide Bank support
to similar projects in India, Indonesia, Bolivia and Kenya for example.
4.04 The creation of the PSF was prepared by a Working Group composed of
representatives of private sector institutions and enterprises that was formed in mid-
1994.  Under the supervision of this Working Group, consultants financed by a
Japanese grant to the GOS, were commissioned to prepare the PSF's Statutes, Bylaws
and Manual of Procedures.   Under the Statutes and Bylaws proposed by the
consultants, the PSF will be a non-profit public service institution (Fondation d'Utilite
Publique). The National Assembly of Senegal has adopted, during its March 1995



14
session, a law introducing the possibility of establishing Foundations, a form of
institution that did not exist legally until then. The Private Sector Foundation was
created by 35 founding members, the list of which had been agreed upon during project
appraisal.  These founding members include representatives of private professional
associations of the formal and informal sectors -- including, inter alias the Association
Senegalaise des Femmes d'Affaires --, of the banking sector and of the African Project
Development Facility, as well as individuals selected for their competence and
experience in business. During appraisal, representatives of APDF, an affiliate of IFC,
participated in the mission's work aimed at preparing the creation of the PSF.
According to the PSF's statutes, its organization structure will be made of: (i) an 18
member Board of Administrators, the " Conseil de Fondation" appointed in May 1995
by the founding members during their first general assembly; and (ii) a Managing
Director recruited from the private sector through a transparent and competitive
process.  The Board of Administrators has been formed and has confirmed the
nomination of the Managing Director during its first meeting. The Board will meet at
least twice a year to approve the PSF annual work programs and budget, assess
progress achieved in their implementation, and review the PSF annual accounts and
audits. The Managing Director will also appoint ten representatives of the private
business community who will constitute a Consultative Committee. This Committee
will convene at least every two or three months to review and advise the Managing
Director on the PSF's operations. In addition to the bodies mentioned above, the
Managing Director will be assisted by a permanent team of two high level
professionals, an accountant and a secretary, all to be locally recruited.  During
negotiations, agreement was reached that these dispositions will all be implemented and
that no change in the PSF's Statutes, Manual of Procedures and higher management
will be made without IDA's prior approval (para.6.01(a)). The appointment of the
Consultative Committee and the recruitment of the PSF's permanent staff are
conditions of disbursement for the PSF component (para. 6.03(a)).
4.05  The PSF's Manual of Procedures has been designed to ensure transparency in its
procedures and accountability in the delivery of assistance to the private sector. The
Manual details operating procedures governing all the steps from the identification of
assistance needs of a would be beneficiary until the evaluation of the results of the
assistance provided through the PSF. The Manual includes eligibility criteria for PSF's
assistance as well as procedures for hiring consultants, supervising and evaluating the
services that they would provide. During negotiations final agreement was reached on
a cost-sharing formula, by which PSF's contribution will vary from 75% for
consultants contracts under US$2,500 to 30% for contracts over US$20,000 (para.
6.01(b)).  There will be a maximum  cumulative contribution of US$40,000 per
beneficiary. However, public enterprises and enterprises that employ more than 250
permanent workers will not be eligible for PSF's support. Over time entrepreneurs
should "graduate" and accept to bear the cost of external business services they need.
4.06 In order to learn proper procurement practices, individual enterprises and
associations will directly recruit the consultants they need. PSF will act only as an



15
advisor in helping prepare the consultants' terms of reference, short-lists and invitations
to bid. This will contribute to limit PSF's staff, increase its cost-efficiency, and
maintain the ratio of operating expenses to total budget to about 10%.  Given the
limited absorptive capacity of Sub-Saharan countries in general, this ratio cannot be
reduced without jeopardizing the functioning of the PSF.  The PSF will pay its
contribution to beneficiaries only when it has been satisfied that proper procurement
procedures have been followed and that the consultants have satisfactorily completed
their task.  Finally to ensure that PSF's operations are transparent, agreement was
reached daLring negotiations that, in addition to the periodic reviews carried out by its
Consultative Committee, the PSF will widely advertise its services through the media
and will periodically make public the list of its beneficiaries and of the consultant firms
that won technical services contracts (para.6.01(c)).
4.07  The Working Group reviewed and comnnented on the drafts of the legal
documents and the findings of the study on the demand of the private sector for
business services mentioned above. To continue ensuring a full participation of the
private sector in the establishment of the PSF and therefore build its ownership of this
institution, the Working Group remained actively involved in the preparation of PSF's
work program  and final legal documents.  During appraisal, the Working Group
participated in a ZOPP workshop which helped define the PSF's objectives, the tasks to
be carried out, a timetable for their implementation, and monitorable evaluation criteria
of progress achieved (Annex II). Through the direct assistance to private enterprises
and training seminars for their personnel, the PSF will aim at achieving five objectives:
(i) improved managerial capacity; (ii) improved technological skills; (iii) increased
productivity and competitiveness; (iv) improved access to bank credit; and (v)
promotion of exports. As envisaged in its Manual of Procedures, the PSF will package
demands for training into modules whose objectives, terms of reference and
arrangement for implementation will have to receive IDA's prior approval.
4.08  Agreement has been reached, also during appraisal, with the GOS and with
PSF's founding members on PSF's Statutes and Bylaws, on the Agreement to be signed
by the GOS and the PSF, and on the steps leading to the formal creation of this
institution. The PSF's Manual of Procedures was discussed and amended and a draft
version is ready for approval by the GOS and the founding members of the institution.
The PSF was formally established, as a condition of negotiations, when the GOS issued
a decree for the implementation of the law allowing the creation of Foundations, the
General Assembly of the founding members approved PSF's Statutes and Bylaws, and
the GOS adopted a decree establishing the PSF. The signature by the Government and
the PSF of an Agreement (Convention) that will give to the PSF complete
independence in recruitment and dismissal of staff, in operating the agency and helping
private or business associations hire consultants services and the formal adoption by
both parties of its Manual of Procedures are conditions of project effectiveness
(para.6.02(a)).



16
4.09 Under this component, IDA funds in the amount of US$6.3 million will be
made available as a grant by the Government to the PSF. These funds will finance
incremental salaries of PSF's staff, office equipment and incremental operating
expenses of the PSF (US$1.3 million). They will also finance, on a cost-sharing basis,
consultants' services, technical services and training for eligible enterprises and
business associations of the private sector (US$5 million).
2. The Policy and Legal Reform Component
4.10 The Policy Reform Sub-component. The purpose of this sub-component is to
assist the GOS in continuing to identify, in collaboration with the private sector, policy
and regulatory constraints to the development of the private sector and in formulating
and implementing remedial measures. These tasks will be carried out within the CRG
which is composed of representatives of the private formal and informal sectors, labor
unions and concerned government officials.  As mentioned earlier, the CRG has
already participated in the design of the policy reform program carried out in the
context of the PSAC. To organize the private sector participation in the preparation of
the reform program implemented under the PSAC, the CRG set up a number of
commissions that had the responsibility to analyze each specific area of the policy
environment.   The commissions reviewed the constraints to the promotion of
competition and the problem of monopolies, the promotion of exports, the promotion
of investments, the reduction of labor costs and labor code flexibility and the reduction
of transport costs. The commissions reported to a General Assembly, comprised of
nine representatives of the Government, five representatives of the Labor Unions and
eight representatives of private sector associations.  The Assembly discussed their
proposals to alleviate impediments to private sector activities and reached a consensus
on recommendations which were submitted to the Government. To carry out its work
program under the proposed project, the CRG will maintain the same organization and
procedures.
4.11  Building on its previous experience, the CRG has, during project preparation,
prepared a work program aimed at following the implementation of the policy reform
agenda of the PSAC, at analyzing remaining cross sectoral impediments to private
sector activities, and at making specific proposals to complement the PSAC. During
appraisal, the mission and the members of the CRG carried out a ZOPP workshop to
prepare and agree upon a detailed work program, an implementation planning and
criteria for evaluation of results (Annexes III (a) and III (b)). This work program
focuses on three main objectives: (i) the rationalization, in collaboration with the LRC,
of the legal and regulatory framework for the private sector; (ii) the increase of
competition in the domestic market; and (iii) the facilitation of the development and
creation of private enterprises. To analyze each of the measures included in its work
program, the CRG will organize, as it has done in the past, Working Groups including
the relevant representatives of the Government and the private sector. Specifically, the
CRG will: (i) elicit from participants different perspectives on key competitiveness
issues; (ii) commission experts, when necessary, to conduct diagnostic studies



17
presenting alternative policy options; (iii) invite individuals with appropriate expertise
from Senegal and abroad to present their experiences; and (iv) propose to the GOS
specific measures to improve the environment and competitiveness of the private
sector. To facilitate the Working Groups' tasks, the CRG will gather and provide
members with relevant information and will, when necessary, hire experts to carry out
stludies to serve as a basis for the Working Groups' deliberations.
4.12  In Febriary 1994, the GOS appointed the Chairman of the CRG who was
selected because of his professional qualifications, his extensive knowledge of the
Senegalese economy and private business community, and the high respect he enjoys in
the private sector. In addition to the Chairman, the CRG has a permanent staff limited
to a Secretary General and one administrative assistant. Terms of Reference for the
Secretary General recruited in June 1994, were agreed upon during project preparation.
As conditions of negotiations the decree officially establishirg the CRG has been issued
by the GOS and an Arrete which defines CRG's membership and the responsibilities of
its Chairman and Secretary General in terms of organizing and carrying out the work of
tl.e CRG has been issued by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning.
4. 13 Under this component the GOS will pass on as a grant to the CRG an amount of
US$980,000 to help it implement this component. The project would finance, over a
period of three years, incremental salaries of the CRG's staff, supplies and incremental
operating expenses for the administration of the CRG (US$400,000). It will also
finance consultants' services to carry out studies that would serve as basis for concrete
action plans to be proposed to the Government.
4.14 The Legal Institution Strengthening Sub-component. This sub-component of
the project aims at strengthening the legal framework for private sector activities and at
improving the functioning of the judicial system in areas that have an immediate impact
on  enterprises' operations.   In  January  1994, a Working  Group  including
representatives of the government, of the private formal and informal sectors, and of
private legal practitioners was established with a mandate to identify key areas of the
legal framework where reforms were needed. In May 1994, the Working Group
completed a report that recommended reforms in various arcas such as the protection of
the rights of the private sector, the dispute settlement mechanisms, the dissemination of
information on administrative procedures and the consolidation, modernization and
harmonization of the business laws. As in the case of the Private Sector Foundation
and the Competitiveness Review Group, during appraisal a ZOPP workshop helped
design, for the Legal Reform Committee, an action program and implementation
timetable for this component along with monitorable evaluation criteria to measure
progress achieved (Annexes IV (a) and (b)). This work program concentrates primarily
on the attainment of five objectives: (i) the preservation and strengthening of private
enterprises' rights in their dealings with the State; (ii) the modernization of the
legislation to reflect the needs of the enterprise; (iii) the establishment of a "Centre de
Formalites" to increase the efficiency of the judicial processes relating to private
enterprises; (iv) the improvement of debt recovery mechanisms; and (v) the



18
improvement of the dissemination of business laws. In addition, the LRC will follow
up on the rationalization of business laws in close cooperation with the National
Commission that was established in the context of the ongoing regional project for the
harmonization of business laws of the West African Economic and Monetary Union.
4.15  The preparation and implementation of the legal reform action plan will be
carried out by the LRC. This Committee which was formally created by decree in
February 1995, is composed of an equal number of representatives of the public and
the private sectors and is chaired by the Minister of Justice. A full-time local legal
expert has already been recruited as the Secretary General of the LRC. The Secretary
General will be in charge of preparing the Committee's deliberations. To this end, the
Secretary General will provide the Committee with available information relevant to its
review of each topic of the action program and will recruit local short-term consultants
to carry out any study deemed necessary by the Committee.
4.16  Under the proposed project, the GOS will pass on, as a grant, to the LRC an
amount of US$1.53 million to finance the implementation of this component. The
project will finance office equipment and operating expenses for the LRC
(US$300,000), equipment to improve the functioning of the office of the registrar of
the commercial court (US$250,000) and studies (US$980,000).
3. Specialized Services to Strengthen Government Capacity
4.17  Under this component, the project will help the GOS pursue its program aimed
at liberalizing the economy. It will also help the GOS expand its policy dialogue with
all the concerned segments of the Senegalese society and achieve a wide consensus on
the reform program. The project will help the Government fulfill these objectives by:
(i) reviving and pursuing the privatization of public enterprises; and (ii) carrying out a
communications program to widely publicize the objectives of its policies towards the
private sector and the results achieved in their implementation.
4.18  The Privatization Program. As mentioned earlier (para. 1. 13), as part of the
adjustment program supported by the PFP and the PSAC, the GOS is to resume the
implementation of its privatization program and, in particular to complete disinvestment
from 18 enterprises during the period 1994-1997. The proposed project will help the
Cellule de ContrOle et de Gestion du Portefeuille de l'Etat, a unit of the Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Plan (MEFP) which is in charge of the divestiture program
achieve this objective. The project will assist the Cellule in following-up on the
implementation of the divestiture plans already underway in the context of the PASA
for four enterprises: Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (SODEFITEX),
Socite d'Amenagement d'Exploitation des terres du Delta (SAED), Caisse de
Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix (CPSP) and Societe Nationale de
Commercialisation des Oleagineux (SONACOS) and in achieving the privatization of
the remainder. To this end, during project preparation, a consultant was hired to help
assess the situation of the concerned enterprises and propose a divestiture strategy for



19
each of them. The consultant's report recommends the immediate sale of the assets of
three enterprises Socite des Hotels Saly, Societe Nationale de Distribution (SONADIS)
and Societe des Textiles de Kaolac (SOTEXKA), the sale of Government shares in two
others Societe de I'Hotel Teranga and Societe Senegalaise des Phosphates de Thhes
(SSPT), and studies for the privatization of the nine remaining enterprises. Rather than
follow this last recommendation, the appraisal mission agreed with the GOS that to
speed up the process, the execution of the privatization program would be sub-
contracted to private specialized firms. During appraisal, agreement was reached on a
preliminary implementation planning and performance indicators for this sub-
component (Annex V (a)).  During negotiations, agreement was reached for the
recruitment of an investment banker on TORs acceptable to IDA (Annex V (b)) to
prepare an action plan and the bidding documents required to sub-contract to the private
sector the sale of the enterprises earmarked for privatization (para. 6.01 (d)). The
submission of a time-bound action plan acceptable to IDA for the implementation of
this sub-component is a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.02 (b)).
4. 19  The Communications Program. The purpose of this sub-component is to help
the GOS consolidate and widen the dialogue that was initiated with representatives of
the private sector through the CRG by publicizing its economic objectives, the
proposed measures to achieve them  and the results actually achieved.  This will
contribute to introduce transparency in, and accountability on, the GOS's strategy for
the private sector. It will also educate the concerned economic actors and strengthen
the national consensus with the civil society on the reforms needed. In addition to
disseminating information on the GOS economic policy reforms, the program will aim
at improving the Government's communications system. This program will be carried
out through the most popular media (press, radio and television) as well as through less
formnal media such as posters in neighborhood cafes, stores, etc. It will also include
speeches by government officials associated with representatives of the private sector,
conferences and seminars. During appraisal agreement was reached on preliminary
planning and performnance indicators for the implementation of this sub-component
(Annex VI (a)). To prepare an adequate action plan, a short term consultant will be
hired, on terms of reference to be agreed upon during negotiations (Annex VI (b)), to
design, in collaboration with concerned Government officials and private sector
representatives, a communications program that will achieve these objectives (para.
6.01 (e)). During negotiations, assurances has been reached that the private sector,
through the CRG, will participate in the design of the Communications program (para.
6.01 (f)). The submission of a communications program acceptable to IDA, including
an implementation timetable and criteria for evaluation of results achieved is a
condition of project effectiveness (para. 6.02 (c)).
4.20  An amount of US$1.9 million of the credit proceeds will be allocated to this
component to finance: (i) consultant services, office equipment and incremental
operating expenses for the implementation by the Cellule of the privatization program
(US$1.25 million); and (ii) consultant services, office equipment, incremental



20
operating expenses and communications costs for the implementation of the
communications program (US$650,000).
C. Status of Project Preparation
4.21  Project preparation, which started in 1993, was somewhat delayed when priority
was given, after the devaluation of January 1994, to the preparation of the Private
Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness credit.  This development has, however,
increased the chances of success of the proposed project by removing, first, the policy
constraints to the development of the private sector. It has also contributed to enhance
project ownership through the dialogue between the GOS, the private sector and IDA,
which was initiated during the preparation of the PSAC.  The participation of the
private sector and concerned government officials in the preparation of the project
culminated with the ZOPP workshops that took place during project appraisal for the
PSF, CRG and LRC components.
4.22  The project preparation was assisted by a Japanese grant of US$435,000
extended in June 1992 to the GOS with the Bank as executing agency and a PPF
advance of US$600.000 approved in two tranches in March 1994 and March 1995.
These funds financed consultants' services, operating expenses and salaries that have
helped advance the preparation of each component of the project. This allowed to
achieve the following results:
a)    Competitiveness Review Group. The Chairman has been appointed and
the Secretary General and the support staff recruited; since the
preparation of the PSAC in the first half of 1994, the CRG is
operational; consultants helped in identifying areas of the policy and
regulatory environment of the private sector that need reforms;
b)    Legal Reform Committee. A local consultant has helped a Preparatory
Commission identify areas of the legal environment of the private sector
that require reforms; all the members of the Committee have been
appointed and the Committee has been established by decree and its
Secretary General has been recruited;
c)    Private Sector Foundation. Consultants from India and Kenya have
shared their experience in establishing and operating similar institutions;
they have helped the Working Group that prepared the creation of the
PSF define the role of the PSF; consultants have carried out a survey on
the demand of the private sector for business services; other consultants
have prepared the legal documents required for the establishment of the
PSF as well as its Manual of Procedures; the Managing Director has
been recruited; and



21
d)     Technical Assistance to the GOS. A consultant has been recruited and
has helped assess the situation of the enterprises that will be privatized;
another consultant is in the process of being recruited to help prepare the
communications program.
D. Project Costs and Financing Plan
4.23   The proposed project is estimated to cost, over a five year period, US$20.3
million equivalent, price and physical contingencies included but taxes and duties
excluded, with a foreign exchange component of US$9.4 million. Base costs calculated
on the basis of January  1995  prices,   are estimated  at US$18.56, and  total
contingencies amouiit to US$1,74 million (or 8.6%  of total project costs).  Physical
contingencies have been calculated at 5%  for equipment and materials.   Price
contingencies have been estimated at: (i) 2.4%  per annum  for foreign exchange
expenditures; and (ii) 7.8%  in 1995 and 2.5%  per annum  thereafter, for local
expenditures.
4.24   The project cost will be financed by an IDA credit of US$12.5 million and
US$7.8 million provided by the private sector, for the most part, and by the
Government. These counterpart funds will consist of the incremental salaries paid by
the government and the private sector to the participants in the work of the CRG and
LRC, of incremental salaries and part of the operating expenses for the privatization
and communications sub-components, and of the contribution of the private sector to
the cost of the assistance received through the PSF.  Detailed cost estimates and
financing plan that are in Annex VII are summarized in the following tables.
Table 1
Estimated Project Costs (1)
(in US$000)
Local          Foreign             Total
1 Policy and Legal Reforms
(a) Competitiveness Review Group      1,130               50             1,180
(b) Legal Reform Committee            1,500              280             1,780
2. Private Sector Foundation              5,000            7,400            12,400
3. Assistance to the GOS
(a) Privatization Program               900              600             1,500
(b) Communications Program             750               100               850
4. Project Monitoring and Audits           100               150              250
5  Refund of PPF Advance                   400               200              600
6  Price and Phvsical Contingencies       1,120              620             1 740
TOTAL                              10,900             9,400           20,300
(1) All costs are net of duties, and direct and indirect taxes.



Table 2
Financing Plan
IDA                             3.100       9.400        12.500
Government/Private Sector       7 80()        -           7.800
TOTAL             10,900       9,400        20,300
E. Project Implementation
4.25  Project Management. There will be no project coordination unit. The project
institutions directly concerned by each component of the project are responsible for its
implementation. This will enable them to better institutionalize the objectives of the
project, as recommended by the OED's guidelines for technical assistance project in the
Africa Region. Responsibilities for project implementation and management lie with:
(a)   the CRG for the implementation of the policy reforrn sub-component;
(b)   the LRC for the implementation of the Legal Reform sub-component;
(c)   the PSF for the implementation of the private sector capacity building
component; and
(d)   the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan (MEFP) for the
implementation of the privatization program, and the communications
program.
4.26  Procurement and accounting for the PSF, the CRG and the LRC will be the
responsibility of the PSF. Formal agreements to this effect, the draft of which was
agreed upon at negotiation (6.01 (g)), will be signed between the PSF and the CRG and
LRC respectively as conditions of disbursement for the PSF, CRG and LRC
components (para. 6.03 (b)).
4.27 Monitoring, Evaluation and Periodic Review. The CRG, the LRC, the PSF
and the MEFP will each be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
implementation of their respective work programs. The Planning and the Table of Key
Events and evaluation criteria prepared during appraisal for the first three institutions
will serve as a basis for monitoring and evaluation (Annexes II (b) through IV (b)).
For the Privatization and the Communications programs, the reference will be the
implementation planning and criteria for evaluation that will be agreed upon, along
with the action plan of each sub-component mentioned earlier in (paras. 4.18 and
4.19). During negotiations, agreement was reached that all the following dispositions
for project monitoring, evaluation and periodic review will be complied with (para.
6.01 (h)): (i) three months before the end of each calendar year, the GOS and IDA will



23
convene an annual review meeting to review a detailed work program to be carried out
during the next year by each project institution. The preparation of the work annual
programs will take into account the progress achieved during the past year and the
initial implementation plans will be revised as needed to include additional objectives
and evaluation criteria, if warranted; (ii) two IDA-Government reviews of the project,
in lieu of a mid-term review, will be carried out about one and half year and three
years following the date of credit effectiveness to measure progress accomplished
against targets and to make in due course any adjustments that might be required to
ensure that the objectives of the project will be achieved; and (iii) these reviews will be
preceded by a full technical audit of all components and a ZOPP workshop to re-
evaluate the objectives of each component in light of progress achieved and to adjust
the project implementation planning for the reminder of the period. As a result of
these workshops, implementation planning will be updated for the next eighteen
months. Finally, a detailed supervision plan for all three components (Annex VIII)
including specific expected outputs and performance indicators has been prepared as
part of  the ZOPP implementation planning exercises that included the persons
responsible for the execution of each component.
F. Procurement and Disbursement
4.28  Under the proposed project, procurement will concern only office equipment
and vehicles, operating costs of the project institutions and consultants services. The
table below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.



24
Table 3.
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Project Element                      Procurement Method                      Total
I_________________________  Costs
ICB       NCB         Other       NBF
Goods
*  Office Equipment & Vehicles                   . 35         . 1                   .45
(.35)       (.1)                  (.45)
Consultancies
|    Studies                                                  1.4                   1.4
(1.4)                 (1.4)
*  Consultant Services                                        4.6         6.9        4.6
(4.6)       (--)      (4.6)
*  Training                                                   1.6                   1.6
(1.6)                 (1.6)
*  Audits and implementation                                  .3                    .3
evaluation                                                (.3)                  (3)
Service contracts
*  Communication                                  .4          .1                     .5
Services                                      (A4)        (.1)                  (.5)
Other
*  Operating Expenses                                        3.45                   3.45
(3.05)                (3.05)
*  PPF Refund                                                 .6                    .6
(.6)                  (.6)
Total                             .75        12.65        6.9       20.3
_________________________ __   (.75)  (11.75)  (--)   (12.5)
Note: Amounts in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Credit
Operating Expenses include incremental salaries of permanent staff of the
CRG. the PSF and the LRC along with miscellaneous expenses such as office
supplies, utilities etc.
All costs are net of duties and direct and indirect taxes
NBF means Non-Bank financed
4.29. The PSF will be responsible for the procurement of its own goods and services
and for those of the CRG and the LRC and the MEFP will be responsible for
procurement of goods and services for the privatization and communications sub-
components. Goods to be procured, in accordance with IDA's guidelines of January
1995, under the project (US$450,000) consist of office equipment, computers and
vehicles.   Because adequate  local representation  of foreign  suppliers exists and
availability of after sale services and maintenance is essential, contracts of less than
US$30,000 will be procured through local shopping provided that the aggregate amount
of such procurement does not exceed US$100.000. Contracts over or equal to
US$30,000 will be procured, in packages of at least US$100,000 whenever possible,



25
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Consultants' services (for studies and
technical services) which represent the bulk of IDA financing (US$7.8 million) will be
contracted in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August
1981 version). All consultant contracts, whose cost will be equal or above US$50,000
for individual consultants and above or equal to US$100,000 for firms, will be subject
to prior review by IDA and contracts below this threshold will be subject to an ex-post
review by the Association. However, prior review will apply to the terms of reference
of such contracts, to single source hiring of firms and individuals, to assignments of
contracts of a critical nature as determined by IDA. and to amendments of contracts
raising the zontract value above these thresholds. Standard Letters of Invitation to Bid
that will be used for the recruitment of consultants were agreed upon with IDA during
negotiations (para. 6.01 (i)).
4.30 Technical Assistance to be financed by the PSF. As mentioned above in
para. 4.06, eligible private enterprises and associations will be assisted by the PSF in
contracting directly the technical services they need. The statutes and Manual of
Procedures of the PSF specify that, to be eligible to PSF financing, beneficiaries may
select: (I) individual consultants directly from the roster through the comparison of at
least three Cvs; and (ii) consulting firms through competitive procedures acceptable to
IDA. In both cases and for each assignment, the concerned beneficiary will select or
invite consultants to bid on the basis of a short list drawn from a roster prepared by the
PSF. This roster will be updated twice a year to include new consultants or exclude
unsatisfactory ones. Agreement with the PSF on this roster, where consultants will be
classified by category of service, is a condition of disbursement for the PSF component
(para. 6.03 (c)). Standard Letters of Invitation to Bid that the beneficiaries of the PSF
will use have been agreed upon with IDA during negotiations (para. 6.01 (i)). The
carrying out by PSF's beneficiaries of procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA is an
eligibility criterion to PSF's financial support. Only contracts the cost of which will
reach or exceed US$100,000 will be subject to IDA prior review. Contracts under this
threshold will be subject to an ex-post review.
4.31 To ensure that procurement will be carried out adequately, AGETIP, an agency
which has a well-established track record of efficient procurement strictly following
IDA guidelines, has been contracted to act as the procurement agency for all
components of the project until project effectiveness. During this period, AGETIP will
train the concerned personnel of PSF in procurement. At the end of this training, PSF
will be responsible for the procurement of the goods and services financed by the
project for the private sector (PSF, CRG and LRC). PSF will execute procurement in
accordance with procedures described in its Manual of Procedures which have been
approved by IDA. Goods and services for the privatization and the communications
components will be procured by the MEFP in accordance with the above provisions.
4.32 Disbursements. As shown in the following table, disbursements will be made
on the basis of 100% of total expenditures free of direct or indirect taxes and duties for
IDA's share of the cost of goods and consultants services.



26
Table 4.
Allocation and Disbursements of the IDA Credit
Categorv of Disbursement        Amount (I)       Percentage of Expenditure Financed
(US$ million)          (free of taxes and duties)
1. Goods
*  Private Sector                     .25                        100%
*  GOS                                 .05                       100%
2. Sub-projects (2)                  5.0                         100%
of amount paid by PSF
3. Consultant Services
*  Private Sector                     1.76                       100%
*  GOS                                1.1                        100%
4. Service Contracts                  .5                         100%
5. Operating Expenses
*  Private Sector (3)                 2.0
- Until October 31, 1998                                     100%
- Thereafter                                                 85%
.  GOS                                 .3
- Until December 31, 1997                                    100%
- Thereafter                                                  85%
5. Refunding of PPF Advance            .6                        100%
6. Unallocated                        .94
L L          L LTotal                12.5       L:__
(I) All amounts have been calculated net of duties and direct or indirect taxes
(2) Cost-sharing formula in Annex 11, page 5
(3) The financing will be reassessed during the second IDA-Government project review, to assess the
feasibility of decreasing it to 85%
4.33   The percentages above are based on the provisions 309 and 1091 of the Law 92-
40 of July 9, 1992 of the Government of Senegal which exempts the goods and
services, financed by IDA credits, from taxes and customs duties levied by the
Government of Senegal. If any change is made to this Law which has the effect of
levying taxes or customs duties on such goods and services, the percentages referred to
in the above table will be decreased to reflect this change. The project will refinance
the PPF advance upon project effectiveness. As in the case of procurement, the PSF
will act as disbursement agency, for all goods and services financed by the credit for
the private sector while the MEFP will disburse for the privatization and the
communications components.  Disbursements will be fully documented except for
payments of contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent, which will be made against
certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documents for withdrawal under SOEs



27
will be retained by the PSF and the MEFP and made available for independent auditors
and for review by IDA during supervision missions.
4.34  The IDA credit is expected to be disbursed for the categories shown in the Table
3 above over a period of five years after project effectiveness according to the
disbursement schedule in Annex IX. Although the disbursement profiles for technical
services projects in the Africa Region are, on average, about 84 months, a shorter
implementation is foreseen for the proposed project because: (i) the CRG and the LRC,
which will focus on the follow up and the deepening of the reform program supported
by the PSAC, are expected to complete their work over a two to three year period; and
(ii) project implementation will concentrate on the execution of work programs that
have been designed in detail during project preparation.
4.35  To expedite project implementation, two Special Accounts will be opened at a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA and maintained and operated on terms and
conditions also acceptable to IDA by: (i) the GOS for the privatization and
communications components; and (ii) the PSF for all other components of the project.
The special account administrated by the GOS will be in the amount of CFAF 150
million (or about US$300,000). The special account for the private sector components
will be in the amount of CFAF 300 million (or about US$600,000). The Association
will make an initial deposit in the Special Accounts upon credit effectiveness.
Replenishment requests will be accompanied by proof of eligible expenditures
acceptable to IDA, by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliation of the concerned
Special Account and will be fully documented except for expenditures below
US$100,000 for goods and services from consulting firms, and US$50,000 for services
of individual consultants, for which the borrower will be allowed to submit claims on
the basis of SOEs. Documentation used for SOEs will be retained and made available
for review by Bank supervision missions and by the auditors of the project accounts.
G. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.36 Project accounts will be maintained in accordance with internationally accepted
standards by: (i) the MEFP for the privatization and communications components; and
(ii) by the PSF for all other components. The PSF will establish proper accounting
with an experienced accounting firm, to be financed by the project, which has already
been recruited. The establishment of the accounting system is presently underway for
the PSF, the CRG and the LRC and during negotiations, agreement was reached that
this accounting system will also be applied to the components managed by the
Government (para. 6.01 (j)). The establishment of an operational project accounting
system will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.02 (d)). All project accounts
including the two Special Accounts and SOE will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA recruited by the Government, as a condition of effectiveness
(para 6.02 (e)), on a pluriannal basis and in accordance with Terms of Reference and
short list acceptable to IDA to be agreed upon during negotiations (para. 6.01 (k)).



28
The audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the closing of
the fiscal year in Senegal. Each of the project institutions will report semi-annually on
the results achieved with regard to the component for which they are responsible no
later than a month after the end of the concerned semester. In addition to the financial
audits, the PSF will be subject to annual management audits whose reports will be
submitted to IDA in the same conditions as the financial audit reports. The PSF will
computerize its MIS system to facilitate monitoring and reporting on the provision of
business services to the private sector.
H. Environmental Aspects
4.37  The proposed project which aims at providing primarily consultants' services
does not present the prospect of any environmental impact. It is therefore classified
category C.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01   The project's most important expected benefit is its contribution to promote
Senegal's economic growth by improving enterprises performance and strengthening
the private sector, notably through interventions in an estimated 600 firms over the life
of the project. At the enterprise and business association lev.el, it will: (i) increase
efficiency and competitiveness; and (ii) most importantly improve management skill
and raise awareness among private entrepreneurs that benefits from business advisory
services might outweigh their cost. The project will also contribute to foster Senegal's
economic growth by laying the ground for a sustainable supply response of the private
sector which will be encouraged by: (i) a favorable policy, legal and institutional
environemnt; (ii) an increased potential for expansion in particular through the
implementatition of the government's divestiture program; and (iii) the creation through
through public debates within the CRG and the LRC and through the communications
program of a national consensus on the importance of a private sector development
culture.
B. Risks
5.02  Several risks could affect the implementation of the project.  The most
important of them is that the GOS relax its adjustment efforts or back-track on reforms
already implemented. This risk is very small, however, because these reforms have
been initiated after an intense national debate and have now a wide constituency which
supports them. In addition, there are dispositions of the PFP as well as the PSAC
requiring a periodic evaluation by the Bank and the IMF of the overall policy
framework which will act as an incentive to the government to remain on track. The



29
second risk lies with the PSF. In the event that this institution becomes inefficient and
unresponsive to the need of the private sector, an important objective of the project
might be in jeopardy. This risk should be mitigated by the fact that its Managing
Director, recruited from the private sector after a strict selection process, is highly
qualified. In addition, during project preparation, careful attention has been paid to the
design of a detailed and precise Manual of Procedures that should reduce the potential
for poor management practices. This risk will be, however, closely monitored and the
project supervision plan will also call for attentive and frequent supervision mostly at
the initial stage of the project.  Finally, the private sector might prove to be
unresponsive to the improvement of its policy environment and institutional support
framework. This risk appears to be small in view of the substantial growth that has
already taken place since the devaluation in some sectors of the economy like
manufacturing, fisheries and tourism.
VI. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONALITIES AND
RECOMMENDATION
6.01   During negotiations, agreement has been reached on the following:
(a)    any change made in the PSF's statutes, Manual of Procedures and higher
management will require IDA's prior approval (para. 4.04);
(b)   the PSF's cost-sharing formula for the financing of business services for
private enterprises and business associations (para. 4.05);
(c)    PSF will widely advertise its services and will periodically make public
the list of its beneficiaries and of the consultant firms that won technical
assistance contracts (para. 4.06);
(d)   the Terms of reference for the recruitment of an investment banker to
help prepare an action plan for the privatization program (para. 4.18);
(e)   the Terms of reference for the recruitment of a consultant to help prepare
an action plan for the communications program (para. 4.19);
(f)   the private sector will participate, through the CRG, in the design of the
action plan for the communications program (para. 4.19);
(g)   the formal agreement to be signed between the PSF and the CRG and the
LRC, respectively, by which the forner will be responsible of
procurement and disbursements for the two other institutions (para.
4.26);



30
(h)   the implementation of the dispositions for project monitoring, evaluation
and periodic review (para. 4.27);
(i)   standard Letters of Invitation to Bid for the recruitment of consultants
(paras. 4.29 and 4. 30);
(j)   the GOS will adopt PSF's accounting system for the components that it
will manage (par. 4.36); and,
(k)   the Terms of Reference for the recruitment of an auditor for the project's
accounts (para. 4.36).
6.02  Conditions of effectiveness will be:
(a)   the signature of an Agreement (Convention) between the GOS and the
PSF and the formal adoption by both parties of the PSF's Manual of
Procedures (para. 4.08);
(b)   the submission by the GOS of a plan, acceptable to IDA, for the
completion of the privatization program (para. 4.18);
(c)   the submission by the GOS of an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for the
communications program (para. 4.19);
(d)   the establishment of an operational accounting system for the project
(para. 4.36); and,
(e)   the recruitment of an auditor for the project's accounts (para. 4.36).
6.03 Conditions of disbursement for the PSF, CRG and LRC are:
(a)   the appointment of the Consultative Committee and the recruitment of
the PSF's permanent staff (para. 4.04);
(b)   the signature of the formal procurement and disbursement agreements
between the PSF and the CRG and the LRC, respectively (para. 4.26);
(c)   the agreement by IDA of the roster of consultants prepared by the PSF
(para. 4.30);
6.04 Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 8 million (US$12.5 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Senegal on standards IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



ANNEX I
31                                       Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
LETTER OF PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(Translation of French version signed on January 13, 1995)
BACKGROUND AND GENERAL OBJECTIVES
1.    With the Franc CFA parity change of January 11, 1994, the Government of
Senegal initiated an overall adjustment of the economy to restore lasting macro-
economic equilibria, sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction. This strategy
is presented in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP), covering the period 1994-1997,
prepared in June 1994 and approved in July 1994 by the World Bank and International
Monetary Fund.
2.    Regarding the macro-economic objectives, the adjustment policy aims at
achieving a rate of growth of real GDP of 4.5 to 5% per year starting in 1995, which
will result in a per capita revenue growth of at least 2% yearly and the creation of
20,000 new jobs. This policy will also ensure the return of the inflation rate, as
measured by the GDP deflator, to a low level of 2-3% per year after the unavoidable
rise of inflation associated with the devaluation estimated at 35% in 1994 and 8% in
1995. Likewise, this policy will lead to a progressive reduction of the current deficit of
the balance of payments (excluding grants) from 9.8% of the GDP in 1994 to 6.8% in
1997.
3.    The Policy Framework Paper (PFP) that defines the macro-economic objectives
for the period 1994-1997 is comprised of a set of measures aimed at ensuring the
success of the new adjustment program. In addition to mitigating the social impact of
the parity change and contributing to the application of a tight monetary and fiscal
policy, the measures spelled out in the PFP aim at pursuing the liberalization of the
economy, in particular, by introducing structural reforms needed to improve the
functioning of the factor markets. Additionally, a public investment program -- based
on the development of human resources as well as of infrastructure and on a prudent
and sustainable management of natural resources -- will be implemented.
4.    To ensure a sustainable economic recovery, a quick and significant increase of
private sector activities is required.  To achieve this objective, the Government
prepared a strategy and an action plan that it will implement in the context of the
Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Program for which it requested the
support of the World Bank.



ANNEX I
32                                       Page 2 of 12
THE STRATEGY AND ITS SECTORAL OBJECTIVES
5.    To achieve the macro-economic objectives set for the 1994-1997 period, the
Govemment is committed to consolidate the competitive gains resulted from the
devaluation in order to encourage investments and promote exports. To this end, the
Government had announced in the PFP that it would take all necessary measures to
remove obstacles to the development of the private sector and to stimulate and reinforce
its capacity to respond to the recent adjustment of the CFAF parity.
6.    The Govemment sought the active participation of the private sector in
preparing the strategy mentioned above in order to avoid the difficulties experienced in
the past during the implementation of the previous adjustment programs . To this end,
the Government established, in February 1994, the Competitiveness Review Group
(CRG) formed by representatives of the Government, the private sector and the labor
unions. Through the CRG, the Government sought to promote a dialogue among
different social partners in order to precisely identify the constraints to private sector
development and achieve a consensus regarding the necessary measures to remove those
constraints. Thus, in March 1994, the CRG created several commissions formed by
representatives of the Government, workers and entrepreneurs. These commissions
reviewed the key areas of concern for the private sector and analyzed the problems that
required measures to be taken in the short- and medium-terms. These measures will
complement those taken immediately after the CFA parity change to: (i) adapt the tariff
and the indirect tax regimes to the new circumstances resulting from the devaluation;
and (ii) align the prices of public services to their economic costs.
7.    indeed, in the aftermath of the devaluation, the Government reformed the
Value Added Tax (VAT) system by establishing a maximum rate of 20% and reduced
the taxation on imported goods to a maximum of 459% (not including a customs stamp
of 5%). In addition, the Govemment limited the impact of the devaluation on the
utility prices and petroleum products by increasing these prices by only 20% to 30%.
8.    Overall, as demonstrated by the National Consultation Conference (Journees de
concertanion nationale) organized by the Government on July 22-24, 1994, the
implementation of the action plan and of the development strategy for the period 1994-
2000, discussed during this conference, is placed under the aegis of consensus among
the different economic and social partners of the society.  The private sector
development strategy that emerged from the consultation process is essentially centered
on price and trade liberalization as weUl as on the improvement of the institutional and
regulatory framework of the private sector. The objectives of this strategy are: (a) in
th short-term: (i) to strengthen domestic competition and improve the competitiveness
of the enterprises; (ii) to emphasize the development of exports and promote
investment; and, (iii) to improve the functioning of the labor market; and, (b) in-the
medium-term: (i) to revitalize and rationalize private sector support institutions; (ii) to



ANNEX l
33                                        Page 3 of 12
improve the access of the private sector to bank credit; and, (iii) to improve the judicial
framework and the regulatory environment of the private sector.
9.    Regarding the short-term objectives, the consultation process with the private
sector led to an action plan to be quickly implemented so that the economy can profit
from the recent adjustment of the exchange rate. This plan is based on four pillars,
namely: the promotion of competition, the development of exports, the promotion of
investment, and the strengthening of enterprises competitiveness.  The objectives
supported by this plan were already approved by the Tripartite Commission in charge
of managing the devaluation. This Commission is formed by Government officials and
by leaders of the business community and labor unions. The measures included in this
plan are described below and presented in the policy matrix, in annex, which is an
integral part of this letter.
10.   Finally, the preparatory work to achieve the medium-term objectives mentioned
above has already started. A Private Sector Capacity Building project for which the
Government has already obtained the World Bank support is presently under
preparation. This project will aim at, in particular, at improving the support system for
and the legal framework of the private sector.  The improvement of the legal
environment of the private sector will aim, in particular, at adapting the Senegalese
judicial and regulatory framework of the private sector to the regional  structure
defined by the African authorities of the CFA Zone. Regarding the objective of
improving the private sector's access to credit, the enterprises financing problems will
be examined within the overall improvement of financial system of the Union
kconomique et monetaire de l'Afrique de l'ouest (UEMOA).
THE MEDIUM-TERM ACTION PLAN
11.  In the post devaluation period, the strengthening of competition is a necessary
condition to keep the competitiveness edge, induce a rapid response from the private
sector to the parity change and stimulate exports and production growth. Thus, the
Govemment has decided to take measures to: (i) promote competition in the economy;
(ii) complete the liberalization of external trade; (iii) promote investments; and, (iv)
improve the competitiveness of the Senegalese enterprises.
A.   The promotion of competition within the economy
12.   Elimination of special agreements and protocols.  In the past, the Government
had granted special agreements or protocols to 26 enterprises. These agreements and
protocols provided to beneficiary enterprises, among other benefits, tax holidays and in
certain cases the monopoly to produce and/or to import. In the context of previous
adjustment programs supported by the World Bank, the Government was committed to:
(i) 'put an end to the principk of granting of special agreements or accords to public
or private productive enterprises; revise the existing agreements in order to subject
beneficiary enterprises to the common incentive regime applied to all other enterprises



34                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 12
while respecting the legal commitments of the State" (SAL II); (ii) "undertake a review,
to be completed in June 1987, of all special agreements, and prepare a program to
revise these agreements" (SAL III); and (iii) "terminate the granting of new
agreements, repudiate those which had expired and put an end to the policy of granting
special fiscal treatmnnt to companies".  In addition, for three enterprises (CSS,
SOCOCIM and SAR'), the Government had agreed to amend the provisions of their
agreements, in particular, with respect to the mechanism of price setting (SAL IV).
13.   In compliance with its commitments, the Government did not grant any new
special agreement since 1987.  A new  price structure for the products of CSS,
SOCOCIM and SAR was implemented. However, although the review of the special
agreements was completed, as originally envisaged, in 1987 and an action plan for their
renegotiation was prepared, the Government was unable to implement this plan. The
main reason for the failure of the Government to meet its commitment in this area was
that none of the concerned enterprises would have been able, without the protection
granted by the special agreements, to compete with imported products, in particular,
because of an increasing overvaluation of the CFA Franc. Under those circumstances,
it was not possible to overcome the enterprises resistance to the elimination of their
privileges which, in addition, were granted by legal contracts.
14.   With the parity change, the Government recognizes that these enterprises should
now be competitive under the incentive framework common to all other enterprises.
The Government has therefore decided to terminate all existing special agreements and
protocols and it is committed not to grant such agreements in the future. Since 1987,
of the 26 special agreements initially granted, ten have lapsed because the beneficiary
enterprises do not exist any longer and five other have expired. In June 1994, the
Government has confirmed in writing to the beneficiary of the agreements that have
expired that their specific advantages are terminated and will not be renewed. For
those agreements that are still current, the Government concluded negotiations aiming
at terminating the agreements/protocols conceming: SOCOCIM, ICS, ICOTAF, SIPS,
SOTEXKA, SODEFITEX, GMD, SENTENAC, SNTI and SOCAS2. The negotiations
that the government initiated in August 1994 aimed at: (i) abolishing the import prior
authorization that protected these enterprises and to grant to those which still needed
time to adapt to foreign competition a reasonable and decreasing tariff protection; (ii)
to phase out the fiscal and other advantages included in these agreements. Thus, the
Government's objective with regard to the special agreement of each enterprise had
been spelled out in an action plan that was discussed with the World Bank in Octobe
lCSS: Compagnie sucn1re du Scnigal, SOCOCIM: Sociiti de commercialisation du ciment and SAR: Socield
africaine de raffinage.
2 ICS: Indstens chimiques du S&nigal, ICOTAF: IndusMes cotonnicres africaines, SIPS: SocietU industrielle du
papier es catonnages du Sinegal, SOTEXKA: Socicti de texnk de Kaolac, SODEFITEX: Societd pour le
diwloppement desfibrea textiles, GMD: Grands Moulins de Dakar, SENTENAC, SNTI: Socdti nationale de
la tomate industrielle, and SOCAS: Socidtc des conserveries alimentaires du Scnigal. The CSS special
agrement will be renegotiated in the context of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program.



35                                   ANNEX I
Page 5 of 12
1994.  Since, agreements that would terminate immediately the existing special
agreements/protccols have been signed in November by the Government with the
management of the enterprises mentioned above The only enterprises that would
continue to beniefit from some fiscal advantages are ICS and SODEFITEX, two
enterprises whose production is virtually totally exported. Three enterprises only
(SNTI, SOCAS and SOCOSAC) were granted a temporary tariff protection varying
from 10 to 20%T that would phase out over a three year period.
15.   Price liberalization and promotion of domestic competition. In the context of
the project supporting the adjustment program for the private sector, the Government is
comiritted to complete the liberalization of prices in the domestic market. To achieve
this objective, the Government has already liberalized in June 1294 the price of soap,
milk,  concrete iron, sodas, instant coffee and yeast that were frozen after the
devaluaton. With regard to prices that are subject to prior approval (homologation),
those of tomato paste and of imported vegetable oils were liberalized in Januayu 1991.
The price of wheat flour were liberalized in November 19. As for administered
prices, tnose of fresh tomato, of locally produced vegetable oils (excluding peanut oil)
ald of cement have also been liberalized in January 1995. The prices of rice and sugar
will be liberalized in the context of the ASAP (Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program) in June 1995 for the former and in the context of the revision of the CSS
special agreement the latter. In conclusion, only the prices and tariffs of bread, locally
produced medicine, butane gas and services relating to transports (transit, maintenance
and towing boats), will continue to be subject to prior approval; and only those of
petroleum products, charcoal, electricity, water, telephone, public transportation and
health services will continue to be administered.
16.   To promote competition in the domestic market, the Government has proposed
in August 1994 to the National assembly which approved them: (i) a law establishing
the principle of free access to industrial, commercial and artisan professions; only the
exercise of a limited number of professions affecting the general social interest will
continue to be subjected to a prior authorization; and, (ii) a law on prices, competition
and economic litigation that establishes a competition commission in charge of
investigating anti-competitive practices and defines measures, including the
establishment of prices controls, to sanction these practices. An application decree of
the law concerning professions requiring prior authorization will be adopted in
Febnay 1995. In January 1995, the Government has adopted an application decree of
this law which indicates, in particular, except for those products whose price will
continue to be administered, i.e. products for which there is a natural monopoly, a very
limited number of producers or that have an impact on public hygiene, health or on the
environment, price controls will not be used to sanction anti-competitive situations.
The above measures which constitute an important step towards strengthening and
promoting competition will be followed and consolidated by the adoption, after
3They consist of 28 professions that affect public health and security and the environment or are related to
transportation, tourism, banking and funance.



ANNEX I
36                                           Page 6 of 12
consultation with the World Bank, of additional decrees with regards to the other
aspects of the law. In 1995, an evaluation, of the outcome of the application of the law
on prices, competition and anti-competitive practices and amendment, also after
consultation with the Bank, of any of its dispositions that as proven to be inadequate.
B.    Liberalization of external trade
17.   Imports. In the context of SAL II and III, the Government committed itself to
reduce domestic market protection, in particular, by: (i) eliminating, in accordance
with an agreed on timetable, import restrictions over goods not produced in Senegal
and over a certain number of goods produced domestically; (ii) limiting the application
of import reference values (valeurs mercuriales); and, (iii) establishing a new tariff
structure. The Government did eliminate the prior authorizations to import, except for
certain agricultural products whose local production was threatened by external
competition and for the products of enterprises benefiting from a special agreement or
protocol for the reasons mentioned above in paragraph 13.
18.   The import reference values and most of the import restrictions were eliminated
in 1987 while import tariffs were lowered during the period 1986-1988, as envisaged in
the previous adjustment programs mentioned above. Unfortunately, these reforms
were followed by a sharp decline in some activities of the manufacturing sector and by
a substantial fall in fiscal revenues. These unfavorable developments can be explained
by the fact that other measures, including the devaluation of the CFAF, needed to
improve the competitiveness of the enterprises had not been taken. In 1989, facing a
dramatic deterioration of industrial output and employment and a critical drop in fiscal
revenues that threatened the macro-economic equilibrium of the country, the
Government decided to increase import tariffs and to reintroduce the import reference
value system.
19.   In order to profit from the devaluation and increase the competitiveness of the
enterprises, the Government has now decided to liberalize foreign trade and put all
enterprises currently benefiting from a special agreement or accord under the common
incentive regime applicable to all enterprises. In particular, the Government will
abolish all prior authorizations to import except for two products (gold and silver in
bars and  second-hand  clothing).   Consequently, seven4  out of the  18 prior
authorizations to import that were still in effect were lifted in lune 1994.   Prior
authorization to import three other products (polypropylene bags, tomato paste and
vegetable oil) has been abolished in October 1994. Prior authorization to import
cement was lifted in November 1994. The authorization to import wheat flour will be
abolished in November 1995. The time lag in liberalizing imports of the latter product
is explained by the fact that the present special agreement with the milling enterprises
stipulates that it can only be denounced after a one year advance notice.  Thus,
4Cereals, jewehy, newspaper and periodics, pre-recorded tapes, mineral and chemical fertilizers, jute bags, and noix
de kola



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 12
although this agreement has been terminated in November 1994, the elimination of the
prior authorization to inport wheat will become effective a year later. All other prior
authorizations to import which concern agricultural products will be addressed in the
ASAP.
20. Regarding the import reference value system, the Government adopted in June
1994 an arrett supprr.ssing the reference value system which is in effect since the
beginning of lamaway 1995. The time lag between the publication of the arreti and its
effective application is explained by the need to avoid, in the second semester of 1994,
a decrease in fiscal revenues that could be detrimental to the 1994 economic and
financial prof ram. Since the beginning of January 1995, the valuation of tariff duties
is based only on the CIF value of imported goods.
21.   Finally, mechanismi to control the quality of imported products and to prevent
fraud, under and over invoicing and dumping practices will be reinforced according to
the provisions of the international agreements ratified by Senegal. In this context, an
anti-dumping law based on GATT rules and disciplines was adopted in August 1994 by
the National Assembly. The application decree of this law was adopted in  nu
1225. This decree defines a process for applying antidumping measures that is fully
compatible with GATT provisions. It indicates that: (i) consumers and importers will
be represented in the commission that would investigate reported dumping; and, (ii)
only temporary tariff surcharges established in full compliance with GATT and the with
the agreements resulting from the Uruguay Round wil be applied to sanction dumping
practices. However, the Government will not adopt a national legislation to enact the
Uruguay round provisions concerning safeguards measures.  In the event that the
Govemment decides to use these provisions it will do in accordance with international
agreements, in particular, with those relating to the GATT and the Uruguay Round.
22.   Exprts. The Government is committed to stimulate and diversify Senegal's
exports, in particular, in sectors such as fishing, agro-industries, horticulture, textile,
services and tourism, and non-traditional exports in general. In the last three years,
exports of goods and services (excluding factor services) represented only about 24-
25 % of GDP (as compared to 31% for imports). A particular effort will, therefore, be
made to promote non-traditional exports. Besides the overvaluation of the CFA and the
high cost of technical factors of production which have been now adequately addressed
by the parity change, the development of exports is precluded by lengthy and costly
bureaucratic procedures, the multiplicity of interlocutors, the cost of maritime
transportation and the poor product-quality offered by Senegalese enterprises as
compared to the quality standards required on international markets..
23.   The promotion of exports requires, first, the elimination of all barriers to the
exercise of this activity. In this context, in June 1994, the Government abolished the
remaining prior authorizations to export except for precious metals and minerals, and
groundnut oil whose liberalization will be addressed in the context of the ASAP.
Consequently, the remaining prior authorizations to export cereals, confectionery



38                                           ANNEXI
Page 8 of 12
peanuts, and jewelry were eliminated by decree in June 1994. The prior authorization
to export tomato paste will has been eliminated in October 1994.
24.   In addition, in order to reduce the cost of export activities and encourage their
development, the Govemment adopted in June 1994: (i) an arrete  authorizing
exporters to import packaging material under the temporary import regime; and, (ii) a
decree abolishing the levy of COSEC (the Conseil sln,6galais des chargeurs or shippers
association) on exports and on the importation of inputs for the production of goods to
be exported.  Finally, the Government has adopted in October 1994 a decree
simplifying export procedures and introducing new compatible with the international
norm NS 06-001 which will greatly reduce delays and costs.
25.   The status of competition in Senegal and the implementation results of the
measures relating to trade and price liberalization will be annually reviewed in
consultation with IDA. This review will aim at verifying that external trade enjoys a
reasonable degree of competition with imports mostly in the sectors where there is a
limited number of local producers. It will also aim at assessing the impact of all
measures taken by the Government in these areas and ,in particular, of those which
might have been taken in application of the antidumping law. More generally, this
review will assess the impact of these measures on the liberalization of trade and prices
and on the economy.
C.    Investment Promotion
26.   Currently, there are several different investment incentive regimes in Senegal:
the tax code, the investment code, the industrial domain regime, and the export
processing regime (Free Trade and Single Factory Zone -- FTZ and SFZs). Despite
the existence of these regimes which provide substantial fiscal advantages to potential
investors, the level of new investments in the last years has been disappointing. The
complexity of the different incentive regimes coupled with the long uncertainty
generated by the exchange rate policy largely explain the weak performance of direct
investments between 1986 and 1993. Indeed, during this period negative rates of
foreign investment were recorded. The recent CFA devaluation will certainly improve
substantially the profitability of investments made in Senegal.  Nonetheless,  an
improvement in the incentive regimes is required to achieve a significant increase in the
level of investment.
27.   The improvement of the investment incentive system will concern, first, the
export processing zone regime. Its fiscal incentives ought to be aligned on those
granted in accordance to best international practice and the agreement procedures to the
benefits of the FTZ or SFZ ought to be streamlined.  As a second step, the
Government has decided to rationalize the others incentive regimes that currently grant
investment benefits only on an exceptional basis. The objective is to consolidate all
existing incentives schemes into a unique common system applicable to all investors
and whose application would be automatic, simple and prompt in order to build up the



3 9                              ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 9 of 12
confideiace of the potential investors which is indispensable to increase the level of
investments in Senegal. The government is presently carrying out, with the Bank's
assistance through FIAS, a comprehensive review of the export processing zone, the
temporary import regime, the investment code and the industrial domain regime. The
recommendatio is of this review expected to be completed by February 1995 will be
discussed with IDA in April 1995 with a view to prepare action plans for their
implementatior.. These plans will be implemented in 1995 in the context of the Private
Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness credit.  The aztion plan relating to the
investment incentive regimes will be implemented in the context of the revised PFP for
the period 1994-1997.
28.   In the meantime, the Government has decided to adopt several measures to
simplify and ease investment procedures and regulations. Firstly, it has reviewed the
cost of creating new enterprises and adopted in December 1994 a law to reduce it.
Secondly, in order to facilitate the dealings of enterprises with the government, a
cunsus of enterprises and associations will be carried out in 1995 with a view to
providing individual enterprises with a unique identification number that they will be
able to use with any government body. Thirdly, in order to strengthen the enterprises
capital base, the Government proposed to the National Assembly which approved them
in July 1994: (i) a law allowing them to adjust their balance sheets to reflect the impact
of the devaluation without increasing their tax liability; and, (ii) a law allowing the
State to sell public land to industrial and commercial ventures. The application decrees
of these two laws has been adopted in Januay 1991.
D.   Enterprise Comtetitiveness
29.   The January 1994 devaluation and the enterprises continuous own internal
adjustment efforts should result in a stronger and long lasting competitiveness position.
The Government aims at consolidating these efforts by reducing the cost of utilities
(facteurs techniques de production), the cost of maritime transportation as well as the
cost of labor which constitute an important part of the enterprises cost of production..
30.   With respect to utilities, the Government will continue its policy measures
adopted in the aftermath of the devaluation.  Thus, in the context of the third and
fourth water projects supported by the World Bank and other donors, the management
of the Societ nationale des eaux (SONEES) will be privatized in order to increase
SONEES productivity and control over its costs. With regard to energy costs, the
Government has already requested the support of the World Bank for a comprehensive
program  to overhaul the energy sector.  Before the end of February 1995, the
Government will submit to the World Bank a report indicating its objectives, strategy
and action plan that it intends to implement in the energy sector to: (i) eliminate
inefficiencies and resulting rents and, therefore, reduce the cost of energy to enterprises
and individual consumers; and, (ii) promote investments in the sector and facilitate
their financing. This report will, in particular, include a definition of the role of the
state and the private sector in the development of the sector and the streamlining of the



40                                            ANNEX I
Page 10 of 12
legal and regulatory framework which presently limits competition and justifies the
existence of monopolies.
31.   Maritime transport. With regard to maritime transportation, the Government
has decided to take measures to reduce its cost and simplify its procedures. To this
end, the Government has abolished in June 1994 COSENAM's5 monopoly to exploit
the national maritime traffic rights. In June 1994, the Government decided also to give
to private exporters and importers the majority in the Board of Directors of COSEC,
the shippers association in charge of administering Senegal's traffic rights. Through
this decision, the Government want to ensure that the interests of the shippers are well
represented in the allocation of maritime freight between eligible maritime carriers. In
addition, in order to open maritime traffic to increased competition, the Government
has decided to apply strictly UNCTAD's recommendations which limit Senegal's traffic
rights to the maritime traffic, to be administered by COSEC, carried out by vessels
operating regular lines under conference arrangements. This measures which has been
adopted in Januar 1995, should result in greater competition and, therefore, in a
decrease of the maritime transportation cost.
32.   Finally the Government is intent on reducing the cost of the services offered by
the port and the airport of Dakar. To this end, it has decided to reduce the cost and
simplify the functioning, management and utilization of physical areas under customs
supervision, by establishing a system  of inviolable seals.  This system  will be
introduced before the end of January 1991. In addition, in order to reduce the transit
costs of imported and exported goods in the port and airport of Dakar (maintenance,
transit, landing costs etc), a study will be carried out and its recommendations
implemented in the first semester of 1995.
33.   Labor cost and flexibility.  Under previous structural adjustment programs
supported by the World Bank, the Government had committed itself to introduce
greater flexibility in the labor market and in the determination of the salary structure of
the economy. Twice in the past, in 1987 and 1991, the Government prepared draft
laws in accordance with commitments made in the context of SAL 11, HI and IV. The
morosity of the labor market due to the weak performance of the economy coupled
with the relative lack of information of the public opinion about the necessity of these
measures, precluded the adoption by the National Assembly of a new labor law
reflecting government commitments. This new law aimed at: "(i) eliminating the
monopoly of the government bureau of labor over hiring, thus allowing enterprises to
freety hire their workers; (ii) introducing more flexibility in the renewal of fixed-term
contracts; (iii) allowing enterprise facing economic hardship to adjust their labor force;
(iv) revising the salary structure in order to reduce labor cost and to give to the labor
market a larger role in determining wages, reducing thereby the role of the State in
5 COSENAM: Compagnie sanigaialaise de navigation maritime



ANNEX I
4 1                                       Page 11 of 12
setting up salaiy structures; and (v) making optional the negotiation of national labor
contracts. "
34.   Although the draft law was not adopted, the Government acting by decrees
managed to: (i) eliminate the bureau of labor monopoly and liberalize hiring by
enterprises; (ii) authorize the renewal, over a five year period, of fixed-term contracts;
(iii) amend the investrient code in order to exempt new companies from the rigidities
of the labor coee; and (iv) extend the investment code more liberal dispositions
concerning labor to enterprises operating in the export processing zone.
35.   Despite these improvements, the Government considers that the flexibility and
the productivity of the labor force should be strengthened as envisaged in the previous
adjustment programs.  Learning from  previous experience, the Govemment has
initiated a dialogue with tLe different social partners on the reform of labor practices.
The Government also encouraged labor unions and business associations to achieve a
consensus that would facilitate the adoption of the required amendments to the labor
code. This dialogue resulted in the identification of two measures that the government
has decided to implement.  The Government, first, abolished in June 1994 the
monopoly of BMOP' for hiring longshoremen whose remuneration was placed under
the general provisions of the labor code which allows piece-work compensation.
Secondly, the Government plans to authorize companies to freely adjust their labor
force to the level of their economic activity. Discussions of this measure held at the
national level -- in particular during the July 1994 National Partnership Forum -- have
already established the basis of a consensus and this measure has been adopted in
November 1994.
THE PREPARATION OF A MEDIUM-TERM ACTION PLAN
Judicial framework and technical assistance to the private sector
36.  In addition to creating an economic environment that is attractive to private
initiative, the Government considers that it is important to improve of the legal and
regulatory framework of the private sector and to increase enterprises productivity.
The Government has requested and obtained the assistance of the World Bank to
implement the necessary measures to achieve these objectives in the context of the
Private Sector Competitiveness Technical Assistance Project. To identify judicial
constraints affecting the private sector, the Government has established at the beginning
of 1994, a working group including representatives of the government, private
entrepreneurs and lawyers. This working group has identified, in a preliminary report
submitted to the Government in March 1994, a first series of reforms to improve the
judicial framework of the enterprises. These reforms relate to: (i) the provision to
6BMOP: Bureau de la main d oeuwvre du port.



42                                           ANNEXI
Page 12 of 12
enterprises of legal securities in their dealings with the State; (ii) the creation in the
courts of a specific office of the clerk for commercial matters; (iii) the reform of the
law and supporting professions dealing with bankruptcy and receivership procedures;
(iv) the assistance needed by the National Commission in charge of the harmonization
and of the codification of the commercial and civil codes; (v) the creation of an
arbitration body; (vi) the creation of a new judicial framework for micro enterprises;
and (vii) the dissemination of legal information. A judicial reform group has since
been established to prepare the implementation of these reforms.
37.   The strengthening of the management capacity of the enterprises will
complement the measures taken in the policy environment.  To this end, the
Government plans to create a Private Sector Foundation (PSF) that will play an
intermediary role between the private Senegalese enterprises and the sources of foreign
and local technical assistance. The PSF will have a status and a management similar to
AGETIP. The Foundation will administer, on a grant matching basis, a technical
assistance fund that would help enterprises to get the technical assistance that they need
to increase their technical a and managerial capacity.
38.   Operating in parallel in the context of the Private Sector Competitiveness
Technical Assistance Project (PSCTAP), the PSF, the legal reform committee and the
Competitiveness Review Group will, therefore, constitute the three components of this
project.
39.   These two operations, the PSAC and the PSCTAP, will both benefit of the
financial and macroeconomic stabilization policy that the Government is pursuing. In
the long term, the policies to improve the productivity of the production factors will
contribute to maintain the competitiveness of the economy. This will be a necessary
condition for the Senegalese enterprises to benefit as much as possible from the
regional integration. In addition, competitiveness creates better conditions to reduce
poverty, in particular, by job creation. Finally, it is a sure instrument for achieving the
Government's growth objectives.
Washington, DC January 13, 1995
For the Government of Senegal
(The original letter in French is signed)
Papa Ousmane SAKHO
Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning



SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
PRIVATE SECTOR FOUNDATION
KEY ACTIVITIES, EVALUATION CRITERIA, PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, AND IMPLEMENTAk ION PLANNING'
OBJECTIVE 1: Management capadiles are strengthened/Improved
Evaluation Criteria:
Enterprises:    Management capacities are improved in at least 50% of enterprises monitored, through adoption of recommendations and of more
rational management methods.
Organizations: At least 50% of beneficiary organizations have expanded their range of services to meet their members needs.
OBJECTIVE                                   ACTIVITY                                    PERFORMANCE INDICATOR
1.1    - Increase use of      1.1.1  -  Finance information seminars on business       -  16 visits minimum per month to beneficiaries
advisory support              advisory services                               -  During the first 6 months of operations, one
activities          1.1.2  -  Make management experts (personnel, marketing,     seminar is organized in Dakar and one in a
procurement, etc.) available                      region
1.1.3  - Finarce feasibility studies of existing enterprises    -  After 3 months, the PSF handles a minimum of 5
and on the establishment of new ones              requests for assistance per month
1.2    - Strengthen           1.2.1  -  Finance information and sensitization campaigns
capacities of       1.2.2  -  Support upguading of employees of professional          At least 6 requests for ssistance are
professional                  organizations                                          At lea   per       for
organizations to    1.2.3  -  Help strengthen business management assistance         handled per year
provide services              services                                       (   At least 3 centers in 3 professional organizations
to enterprises      1.2.3.1 - Help professional organizations to set up          over the 18 months
namgement centers
1.2.4  -  Help devise shot manuals on management issues   -  6 manuas over the 18 months
weit
' These have been defined for the period lkading up to the first proect review                                                                           o|
__o



OBJECTIVE 2: Strengthening of technical and technological know how
Evaluation Criteria:
- At least 50% of the enterprises benefiting from this component have adopted a new technology or upgraded basic technological capabilities.
- 60% of local service providers have expanded their range of technical know-how.
OBJECTIVE                                  ACTIVITY                                  PERFORMANCE INDICATOR
2.1    - Increase            2.1.1  - Support continuing training in production     -   3 ntaining programs per month
ramnilianity with           techniques
new production     2.1.2  - Finance experts and consultants providing      -   support activities per month
techniques                   technical support
2.1.3  - Help service providers to expand the scope of
their operations in support of the private sector  2 support activities per month
2.1.4  - Help organizations to expand the scope of their
operations                                                  v__
2.2    - Promote             2.2.1   - Help create and update data banks on locally  -   Identify and evaluate existing database networks
technological                available technical information               -   During the first 6 months, I database, and over
transfers through    2.2.2   - Help disseninate available technical information  the 18 months, 2 databases
information and    2.2.3   - Facilitate access to existing data banks     -   A technological information bulletin will be
exchanges                                                                      published within the 18 months



OBJECTIVE 3: Production costs in the private sector are competitive
Evaluation Criteria:
- 50% of beneficiaries of this component have set up a cost accounting system or improved an existing accounting system.
- Production costs of the enterprises monitored show a 10% improvement in at least 50% of cases.
OBJECTIVE           T                      ACTIVITY                          |    PERFORMANCE INDICATOR
3.1   - Provide assistance to imnprove productivity
3.2   - Provide diagnostic surveys of production
managemient\
3.3   - Provide enterprises with inventory management
know-bow
3.4   - Help minimize input delivery times                     - 3 group seminars per year
3.5   - Facilitate creation of raw materials procuremnt        - 20 individual support activities per year
groups
3.6   - Help optimize raw materials consumption
3.7   - Help set up energy and water saving plans
3.8   - Facilitate access to expertise to shorten the
pruduction cycle
3.9   - Help set up maintenance plans
3.10  - Help reduce reject rates
If M
o XtI



OBJECTIVE 4: Facilitate access to credit
Evaluation Criteria:
- 90% of credit applications assisted by the PSF and submitted to financial institutions meet the latter's eligibility requirements and criteria and the
PSF lias brought to successful conclusion 8 applications financed by financial institutions.
- 90% of beneficiary enterprises are satisfied with PSF assistance under this component.
OBJECTIVE                                  ACTIVITY                                   PERFORMANCE NDICATOR
4.1  - Help upgrade financing methods                 -  Over the I8 months:
- 6 different topics covered
- 10 participants per group
4.2  - Help entrepreneurs establish a mutual guarantee  -  2 funds created and 2 existing ones strengthened  o\
fund
4.3  - Promote the emergence of specialized expertise to   -  2 experts trained and in operation
guide the enterprises in their negotiations with
banks                                         -  A feedback system is organized with the banks,
with a 75 % satisfaction rate among the banks
4.4  - Help train entrepreneurs in credit negotiation  -  Seminar organized by the experts
4.5  - Finance the preparation of credit applications to
lending institutions                          -  3 applications per month
I-S



OBJECTIVE 5: Increased market penetration
Evaluation Criteria:
- At least 50% of beneficiary enterprises have diversified into new markets and products, with a minimur.. of 5 enterprises.
- PSF assistance under this component has generated an average increase in revenues .qual to P' least twice the grant paid.
OBJECTIVE                                   ACTIVITY                                  PERFORMANCF INDICATOR
5.1    - Finance                                                                     -  35 promotion crampaigns per year
campaigns
5.2    - Finance extenul                                                             -  Minimum 10 research projects per year
market research
5.3    - Ensure             5.3.1  - Promote knowledge of standards and legislation on    -  3 sectoral seminars in export sectors
accessibility of            external markets
market
infonnation       5.3.2  - Help set up subscriptions to market data banks   -  3 data banks made available
5.3.3  - Help set up market data bank terminals
- Legislation of 5 target countries made available
5.3.4  - Help set up subscriptions to specialized market    to beneficiaries.
journals
5.4    - Improve product   5.4.1   - Subsidize quality management programs (TQM),    - Minimum of 5 quality rmanagement progranms
design/quality              etc.
s2nd presee                           itaion                                -  I seminar on quality sensitization is held before
S.4.2  - Finance training in quality  _ 1gement           hlaunching of the programs
- I development seminar is held during or after the
introduction of quality maagement programs
o X



IMPLEMENTATION iMEmFABLE
OBJECTIVE 6: Ine Foundalion becomis operational
Evaluatlon Criteria:
I - The Foundation is set up and starts operations no later than October 31, 1995.
2 - The manual of procedures has proven effective over the first I8 months.
3 - Budgetary estimates proved realistic over the first I8 months.
4 - Subsidies to enterprises enabled them to generate an increase in turnover averaging at least double the subsidies granted.
S - Beneficiaries are satisfied with PSF operations.
r             M~~l,S                                           1996
ACTIVITY                                       RESPONSIBILITIES          6    7 _       9    1 I112  1    2    3    4    5   6   7 -              9    10  11 12
6.1  Fonnal         6.1.1  Signalure of the decree   GOS
creation of          ianplenentling the Law
the                  of Fouidantions                                                                                                                                  4
Foundation           ol l______________.___
6.1.2  Signature of
authorizing decree
6.1.3  Establishmnent of list of  GOS
founders               GOS ____
6.1.4  Drafting of statutes  W13/GOS
6.1.5  Fotaiding Assembly.   PSE/AGETIP
Board of the
Foundation, adoption of
statutes
6.1.6  Registration fornalities
6.1.7  Publicationithe ie                                                                        -                                               -
Official Gazette
6.1.S  MD takes oflice
T he foundation is scheduled to be operalional by October, 1995. From thal date, it should be ready to respond to any request for assistamce.



OBJECTIVE 6 cont'd:
1995                                                1996
ACTIVITY                                         RESPONS1BILIT1ES   5    6    7    8    9  |10 |i   IL   1   2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9                O  I-  12
6.2  Secure PSF    6.2.1  IDA credit approval       WB
financing
6.2.2   Signature of PSF/GOS   (GOS
Agreement
[Convention]                     ___
6.3  Installation   6.3.1  Identification of        MDl
premises
6.3.2   Procurement of         MD                               -_i
equipment and
furniture
6.3.3   Recruitment of         MD
_________ _________personnel_                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
6.4   Operatbona-  6.4.1   Putting in place of      MD                                                    _1 r
lize PSF             management systems_
6.4.2   Hiring of an accounting
|_______   and auditing finn   j
6.4.3   Prepare an activities  MDIWB
plan and the budget
6.4.4   Organize               MD
communications
concerming the PSF
6.4.4.1 Hire a commnunications   MD
consulting firm        __________|________
6.4.5   Assess similar program    MD
6.5   Support       6.5.1   Establish and updatea    MD
business             roster of service
advwisory            providers
services
6.5.2.  Evaluate and approve    MD
requests for assistanc_
6.5.3   Monitor and evaluate   MD
consultancies          __________ _   _   _   _                     -  I
olx



SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
COMPETITIVENESS REVIEW GROUP
KEY ACTIVITIES, EVALUATION CRITERIA, AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS'
OBJECT'IVE 1:           Tlhe regulatory framework is favorable for the establishment of new businesses.
E'valuation Criteria:   - lhic cost of selling tip new busiitcsscs docs not cxcecd x% of sharc capital, thc actual percentagc being dctcrmined by the study in December 1995.
- Thc adininistrativc formalities for cstablishing ncw busincsscs arc hanldled at a singlc window and do not takc morc than five working days.
OBJECTIVE                                           ACTIVITY                                        PEIRFORMANCE INDICATOR
I I    Strcamlinc procc(hircs and cut costs for    1.1   Study to ideitify (fie causcs of delay, difficullics   Specific rcconinicndations aIrc submitlcd to hfic Govcriuncnt by
sctting tip and rcgistcrilig new              and excessivc costs in ihc procedtircs for       Jine 30, 1996. I'lic rcconincicdations arc adopted by thc
busi nesses                                   cstablisiting and registering companies, and     Gover,imcin.
propose rcforms (coordination with LRC)
1.2   llcip devclop a legal framework          1.2   Study on thc needs of small and informal                                                                     0
attractivc lo small atnd inforinal            businiesscs wilh a vicw to helping thc LRC
businicsses                                    formulalt an approprialc Icgal fraiuuework
rltesc have been defined for the period leading up to the first project revicw    .



OIBJEC'rIVE 2:           A regulatory and institutional environment favorable to competition andi competitiveness is establishetd.
Evaluation Criteria:   -  All regulations or implementation of a regulation idcntlifcd by the study as impeding frec competition are eliminated by the cnd of 199X.
-  'raxes on profils are lowcrcd lo a level fhall provides incentives (to be spcified in tile study) and a lax credit to eliminate dotible taxation is
cstablished.
-  The percenlage of companies repoiled by the sun'cy to be safisficd with lhc sipporn siniciturcs reaches XO}% in 1997.
OBJECTIVE                                            AC'I'IVITY                                       PERFORMANCI: INDICATOR
2.1   Make ilic cnvironiicni more competitive   2. 1   Study on obstacles lo competition (in order to  Slpcific recoinucncdalions are subimlilted lo the Governiincit by
by climinating obstacics to compelition         identify cxisting monopolics; rceforms unider way   April 30, 1996. The recommenddations are adopted by thc
or proposed and especially the limitations on    Govcrnmcntl
such reforms; legal, technical, financial and
judicial constraints lo deinonopolizationi;
obstacles to competitioni in lcgal and regulatory
provisions; practical obstaclcs to conipetihion
and proposcd solutliois)
2.2   Makc taxation nmorc faivorablc to the    2.2    Diagnostic study of taxation of private          Specific rccommneiidations arc subititied lo Ihc Governimient by
development of business and investment          enierprise (with a v'iew to inveniorying the     October 30, 199')5  The recomiiendtilions are adopted by thec
fiscal chain, analyzing tax authority/company   Goverinmen.
relations, providing comparative dala on
competitor contlries and offering a diagniosis of
tile impact of taxaioll oil inivcstmntllc)
2.3    Rationialize public support sitictures to    2.3    Study of public and non-government support  'I'lie first stirney is car ried otit in Decemlber 1995. Specific
avoid duplicationi, cnsuring Ihat all           structures (demiarcale the scope of the anialysis,   recomnimendations are submiitted to the Govermimneiit and  Ihe
iieeds of companlics are met                    inventory support sinictures as wvell as their   relevant agencies by March 31, 1996.  h'lie recommendationis
clicitele, field ofaction, nicaiis anid efficiency,    are adopted by tlie Governmneit.
identify gaps, propose rccommcndations,
cstablish a mcthod for evaluating Ihc ineeds of
busincsses and how to meet them with existilig
support and assistance struclurcs)
IX
Ei



OB.J lCTlVE 3:           The development of private enterprise is more dynamic.
I:valiuation Criteria:   - Tec real cost of labor is xU/ closer to that or comilpetilors by thc cnd of 1997, the x% lo be specified by the preliminiiry analysis made by thic SG and
tlhe commiiiiissioni
- 'lhc perceintagc: or privaic invcstincit financed by creclit reaclies x% and ilic numiibcr of companies financed x'%b by ilic cnd of 1997, itic x.% to bc
dcicrininied by (lie sitid)
- Tte cost oflFPs is lcss thani or cqual lo that of tlic imicdian comipetlitor by Deccmilber 1995.'
- Fxporl procedures arc liaiidlcd at a singic window aiid can bc accomiplished in x dais by D)eceninbr 1995, hlie x to bc dtcicriniied by Ilic analysis.
- Import procedurcs do not take m nore than 48 lours.
- The costs of customils cleiaraince to Ilic iniporter/exporicr do not exceed 5% of tilc CAF value.
- Transport costs are comparable to tlose of competitors.
OBJECTIVE                                               ACTI IVITY                                            EVALUATION CRITERIA
| I    Make labor legislation anid practices       3. 1    Analyze tihe real cost of labor anid tlie factors   Specific rcconinicnidations are subimiiltc(d to the Goverinicni
miorc favorable to ilie crealtionl of new          that pusli it up (taxes, labor code, practices), as    by April 30, 1996. Thlie rcconiniendations arc adopted by the
jobs and businicss compctiti'eness                 weIl as ilic possibilities for improvinig            iovernilient.
produclivily (tax incentives to encourage
vocational traininig). P'roposc reforilis in
conjunctioni with the LRC on tlie basis of a
conscilsuis amiong tlie parties involved.
3 2    Eisurc ilial ilic reforms for thc Dakam     3 2    Monilor the inpleinenialion of ineasurcs lo         Reecoiimiliciclmdaliotis for breaking ilic deadlocks arc nuadc to tlie
II:Z and singlc lfactorf zoncs (pu/mls            improve operalionis of ilic Dakar IFZ and singic    Govemiiliment if necessary by Novemiiber 3(, 1995. 'I[lie
firaics) are operational                           factory zones (putnisfix ancs)                      recommendations are adopted by the Governime.
* 3    Facililtlai acccss to crcdlit by increasing  3.3    Analyze obstacles to thie expansion of ilhc supply   Specific rccoiiiiciiunationis aie subimiiltcd to ilic Goveriicnm
crcdit supply' andJ devclopinig nc%               of credit and cstablishentw of new financial        b) January 3I, 1996. 'lImc reconmncndailiomms arc adopled by
products                                           insitmiieinis favoring investinienti aid propose    the Governimment.
soltionis in cooperation wih'il tic LRC and PSF
3 4    Rcdice tilic cost of techinicatl factors of  3.4    Monitor reformis under way affecting suipply and   Specific recoimeniiiedaitionis are subittiied to ilie Governlent
production (TIPs)                                  TFP prices, as well as their impact on businiess    by January 31, 1996. The recommendaitions are adopted by
cost structurcs                                    thc Govcrnuienti.
3.5    Facilitate export operations                3.5    Establislmnciti of the Trade Point                  Specific recommendations arc submitted to Ihc Government
by May 30, 1995. The recommendations are adopted by Ilic
Governient.
As defined in Table 3 of "Senegal: Private Sector Assessment'                                                                                                               ii
World Bank Report No. 11317-SE                                                                                                                                                w  El
on 



OBJECTIVE 3 cont'd:
OBJE ICTIVE                                          ACTI IVITY                                         EVALUATION CRITERIA
3 6    Rcducc manageniliet costs anid           3.6    Reform of tcimporary iiport regiics ( cgIlges  Spccific recomincildations arc subititicd 1o tihe Govcinnient
sircamli ne custoins cleararncc                 suspensif.i)                                     by Jutie 30, 1995. Thc reconumendat:ons are adoptcd by tilc
procedmircs                                                                                      Government.
3.7   1Uac,lilltac acccss to cxIcrIlal m;arkels  3.7    Propose uicasures lo streamtlinie proccduircs anid    Spccific recommnidatli ons are subiuiocd to tfie Govcriiiicint
formalities for foreigii trade based on a report by  by February 28, 1996. Thc recommenidationis are adopted by
tihc CRG and a seminar orgaiiized jointly with    Ihc Government
imic LRC
3 X    Facililae ilic development of export and   3.8    Siud)y to ideniify miceasurcs for expanding air  Specific recommendations are submitied lo ilic Government
tourisimi thlrotigih an incrcase in transport   and marilime transport supply, improving         by December 31, 1996. The recommendations are adopted by
supply, an imnprovcienc in services,            scrvices and lowering costs (in conjuinction wilti   the Goverilnent
anid a decrease in costs                        the LRC)
ea



OBJECIIVE 4:           Consensus-based planning is established; monitoring and forinulation are conducted in conjtinclion with partners.
Evaluation Criteria:   - T hc rccoinnicndations of Iltc CRG arc subiiitied to thic autlilorilics by ilic deadlines.
- A salisfaclory proportion of CRC reconiendations arc adoptcd.
- ITlcsc mcasurcs have thc expcccd ceffect: ilic indicators arc achieved.
OBJE:CTIVE                                       ACTIVITY                                        EVALUATION CRIITERIA
4.1    Establishnmcnt of a consensus among thc  4.1  Preparation and imnplemcntation ofa        A program is establishmcd as of Augiust 30, 1996
partics concerned on liberalization         commtinication program on mcasuircs lo imuprovc
imcasures                                  competitivencss proposed by thc CRG
4.2    Conscrnsus-bascd planning is          4.2  Organization of a planning workshop for Ihec
maintained                                 foriiul ation of tlIc sccond tranche of ilic work
program
0
ftJ
LI



SiENE;GA 1,
PRIVATE SECIOR CAPACITY BIflDI1)1NG PROJ ECT'
COMPETI'I'IVEINESS REVIEW GIROUP
IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE.'
199 5                             1996
ACTIVITY                                RESP'ONSIBIILITlIES   4  5 6  7  X  9)  10   11   12   1 2  3  4  5 6  7  X  9  10   if   12
1.   Sial) .,fr problems in selling up comipanies (in
cal,juntclion iwifle IIC lRC)
Docuiniciaiion and ovcnicw                                  SG2
Discussion in conmmission and proposal of rcforiias         Comnmiission
Validationi of proposals by CRG anid l.RC                  CRi
Subim ission lo at likorilics                               C RG
Mionitorinig of adoption and inipleniciiiatioii             CRG
1.2  Sit ii) ogili i lieceds of small anmid in forimial citerli iss isi
terms (ir 11,. Iegal frramcrworI (sullllio to Ihe LRC)
Strmcy eisting worls and preparc a summnary paper         CRG
Discussioii  ml I IRC and siakciholders to dctci ic ilc cnccd    LRC/CRG/Stakclholdcrs
for an addilional study
Tcrmns of reference for a study (if necessary)              CRG/LRC
Seleclion of a consullant                                   Ageticy
Carrying out of ihe study                                   Consiliatil
Vabldat ion                                                 CRG/LRC
Submiission to thc LRC for formulation of Ilic lcgall      CRG
framcework                                                 __________________________
Flih CRG has bccn funcuiining sintce Junlle 1994. Tltits a nuinber of aictions haive already been undertalicn, anid aic expeutedi lo havc concrele resiilts as early as
May 31. 1995.
2 Secretary General                                                                                                                                                II



1995                                  1996
AC1 IVITY                              RESPONSIBILITIES    4  i 6            X   I 9  1    if  12 i      2 2  4  5 6  7      9  10   It   12
2.1  Study on obstacles to competition
Ternis of rcfereincc                                       SG/Conimlissio__
Seicctioll of a consultant                                 Agencv_
Carr% i ig oult o I lic stud)                              Cousult                 ___                                           _
Validation                                                CRG
Submissioni                                               CRG
Moniiori ig of adopltioni anid impicnnliation             CRG
2.2  Diatgnostic slttly o.r taxation on private enterprise
D)ocucnic;alion and ovcrview                             SG/Coniliissiol_
Discussioni in comninssion and proposal of reforms        Commiliission_
Validaltioni of proposals by CRG                          CRG
Sublniission to atithoriies                              CRG                                                                                              ________
Monitorinig of adoption and imipieiicitiationt           CRG
2.3  Study of support structures
Tcrmis of refercncc                                       CRGC
Sciecion of a consultant to formtilaite a survey         Agency
Carrying out of tlie survey                               Consultant
Submission of findings to the CRG                         Consultant
Documentation and overview (in particular survey results)  SG/Comnnission
12



1995                                  1996
AC'l'IVI'I'Y                           RESPONSIBILI'I'IES    4 1   (, 7  X  9  1    11   12         2     4  5 6 7  X  9  I)  II  12
Discussion in commnission and proposal of reforms         Commission
Validation of proposals                                   CRG
Subimissio  to anuthorities and relevani instituitions    CRG
Monilorinig of adoplion anid imiplemcntation             CRCG
3.1  Analysis of the real cost and productivity of labor
Tcrms of rcferencc                                        SC/Commilission
Rccritiicuit                                              Agenc)_
Lcadinig of discussionis on rcforms                       CRG/Consullanit
Formulation of a reforms program                          Consultant
Validation                                                CRC
Submissioni lo thc Govcrmiineiit                          CRG
Monitoring of adoption and i mpleineniation              CRG
3.2  Monitoring of implemcnt;atin mcasuircs to improvc thc
functioning of the Dakar I FZ and SFZs                   _________________
Monitoring and collect ion ofdata                        SG
DisCLISSion in coininissioi anmd proposal of reformiis if  Colmllission
necessar_
Validation of proposals by CRG and LRC                   CRG
Submiiission to authorities                               CRG
Monitoring of adoption and implementation                CRG
Stalus report                                            CRG                       I  I I I  I I        I    I_      _                  _      _ 
IIk



1995                                  1996
ACITIVITY                              RFSPONSIBILI'IES    4  5 6          8      I9      I-  12 -   2 1  4  5 6  7  X  9  10 ( _    12
3.3  Analysis of obstacles to the cspansion of the supply of
credit...                                                 __________________                                                           ___   __
Tcrnis of rcfcrcnce (cooperation with LRC and PSF)        CRG
Sc:ectioll of a consltnillt                               Agency
Carryaing oul of tlic study/scounar                       Consuiltanti
Validationi                                               CRG
Subimiissiont                                             CRG
Monitoring of adaplion and implementation                 CRG
3.4  Monitoring of rcrorms under way affecting supply and
the prices or TFPs, as well as their inuplict on business
cost str-mactcires
Monitorin g and collcction of in formation                SG *
Disctissiont in commission and proposal of reformis if    Comnmission
necessalry                                                                                                       
Vali;datlion1 of proposa.ls b) CR( and LRC                C*
Subimiissioni to aithorities                              CRG
Monitoring of adoptionaand inmplcaacnt ation              CRG
Status report                                             CRG
Ii



1995                                     1996
ACFIVITY                             RESPONSIBILITIES    4             ( 6  7  8  9                                               11(\ 12   I   5  7  12
3.5  FEsahlishrcilnt of tile I raule Point
I)raft aduininiistrati ye texts/nlcasures to be adopted       SG/Cosimiimassioa a
Consultations wilh relevant authorities                       CRG
Subiilssioni of draft lo he auithorities
N'ioaitori ig ofadopt oii a id anipiclcienitiationi           CRG
3.6  Relorm or temporary import regimes (regimcs
sIIspenlsifs)
Draft adninistrative texts/measuires to be adopted            SG/Coniuiission_
Consultations w ith relevant autlliorities                    CRG
Submlissioni of draft to the atilhorities                     CRG
Moniilorinig of adoplion and implementation                   CI_G
3.7  Proposced measures to strcamlinc procedur es amid
formialities in fireigdn trade
Nlonitorang and colleclion of information on e.xport          SG/Comiunaissio__
proccdutres
Ternis of reference                                           CRG
Recruitmeiit of a consultziit                                 Agency
Monitoring and colteclion of information on import            Consultant
proceduires                                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Establishment of an issues paper on problems to be resolved    Consullantl/SG
Scainiiar on practices in a country ... (with LRC)            CRG/person with expe
-rience in tile subject
Discussion and proposal of reforms                            Commission/LRC
Validation of proposals                                       CRG/LRC                                                                                                    >
Submission to autliorities                                    CRG
Monitoring of adoption and implementationi                    CRG                                                                                                    so
.    _ _   _ _  |     _ _ - - _ L_ - -                   -   o la
oL2



60                              ANNEX II (bl
Page 6 of 6
0~~~~~~~~~1
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
c MI
.7 2:
-~~~~~



SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING l'ROJECT
LEGAL REFORM COMMITIEE
KEY ACTIVITIES AND EVALUATION CRITERIA
OBJECTIVE 1: Strengthen protection of rights of enterprises vis-a-vis the government
OBJECTIVE                                          ACTIVITY                                  EVALUATION CRITERIA
1.1    Ensure effective entry into      1.1.1  Support regular publication of the Official Gazette  The Official Gazette appears regularly and
force of business legislation and                                                           is regularly distributed
infornative insirnnents
1.2    Restore equilibrium to           1.2.1   Study and putting in place of a Govemment/enterprise  - The conciliation unit is put in place
enterprise/Govermnent                   conciliation unit                                   - Proposed legislation is adopted
relations                       1.2.2  Study and proposal of legislation designed to strengthen   - Impact assessment confirms improved
the 'no sanction without defense' principle in       equilibrium of enterprise/Government
administrative proceedings                           relations
1.2.3   Study and proposal of legislation to strengthen the 'no
decision without grounds' principle in administrative
proceedings
1.2.4  Impact assessment of reforms and proposal of cofrective
measures
1.3    Initiate settlement of           1.3.1   Study and proposal of legislation                   - Proposed legislation is adopted
enterprise/Govemrnent           1.3.2  Steps towards decision-making                        - Impact assessment confinns effectiveness
reciprocal debts                1.3.3   Monitor setting up of settlement mechanism           of settlement mechanisms
1.3.4  Impact assessment and proposal of corrective measures
1.4    Restrict scope of application of    1.4.1   Study and proposal of legislation                - Proposed legislation adopted
Article 194 of the COCC         1.4.2  Steps towards decision-making                        - Impact assessment confirms restriction of
1.4.3  Impact assessment and proposal of corrective measures  the "immunity from process' privilege
1.5    Bring the Customs Code more    1.5.1   Study and proposal of legislation on penalties under the   - Proposed legislation is adopted
into line with ordinary law and         Customs Code                                        - Impact assessment confirms more secure
simplify transit law            1.5.2  Study and proposal of legislation on the use of bank  relations among enterprises, Customns          >
guarantes for Customs purposes                       authorities and banks
II



OBJECTIVE 2: Tailor legislation to enlerprises' needs
OBJECTIVE                                         ACTIVITY                                  EVALUATION CRITERIA
2.1    Adapt ud simplify labor          2.1.1  Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing reform projects   - The proposed legislative texts have been
2.1.2  Study and proposal of legislation on operation of the  adopted or taken into consideration
Labor Tribunal and labor legislation               - The impact assessment confirms more
2.1.3  Steps towards adoption of legislation                efficient operation of the couwls nd closer
2.1.4  Inpat assessnent and proposed corrective mnasures    observance of legislation
2.2    Tailor conunercial legislation to   2.2.1  Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing reform projects   The proposals for the LRC have been
enterprises' needs              2.2.2   General study of inadequacies of commercial laws and    adopted or taken into consideration in the
proposed new legislation                           commercial law reforms
2.2.3  Study and proposal of legislation concerning the laws
and legal professions related to enterprises in difficulty
2.2.4  Study and proposal of legislation to ensure continuity
of an enterprise in the event of succession
0"
2.3    Help establish legislation       2.3. 1  Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing reform projects   - Proposed legislation has been adopted or
appropriate to microenterprises   2.3.2  Survey, study and proposal of legislation on       taken into consideration
mnicroenterprises                                  - The impact assessment confirns progress
2.3.3  Steps towards adoption of legislation               in microenterprise regularization
2.3.4  Impact assessment and proposed corrective measures
,I



OBJECTIVE 3: More efficient enforcement of business legislation
OBJECTIVE                                          ACTIVITY                                   EVALUATION CRITERIA
3.1     Support creation of a Centre de   3.1.1   Validation of feasibility study and assistance with  The Centre de Formalites de la Chambre
Formaliris des Entreprises               setting up the CFE                                  de Commerce is established
(C FE) at the Chamber of         3.1.2   Furnishing the CFE with equipment and documentation
Commerce                         3.1.3   Support for training and information concerning
promotion of the CFE
3.2     Shorten the length of court      3.2.1   Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing reform projects   - The LRC proposals are adopted or taken
proceedings                      3.2.2   Study and proposal of legislation to curb the frequency  into consideration
of delaying tactics                                 - The impact assessment confirms a
3.2.3   Study and proposal of legislation with a view to     substantial curtailment of the average
institution of measures to revive the judicial system  length of court proceedings
3.2.4   Steps towards adoption of reforms
3.2.5  Impact assessment and proposed corrective measures
3.3    Improve quality of court          3.3.1   Support for continuing training of judges IJuge-    - Support for continuing training of staff
decisions                                Commissaire, Juge des refires en mati.ere           - Impact assessment confirnns a drop in the
commerciale]                                         rate of decisions appealed
3.3.2   Provide the Legal Training Center [Centre de
Formation Judiciairel with equipment
3.3.3   Study the feasibility of establishing a Commercial
Court
3.3.4  Impact assessment
3.4    Ensure the effective              3.4.1   Study the obstacles to effective execution of court  The recommendations are followed and
implementation of court                  decisions and recommendations                       corrections made
decisions                        3.4.2   Monitor application of recommendations
3.5.    Support reorganization of the    3.5.1   Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing reform projects   The Office of the Clerk of the Court is
Office of the Clerk of the       3.5.2   Update the commnercial register (document filing)   reorganized and is performing more
Dakar Regional Court             3.5.3   Study procedures and costs of modernizing the Office  efficiently (keeping of the commercial
of the Clerk of the Court of Dakar                  register)
3.5.4   Provision of equipment to the Office of the Clerk of the
Court of Dakar
3.5.5  Introduction of automatic data processing
ii



OBJECTIVE 3 cout'd:
OBJECTIVE                                        ACVITY                                   EVALUATION CRITERIA
3.6    Support creation of a Cenui     3.6.1   Validation of feasibility study ad assistance with  The Centre dArbitrage is set up and the
d'Arbitre at the Dakar                  implementation                                   impact assessment confirns its viability
Chuber of Commere               3.6.2  Provision of logistical facilities to the Centre
d'Arbitrage
3.6.3  Support for promotion of the Centre dArbitrage
3.6.4  Impct assment                                     _
II



OBJECTIVE 4: Make credit and recovery laws more favorable to competitiveness and to growth
OBJECTIVE                                          ACTIVITY                                  EVALUATION CRITERIA
4.1    Study and reconunendation on    4.1.1   Studies and recommendations                          Recommendations have been implemented
promotion of banking law        4.1.2   Monitor implementation of recommendations           and business/ban"ing sector relations made
faclitating better-balanced                                                                 more secure
business/banking sector
relations
4.2    Upgrade legislation relative to    4.2.1   Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing reform projects   Proposed legislative texts are adopted and
recovery and guarantee          4.2.2   Study and proposal of legislation with a view to    impact assessment confirms more efficient
enforcement                             institution of referral provisions [refere-provisionI  recovery
4.2.3  Improve legislation on the payment injunction
4.2.4   Study the issues involved in guarantee enforcement
4.2.5   Study and proposal of legislation with a view to
expanding and diversifying the guarantee mechanism
4.2.6  Impact assessment
4.3    Help develop a financial law to   4.3.1   Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing reform projects   - Proposed legislative texts are adopted or
facilitate enterprises to finance    4.3.2   Study and proposals concerning the development of  taken into consideration
equity requirements and                 leasing                                             - Impact assessent confirms improved
medium- and long-term needs     4.3.3   Study and proposals concerning legal aspects of equity    tailoring of the legal framework to the
fiacn                                                finkancing of equity requirements and of
financing
4.3.4   Study and proposals concerning the development of   medium- and long-term obligations
long-term financial instruments
4.3.5   Studies and proposals concerning the laws, taxes, and
criminal penalties associated with the issuing of
securities
4.3.6  Impact assessment
DI



OBJECTIVE 5: Support promotion of business legislation
OBJECTIVE                                          ACTIVITY                                  EVALUATION CRITERIA
5.1    Support creation of a legal      5.1.1  Study of conditions for establishing the review      The legal review is created and appears
review                          5.1.2   Provision of materials and equipment to the agency  regularly
responsible for the review
5.1.3   Monitor regularity of publication
5.2    Support training for members    5.2.1   Evaluation of needs of training institutions         Support for training of members of the
of the judiciary                5.2.2   Provision of assistance to training institutions    judiciary
(equipment, docunmentation, part-time professionals)
CD
0%
oI



SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
LEGAL REFORM COMMITTEE
IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
OBJECTIVE 1: Strengthen protection of rights of enterprises vis-&-vis the Government
| YEAR I YEAR2 |_ YEAR3|
ACTIVITY                                   RESPONSIBILITY                      f~*l~f*
1.1    Ensure effective entry into force of     LRCISG du GouvernementPARSJ 
business legislation and informative     llmpnmerie NationaleIAGEX (2)
instnrnents
1.1.1  Support regular publication and distribution
of the Official Gazete                  ___                        __
1.2    Restor equilibriwn to                    LRC/Fimncial Departments/Consultants/AGEX
enterprise/Governnent relations
1.2.1  Study and putting in place of a
Govermment/enterprise conciliation unit
1.2.2  Study and proposal of legislation designed
to strengthen the no sanction without
defense' principle in administrative
proceedings
1.2.3  Study and proposal of legislation to
strengthen the 'no decision without
grounds' principle in administrative
proceedings                             _____________________
1.2.4  Impact assessment of reforms and proposal                                                                                        >
of corrective measures                  __,______________________-| X



OBJECTIVE I conl'd:
YEAR I   YEAR2    YEAR3
ACTIVITY                                    RESPONSIBILITY                     1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
1.3   Initiate settlement of                      LRC/Financial Departments/Consultants/AGEX
enterprise/Govermnent reciprocal debts
1.3.1  Study and proposal of legislation
1.3.2  Steps towards decision-making
1.3.3  Monitor setting up of settlement mechanism
1.3.4  Impact assessment and proposal of
correclive measures
1.4    Restrict scope of agplication of Article   LRC/Financial Departments/AGEX
194 of the COCC__
1.4.1  Study and proposal of legislation                                                              __
1.4.2  Steps towards decision-making
1.4.3  Impact assessment and proposal of
corrective measures
1.5    Bring the Customs Code more into line     LRC/Financial Departments/AGEX
with ordinary law and simplify transit
law
1.5. 1  Study and proposal of legislation on
penalties under the Customs Code
1.5.2  Study and proposal of legislation on the use
of bank guarantees for Customs purposes
0 X
o w



OBJECTIVE I cont'd:
YEAR I    YEAR2          YEAR3
ACTIVITY                               RESPONSIBILITY                  1 23          123 4   1 2  3  4
1.5.3  Study and proposal of legislation conceming
transit law
1.5.4  Impact assessment and prposal of
corrective messures
'1)    PARSJ: Legal system reform project financed by the French Cooperation Agency. To avoid duplication, the LRC's activities concerning
reforms of the judicial system are being defined in consultation with the French project.
(n)    AGEX: Implementing agency.
(3)    Article 194 of the Code of Civil and Commercial Obligations (COCC) prohibits forcible recovery from the Government, the local authorities,
ctablissements publics, soci&t4s nationales and mixed companies operating a public service concession.
0%
10
II@



OBJECTIVE 2: Tailor legislation to the enterprises' needs
YEAR I       YEAR2         YEAR3
ACTIVITY                                   RESPONSIBILITY                    1  2  3  4  1 2  3  4  1  21 3  4
2.1    Adapt and simplify labor legislation     LRC/CRG =  '/rade unions/Minis_ry of
Labor/Ministry of Justice/Consultants/AGEX
2. 1.1   Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing
reform projects                                                                          *
2.1.2  Study and proposal of legislation on
operation of the Labor Tribunal and labor
legislation
2.1.3  Steps towards adoption of legislation    ______________*________
2.1.4  Impact assessment and proposed corrective
measures
2.2    Tailor commercial legislation to         LRC/Ministry of Justice/OHADA
enterprises' needs                       Commission/Commission du Renouv'eau de la
Jusrice/Consultants/AG EX
2.2.1  Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing
reform projects 3)_
2.2.2   General study of inadequacies of
commercial laws and proposed new
legislation                              ______*_*____________
2.2.3  Study and proposal of legislation
concerning the laws and legal professions
related to enterprises in difficulty
2.2.4  Study and proposal of legislation to ensure
continuity of an enterprise in the event of
succession
IIa



OBJECTIVE 2 cont'd.
YEAR      YEAR 2   YEAR 3
ACTIVITY                                   RESPONSIBILITY                    l| 2  31 4  X  21 31 4        2  3  4
2.3   lHelp establish legislation appropriate to    LRC/CRG/Ministry of Justice/Employers'
microenterprises                         Organizations/Consultants/AG EX
2.3. 1  Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing
reform projects
2.3.2  Survey, study and proposal of legislation
on microenterprises                      ______________________
2.3.3  Steps towards adoption of legislation    ___
2.3.4  Impact assessment and proposed corrective
measures
(X) Competitiveness Review Group
R) In particular, the project to overhaul the Labor Code will be reviewed
3 Continual monitoring of the studies carried out by OHADA and the Commission du Renouveau de la Justice will be instigated to avoid duplication and ensure that new
legislation is taken into account
II>



OBJECTIVE 3: More efricient enforcement of business legislation
YEAR I       YEAR 2        YEAR 3
ACTIVITY                                    RESSPONSIBILITY                      1                 32  4  22     3  4
3.1    Support creation of a Centre de            LRC/Chamber of Commerce/Chamber of
Formaliris des Entreprises at the         Notaries/Departments/AGEX
Chanber of Comimerce
3.1.1   Validation of feasibility study and
assistance with setting up the CFE
3.1.2   Furnishing the CFE with equipment and
documentation
3.1.3   Support for training and information
concerning promotion of the CFE
3.2    Shorten the length of court proceedings"'    LRC/Ministry of Justice/Comnission pour le                                                  to
Renouveau de In Justice/AGEX*                    
3.2.1   Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing
reforms
3.2.2   Study and proposal of legislation to curb
the frequency of delaying tactics
3.2.3   Study and proposal of legislation with a
view to institution of measures to revive
the judicial system
3.2.4   Steps towards adoption of reforms
3.2.5  Impact assessment and proposed corrective
melsures
( I )   Since this objective was addressed in studies by the Conmnission pour le Renouveau de la Justice, the LRC will be specifically entrusted with helping to ensure that
the needs of enterprises are duly taken into account under the ongoing reforms, and that the legislation is adopted without delay.             >
or'



OBJECTIVE 3 cont'd:
YEAR I       YEAR 2        YEAR 3
ACTIVITY                                   RESPONSIBILITY                       2  3 _       2  3  4         2  3  4
3.3    Improve quality of court decisions        LRC/Training Institute/Ministry of
Justice/PARSJ (2'/AGEX________                                            __
3.3.1  Support for continuing training of judges
IJuge-Commassaire, Juge des rif.rWs en
matiere commercialel
3.3.2   Provide the Legal Training Center [Centre
de Formation Judiciairel with equipnent                                                  -
3.3.3  Study the feasibility of establishing a
Conmercial Court
3.3.4  Impact assessment
3.4    Ensure the effective implementation of   LRC/Ministry of JusticelMfdiaturelCommission
court decisions                         pour k Renouveau de la JusticelCh. des
Huissiers/GovernorsIAGEX
3.4.1   Study the obstacles to enforcement of court
decisions and recommendations
3.4.2   Monitor application of recommendations  LRC/Regional Court/Ministry of
justice/Consultants/Banks/Employers'
organizations/PARSJ/AGEX
oea
I z
_ iz



OBJECTIVE 3 cont'd:
YEAR I   YEAR 2   YEAR 3
ACTIVITY                                   RESPONSIBILITY                    123  4  1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4
3.5    Support reorganization of the Office of
the Clerk of the Dakar Regional Court
3.5.1  Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing
reform projects
3.5.2  Update the commercial register (document
filing)
3.5.3  Study procedures and costs of modernizing
the Office of the Clerk of the Court of
Dakar
3.5.4  Provision of equipment to the Office of the
Clerk of the Court of Dakar
3.5.5 Introduction of automatic data processing
3.6    Support creation of a Centre d'Arbitrage    LRC/Chamber of Comnierce/The Bar/Courts
at the Dakar Chamber of Commerce         and Tribunals/Consultants/Employers'
organizations/AGEX__________
3.6.1  Validation of feasibility study and
assistance with implementation
3.6.2  Provision of logistical facilities to the
Centre d Arbitrage                       *_*_*______________
3.6.3  Support for promotion of the Centre
d'Arbitrage
3.6.4  Impact assessment
(2)  PARSJ: Legal system reform project financed by the French Cooperation Agency
o z
_L:



OBJECTIVE 4: Make credit and recovery laws more favorable to competitiveness and growth
YEAR    [ YEAR 2          YEAR 3
ACTIVITY                                 RESPONSIBILITY                   1 2  3  4  1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4
4.1    Study and recommendation on            LRC/Ministry of Justice/Ministry of
promotion of banking law facilitating  Finance/Experts/AGEX
better-balanced business/banking sector
relations
4.1.1  Study and recommendations
4.1.2  Monitor implementation of
recommendations
4.2    Upgrade legislation relative to recovery  LRC/Ministry of Justice/Ministry of
and guarantee enforcenent l^J          Finance/OHADA Commission/APBEF
(2)/Chamber of ConunercelAGEXICommission
pour k Renouveau de la JusticelCRG_______*____
4.2.1  Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing
reform projects
4.2.2  Study ad proposal of legislation with a
view to institution of referrl provisions
[rifirf-proWsion]
4.2.3  Improve payment injunction legislation
4.2.4  Study the issues involved in guaantee 
enfor_ement
4.2.5  Study and proposal of legislation with a
view to expanding and diversifying the
guarantee mechanism
42 imcasse       -
~0S



OBJECTIVE 4 cont'd:
YEAR I    YEAR 2          YEAR 3
ACTIVITY                                   RESPONSIBILITY                   _          2         3  4 _  2  3
4.3    Help develop a financial law to facilitate    LRC/CRG/UMOA/Department/APBEF/Courts
enterprises to finance equity requirenents   and Tribunals/Consultants/AGEX
and mediumn- and long-tern needs
4.3.1   Evaluate, monitor and support ongoing (3)
reform projects
4.3.2  Study and proposals concerning the
development of leasing                    _____________
4.3.3  Study and proposals concerning legal
aspects of equity financing               _____ __ ______
4.3.4  Study and proposals concerning the
development of long-term financial
instrunments
4.3.5  Studies and proposals concerning the laws,
taxes, and criminal pealties associated with
the issuing of securities
4.3.6  Impact assessment
(  See Objective 11, note 3 on the link with the OHADA studies
(2) Association Professionelle des Banques et Etablissements Financiers
(3) The main aspects monitored will take into account the UMOA Regional Financial Market Project and the experience of the Abidjan securities market.
e z
aq X



OBJECTIVE 5: Support promotion of business legislation
]                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEAR I   YEAR 2 rYEAR 3
ACTIVITY                                     RESPONSIBILITY                        1  2  3 _                         3  4
5.1    Support creation of a legal review        LRC/Ministry of Justice/University/Bar/Jurists'
Associations/AGEX/Private publishers/PARSI                            ____ __
5.1.1  Study of conditions for establishing the
review
5. 1.2   Provision of nmterials and equipment to
the agency responsible for the review
5.1.3   Monitor regularity of publication        +_____*_*_*___*__
5.2    Support training for members of the       LRC/Ministry of Justice/Training
judiciary                                institutions/AGEX/PARSJ
5.2.1   Evaluation of needs of training institutions
5.2.2   Provision of assistance to training
institutions (equipment, documentation,
part-time professionals)                  _______________
s~I,
-'fIx
o 0w



SENEGAL
P'RIVAI'E SECOI'R CAIPACITY BUILDING PROJECI'
COMPETITIVENESS REVIEW GROUP
PRIVA'liUZATlION COMPONENT (1)
PREIAMINARY, PLANNIN(G AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators:  IPrivatization of 6 enterprises in 1996
P'rivatization of 6 enterprises in 1997
P'rivatization of 6 enterprises in 1998
1995                                1996       1997       1998
ACTIVIT111's                 MAY    IUN    Jul   AUG    SEP   OCTI   NOV   DEC
1.   Agremciiiii oni TORs ofFlxpcl- I                                                      oo
2.   Reccruililiiii olsSExpecrt                              
3.   Preparation of ain Actions Plan
(and bidding document)   ___  _       _     __-   _
4.   Agrcemcnt on Actions Plin with IDA
5.   Implemcntation of Actions Plan
(I) Will be further detailed after preparation actioni plan is subinitted by the Government of Senegal (October 1995)
I.



79                                       ANNEX V (b)
Page I of 4
SENEGAL
PRIVA TE SECTOR CAPACITY BUThDLNG PROJECT
REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
PROJET DE TERMES DE REFERENCE
POUR UN EXPERT EN PRIVATISATION
1.    Le Gouvernement du Senegal a un programme de privatisation dont il desire
accelerer la mise en oeuvre pour terminer la privatisation des 18 entreprises dont la liste
est jointe en Annexe dans les deux prochaines annees. L'execution du programme de
privatisation est confi6e a la Cellule de Contr6le et de Gestion du Portefeuille de l'Etat
(Oa Cellule) qui soumet ses propositions pour decision a la Commission Sp;ciale du
Suivi de Desengagement de l'Etat (Oa Commission). Afin que le travail de la Cellule
soit gu de par l'obt ntion de resultats concrets, le Gouvernement a decide que la Cellule
sous-traitera l'execution de la privatisation, par lot d'une ou plusieurs entreprises, a des
societes specialisees.   Afin d'aider la Cellule a mener cette tache a bien, le
Gouve-nement souhaite recruter un expert en privatisation qui aura le profil d'un
banquier d'investissement. Les Termes de reference de cet expert sont decrits dans les
paragraphes suivants.
MANDAT DE L'EXPERT
2.     L'expert recherche aura pour mandat d'apporter son aide a la Cellule pour: (i)
prdparer un plan d'action pour mener a bien le programme de privatisation en sous-
traitant a des socidtes specialisees la privatisation des entreprises inscrites au
programme; et (ii) assurer le suivi du travail des ces soci6tes jusqu'a la realisation
effective des privatisations dont elles auront la charge. Pour cela il aura a travailler
directement avec les membres de la Cellule mais il fera rapport de son activite, a
travers le Directeur de la Cellule, au Ministre de l'Economie des Finances et du Plan et
sera responsable devant ce dernier de la bonne execution du plan d'action que le
Gouvernement aura approuve.
TACHES DE L'EXPERT
3.    Le Plan d'action. La preparation de ce Plan sera menee a Dakar, auprds de la
Cellule pendant une periode de deux mois environ. Pour preparer ce plan, 1'expert
travaillant aupres de la Cellule devra:
Prendre connaissance des informations disponibles pour chacune des
entreprises a privatiser.  11 devra en particulier analyser le rapport



80                                          ANNEX V (b)
Page 2 of 4
prepar6 en avril 1995 par un Consultant qui contient les informations les
plus recentes sur les entreprises a privatiser et des propositions pour
atteindre cet objectif.
*      Aider la Cellule a organiser la collecte d'informations complementaires -
-si besoin est-- sur les entreprises a privatiser.
*      Identifier, sur la base de ces informations recueillies et de leur analyse,
la (ou les) methodes de privatisation qui pourrai(en)t ere utilisee(s) pour
chaque entreprise (ventes d'actions de l'Etat, vente de l'entreprise dans
le cas oa l'Etat est le seul actionnaire, vente des actifs de l'entreprise en
un ou plusieurs lots si la vente en bloc de l'entreprise s'avere difficile ou
autre methode).
*      Determiner,  pour  chaque  entreprise,  les  mesures  preparatoires
&ventuelles -- excluant toute restructuration ou investissement physique --
qui seraient necessaires (elimination des dettes, ventes de certains actifs,
etc...) et identifier comment mettre en oeuvre ces mesures, qui le fera et
quand.
*      Determiner si une evaluation des actifs ou de la valeur des actions est
requise. L'expert preparera, si necessaire, des Termes de reference pour
le recrutement de consultants qui devront faire les evaluations.  Le
mandat de ces consultants devra etre limite a la stricte evaluation de la
valeur marchande des elements consideres. Chaque fois que cela sera
possible la liste restreinte des consultants appel6s a soumissionner sera
limit6e a des consultants locaux   ou regionaux qui ont une bonne
connaissance des milieux d'affaires S6negalais et regionaux.
*      Determiner, le cas echeant, les entreprises pour lesquelles la privatisation
devrait etre confi6e en un seul lot a un seul sous-traitant.
*      Solliciter du Ministre de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan toute
decision prealable qui sera indispensable a la preparation et l'ex6cution
du plan d'action.
*      Identifier les  societ6s  specialisees  qui pourront etre  appel6es  a
soumissionner pour la privatisation pour chaque entreprise ou lot
d'entreprises.
"Programme de Deseogagement de I'Etat - Phase II; Plan d'action; Rapport Provisoire"; Etabli par
Dessau Intemational, Montrial, Canada pour la Cellule de Gestion et de Contr6le du Portefeuille de
l'Etat; avril 1995



81                                         ANNEX V (b)
Page 3 of 4
4.    A l'issuf de ces travaux, l'expert devra un preparer un plan d'action qu'il devra
soumettre dans un delai de un mois et demi au maximum au Ministre de l'Economie
des Finances et du Plan. Ce plan d'action sera presente sous forme d'un planning qui
devrait comprendre au moins: la (ou les) methode(s) de privatisation choisie(s) et la
liste de taches a accomtolir pour la mettre en oeuvre; (ii) les travaux preparatoires i
realiser, par qui et leur duree; (iii) la liste des sous-traitants potentiels a inviter a
soumissionner pour la orivatisation de chaque entreprise ou lot d'entreprises et le (ou
les) objectifs qui Jeur seront assigne(s); (iv) les etapes et calendrier qui assureront un
suivi efficace du travail de ces soumissionnaires; et (v) les criteres qui permettront
d'evaluer periodiquement la mise en oeuvre du plan d'action.
5. Une fois le plan de privatisation approuve, l'expert devra aider la Cellule a
preparer sa mise en oeuvre. Pour cela, il devra preparer:
*     Les Termes de reference de consultants pour faire travaux preparatoires
eventuels comme les 6valuations dont il a ete question plus haut et les
listes restreintes de societes a consulter.
*      Les Termes de references et autres documents n6cessaires a inviter les
sous-traitants potentiels a faire leur offre de service; ces Termes de
rdf6rence devront: (i) preciser que les procedures de recherche
d'acquereurs a utiliser par les sous-traitants devront etre transparentes et
mentionner les moyens par lesquels la Cellule s'assurera de ce fait; (ii)
identifier clairement les etapes et moyens par lesquels la Cellule pourra
suivre le travail des sous-traitants; et (iii) qu'aucune cession d'actif ou
d'action ne pourra etre faite sans accord prealable et sans deldgation
expresse, le cas echeant, donnes par le Gouvernement sur les conditions
de cette cession.
6.    L'assistance a la CeUlule pour le suivi du travail des sous-traitants. Cette
seconde tAche sera conduite au cours de visites ponctuelles, mensuelles et d'au moins
une semaine pendant les six premiers mois suivant la fin de la preminre periode de deux
mois environ, au cours desquelles l'expert: (i) fera avec la Cellule le point
d'avancement de ses travaux; (ii) reverra avant leur envoi les documents d'appel
d'offres et les invitations a soumissionner; (iii) aidera a l'evaluation des offres recues;
(iv) aidera au suivi periodique, selon un calendrier decoulant du plan d'action, du
travail des sous-traitants; (v) aidera a la preparation des recommandations I faire a la
Commission a la suite de la remise par les sous-traitants de leurs propositions; (vi)
aidera la Cellule a negocier, pour les cas o'u le sous-traitant ne serait pas charge de cette
tache, les cessions d'actifs ou actions sur la base des orientations donnees par la
Commission; et (vii) aidera a faire pr6parer et verifiera les contrats de cessions avant
leur soumission a la signature du Gouvemement.



82                              ANNEX V (b)
Page 4 of 4
QUALIFICATIONS DE LA SOCIETE ET DE L'EXPERT PROPOSE
7.    Les societes consultees devront faire la preuve qu'elles ont une experience
certaine dans la mise en oeuvre de programmes de privatisation du genre de celui
envisage au Senegal et qu'elle a une solide experience en mati6re d'analyse et de
restructuration d'entreprises. L'expert recherche devra avoir le profil de banquier
d'inveatissement qui devra avoir une experience eprouvee des procedures, de
l'organisation et de la conduite de ventes d'entreprises et de privatisations jusqu'a leur
terme. L'expert propose devra aussi avoir, si possible, une bonne connaissance du
milieu d'affaires Ouest Africain. La societe consultee devra aussi pouvoir fournir a
1'expert un appui dont il aurait besoin dans toutes les disciplines requises pour la vente
d'entreprises: technique, juridique (y compris de personnes connaissant le droit
commercial Sdnegalais) et financier.
CONTENU ET EVALUATION DES OFFRES
8.    Les societes consultees devront presenter une offre technique et une offre
commerciale. L'offre technique devra contenir les r6ferences, avec le nom et les
coordonn6es de leurs clients pour verification eventuelle, prouvant leur qualification et
celles de l'expert propose et une presentation precise des services d'appui qu'elle
pourrait fournir I cet expert accompagne des curriculum-vitae des personnes qui
pourraient etre appelees a fournir cet appui. Enfin l'offre technique devra inclure la
mdthodologie que l'expert compte mettre en oeuvre pour privatiser les 18 entreprises et
si possible une proposition preliminaire des acquereurs potentiels que l'expert aurait
dejk en tete.
9.     L'offre financiere devra contenir: (i) un prix global pour la premibre periode
de deux mois environ au cours de laquelle le plan de privatisation sera prepar6 a Dakar
par l'expert; cette offre sera decomposee en cout de l'expert et frais de sejour a Dakar;
et (ii) les per diem et frais de sejour pour les visites ponctuelles ulterieures (deux
enveloppes?).
10.   Les offres seront notees de la maniere suivante: 30 points pour les qualifications
de la societe soumissionnaire, 30 points pour celle de l'expert propose, 20 points pour
la qualitd des services d'appui proposes et 20 points pour l'offre financiere.  Le
soumissionnaire ayant recu la note la plus elev&e sera selectionne.
REMIvSE DES OFFRES
11.   Les offres seront soumises en deux exemplaires au plus tard le (prevoir 45 jours
apres l'envoi des invitations a soumissionner) .... aupres de ......



SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
COMPETITIVENESS REVIEW GROUP
COMMUNICATIONS COMPONENT (I)
PRELIMINARY PLANNING AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators: First evaluation of results         June          1996
Second evaluation of results      June           1997
Third evaluation of results       December    1997
1995                                1996       1997      199X
ACTIVITIES                  MAY   JUN    JUL   |AUG             SEP    OC 1    N()V    DEC
oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1.   Agreement on TORs of Expert           _
2.   Recruilinent ol' Expert  .
3. Preparation of an Actions Plan
(and bidding docunment)
4.   Agreemnent on Actions Plan with IDA_ 
5.   Implemnentation of Actions                                                Plann
(I) Will be further detailed after preparation action plan is submitted by the Government of Senegal (October 1995)
II



84                                    ANNEX VI (b)
Page 1 of 4
SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
TERMIES DE REFERENCE
POUR LA PREPARATION D'UN PLAN DE MISE EN OEUVRE
D'UN PROGRAMME DE COMMUNICATION
1.    Le Gouvernement du Senegal desire entreprendre un programme pluriannuel de
communication avec le public Senegalais et les acteurs ou groupes d'acteurs
economiques du pays. Ce programme est destine a rendre plus transparent le processus
de preparation et de prise de decisions importantes pour l'economie et a renforcer la
capacite du Gouvernement a faire connaitre ses objectifs et actions dans ce domaine.
Pour cela le programme devra permettre d'informer et expliquer largement les mesures
que le Gouvemement entreprend en faveur du developpement economique et social du
pays et, en particulier, en faveur du developpement du secteur prive. Pour preparer ce
programme le Gouvemement recherche l'assistance de consultants specialises dans la
communication sociale. Les Termes de ref6rence (TDR) de cette assistance, pour le
recrutement de laquelle un appel d'offres est lance, sont presentes ci-apres.
OBJECTIFS DE L'ASSISTANCE
2.    Le premier objectif de l'assistance recherchee est de preparer un programme de
communication permettant d'expliquer largement le contenu et la portee des actions du
Gouvemement en matiere economique et, en particulier, en matiere de d6veloppement
du secteur prive. Ce programme qui sera etabli pour deux ans, devra aussi apporter
aux operateurs economiques les elements d'information necessaires a eclairer les
decisions qu'ils comptent prendre et donc a rendre leurs actions plus efficaces et leur
participation au developpement de l'economie en general plus efficiente. Pour atteindre
ces objectifs, le programme devra comporter une identification precise des actions a
prendre pour communiquer, pour chacun des themes qui seront juges importants par le
Gouvernement, des messages dont le contenu et le support seront appropries pour
vehiculer vers des cibles et/ou groupes de cibles precises les informations dont elles ont
besoin.
3.    Le programme qui sera presente au Gouvernement devra etre accompagne d'un
planning precis pour sa mise en oeuvre afin d'en maximiser l'impact. II devra aussi
inclure un budget detaille pour sa mise en oeuvre.
4.    Le deuxieme objectif sera d'aider le Gouvernement a preparer la mise en oeuvre
du programme de communication une fois qu'il aura ete adopt6.  Pour cela, le
consultant devra concevoir les documents qui permettront de faire un appel d'offres



85                                     ANNEX VI (b)
Page 2 of 4
international pour recruter la societe qui sera charg6e de l'execution du programme de
communication.
TACHES DES CONS ULTAiNTS
5.    Champ du Programme de communication: le programme de communication
devra couvrir tous les volets de l'action Gouvernementale en direction du
developpement de 1'economie en general et du secteur prive Senegalais en particulier.
A ce titre le champ a couvrir par le programme inclura les objectifs et mesures que le
Gouvernement envisage en matiere de: (i) grands equilibres macro-economiques; (ii)
reforme des politiques a l'egard de l'entreprise et de l'investissement prive; (iii)
reforme de leur environnement legal et reglementaire; et (iii) reformes institutionnelles
y compris la politique de desengagement de l'etat.
6.    Pour analyser les objectifs et mesures que le Gouvernement envisage dans
chacun de ces domaines, le consultant devra d'abord etudier les documents pr6par6s par
le Gouvernement a cet effet qui seront mis a sa disposition par le Ministere de
l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan (MEFP).  I1 devra ensuite proceder a des
interviews ou enquetes aupres: (i) des responsables du Gouvernement qui sont charges
de sa politique 6conomique; (ii) des representants des organisations d'acteurs
6conomiques du pays (Patronat, Syndicats); (iii) des representants des organismes
charges de la concertation Etat/Prives tels que le Comit6 Tripartite Etat/Prive et le
Groupe de Reflexion sur la Competitivite et la Croissance (GRCC); et (iv) de toute
personne ou organisme dont ils jugeront que l'avis est n6cessaire a la pr6paration du
programme de communication. Le consultant devra aussi etudier les experiences
internationales de campagne de ce type, notamment en Afrique (Ghana, Ouganda), afin
d'en'tirer les lecons necessaires.
7.    Le consultant devra ensuite faire une evaluation des vecteurs de communication
(medias, reseaux et relais traditionnels, porte-parole gouvernementaux); analyser leur
capacite a obtenir l'information, la gerer, la comprendre et la transmettre; et determiner
l'audience de ces vecteurs. En plus de son utilite pour l'elaboration du programme de
communication, cette information devra pouvoir servir a l'elaboration eventuelle d'un
programme de formation des medias et/ou communicateurs.
8.    Sur la base des entretiens et interviews mentionnes prec&demment et d'une
analyse des informations recueillies, le consultant devra: (i) identifier les themes
principaux du programme de communication; (ii) identifier pour chaque theme les
agents ou groupes d'agents economiques vers lesquels le programme de communication
sera oriente; (iii) proposer les messages pour chacune des cibles identifiees; (iv)
proposer les vecteurs les mieux adaptes a ces cibles et a ces messages; (v) planifier dans
I
En particulier le Document Cadre de Politique econornique et Sociale pour la periode 1994-1997 et
la Lettre de Politique de Developpement du secteur Prive.



86                                      ANNEX VI (b)
Page 3 of 4
le temps, si necessaire, la delivrance de ces messages, ainsi que leur format et
periodicite des messages a transmettre; et (vi) definir, hierarchiser et planifier les
objectifs du programme de communication pour d6velopper un plan d'action coherent;
(vii) determiner le besoin et/ou l'utilite de developper des themes mobilisateurs
(productivite, competitivite...) autour duquel une campagne pourrait s'instituer. Le
consultant devra aussi definir les methodes et criteres a utiliser pour evaluer
periodiquement les resultats du programme de communication et pour prendre les
d6cisions correctrices qui s'avereront necessaires a assurer qu'il atteindra ses objectifs.
Ces resultats ainsi que le contenu du programme seront evalues annuellement par un
consultant independant qui sera recrute en temps utile.
9.    Organisation institutionnelle pour la mise en oeuvre du programme: la definition
de la strategie sous-jacente au programme de communication devra etre 6labor6e avec
le Ministere de l'Economie des Finances et du Plan qui en sera le maitre d'oeuvre. Le
MEFP organisera la participation des autres Nlinisteres concernes, notamment celui du
Ministere de la Communication. Le MEFP sera charge de superviser la mise en oeuvre
de la strategie arretee et l'execution par le consultant du programme de communication.
Le MEFP organisera l'evaluation des resultats du programme et les appreciera.
REMISE ET CONTENU DES OFFRES
10.   Les societes consultees devront deposer leurs offres aupres de l'Association pour
la Gestion des Travaux d'interet Public (AGETIP) (indiquer l'adresse) avant le (prevoir
45 jours apres la date de lancement de l'appel d'offres). Ces offres devront contenir:
(i) une offre technique contenant les elements decrits aux paragraphes 2, 3 et 4 plus
hauts et precisant les delais pour la preparation du programme de communication; (ii)
une offre financiere pour la preparation du programme; (iii) les curriculum vitae des
personnes appelees a intervenir dans la preparation de ce plan; et (iv) pour reference,
une description detaill&e d'interventions similaires que le soumissionnaire aurait
conduites et le nom des clients qui en ont bendficie, afin que le Gouvemement du
Senegal puisse s'il le desire verifier ces refdrences.
EVALUATION DE OFFRES
11.   Les offres recues seront evaluees sur la base des criteres suivants: qualite de
l'offre technique, qualification des consultants proposes, references du soumissionnaire
et le cout de la preparation du programme de communication. Sur un total de 100
points, le premier critere sera note sur 40 points, le second sur 20 points, le troisieme
sur 20 points et le quatrieme sur 20 points. Le soumissionnaire ayant requ la plus
grande note sera selectionne.



87                                     ANNEX VI (b)
Page 4 of 4
REMISE DU PROGRAMME DE COMMUNICATION
12.   Dans les delais convenus par contrat le consultant devra remettre un premier
projet de programme de communication en .. exemplaires a 1'AGET[P, qui en fera
parvenir copie au Gouvernement du Senegal. Apres reception de ce projet et avant la
finalisation du plan d'action, le Gouvemement du Senegal, le GRCC, et le consultant
organiseront conjointement un atelier de Planification par Objectifs pour l'evaluer ct
s'assurer qu'il repond aux besoins exprimes par le Gouvernement et le secteur prive.
Participeront a cet atelier les representants concern6s du Gouvernement, du secteur
prive et des medias senegalais. Les resultats de l'atelier permettront au consultant de
finaliser le plan d'action et la strategie k suivre en s'assurant de la pleine participation
du secteur prive et des acteurs concernes. Dans un d6lai de deux semaines apres
l'atelier le consultant finalisera le projet.



88                                                      ANNEX VII
Pagel of 2
SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Estimated Proiect Costs
(1000's USS)
I.Poliky and Legal RefoEM                                   Li          Foreion         Total
(a). Compedtivenss Review Group
Operating Expenses                                      600                           600
Consultant Services:                                    530           50             580
Sub ToUl                             1130           50             1180
(b) Legal Reform Committee
Operating Expenses                                     550                           550
Consultant Services:                                   700          280              980
Equipment                                              250           _               250
Sub Total                           1500         280             1780
2. Private Sector Foundation
- Opceting Expenses                                    1300                          1300
TA/Training to P.S. Associations                       1200         2400             3600
TA/Training to Private Enterprises                     2500         5000             7500
Sub Total                             5000         7400            12400
3. Technicakl to the GOs
(a)    Privatization Program
- Consultant Services                                   500          600             1100
- Operting Expenses                                     350                           350
- Equipment                                              50                            50
Sub Totl                               900          600             1500
(b)    Communication Prognm
- Consultant Services                                                100              100
- Communication costs                                   500                           500
- Operating Expenses                                    250           _                50
750         100              850
4. Monitorin.
Financial Audits                                        100                           100
Management Audits                                                     50               50
PPO a                                                                100              100
100         150              250
S.      Refund of PPF Advance                                   400          200              600
6.      Total Base Costs                                       9780         8780            18560
Price & Physical Contingencies                         1120         620              1740
Total                               10.900         9400            20300
* PPO: ZOPP or Project Planning by Objctives



89                                                   ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDEIG PROJECT
Financin, Pian
(1000's USS)
I.PolicT and Le.al Reforrs                             IDA         Government         Total
Private Sector
(a). Competitiveness Review Process
Operating Expenses                                 400               200           600
Consultant Services:                               580                             580
980              200           1180
Sub TotAl
(b) Legal Reform Committee
Operating Expenses                                300               250            750
Consultant Services                               980                             980
Equipment                                         250                _            250
Sub total                         1530              250           1780
2. Private Sector Foundation
- Operating Expenses                               1300                            1300
TA/Training to P.S. Associations                   1600             2000           3600
TA/Training to Private Enterprises                3400              4100           7500
Sub Total                        6300              6100          12400
3. Techaical to the Gos
(a)    Privatization Program
- Consultant Services                              1000                            1400
- Operating Expenses                               250               250            500
Sub Total                         1250              250           1500
(b)    Communication Program
- Consultant Services                               100                             100
- Communication costs                               500                             500
- Operating Expenses                                S0               200            250
Sub Totl                           650              200            850
4.     Monitorina
Financial Audits                                   100                             100
Management Audits                                   50                              50
PPO*                                                 50                              50
250                             250
S.      Refund of PPF Advance                               600                             600
6.      Total Base Costs                                 11560              7000          18560
Price & Physical Contingencies                     940               800          1740
Total                              12500              7800         20300
PPO: ZOPP or Project Planning by Objectives



SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING
SUPERVISION PLAN
APPROX.                         ACTIVITIES AND OBJECTIVES                                    EXPECTED SKILLS                   STAFF
DATE                                                                                        REQUIREMENTS                    WEEKS
Oct.- Nov. 1995     Project Launch Seminar:                                            Task Manager Economist                       6
*  PSF, CRG, LRC ought to be fully operational                     Specialists in Procurement
*  privatization and Communication Programs                        Disbursement,
*   stan-up                                                        Accounting
Lawyer
January 1996       Supervision of all Components                                      Task Manager                                4
*  PSF, CRG, LRC activities as per planning, PSF ought to have been   Economist
contracted out
*  privatization of 5 enterprises, ought to have been contracted out                                                        o
*   implementation of Communication has started
May 1996         Desk Work                                                          Task Manager                                 2
First progress report has been received and is to be renewed and   Economist
commented on.
May-June 1996       Supervision of all components                                      Task Manager                                4
*  adjust planning based on progress report                        Economist
*  review procurement, SOE's
Oct.- Nov. 1996     Supervision of all Components                                      Task Manager                                 S
*  review 2nd progress report                                      Economist
*  review and agree on proposed detailed planning for upcoming year   ZOPP specialist
*  review Budget
*   review procurement, disbursement
*  prepare first credit of communication program
*  prepare first overall review with ZOPP exercise
ant



APPROX.                         ACTIVITIES AND OBJECTIVES                                 EXPECT'ED SKILLS                  STAFF
DATE                                                                                      REQUIREMENTS                   WEEKS
March-April       First overall GO's - IDA                                         Task Manager                                10
1997          *  review based on the Third progress and audit report            Economist
*  carry out ZOPP exercise of all components                     Specialists in privatization
modify planning, objectives, criteria budgets as needed          Communications and ZOPP
Sept. - Oct. 1998   Supervision of all components (that should progress as per planning and  Task Manager                        4
budget)
* review 4th progress report
* prepare annual audit and communication program audit
*  prepare detailed plans for upcoming year
Feb.- March       Supervision of all components (whose implementation should be well    Task Manager                           4
under way)                                                       Economist
* review audit and progress reports
* review procurement, disbursements
*  assess in particular "Privatization and Communication Programs"   __
June - July 1998   Desk Work                                                         Task Manager                                I
Prepare 2nd Project evaluation and ZOPP exercises for PSF and
privatizaion component
Sept. - Oct.     Supervision of all components                                     Task Manager                               6
*  CRG, LRC and communication components ought to be near        Economist
completion                                                   ZOPP Specialist
* prepare full review and PCR
* review 5th progress report
* carry out ZOPP for PSF and Privatization Components
* review planning budgets
* prepare annual audits
(I



APPROX.                          ACTIVITIES AND OBJECTIVES                                    EXPECTED SKILLS                    STAFF
DATE                                                                                          REQUIREMENTS                    WEEKS
March 1999        Supervision of remaining components on the basis of progress report  Task Manager                                 4
and audits                                                          Economist
*   review procurement, disbursement
*   adjust budget allocations between components if needed
Oct. 1999        Supervision of remaining components (as above)                       Task Manager                                 4
Economist
March 2000        Supervision of all components                                        Task Manager                                 4
*  review progress and audit reforms                                Economist
*   review procurement and disbursement
*   make necessary adjustment in planning and budget
*   launch PCR preparation for whole project
Oct. 2000        Supervision of all coniponents                                       Task Manager                                 4
*   review last reports                                             Economist
*   review draft PCR
*   prepare last audit
March - April 2001    Desk Work                                                           Task Manager                                 6
*   review last audit
*  prepare formal PCR
*  close project
Total                                      72 SW
f-J



93                                           ANNEX IX
Page I of I
SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(USSOOO's)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarters                Quarterly      Cumulative    Cumulative
Disbursement  Disbursement          %
FY 96'
December            1995                 800                        6
March               1996                 740           1540        12
June                1996                 620           2160        17
FY97
September           1996                 620           2780        22
December            1996                 680           3460        28
March               1997                 750           4210        34
June                1997                 740           4950        40
FY 98
September           1997                680            5630        45
December            1997                 720           6350        50
March               1998                 740           7090        57
June                1998                 720           7810        62
FY99
September           1998                 720           8530        68
December            1998                490            9020        72
March               1999                 550           9570        77
June                1999                 490          10,060       81
FY 2000
September           1999                 500          10,560       85
December            1999                 520          11,080       88
March               2000                 520          11,600       92
June                2000                 480          12,080       96
FY2001
September           2000                 420          12,500       100
/ Assuming effectiveness is in October 1995



94                                      ANNEX X
Page I of 1
SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Fondation du Secteur Pnive, Etude organisationnelle et Manuel de procedures.
Cabinet Coopers and Lybrand and Dieye, Dakar, November 1994.
Etude sur la demande de services du secteur prive. Cabinet FIDEXCO-
AFRIQUE, Dakar, September 1994.
Etude juridique de la Fondation du Secteur Prive. Cabinet Coopers and
Lybrand and Dieye, Dakar, November 1994.
Mission d 'etude et de redaction du projet de Loi portatu creation de Fondations
au Senegal. Cabinet Coopers and Lybrand and Dieye, Dakar, December 1994.
Evaluation du programme deformation et perfectionnement. Agence
Canadienne de Developpement International, Dakar, June 1991.
Evaluation of the Consultancy Initiatives. Segal Quince Wichsteed, London,
1989.
Mesures pour le renforcement de V 'environnement juridique pour le secteur
priv#. Malick Sall, Dakar, March 15, 1994.
Programme de desengagement de l'Etat, Plan d'action. Dessau International,
May 1995.
Working Papers Prepared by the Bank Staff and Aide-Memoire of the Appraisal
Mission.
2.    Selected Bank Reports and Studies
Senegal, Private Sector Assessment. The World Bank, Report No. 11317-',E,
June 2, 1994.
Senegal, Country Assistance Strategy. The World Bank, President's Report
No. 13909-SE, January 26, 1995.
Senegal, Private Sector Adjustment and Competitiveness Project. The World
Bank, President's Report No. 6522-SE, January 24, 1995.



The boundaries, colors,                                                                                          MAURITANIA                                                              SENEGAL
denominations and any
other information shown                                                                                                                               PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
on  this map  do  not                                                                                       G.AdA
imply, on  tne  part of                                                                         OF.- 
The World  Bank  Group,                                                         o      Gn=-                                                                                             PROJECT LOCATION
any judgment on the legal                                                        Mdrd
stutus of any  territory,                                                        T                                                                                                      VILLAGES
or any  endorsement                                      JLG
or acceptance of such                                   t        4.                                                                                                                      EINCPTL
boundaries.                                                                                                                                               -                       0     REGION CAPITALS
*     NAIlONAL CAPITALS
\                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
REGION BOUNDARIES
LO       A                                  SAINT                                   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
gt   Kebomor               oG=hro ~~~~~~~~~~~qn,.er.                     
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
THIES                                                         
piOUL ne  o  j  ~  \ BolLkd J
CAP-VERT SDioj                                0  U LDRBEL   .                                                       \
&i-e     |         Khobl    bob               0X                                                                                                                                S
DAKAR f          OYi   Th0bc           0       DIOUREL  Meod,
RdisqLL 9  ~ R ~E.                                                                                                                                                                       MALI
Mbo      RoE*          ATATICK FA   
Joo1l\                       tunurgTMAOND 
ACK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
TAMBACOUNDA
0  so   40   oo   eu   ioo                           L           oro  Mb,. d-o11
KLDXIETERi~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nir &                             .... .  .  .....            T\AOU
BANJUL                                              J
0    THE GAMBIA                                                                                  h
MAURITANIA                     *        T     ,AMtA                                           - 
/                          .                            .....                        *   SKOL2DA1o
-.aGUIN                              5ZIGUINC-HOR.
DAKAR                    O<I   f                                        04KOLDA                                                                                     
0        SENEGALr dnooSdh 
GAMBIA __Jt     -   eogv
'   T)-.' ZiG ~~~~~~~~7c,INCHO  />
GUINEA-BISSAU                  |                        '           -                      *A(
GUINEA
gn  _                        |                                                                   1 4                                                               i                 (             Lr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIE









IMAGING
Report No:       14499 SE
Type: SAR



