Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23960
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27590; PPFI-P8530; PPFI-P853 1)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8 MILLION
(US$12.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
JUNE 27, 2002
Private Sector Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 25, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
I CFAF = US$ 0.00147
US$ I = 680 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 --   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APDF        African Development Project Facility      MSAD          Manuifactuire Senegalaise des Arts Decoratifs
APIX        Investment Promotion Agency               MSME          Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
ASN         Associaton Senegalaise de Normalisation   MTR           Mid-term Review
BDS         Business Development Services             NCMG          Negotiation & Conflict Mgmt Group of
Nigena
BSTP        Bourse de Sous-traitance et Partenariat   OHADA         Organization for the Harmonization of African
Business Law
CCI         Centre de Commerce International          PFP           Policy Framework Paper
CDE         Center for Enterprise Development         PIPP          Private Investment Promotion Project
CET         Common Extemal Tariff                     PSAC          Private Sector Adjustment Credit
CFE         Centre de Formalites des Entreprises      PSCBP         Private Sector and Capacity Building Project
CFR         Country Framework Review                  PSF           Private Sector Foundation
CGCPE       Cellule de Gestion et de Controle du      PSR           Project Status Report
Portefeuille de l 'Etat
CRG         Competitiveness Review Group              QAG           Quality Assurance Group
CSSDE       Commission Speciale de Suivi du           SAED          Soczite d 'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des
Desengagement de I 'Etat                                Terres du Delta
DCA         Development Credit Agreement              SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
ECOWAS      Economic Community of West African States  SICAP        Socie&j Immobiliere du Cap Vert
ESAC        Energy Sector Adjustment Credit           SME           Small and Medium Enterprise
FIAS        Foreign Investment Advisory Services      SODI          Societes des Domaines Industriels
GOS         Government of Senegal                     SODIDA        Soczetj du Domaine Industriel de Dakar
HAMO        Societe des Habitations Modernes          SONEPI        Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de Promotion
Industrielle
IDA         International Development Agency          SOTEXKA       Societe des Textiles de Kaolack
IPAD        Institute for Promotion of Development    ASACE         Agence Senegalaise d 'Assurance pour le
Activities                                              Commerce Exrerieur
ISO         International Standards Organization      TPS           Trade Point Senegal
LRC         Legal Reform Committee                    UNACOIS       Union Nationale des Commerqants et de
l 'lndustrie du Senegal
MFI         Micro-Finance Institutions                WAEMU         West African Economic and Monetary Union
MGF         Matching Grant Fund                       WBI           World Bank Institute
MIGA        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency  WTO           World Trade Organization
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:     John Mclntire
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:       Maimouna Savane



SENEGAL
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              14
6. Sustainability                                                                  15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 18
9. Partner Comments                                                                18
10. Additional Information                                                         18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              27
Annex Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                28






Project ID: P002376                                      Project Name: PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG
Team Leader: Maimouna Savane                             TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 2 7, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-27590;
PPFI-P8530;
PPFI-P8531
Country/Department: SENEGAL                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: DB - Business Environment; DV - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/02/1992                            Effective: 01/30/1996         01/30/1996
Appraisal:  03/27/1995                               MTR: 02/01/1997           06/18/1998
Approval:  06/29/1995                             Closing: 04/30/2001          10/31/2001
Borrower/Ilmplementing Agency:  Republic of Senegal/Private Sector Foundation
Other Partners:
STAFF                CLrrent                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Manager.     John McIntire                            Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                  Silvia B. Sagari
Team Leader at ICR:  Maimouna Savane                          Cherif Azi
ICR Primary Author:  Maimouna Savane
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=THighly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



|Project ID: P002376                                      Project Name: PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG
Team Leader: Maimouna Savane                             TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PRIV SCTR.CAP.BLDG                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-27590;
PPFI-P8530;
PPFI-P853I
Country/Department: SENEGAL                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: DB - Business Environment; DV - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/02/1992                            Effective: 01/30/1996         01/30/1996
Appraisal:  03/27/1995                               MTR    02/01/1997         06/18/1998
Approval:  06/29/1995                             Closing: 04/30/2001          10/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Republic of Senegal/Private Sector Foundation
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Jean Louis Sarbib
Countrv Manager:     John Mclntire                             Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager       Demba Ba                                  Silvia B. Sagari
Team Leader at ICR:  Maimouna Savane                          Cherif Azi
ICR Primarv Author:  Maimouna Savane
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Board approved the Private Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCBP) on June 29, 1995, for a
credit amount of SDR 8 million or US$12.5 million equivalent. The credit became effective on January
30, 1996. The project followed the approval of the Structural Adjustment and Competitiveness Project
(PASCO, Cr.268 1) and the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994. The project aimed at putting in place
instruments to support the government's new strategy for economic and social development. The specific
objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No.14499-SE were to (i) increase
the competitiveness and efficiency of private enterprises and business associations; (ii) deepen the policy
refonn process by analyzing constraints to private sector activities and devising appropriate measures to
eliminate them; (iii) improve the legal framework for private sector activities; (iv) accelerate the
implementation of the government divestiture program; and (v) carry out a program of communications
and informnation to ensure that the main actors in the economy understood and supported the reform
process.
The PSCBP had fairly ambitious but clear objectives that were in line with the country's
poverty-reducing growth strategy outlined in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP, 1994-1997) and the
Ninth Social and Economic Development Plan (IXeme Plan de Developpement Economique et Social).
Those strategic documents called for an active promotion of micro, small, and medium enterprises
(MSME) in a context of macroeconomic stability and a competitive business environment.
The project was innovative, in that it combined policy and institutional reforms and direct support to
small and medium enterprises (SME), business service providers, and business associations. In addition,
the project had a participatory approach that helped establish the basis for a strong public-private sector
dialogue and partnership. The project implementation arrangements were such that the institutions
directly involved in a given component were responsible for substantial actions. Procurement and
accounting for the project were centralized in one of the implementing institutions, the Private Sector
Foundation (PSF). The project assumed that the political commitment to the economic and legal reforms,
as well as the divestiture program, would be sustained.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives and the rationale of the project were not changed, although adjustments were
introduced in the components after the mid-term review in 1998 and after a new government took office
in mid-2000, as discussed in Section 3.4 below. These changes aimed at enhancing the performance of
the project and increasing its expected development impact. They were in line with the project
development objectives as stated in the SAR. The changes in 2000 required formal amendments to the
Development Credit Agreement, and are reflected in Part C.2 of Schedule 2.
3.3 Original Components:
The PSCBP was designed in parallel with PASCO with active participation of representatives of both
the government and the private sector. Extensive public-private consultations carried out during
preparation helped define the content of each component, the implementation schedule, and the criteria
for monitoring and evaluating progress. The design of the project components was clearly linked to the
achievement of the stated objectives. The three main project components are described below.
Private Sector Capacity Building Component. This component consisted of a matching grant fund
(MGF) to help private enterprises and business associations increase their competitiveness through
better access to business advisory services and support to the PSF, which brought private sector
-2-



stakeholders together in its board. The PSF was also in charge of procurement and accounting for the
project.
Policy and Legal Reform Component. This component included two sub-components: policy reform
and legal reform.
The policy reform sub-component consisted of support to the govermment in its continuing effort to
identify, in collaboration with the private sector, policy and regulatory constraints to the development of
private sector activity and to formulate and implement remedial measures. This sub-component was the
responsibility of the Competitiveness Review Group (CRG), which had assisted in the formulation of
the adjustment program.
The sub-component for strengthening legal institutions supported reform of the laws and institutions
dealing with the private sector. The work program focused on (a) strengthening private enterprise rights
in dealing with the state; (b) modernizing legislation affecting enterprises; (c) enforcing business laws;
(d) improving debt collection mechanisms; and (e) disseminating business legislation.
Specialized Services to Strengthen the Government Capacity Component. This component included
two sub-components: an assistance in privatization program and a communications program.
The privatization sub-component supported the government in resuming the implementation of its
privatization program. The project supported the privatization of 18 of the 30 public enterprises (PEs)
in the government's divestiture program. The remaining PEs were addressed in other sector operations
(water, energy, and agriculture). The privatization sub-component was implemented by the unit in the
ministry of finance in charge of the oversight of parastatals (Cellule de Gestion et de Contr6le du
Portefeuille de 1 'Etat, CGCPE).
The communication program supported the government in its effort to consolidate and broaden the
dialogue initiated with representatives of the private sector by publicizing its economic objectives, the
proposed measures to achieve them, and the results achieved. The ministry of finance was responsible
for the implementation of this component.
The PSCBP project was to finance, over a five-year period, consultant services as well as equipment
and operating expenses for project institutions. Table I summarizes the performance of each
sub-component.
-3 -



Table 1: Performance Ratings by Component
Components                      DO               IP
Private Sector Capacity Building (Private
Sector Foundation)
-     Matching-grant fund                      S              S
Implementing unit                        U               U
Policy and legal Reforms
Policy reforrn (CRG)                     S                S
Legal Reform (LRC)                       U                U
TA to the GOS
Privatization                            U                U
Communication                            S                U
Emerging activities                     HS                S
Monitoring and Audits                          S                S
PPF
Unallocated
Price contingencies
Project                                        S                S
DO: Development objective; IP: implementation progress.
S: Satisfactory; U: unsatisfactory; HS: highly satisfactory.
3.4 Revised Components.
The work program in the private sector support and the policy reform components were adjusted
following the mid-term review to enhance its effectiveness. The component dealing with strengthening
government capacity was amended to include new priority activities, as described below.
Following the mid-term review in june 1998, MGF eligibility and services were expanded to include (i)
support to perfonming enterprises to design and implement strategic business plans; (ii) preparation of an
action plan to strengthen domestic consultants' services while increasing the use of international expertise
in areas where there was a shortage of domestic capacity; and (iii) establishment of a computerized
management information system to improve control mechanisms, tracking, and evaluation of impact of
grant activities and increase the involvement of the private sector in the supervision of MGF activities.
Also following the mid-term review, cluster analysis - mainly for export-oriented sectors, tourism, and
telecommunications - was introduced in the policy reform component (CRG).
Due to a significant delay in implementing the communication sub-component, the Government,
following consultations with the Bank, decided to mainstream some of its activities in other project
components. Therefore, the PSF carried out the economic broadcasting program and technical assistance
to economnic journalists. An important activity of the sub-component, a stand-alone communications
campaign, was not carried out because of substantial delays in recruiting consultants. In 2001, the funds
were reallocated to finance emerging priority activities, which included support for the establishment of
an investment promotion agency (APIX) and support for the ministry of finance. The ministry support
incorporated (i) an evaluation of pension systems facing sustainability and governance problems, with a
- 4 -



view to determining remedial actions; (ii) training programs on economic and technical regulation in the
infrastructure sectors; and (iii) upgrading of infonmation systems in key areas of the ministry of finance
involved in project activities.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project pre-dated the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) process at the World
Bank. QAG, therefore, did not evaluate the project's quality at entry. Its quality at entry, however, was
satisfactory when evaluated by prevailing standards. The project's objectives and components were
consistent with the govermment reform priorities; it drew on successful experience and lessons leamed
under the previous adjustment projects; and it used a participatory approach that helped focus the project
on priority activities and build ownership among stakeholders. Although the project pre-dated the
introduction of the logical framework approach in the World Bank appraisal, project targets were
sufficiently detailed in the SAR to serve as useful perfonnance indicator proxies. The project
implementation arrangements were innovative in that they gave institutions the mandate for implementing
project activities for which they had responsibility within govemment. In retrospect, however, this
arrangement did not lead to sufficient collaboration among project institutions, as discussed elsewhere in
this report.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
Overall, the outcome of the project is satisfactory. The project achieved its central objective of helping the
private sector respond to the improvements in the policy environment and enabling it to take advantage of
new opportunities for expansion. SMEs supported under the matching grant program improved their
managerial and technical capacity. Business service providers expanded, and the quality of their work
improved. The project helped to deepen and extend the policy and legal reform process and to enhance the
public-private consultations essential to improving the business environment. The participatory process
developed under the project strengthened ownership by stakeholders and helped design and implement
institutional and policy reforms that address the needs of private enterprises. The project also facilitated
the government's divestiture program from commercial and industrial sectors, as well as its pension system
review and capacity building in public regulation for private participation in infrastructure sectors.
The project was a catalyst for significant improvements in the policy framework for private sector
operations and a ground-breaking partnership between the private and public sectors, improving private
enterprise performance and developing private consulting. These successes more than compensate for
delays in the implementation of the privatization activities envisaged under the project, which lagged as a
result of a change in government in 2000, and the relatively slow implementation of the legal reform
program. Work under the project helped Senegalese stakeholders develop a comprehensive private sector
strategy in 1999 as well as some key features of the proposed multisector Private Investment Promotion
Project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Private Sector Capacity Building Component (Private Sector Foundation)
The Private Sector Foundation was responsible for the capacity building component, which included (a)
the matching grant fund; and (b) the project procurement and accounting coordination (discussed in
section 7.6 below).
-5 -



Matching-Grant Fund (MGF):
This component is rated satisfactory. The MGF was designed to help business associations and private
enterprises increase their competitiveness and efficiency through better access to business advisory
services and training programs. Support was delivered on a demand-driven and cost-sharing basis. The
specific objectives were to (i) improve entrepreneurs' management capacity; (ii) strengthen technical and
technological know-how; (iii) improve competitiveness by better monitoring production costs; (iv)
facilitate access to credit; and (v) increase market penetration.
As is shown in table 2, the PSF provided 577 grants for advisory services and training programs out of
771 signed agreements. The figures are in line with the target of 600 grants in the SAR. The PSF
selection process was rigorous and followed the MGF procedures manual.
Table 2: PSF Indicator of Activity by Year
YEAR               1996    1997   1998     1999   2000    2001  TOTAL
Grants disbursed    29      80     114     135   | 193    26       577
Agreements signed   64      167    182      188     170     -      771
Requests received   154     307    289     349     252     -      1351
An independent impact study carried out at completion of the MGF program notes the fund's successes.
About 380 enterprises, foundations (including micro-finance institutions), and consulting companies
benefited from the program. The majority of beneficiaries were enterprises (79 percent), with professional
associations accounting for about 16 percent and consulting firms about 5 percent. The study estimates
that investments resulting from the program amounted to about US$15 million. Some 1,500 jobs were
created and 2,700 people were trained as a result of the program. At project completion, beneficiary
enterprises had increased sales by 15 percent. The figures available at the writing of this report will likely
understate the impact of the program because a large number of beneficiary enterprises are either new (I I
percent) or expanding operations (57 percent).
The MGF had an important effect on the creation of Senegalese enterprises and covered a wide range of
enterprises. About one-third of the beneficiary enterprises, one-third of the foundations, and one-half of the
consulting firms were created with assistance provided under the MGF. While the MGF covered all
sectors, there was a concentration in the manufacturing and service sectors (to be expected in this type of
program). In manufacturing, beneficiary enterprises were primarily in construction, industrial fishing,
agro-industry, metal-mechanic, and textiles. The impact study notes that the MGF was instrumental in the
startup of projects in agriculture and livestock and in promoting service sector activities, while in the case
of manufacturing, MGF activities helped accelerate and improve the viability of projects in the planning
phases.
-6 -



Table 3: PSF Distribution of Activities by Sector and Type of Beneficiary
Sector                              Beneficiaries
Entreprises   Professional   Consulting       Grand Total
_  Associations*  Firms
Total (#)    301          l 62            17               380
(percent of total)
Primary      8.0                                           6.3
Secondary    59.5                                          47.1
Tertiary     32.5          100            100              46.6
Total        100           100            100               100
*figure includes a foundation that has 30 microfinance institutions.
The MGF program was mainly used for training in business development services (BDS), management
assistance, and marketing assistance, which together accounted for 77 percent of signed agreements (see
table 4). and partnership development totaled 14 percent of the grants, reflecting the nascent demand for
such assistance in the business community. Preparation of operational studies and assistance in technical
matters (technical know-how) accounted for 9 percent of PSF portfolio, respectively. The matching grant
projects were located mostly in Dakar because roughly 90 percent of formal Senegalese economic
activities are concentrated in the capital. The MGF also financed about 20 agreements with SMEs and
business associations operating in the region of Thies, 9 in Diourbel, and 8 in Saint-Louis.
Table 4: Distribution of Grants by Categories of Activities
Cat.   Training    Mgmt     Marketing/ Sales  Operational  Technical  Partnership  Total
in BDS    assistance   assistance     studies    know-how    development
Project   42%        19%          16%           9%          9%           5%       100%
closing
Over 90 percent of beneficiaries viewed the type of assistance received as relevant and of good quality.
Surveys of MGF beneficiaries provided qualitative information on the effect of the program. Grantees
noted that MGF activities helped them better define their needs and facilitated access to services by
promoting supply and lowering service delivery costs through cost-sharing. Beneficiaries indicated that the
program helped improve their management capacity and increase their annual turnover and productivity.
Beneficiaries also reported increases in employment as a result of the expansion of their activities. In
addition, the PSF enabled technical, commercial, and financial match making between local and foreign
enterprises, which provided its clients with new opportunities.
An important contribution of the MGF was the assistance provided to the informal sector association
UNACOIS (Union Nationale des Commercants et de l'Industrie du Senegal) to set up a network of 30
micro-finance institutions (MFIs) throughout the country.
In addition, PSF activities contributed to developing a market for business advisory services and
increasing competition among individual consultants and established firms. The PSF helped establish and
enhance the quality of business development services by screening and registering service providers, which
could then be taken off the registry if services did not meet a standard. Overall, 47 BDS providers were
registered (22 individual consultants and 25 firms) as a result of the program. The PSF also organized a
-7 -



forum in 1997 to raise awareness in the business community of the benefits of business advisory services.
The forum made existing services and established consultants better known. Over the life of the project,
beneficiary enterprises used the advisory services of more than 100 consultants at a cost of roughly US$5
million, covering such topics as (i) management advice; (ii) provision of economic, technical, and
commercial information; (iii) audits; (iv) preparation of business plans; (v) competitiveness improvement
and production cost monitoring; (vi) international accreditation, standardization, and quality (ISO); and
(vii) training programs. MGF activities increased employment in the advisory services field and generated
an estimated 1,080 jobs (consultants and support staff).
The PSF expanded its activities by building partnerships with institutions such as the Center for Enterprise
Development (CDE), the Institute for Promotion of Development Activities (IPAD), the African Project
Development Facility (APDF), the Canadian institution SACO, and the Centre de Commerce International
(CCI). These partnerships expanded the impact of the PSF by increasing its technical capacity and
financial resources through the sale of its services.
Policy and Legal Reforms Component
Competitiveness Review Group (CRG):
This sub-component is rated satisfactory. The CRG was designed to help key stakeholders (such as the
formal and informal private sector, trade unions, key government officials) identify policy and regulatory
constraints to developing the private sector, formulate remedial measures, and advocate their
implementation. The CRG expected to (i) improve the regulatory framework for the establishment of new
businesses; (ii) promote competition and competitiveness; and (iii) enable public-private consultation.
After the project mid-term review, the CRG's revised work program extended its activities to cluster
analysis for the tourism and information and communication technology (ICT) sectors, both of which are
expected to be leading sectors for future growth in Senegal.
The CRG helped to establish broadly the participatory approach in government practices with regard to
policy reforms. The CRG completed its work program in cross-sector issues (tax system, trade
procedures, among others) and cluster analysis (tourism, ICT). About 65 percent of the reforms
recommended to the government, including many important reforms, were implemented as described
below.
The CRG conducted studies aimed at identifying key institutional and policy constraints to business
activity. It operated as a think-tank, providing recommendations to the govenmment on policy changes,
including those that would ensure compliance with Senegal's agreements within the West African
Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS), and the World Trade Organization (WTO). CRG prepared recommendations on (i) reformns
in the infrastructure sectors (energy, air transport, telecommunications, port); (ii) tariff system reforms,
the structure of which was adjusted to meet WAEMU guidelines under the common external tariff
effective in early 2000; (iii) reforms in vocational training to make it more relevant; and (iv) formulation
of a strategic approach based on cluster analysis of the tourism and ICT sectors. Reforms in infrastructure
and vocational education were incorporated in programs supported by the Bank. Reforms related to
taxation, trade procedures, tourism, and ICT clusters will be included in the Private Investment Promotion
Project (PIPP), a Bank-supported operation under preparation.
- 8-



In the area of tax reforms, Senegal simplified its tariff structure from eight levels to four with a ceiling rate
of 20 percent in compliance with the common extemal tariff (CET) requirements. The CET has been in
effect within WAEMU countries since January 2000. Senegal has also been applying a single value-added
tax (VAT) of 18 percent of the WAEMU zone since July 2001.
In the telecommnunications sector, the CRG facilitated public-private consultations on sector strategy, to
help support key stakeholders. The CRG's recommendations aimed at promoting competition in this sector
and were incorporated in government's policy. As a result of the policy work carried out by CRG, the
government revised the Telecommunications Code in 2001, which introduced the liberalization of
value-added services (Internet providers and cellular phone operators), and established a regulatory agency
in early 2002. The PIPP project is expected to provide further assistance to the sector.
Concerning tourism, the CRG supported a cluster study that included recommendations for developing the
tourism sector. The technical ministry is preparing a sector development policy letter based on the study
and subsequent complementary work that will define the overall government policy for the sector, as well
as the legal framework, priority investments, and environmental issues to be addressed. The PIPP project
is expected to include support for tourism as a follow-up to CRG work.
The CRG also assisted in establishing institutions that provide support to the private sector:
(i)  The Trade Point Senegal (TPS) provides commercial information to the business community, and it
initiated a trade "e-clearance" process to mainstream procedures and reduce delays. This trade
facilitation initiative has paved the way for the implementation of a computerized trade statistics
system. It is also the origin of an ongoing reform of customs that will, for example, result in much
faster customs clearance of containers.
(ii) The Industrial Subcontracting Network (BSTP), in operation since January 2001, promotes
subcontracting partnerships among SMEs. The BSTP already has 63 SME members, which confirms
SMEs' interest in taking advantage of outsourcing opportunities. The BSTP facilitated 17 of 34
outsourcing partnership applications and is organizing the remaining requests.
(iii) The Standardization and Quality Association (ASN) promotes the application of international
standards to encourage competitiveness of industry. In addition, with the support of the European
Commission, the ASN is involved in establishing a WAEMU system for accreditation,
standardization, and quality promotion that is aimed at supporting sub-regional participation in
international trade.
Legal Reform Committee (LRC)
This component is rated unsatisfactory, largely due to delays in implementation of some important
measures. The legal reform component implemented by the LRC was organized around five specific
objectives:
-9-



(i)  enforcement of business laws;
(ii)  dissemination of business legislation;
(iii) strengthening private enterprise rights vis-a-vis the state;
(iv) modemnizing legislation affecting private businesses; and
(v)  improvements in debt collection mechanisms and revision of banking legislation
to facilitate access to credit.
At completion of the project, objectives (i) and (ii) had been largely achieved, while objectives (iii) and (iv)
were only partially implemented, and the measures planned under objective (v) were not implemented at all.
Refonms in debt collection mechanisms and banking legislation envisaged under (v) were dropped from the
LRC program because of delays in reaching an agreement on the reform agenda.
Refonms brought under the component have contributed to improving the business environment by, among
other things (i) improving trust between law enforcement and the private sector it serves; (ii) training
members of the legal and judicial professions in business law, and the creation of a training center (Centre
de Fonnation Judiciare); (iii) supporting the creation of an arbitrage center for dispute resolution; (iv)
facilitating business legislation dissemination through the publication of the Official Gazette; (v) preparing
for the harnonization of national laws and business laws in compliance with the Organization for the
Harmonization of African Business Law (OHADA); and (vi) improving administration in part through the
reorganization of the office of the Clerk of the Dakar Regional Court.
The Arbitration Center (Centre d'Arbitrage), in operation since 1999, has had a significant impact on
business transactions. It successfully handled four of the five cases it received. Reflecting its importance,
business contracts have included altemative dispute resolution clauses since the center's establishment. The
center has had an important training role as well. It organized a well-attended regional workshop on
alternative dispute resolution for members of the legal profession and specialized trainers. The workshop
was organized in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Negotiation and Conflict
Management Group of Nigeria (NCMG). The center has registered 70 intemational arbitrators on its
roster.
The LCR supported the strengthening of the National Printing Office which now publishes the Official
Gazette on regular basis. This has permitted the timely dissemination of business legislation. The LCR
also played a leading role in the harmonization of national business laws to comply with OHADA (the
regional framework guidelines) by providing technical assistance and training to the relevant government
agencies and by sponsoring communication campaigns.
In spite of these accomplishments, however, the assessment of the component outputs reflects that some
important activities were not completed at project closing. Part of the delays stemmed from the slowdown
preceding and following the 2000 presidential elections. Also affecting the performance of the LRC was its
organizational structure. The minister of justice presided over the LRC, an arrangement that was expected
to ensure government accountability and speed the pace of reforms. In practice, however, the minister was
unable to provide regular leadership to the LCR, and no arrangement was worked out to ensure follow-up
in his absence. Over the life of the project, there were three ministers of justice, which undoubtedly
contributed to further delays. In addition, consultant work was not rigorously followed up.
Specialized Services to Strengthen Government Capacity (Technical Assistance to the Government)
This component included two sub-components: assistance to the government privatization program and a
- 10 -



communications program. During the final 18 months of project implementation, high-priority emerging
activities were included in the component. The priority activities were (i) support for a newly created
investment promotion agency (APIX), which had been identified as a priority; and (ii) support to the
ministry of finance that included an evaluation of pension systems that were facing problems, with a view
to determine remedial actions; training programs on economic and technical regulation in the
infrastructure sectors; and upgrading of information systems in key areas of the ministry.
Privatization
The privatization program supported by the project is rated unsatisfactory. The project was expected to
help the government accelerate the divestiture program, define relevant privatization strategies for
sector-related public enterprises (PEs), and upgrade the capacity of the executing unit, the Cellule de
Gestion et de Contr6le du Portefeuille de l'Etat (CGCPE).
At appraisal, the project was expected to support government divestiture of 18 PEs. At project closing,
nine PEs were privatized, four liquidated, and five pending (see table 5). Among the pending enterprises
are three key enterprises: cotton ginning, groundnut processing, and a property holding company.
The privatization program advanced relatively well until 1999. During the period leading up to the
elections in 2000 and following the subsequent change in govemment, there was a significant slowdown in
activities. The government has since confirned its commitment to reinitiate the divestiture process, and the
privatization of the remaining PEs is expected to be completed in 2004. The Government of Senegal has
also kept minority shares in 19 privatized enterprises that are expected to be divested, with the exception
of one large hotel that cannot be privatized because of agreements under an international treaty.
Table 5: Privatization Program Implementation Status
Privatized                 Liquidated                   Pending
SAED                        CSPS                        SODEFITEX (2002)
SONADIS                     SH-Saly                     SONACOS (2003)
SSPT                        SIAS                        SICAP (TBD)
SH-Teranga                  SONEPI                      SODIDA (2002)
Air Senegal                                             MSAD (TBD)
SOTEXKA
HAMO
ASACE
Dakar Marine
The project made positive direct and indirect contributions to the government's overall privatization
program. The government's program was broader than the one narrowly covered by the project and
included privatization of infrastructure services such as telecommunications, water and sanitation,
transport, and energy. Infrastructure reform was supported through sectoral Bank-supported operations,
with CGCPE providing facilitation to the sectoral project implementation units. Although some
post-privatization problems have weakened sustainability of the energy sector privatization, by and large
infrastructure reforms have been concluded successfully.
The legal framework for privatization was issued in August 1987, with a framework law (i) stating clear
objectives and principles of the program implementation, such as a competitive process, a preliminary
-11-



assessment of assets and shares of financial value, and a pay-for-cash principle; and (ii) defining the
institutional bodies [the Commission Speciale de Suivi du Desengagement de l'Etat (CSSDE) and
CGCPE] and stating the list of PEs to be privatized. The outline law was widely regarded as incorporating
best practice. It did not need to be revised in the context of project implementation and is not the cause of
the shortcomings observed in the privatization process.
Rather, the weakness of the privatization process underpinning the project was that it was broadly based
on the sale of state-owned shares and assets. While this approach might have been valid for small PEs, in
a number of important cases the sectors' strategic context and objectives should have been more explicitly
taken into account to ensure successful transactions. For example, the privatization of SONACOS
(groundnuts processor) was unsuccessful after two biddings because the applicable future trade regime,
financing schemes, taxes, and subsidies had not been clearly defined and the social impact mitigation
measures had not been formulated.
At the institutional level, the CSSDE was the interministerial body responsible for helping the minister in
charge of the public portfolio to set the divestiture policy. The CGCPE, as the implementing unit of the
divestiture program, was expected to (i) access specialized extemal expertise or develop the required
internal expertise to prepare high-quality bidding processes and documents; (ii) carry out broad
communication initiatives aimed at raising awareness and building consensus on potential benefits of the
privatization program, in view of improving the economy's performance; and (iii) set the agenda for
private participation in infrastructure. The CGCPE did not effectively become a leader in the privatization
process; it also failed to set a credible agenda for future reforms.
Communication
The communication program is rated satisfactory largely because many of its activities became an integral
part of the implementation of other project components. The overall objective of this sub-component was
to help the government consolidate and broaden the dialogue that was initiated with representatives of the
private sector through CRG. As a result, only a minority of self-standing activities were not implemented
due to difficulties in the procurement of the firmn that would have been responsible for implementing the
sub-component. Unused resources were subsequently reallocated toward the emerging high-priority
activities (investment promotion, PPI regulation, pension reform) that were implemented highly
satisfactorily.
Investment promotion agency (APIX)
APIX activities are rated satisfactory. The project supported consultant services that helped APIX to
clarify its mission, define the basic functions of investment promotion, and issue its business plan. The
project partially covered APIX's initial operating costs. The APIX business plan is now completed, and
the agency is fully operational and carrying out its activities in investment-climate reform, investor
servicing, and image building. APIX also took over the project closing activities, and the goverrment has
been appointed it to lead the preparation of the follow-up operation (PIPP). The support was provided to
APIX at a critical time when the agency lacked resources for start-up and was still in the process of
formulating its strategic plan. In part due to this support, APIX has become one of the best-performing
investment promotion agencies in Africa.
-12-



Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Support to the Ministry of finance is rated satisfactory. The project supported the MOF for an assessment
of the pension systems, for capacity building in public regulation in infrastructure sectors, and for
upgrading of key inforrnation systems.
The pension system assessment was completed and followed by a workshop attended by govermnent
officials involved in pension reform (labor and finance ministries), representatives of the private sector,
and trade unions. The workshop helped to build consensus on the diagnosis of pension systems problems
as well as to define altematives for fiscally sustainable reforms. An action plan is now being prepared with
Bank support. The scope of reforms envisaged would make Senegal a leader in Africa once this action
plan is implemented. Early action by the governnent will help reduce a contingent macroeconomic
liability. Other benefits include an improved social safety net and greater availability of termn financial
resources that would help fuel private investment and growth.
In partnership with the World Bank Institute (WBI), the MOF initiated regional training programs in
economic regulation of infrastructure sectors. Three sessions have been completed, which were attended by
West Africa francophone regulators, Senegalese technical staff of the infrastructure departments and
regulation agencies involved, as well as private entrepreneurs. A network of participants has emerged that
will facilitate experience and knowledge sharing within African countries. This initiative has helped raise
awareness of the importance and complexity of PPI regulation and management among investors,
operators, and consumers. Senegal has now effectively become a training hub on this topic and is helping
meet the strong demand for follow-up seminars, which are increasingly offered by local trainers.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No NPV/ERR was computed in the SAR. The project has produced positive economic benefits
by improving the business environment, which in turn is expected to lead to increased domestic
and foreign investment. It has also improved capacity of SMEs and the local business advisory
service providers as reported in beneficiaries' surveys. The project supported the establishment
and development of micro-finance institutions (MFIs) initiated by the informal sector association
UNACOIS. These MFIs are providing their members with financial services for their economic
inclusion.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was included in the SAR.
4.5 Instituitional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was modest, in part because of the institutional change and
rationalization called for by the Private Sector Development (PSD) strategy that occurred after 2000. The
project made a significant contribution to establishing and strengthening the key institutions dedicated to
private sector development, as well as SMEs and business advisory service providers that participated in
the matching grant fund. In spite of significant accomplishments described below, the institutional
development impact is regarded as modest; three of the institutions linked with the implementation of the
project - PSF, CRG, and LRC - are no longer involved in private sector support, because the government
decided to streamline the institutional framework for private sector support.
The project supported the creation of the Investment Promotion Agency (APIX). By end of April 2001, the
initial project closing date, APIX inherited the responsibility for coordinating project completion activities.
- 13-



APIX internalized the project's technical documentation in its informnation center and recruited most of its
staff.
The training programs on PPI regulation, which the ministry of finance initiated in partnership with WBI,
helped build capacity among both private and public actors involved in infrastructure sectors.
Most of the SMEs supported by the matching grant improved their performance as stated in the output
section, even though the full benefits of the program cannot be quantified at this point. The project was
also pivotal in stimulating the development of firms that provide business advisory services.
The assistance provided by CRG had significant institutional development impact on (i) the Trade Point
Senegal (TPS), which provides commercial information to entrepreneurs and trade e-clearance software to
the customers; (ii) the Bourse de Sous-traitance et Partenariat (BSTP), the industrial subcontracting
network that promotes subcontracting match making between private enterprises; and (iii) the Association
Senegalaise de Normalisation (ASN), which promotes metrology, standardization, and quality of
Senegalese products.
The project's legal component supported the creation and strengthening of legal institutions. The project
strengthened the Imprimerie Nationale, which is responsible for the publication of laws and their decrees in
the Official Gazette (now appearing regularly), and the Centre de Formation Judiciaire, which provides
training programs for judges relating to business legislation. It also supported the creation of the Centre
d'Arbitrage, which provides arbitration and mediation for the resolution of business disputes.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
Some factors beyond the control of the government and the implementing agency influenced the project.
The matching grant fund was an innovative tool that was designed on a demand-driven, cost-sharing basis
and had to be promoted among entrepreneurs. Thus, disbursements were relatively low in the first years of
project implementation, and operating costs compared to grants awarded were relatively high. However,
this problem was resolved as the facility became better known and operational procedures were simplified
in 1999. The ratio of grants increased from 49 percent of the annual budget in 1996 to 72 percent in 1999.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project implementation suffered from delays in decision making and changes in government. There were
five ministers of finance and three ministers of justice during the life of the project. Delays in decision
making affected the implementation of the legal reform component and the commnunication program under
the responsibility of the ministry of finance. For instance, at project closing, the government had not taken
action to resolve a contractual disagreement between the service provider charged with updating and
modemizing the commercial register of the Dakar Regional Court and the project institutions (LRC/PSF).
In addition, the government in office during the first three years of project implementation did little to
resolve problems among component coordinators (discussed below).
The new government that took office in 2000 decided not to continue supporting the PSF and transferred
the tasks of the CRG and the LRC to other institutions. Because of this decision, particularly the one
relating to the PSF, the institutional sustainability of the project was affected until new structures became
operational.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PSF, the project coordinating agency, was not formally charged with technical supervision; its mandate
- 14 -



was to handle the administrative and financial requirements. The project procurement implementation was
unsatisfactory for a period, partly due to the failure of the coordinating agency to effectively control project
contracting.
The relationship between the PSF and the other project institutions (CRG, LRC, and privatization)
depended on agreement protocols. However, there was no formal manual of procedures that spelled out the
functions of the PSF, which led to a number of misunderstandings within the project. Although this
hindered progress, the main difficulties stemmed for personalities - problems that could not have been
resolved with a procedures manual. In fact, the PSF and component managers were not proactive in
resolving differences on an informal basis, and the government did not intervene to make the institutional
arrangements more effective.
In terms of technical supervision of the private sector component, the PSF supervisory bodies, the Board of
Administrators, and the Consultative Committee (consisting of private sector representatives) did not carry
out their functions as expected. The Board and Committee were to provide technical and financial
supervision and strategic guidance, and to play an advisory role for PSF management. In practice, the
supervisory bodies were not fully effective, and the PSF management carried out its functions with little
support or oversight from the representatives of the beneficiaries.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The original cost of the project was estimated a US$20.3 million. Of this amount the IDA credit would
provide US$12.5 million equivalent in SDR and the Government of Senegal and private sector would
provide US$7.8 million. The project became effective on January 30, 1996, with an original
implementation period of five years. It was originally expected to close on April 30, 2001, but it was
extended to October 31, 2001, to allow additional time to complete ongoing procurement and impact
assessments. Total disbursements of Credit costs at completion were estimated to be US$10.6 million,
representing 97.8 percent of the original Credit in SDR. The apparent disparity between the disbursement
percentages and ratio of planned to actual disbursements in US$ is explained by its appreciation vis-a-vis
SDR.
Freed-up resources from the communications sub-component and funds from the PSF, which used fewer
resources than estimated in the matching grant, namely SDR I million, were reallocated to support the
ministry of finance initiatives and APIX as detailed in the section on revised objectives.
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely because the improvements in the business environment were
important and largely irreversible. Furthermore, the business advisory services to private business
associations and enterprises are likely to have lasting positive effects on the beneficiaries. The MGF helped
to shape and develop the nascent consultancy market in business development services, to widen advisory
service availability, to sharpen competition and client choices, and to set the sector on the path of
world-class services.
The participatory process introduced in the project is now built into government practices. This was
reflected in formulation of the Private Sector Development Strategy (1999) as well as the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP 2002) that was preceded by a wide consultation process with relevant
stakeholders.
- 15-



The economic, legal, and institutional reforms initiated under the project have contributed to improving the
business environment and have set the groundwork for far-reaching reforms in the infrastructure sectors -
the upgrading of which is critical to business competitiveness. A number of institutions were established
that will provide lasting support to the private sector.
The government divestiture program gave new opportunities for private sector-led growth and better
focused the government's intervention in setting up a comprehensive business environment. By improving
access and quality in service delivery, the program helped to reduce adverse fiscal effects generated in
general by mismanagement of former public enterprises. The privatization program's sustainability could
have been greater if the divestiture program had been completed and if government had not retained a
minority share in commercial and industrial privatized firms.
Ultimately, the sustainability of the project depends on the govemment's willingness to continue the
programs and processes initiated under the project, as well as the private entrepreneurs' recourse to
business development services that improve their competitiveness. Discussions on the project under
preparation (PIPP) reflect continued government support for the reform agenda. Evidence indicates that
enterprises are continuing to use advisory services to improve their competencies and projects and that the
advisory services available in the country have increased in quality and quantity.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the project activities were integrated into the regular activities of the concerned government
agencies (ministries of finance and justice). The investment promotion agency (APIX) inherited most of the
activities aimed at improving the business environment. Discussions are under way with the government
and the private sector to define priorities for future Bank support to deepen the achievements under the
completed project. The new PSD operation will be expected to (i) address investment climate issues,
including red tape in the business environment, mainstream investor administrative procedures, and
simplify the tax system; (ii) improve PPI schemes and public regulation mechanisms; (iii) develop sector
clusters with high growth and export potential (tourism, ICT, and agri-business); and (iv) provide
institutional support to business institutions, including APIX.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
World Bank performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the PSCBP was satisfactory.
The project objective of supporting government efforts to promote private sector-led growth in a sound
business environment was consistent with government priorities and the World Bank Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). During project preparation, the World Bank team worked closely with private
entrepreneurs in the design of the project and in so doing promoted a consultative process still in use today.
7.2 Supervision:
The World Bank team's supervision of the project was generally satisfactory. Over most of the project
implementation period, the project was closely followed through frequent supervision visits (usually three
per year). In addition, the World Bank country office worked in close collaboration with headquarters staff,
which provided continuity of Bank advice. Project implementation progress was well reported in
aide-memoire that identified the problems and stated clear recommendations and actions to be carried out.
Performance ratings in the Project Status Report (PSRs) ranged from satisfactory to unsatisfactory. A
procurement audit conducted in May 2001 pointed to insufficient knowledge of procurement rules by the
World Bank team working on the project at the time. The audit focused on an 18-month period in 1999 and
2000 and concluded that there was a weakness in procurement supervision. The team did not involve a
- 16 -



procurement specialist accordingly. The audit revealed that there was a general weakness in compliance
with IDA consultant selection procedures during the period reviewed, especially with respect to sole source
and large contracts subject to prior review. Although procurement procedures were not strictly followed,
the audit did not identify cases of misprocurement. The team that supervised the project since 2000,
included staff qualified in procurement and there were no particular difficulties in procurement work. This
had also been the case in the period preceding 1999.
The mid-termn review, initially scheduled for February 1997, took place in June 1998 because the
implementing agency initiated an evaluation of the matching grant in January 1997, 10 months after its
effectiveness. The mid-tern review was carefully carried out, and the team took stock of the project
achievements and proposed actions aimed at improving project implementation, as already discussed. The
review involved the key stakeholders: the administration, the private sector, and the donor community. It
spelled out recommendations to simplify the operational procedures requested by the business community.
Subsequent to mid-term review, the work program was adjusted regularly and pro-actively to reflect
emerging priorities.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On the basis of the above, the overall World Bank performance is satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
The borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The government participated actively in
project design and involved all key stakeholders. It promoted an innovative process of public-private
consultations that has proven effective in helping design policies and programs to support the private sector
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite the substantial progress made on the policy front, the government's overall performance in project
implementation was unsatisfactory. Slow decision making and lack of government leadership were key
factors in the delayed implementation of the privatization program and the legal reform component. The
government did not take a leadership role in helping to resolve project issues, including those relating to the
implementation arrangements, and it took a long time to resolve contractual disputes. For instance, a
contractual disagreement between the Legal Reform Committee (LRC), the implementing unit (PSF), and a
service provider, which involved services agreed upon, termns of reference, and the subsequent financial
compensation, has not yet been resolved, in spite of repeated requests by the World Bank. Also, due to the
problems with government leadership, the project faced serious counterpart problems at one point in the
program.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PSF as a coordinating and project management unit was unsatisfactory. The PSF
was responsible for procurement and the financial management of the project although it was not charged
with the technical supervision of the components. The PSF performed its basic accounting and financial
management functions satisfactorily; project accounts were audited annually and were generally
satisfactory. The PSF however, was not able to provide leadership to project agencies on procurement
matters and had difficulties mastering the coordinating function, that was assigned to it in part because of
weaknesses in procurement skills. In April 2001, the government assigned the project coordinating
functions to the newly created APIX. Finally, while the CRG and PSF (matching grant fund) implemented
their respective components satisfactorily, the CRG and the CGCPE did not complete activities at project
end in part because of institutional problems.
- 17 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance was unsatisfactory. In spite of its effort to build a conducive business
environment and in spite of the progress made on the policy front, the government did not take the
leadership in resolving project issues. Government inaction was the main reason that more progress was not
achieved in some areas, particularly in privatization, communication, and legal reform.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons are derived from the design and the implementation of the PSCBP.
(i)  The implementation arrangements should ensure that there is an entity formally responsible for
project technical coordination and monitoring that would be in a position and has the incentives to
solve problems in a timely manner.
(ii)  An integrated manual of procedures, clearly stating the procurement and financial management
roadmap as well as each entity's responsibility, is useful to project success.
(iii) Procurement supervision should be carried out by accredited staff or a procurement specialist who
should formally be part of the World Bank team. The executing unit capacity in generic topics
(procurement, financial management, and disbursement) are critical for project performance.
(iv)  Matching grant fund operational procedures must ensure expeditious processing of the applications
while ensuring the stakeholders fiduciary and governance responsibilities.
(v)  The sustainability of the instruments and the institutions supported under the project must be
addressed in project design and monitored during project implementation.
(vi) Sustained commitment, flexibility, and expeditious decision making on the part of the government are
critical for good project performance. Most accomplishments under this project would not have been
achieved without the Senegalese authorities' commitment to improving the business environment. The
project's failures reflect government inaction in certain areas.
(vii) An output-based financing mechanism could be an effective tool for committing the project
institutions to drive for results and achieve their assigned performance. It may be worth promoting
the output-based approach in future operations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has prepared a contribution to the ICR which is attached in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinancters:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
During the Implementation Completion Report mission several business associations and beneficiaries
acknowledged their critical role in participating in the constructive policy dialogue with the government and
in making the business environment appropriate for their operations. They pointed out the financial
dependency of business facilitation institutions on donor resources, which may affect their financial
sustainability, even though those institutions and their instruments proved useful to the beneficiaries.
10. Additional Information
N.A.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome ! Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Private Sector Capacty Building   - Improved beneficianes competitiveness  -At project closing some US$15 million in
- Improve efficiency and oompebtiveness of                                 investments were generated.
private business associations and                                          -At project closing some 1,500 jobs were
enterprises                                                                generated; this figure understates job
generabon as a number of firms still
completing investnents.
-Beneficiaries confirm that the program
improved their mgmt. and technical
capacibes.
2. Policy and Legal Reforms          - Improved business regulatory environment -Policy and regulatory framework for private
-More policy and regulatory framework for                                  sector operations improved.
business
- Enhanced pubtic-pnvate consultation  -Public-private consultabon is now built in the
-Improved Govemment-private sector                                         Govemment of Senegal practices
partnership in policy formulation and
implementation                                                            -Judicial service delivery strengthened.
-Strengthen legal framework for private                                    -Laws and regulations disseminated
sector activities and improve the funcioning
of the judicial system in areas that have an
immediate impact on enterprise operations
3 Technical assistance to the Govemment  - Privatzation program partially completed  -Project helped advance the divestiture
-Accelerate Gov Divestiture Program.                                       process although envisaged privatzation of
-Improve Communications                                                    some key enterpnses still underway.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Private sector foundation (PSF)   - 577 projects had been financed through the -About 577 projects for 380 private firms and
- 600 projects to be financed by the end of  matching grant fund.          associations supported.
the project                                                               -About one third of the beneficiary
enterprises, one third of the foundabons, and
one half of consulting firms were new.
-One of the beneficiary foundabons
compnses about 30 microfinance institutions
-Around US$5.5 million were spent for the
technical assistance and training programs
Beneficiaries contribution were about 50% of
this amount.
2 Policy and Legal Reform                                                 -Reforms proposed and accepted by
Competitiveness review group (CRG)    - Business legislation improved      Govemment in infrastructure (energy and
telecom.); vocational training, tourism & ICT
-Institutions supporting the private sector
established including TPS, the Industrial
Subcontracting Partnership and the
Standardization and Quality association-
-National legislabon made consistent with
OHADA
-Arbitration Center established.
Legal reform committee (LRC).                                              -Official Gazette published regularly.
3 Technical assistance to the GOS                                          -9 PEs were pnvatized; 4 liquidated; 5 in the
- Privatization of 18 enterprises.                                         process of being privatized.
- Communication.                                                           -Communication plan not.
End of project
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
Policy and Legal Reforms                            2.96           3.21          108.4
Private Sector Foundation                           12.40          8.20          66.12
Technical Assistance to the GOS                     2.35           2.04           86.8
Project Monitoring and Audits                       0.25           0.20             80
Refund of PPF Advance                               0.60           0.46           76.6
Contingencies                                        1.74          0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                20.30          14.11
Total Project Costs            20.30          14.11
Total Financing Required             20.30          14.11
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.35         0.10         0.00         0.45
(0.00)       (0.35)       (0.10)       (0.00)       (0.45)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          7.90         6.90        14.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (7.90)       (0.00)       (7.90)
4. Service Contracts/        0.00         0.40         0.10          0.00        0.50
Communication
(0.00)       (0.40)       (0. 1 0)     (0.00)       (0.50)
5. Operating Costs           0.00         0.00         3.95         0.00         3.95
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.05)       (0.00)       (3.05)
6. PPF Refinancing           0.00         0.00         0.60          0.00        0.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.60)       (0.00)       (0.60)
Total                      0.00         0.75         12.65        6.90        20.30
(0.00)       (0.75)       (11.75)      (0.00)       (12.50)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB           NCB           Othero        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.00           0.86          0.24           0.00          1.10
(0.00)         (0.86)        (0.24)        (0.00)        (1. 1 0)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          5.73           0.00          5.73
(0.00)         (0.00)        (5.73)        (0.00)        (5.73)
4. Service Contracts!            0.00          1.00          0.19           0.00          1.19
Communication
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.90)        (0.00)        (0.90)
5. Operating Costs              0.00           0.00          2.82           0.00          2.82
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.40)        (0.00)        (2.40)
6. PPF Refinancing              0.00           0.00          0.46           0.00          0.46
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.46)        (0.00)        (0.46)
Total                         0.00           1.86          9.44          0.00          11.30
(0.00)         (0.86)       (9.73)         (0.00)        (10.59)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan All costs includc contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, tcchnical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Policy and Legal Reforms  2.51      0.45                2.58      0.63              102.8  140.0
Private Sector Foundation  6.30     6.10                5.70      2.50              90.5   41.0
Technical Assistance to the  1.90   0.45                1.71      0.33              90.0   73.3
GOS
Project Monitoring and    0.25      0.00                0.20      0.00              80.0    0.0
Audits
Refund of PPF Advance     0.60      0.00                0.46      0.00              76.7    0.0
Contingencies             0.94      0.80                0.00      0.00               0.0    00
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Dec. 1991                    6    1 Princ. Industrial Economist, 2
Consultants, I Investment
Officer, I Operat. Officer, I
Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Oct 1994                     9    1 Operat. Officer, I Public
Enterprise Spec, I
Economist, 2 Consultants, I
Financial Spec., I Lawyer I
Operat. Officer, I Project
Advisor
Supervision
July 1995                     1   1 Sr. Operat. Officer               S             S
Dec 1995                      I   I Sr. Operat. Officer               S             S
July 1996                     1   1 Sr Operat. Officer                S             S
Dec. 1996                     2   1 Sr Operat. Officer, I Public      S             S
Enterprise Spec.
April 1997                    4    I Sr Operat. Officer, I Public     S              S
Enterprise Spec., 2 Consultants
Oct. 1997                     2    I Sr. Operat. Officer, I Public    S              S
Enterprise Spec.
Oct 1998                      4    1 Sr Operat. Officer, I Public     S              S
Enterprise Spec, 2 Private Sect.
Spec.
May 1999                      4   1 Financial Analyst, I Sr.          S              S
Operat. Officer, t Public
Enterprise Spec., I Pnvate Sect.
Spec.
Nov. 1999                     3   1 Financial Analyst, I Sr.
Operat. Officer, I Economist
July 2000                     4   1 Financial Analyst, I Operat.      S              S
Officer, I Public Enterpnse
Spec., I Private Sect. Spec.
Nov. 2000                     6    I Proc. Spec., I Sr. Economist, I  S              S
Economist, I Private Sect. Spec,
I Matching Grant Spec., I
Financial Mgmt Spec.
July 2001                     3    1 Sr. Economist, I Private Sect.   S              S
Dev. Spec., I Financial Mgmt
Spec.
ICR
Nov. 2001                     3    1 Sr. Economist, I Private         S              S
Sect. Spec., I Proc. Spec.
- 23 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  1               Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              42.2                       73.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                   12.4                       38.5
Supervision                            222.6                      346.6
ICR                                    16.34                        8.8
Total                                 293.54                      467.8
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
G Macro policies                         O H  * SU G M    O N  O NA
Oi Sector Policies                       O H  O SU * M    O N  O NA
a Physical                               O H  O SU O M    O N  * NA
O Financial                              O H  O SU 3 M    O N  * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU * M    O N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Gender                          O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Other (Please specfy)           O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
0 Private sector development             0 H  0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management               0 H  0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
G Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM         N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           O HS * S      O U   O HU
O Supervision                                       O HS * S     C) U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
Ol Government implementation performance            O HS O S     * U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       * U    O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       * U    O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*    Staff Appraisal Report
*    Development Credit Agreement
*    Aide-Memoire and Project Status Reports
*    Bilan et Perspectives de la Fondation Secteur Prive
*    Bilan et Perspectives du Groupe de Reflexion pour la Competitivite et la Croissance
*    Bilan et Perspectives du Comite de Reforme Juridique
*    Bilan et Perspectives du Programme de Privatisation
*    Procurement Audit
*    Borrower's Evaluation Report
- 27 -



Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Contribution du Gouvernement du Senegal au Rapport de Fin d'Execution
du Projet de Renforcement des Capacites du Secteur Prive
I. Enonce des obiectifs
Le Projet de Renforcement des Capacites du Secteur Prive (PRCSP) a fait suite au Projet d'Ajustement
Structurel et de Competitivite du Secteur Prive (PASCO) et est destine a contribuer au renforcement de
la competitivite du secteur prive au Senegal et aider le pays a tirer profit des recentes ameliorations de
l'environnement et des opportunites nouvelles ainsi creees.
Finance par la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvemement du Senegal en 1995 (accord de credit n 2759
SE), le projet etait articule autour de cinq composantes independantes les unes des autres:
>      le Groupe de Reflexion sur la Competitivite et la Croissance (GRCC);
>      la levee des entraves dans 1'environnement juridique des entreprises confiee au Comite de Reformes
Juridiques (CRJ);
>      I'appui a la gestion du programme de privatisation des entreprises publiques a travers la Cellule de
Gestion et de Contr6le du Portefeuille de l'Etat (CGCPE);
>      la Communication sur les reformnes economiques du Gouvemement; et
>      le renforcement des capacites techniques et de gestion des entreprises privees et la restructuration
des organisations patronales et des associations professionnelles confies a la Fondation Secteur
Prive (FSP).
Les objectifs assignes au projet se presentent comme suit: (i) ameliorer la competitivite et l'efficacite
des entreprises privees et des associations d'entreprises; (ii) renforcer les reformes economiques en
analysant les contraintes aux activites du secteur prive et en proposant les mesures appropriees pour les
eliminer; (iii) ameliorer le cadre juridique; (iv) accelerer la mise en ceuvre du progranmme de
privatisation; (v) developper un programme de communication vers les principaux acteurs pour une
meilleure adhesion aux reformes economiques en cours.
11 convient de souligner d'ores et deja que la composante relative a la communication n'a pas pu
demarrer.
Les activites menees au niveau du projet sont presentees ci-apres par composante.
II. Bilan des realisations par comDosante
A-La Fondation Secteur Priv& FSP
Elle a ete creee en 1995 sous forme d'une fondation d'utilite publique a but non lucratif, apres la
devaluation du Franc CFA, a la demande du Secteur prive et en relation avec la Banque mondiale, par
35 membres fondateurs et la participation financiere exclusive de I'Etat du Senegal a son capital. Les
personnes morales et physiques qui ont porte la FSP sur les fonds baptismaux venaient exclusivement
du secteur prive et comprenaient des chefs d'entreprises, des consultants et des dirigeants
d'organisations patronales et professionnelles. Ces membres venaient a la fois du secteur formel et du
secteur informel. 11 etait prevu la participation de certaines institutions financieres dont I'A.P.D.F.,
- 28 -



filiale de la S.F.I; mais celle-ci n'avait pas pu faire partie du Conseil. La FSP devait jouer un role de
catalyseur et d'intermediaire entre les entreprises et organisations ayant des besoins d'assistance et des
consultants individuels ou en cabinets, nationaux ou intemationaux. Une etude sur la demande du
secteur prive fut commanditee ainsi qu'un manuel des procedures pour les operations et
I'administration (passation de marches, etc.) de la Fondation, les statuts et reglement interieur. La
creation de la FSP devait permettre aux entrepfises privees et aux organisations d'entreprises de
beneficier des services d'assistance, necessaires a l'amelioration de leurs operations et de leur
competitivite ou efficience.
Durant les phases de preparation et de planification du projet, le secteur prive a ete reguli&rement
implique notamment sur la definition du concept. Cependant, il n'a pas ete implique au niveau des
procedures qui n'ont fait l'objet de discussions qu'entre la Banque Mondiale et le gouvemement. Afin
d'assurer un demarrage satisfaisant au projet, les differentes parties organiserent un atelier de
planification (ZOPP) de trois (3) jours. Durant la phase de preparation du fonds d'appui, la Banque a
mis a profit l'experience des managers de fonds similaires au Kenya et en Inde. Cependant, il convient
de souligner que ces fonds etaient specialises et orientes exclusivement vers l'exportation, alors que le
Fonds gere par la FSP etait generaliste. L'atelier de planification a permis de preciser les objectifs et de
faire un business plan precisant les activites qui devaient permettre d'atteindre les cinq objectifs
sp6cifiques destines a appuyer le secteur prive:
(i) auneliorer les capacites de gestion; (ii) amnliorer les capacites techniques; (iii) augmenter la
productivite des entreprises, la qualite des produits et partant la comrpetitivite; (iv) augmenter l'acces
aux marches; et (v) faciliter l'acces au credit bancaire.
Un objectif global de 600 appuis repartis sur les entreprises et les organisations pour la dur6e de vie du
projet avait 6te fixe dans le document d'evaluation < staff appraisal report )) (SAR).
Les objectifs specifiques fixes dans le SAR etaient tres generaux et comportaient des indicateurs de
performance qui, dans une approche basee sur la demande, etaient difficiles a traduire quantitativement
en performance reelle pour les clients. Le fait que la cible soit egalement definie sans grande precision
faisait que les beneficiaires potentiels du Fonds etaient tres varies et difficiles a circonscrire. Tres
rapidement d'ailleurs, les objectifs et le manuel de procedures furent decries et un nouvel atelier permit
en 1997, de definir une nouvelle approche approuvee par les beneficiaires. Celle-ci preconisait plus de
souplesse, une meilleure segmentation des clients et finalement plus orientee vers l'offre de services.
Apres l'atelier de revue a mi-parcours en 1998, furent egalement revus les objectifs, sans modifications
des criteres d'evaluation. De cinq, les objectifs furent ramenes a quatre avec la fusion de l'objectif
d'augmentation de la productivite et celui d'amelioration des capacites techniques et technologiques des
beneficiaires. A l'appui de ces modifications, la Banque accepta en 1999, d'enteriner les allegements de
procedures, ce qui eut pour effet d'ameliorer 1'efficacite operationnelle et d'amplifier les activites de la
FSP.
A-1 Principaux resultats quantitatifs atteints par la FSP
V      Octroi de 2,8 millions de dollars US (2,18 milliards de francs CFA) en subventions pour des
prestations d'assistance technique ou de formation, soit une participation de 50,7% prise en charge
par la fondation sur un investissement total de 4,3 milliards de francs CFA;
V      Participation a l'evolution du chiffre d'affaires des entreprises et organisations beneficiaires: 15%;
/      Soutien a la creation et a la consolidation de 1500 emplois;
V      Participation au financement de 573 projets (conseil en gestion et formation: 32%, appui au choix
- 29 -



technologique: 15%, promotion commerciale: 25% et developpement de partenariat: 3%) sous la
forrne suivante:
o      financement moyen de 3,6 millions de francs CFA par convention (soit US$5, 000 contre un
financement possible de US$50,000 sans avis de non-objection de la Banque Mondiale et meme de
US$100,000 avec avis de non-objection)
o      Nombre moyen de projets par beneficiaire: 1,5
o      94% des fonds alloues aux secteurs secondaire et tertiaire
o      92% des conventions et 96% des fonds alloues dans la region de Dakar
/      380 entreprises et associations/organisations du secteur prive ont beneficie de l'appui de la FSP:
o      318 entreprises (83,7%) et 62 associations (16,3%)
o      Secteur primaire (6,3%), secteur secondaire (47,1%) et secteur tertiaire (46,6%
o      Concentration dans la region de Dakar (93%)
La fornation constitue le type de prestation privilegie, probablement a cause de la hauteur de la subvention
accordee (75%): 2733 personnes formees.
/      569 cabinets et consultants individuels se sont inscrits a la FSP (264 cabinets et 305 consultants
individuels); 348 ont et agrees (160 cabinets et 188 consultants), 51% d'entre eux depuis
l'avenement de la Fondation;
V/     Des conventions ont ete signees avec 93 prestataires de services-conseil, soit seulement 27% des
prestataires agrees;
/      Environ 38% des dossiers soumis ont ete rejetes soit a cause de leur mauvaise qualite, des lacunes
sur le plan des informations fournies, la non-eligibilite des demandeurs ou des domaines
d'intervention ou encore en raison de delais d'intervention trop serres;
V      la FSP s'est fait connaitre via le milieu economique (38%), les medias (22%), les representants
FSP (27,5%);
/      Appreciation des beneficiaires de la FSP (entreprises et associations/organisations):
o      satisfaction pour la qualite et la pertinence des services conseil: 94%
o      pour 1'encadrement et le suivi des dossiers: 76%
o      pour laccessibilite a l'aide: 73%
o      pour le delai de reponse: 73%
o      insatisfaction pour le delai de decaissement et le montant d'aide allou&: de 37% a 63%
/      Appreciation des prestataires de la FSP (cabinets conseils et consultants individuels)
o      satisfaction globale: 67%,
o      pour I'accessibilite a l'aide et les d6lais de traitements des dossiers: 62%,
o      lencadrement: 58%,
o      les montants d'aide alloues: 55%
o      insatisfaction pour le dMlai de decaissement: 41%
A-2 bilan des interventions
1)     Les cibles. La differenciation des cibles a ete une reponse positive aux difficultes d'appuyer
significativement certaines categories. La taille de la cible est restee identique avec un objectif de six cents
appuis au bout de cinq annees. Cependant, le regroupement de I'appui aux organisations, aux prestataires
de services et a la micro entreprise au sein d'un meme secteur, a permis de mieux repondre aux besoins de
ces cibles alors que dans la premiere moitie de la FSP, aucune approche differenciee n'etait pennise par la
strat6gie mise en cmuvre. Les activites des entreprises ont ete prises en charge par deux chefs de projets,
dans un regroupement qui faisait la distinction entre les missions d'aamelioration des capacites de gestion et
d'acces au fmancement et les missions techniques et technologiques et de facilitation d'acces aux marches.
- 30 -



La grande entreprise accedait egalement aux services de la FSP avec non-objection prealable et surtout
dans le but de creer un effet de diffusion par l'exemple. C'est ainsi que demarrerent des appuis significatifs
dans le domaine de la qualite et de la certification aux normes ISO.
2)     Les domaines d'interventions. Les domaines etaient tres eclates. Il a ete procede A un recentrage
de ces domaines regroupes en une quinzaine de domaines contre pres de cent initialement. Cela fut
accompagne par une refonte partielle des fiches de demande d'assistance, rendue plus facile A utiliser. Cette
demarche fut appreciee par les beneficiaires et contribua A augmenter le rythme des demandes.
3)     Les taux de subvention. Initialement les taux etaient indistinctement de trois: (i) de 0 A 2.500
dollars, 75%; (ii) de 2.500 A 20.000 dollars, 50%; et (iii) au-delA de 20.000 dollars 30% avec une
subvention limitee A 40.000 dollars. Cela revenait A offrir une subvention moyenne de 35% par
beneficiaires sur cinq ans. La modification sur les taux a permis d'avoir un taux unique pour les entreprises
de 50%, pour les organisations de 65% et pour la formation un taux de 75%. Ces taux etaient plus faciles A
comprendre pour les beneficiaires et les motivaient d'avantage.
4)     Les conventions et contrats. Chaque appui fait l'objet d'une convention entre la FSP et le
beneficiaire et d'un contrat entre ce demier et son prestataire s'il y a lieu.
5)     Les procedures. L'allegement des procedures a permis aux beneficiaires d'identifier eux-memes
leurs prestataires A partir du registre de la FSP mais aussi de faire enregistrer les prestataires qu'ils ont
identifies au Senegal et hors du Senegal. La confiance des beneficiaires envers les consultants s'est trouv6e
ainsi renforcee car la relation passee entre les deux est ainsi valorisee. 11 a ete egalement accorde aux
prestataires la possibilite de se faire accompagner dans le paiement aux prestataires; ceci allegeait
considerablement leur tresorerie et rassurait les consultants sur les echeances de paiements.
6)     La FSP a permis la mise sur pied de pres de 30 mutuelles d'epargne et de credit, dont celles de
l'Union Nationale des Commercants et Industriels du Senegal (UNACOIS) qui ont draine, sur deux ans,
plus de 17 milliards de dep6ts et octroyes pres de deux milliards de credits A des jeunes, des femmes
evoluant dans le secteur informel. Cette initiative de la FSP devrait d'ailleurs d6boucher bient6t sur la
creation d'une banque par cette association. Cet appui est un exemple d'approche du secteur informel qui a
donne des resultats probants. II est d'ailleurs prevu, A la suite d'une formation en entrepreunariat, que
l'Unacois encadre ses membres qui souhaitent passer de l'informel au formel en creant des PME.
7)     La FSP a egalement contribue, par ses appuis, au developpement de demarches qualite dans des
entreprises et permis la certification des premieres entreprises senegalaises aux normes ISO 9000.
8)     Plusieurs autres exemples d'assistance de la FSP pourraient etre cites; nous mentionnons
simplement parmi ceux-ci, la premiere societe de production de dessins animes en Afrique noire ou encore
l'assistance au demarrage d'une unite de montage de televiseurs, en passant par une unite de fabrication
d'appareils de froid, une entreprise agricole basee sur la culture et l'exploitation industrielle du manioc ou
le developpement d'une entreprise de la filiere avicole qui a accru ses exportations dans la sous region.
9)     Au niveau du secteur artisanal, le Senegal a e  recemment A l'honneur au SIAO de Ouagadougou
grAce A I'appui de la FSP, en collaboration avec la Cooperation francaise. La FSP a poursuivi ses efforts
en appuyant la participation de plusieurs PME de la SODIDA A la FIDAK 2000. Independamment de cet
evenement, la FSP a appuye plusieurs artisans individuellement ou en groupe A travers des seminaires de
perfectionnement technique animes par des experts etrangers dans certains cas.
- 31 -



10)    La FSP avait lance l'idee de la mise sur pied d'un centre de service pour la creation d'entreprises et
soumis l'idee a la direction de la SODIDA. La FSP devait apporter une assistance en aidant a faire venir
les specialistes de la Chambre de Commerce de Paris qu'elle avait identifiee en 1998. Ce centre recemment
inaugure est devenu fonctionnel. Dans le cadre du soutien au collectif des journalistes economiques, la FSP
apres avoir appuye des modules de formation a demande et obtenu de la SODIDA qu'elle fournisse un
siege au Collectif.
11)     En matiere de formnation professionnelle, devant le deficit chronique en soudeurs qualifies pour
intervenir sur les chantiers des ICS ou de la Senelec, La FSP en relation avec SEGOA, le CNQP et le
bureau Veritas a finance un programme de formation dans ce domaine.
12)    Les consultants. L'appui aux consultants a permis le developpement de competences nouvelles
dans un certain nombre de domaines ou les consultants senegalais etaient jusqu'ici absents.
A-3 Facteurs ayant influe n6gativement sur Ia composante
Les composantes du projet etaient independantes les unes des autres et il n'y avait pas de
mecanisme de coordination;
La mission d'Agence d'execution confiee a la Fondation n'etait pas remuner6e. Les relations entre
l'Agence et les composantes, n'etaient basees que sur un protocole dont l'interpretation et
l'application ont souffert de l'absence de relations plus precises definissant les r6les et
responsabilites de chacun;
Les exigences au plan de l'administration du projet etaient de nature a gener l'execution efficace de
la composante FSP;
*      On sentait peu la tutelle dans son r6le de coordination et de supervision et les interlocuteurs
designes par le Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan a cet effet etaient absorbes le plus
souvent a d'autres taches. Plusieurs changements au niveau des responsables Ministeriels, ont
influence aussi negativement l'execution du projet;
La meme remarque est valable au niveau de la Banque, le projet ayant connu plusieurs chefs de
projets dont les vues n'etaient pas harmonisees. Ceci a entraine des changements et des pratiques
qui ont e  parfois prejudiciables a la bonne execution du projet;
*      La pression pour que tout le fonds soit absolument decaisse a egalement fortement influence le
projet;
Le r6le des organisations professionnelles dans la dissemination de l'information aupres de leurs
membres a ete faible;
*      Le Comite consultatif a connu une interruption de son fonctionnement pendant pres de 18 mois;
La direction generale a privilegie une communication ciblee a une communication de masse; ce qui
a fait dire en general, que la communication etait insuffisante.
A4 erennisation des activites de la FSP
Aucune disposition n'etait prevue au depart pour perenniser le projet. Concemant la FSP, cependant les
instances de Direction ont autorise en concertation avec la Banque, que des activites generatrices de
Revenus puissent etre menees pour permettre sa perennisation dans le temps. Ces revenus sont actuellement
disponibles. La facturation de la mission d'Agence d'execution aurait permis aussi de generer des
ressources supplementaires pour la FSP. II faut cependant noter qu'au sein meme de la Banque, il y avait
des positions divergentes. En effet, le demier chef de projet contrairement a ses predecesseurs, etait en total
desaccord avec cette approche. Sa preference etant une solution immobiliere. Toujours est-il qu'apres
- 32 -



I'arret des activites, les beneficiaires ont regrette que le dispositif d'appui ne soit pas perennise. Une
consequence de cette faille reside dans la conservation et l'utilisation de la base documentaire de la FSP.
11 est imperatif que ce genre de projet avant son demarrage, prevoit les mecanismes de p&ennisation.
B. Groupe de Reflexion pour la Competitivite lt Ia Croissance - G. R. C. C.
Le Groupe de Reflexion pour la Competitivite et la Croissance (GRCC) a et& cree par le decret n 95-414
du 15 mai 1995. L'arrete no 4742 du Ministre de I'Economie, des Finances et du Plan de la meme date
regit son organisation et son fonctionnement. C'est une composante du Projet d'Appui A la Competitivite
du Secteur Prive qui est un projet d'assistance technique finance par la Banque Mondiale.
Le GRCC est organis& autour d'une structuration tres legere comprenant son President et son Secretaire
general. La Fondation du Secteur prive assurait pour son compte une mission d'agent d'execution.
B-1 Bilan de l'etat d'execution des recommandations formulees par le
GRCC
Le GRCC a identifie certaines entraves A la croissance des entreprises qui a abouti a la fonnulation de
plusieurs recommandations. Ces recommandations portent principalement sur les secteurs de l'energie, de
la peche et des transports maritimes, du commerce et de I'artisanat, de l'economie, de la fiscalite, etc., elles
ont ete emises A la suite de concertations tripartites (Patronat, Travailleurs et Administration). Voir tableau
en annexe.
B-2 Autres recommandations
En outre, sur la base de la revue A mi-parcours du Groupe, qui s'est d6roulee les 22 et 23 juin 1998 et de la
session pleniere du GRCC consacree A la deuxieme tranche de ses activites, trois axes d'intervention
avaient ete degagees, A savoir:
Ia poursuite de la reflexion sur certains themes horizontaux comme la fiscalite, I'enseignement
technique et la formation professionnelle, le financement de I'economie, les transports. Ces themes
constituaient pour le Groupe, des chantiers permanents;
*      Ia prise en charge des problemes Uis au processus d'integration dans le cadre de l'UTEMOA;
*      Ia definition d'une strategie de developpement de grappes sectorielles comme contribution A la
strategie d'acceleration de la croissance economique et de diversification de ses sources.
Concemant l'UEMOA, la reflexion du GRCC etait d'abord orientee sur les facteurs teclniques de
production du point de vue de leur impact sur la competitivite des entreprises sur les marches sous-regional
et international.
Ensuite, le GRCC devait intervenir sur l'enclavement relatif du Senegal par rapport aux autres pays de
l'Union et la question des transports ainsi que tous les surcouits reveles par une etude - comparative de
1'environnement des economies concurrentes (frais portuaires et aeroportuaires, distorsions d'origine
administrative). La r6flexion a ete initiee sur l'enclavement du pays, par contre, elle a ete effective dans le
domaine des transports.
Une etude globale sur la competitivite de l'industrie senegalaise au sein de l'UEMOA a ete realisee, qui a
- 33 -



pu eclairer sur la situation competitive du Senegal.
Sur les grappes sectorielles a savoir (de tourisme, les industries culturelles et l'artisanat d'arbt, << les BTP et
industries d'assemblage>> et ((1'economie des NTIC>: l'objectif final du Groupe etait de proposer aux
differents acteurs des packages de politique visant le developpement de certains secteurs en vue d'accelerer
la croissance economique et d'en diversifier les sources.
B-3 Acquis, lacunes et enseignement
Le GRCC a vu le jour dans une periode critique de l'evolution economique du Senegal, au lendemain de la
devaluation du franc CFA. En effet, le changement de parite du franc CFA a eu l'effet d'un electrochoc,
qui a brutalement fait prendre conscience de l'exigence de competitivite comme seul moyen de survivre et
de se developper dans la competition economique et commerciale globale dans laquelle l'economie
senegalaise est engagee.
Ce contexte explique I'accueil, enthousiaste a bien des egards, qui a et reserve au GRCC par le Secteur
prive et par d'importantes franges de l'Administration gagnees a l'idee que 1'economie nationale ne pouvait
plus etre geree comme avant.
Le fait de se situer a mi-distance entre Secteur prive et Administration et de se positionner comme cadre
objectif de concertation sur des aspects techniques et operationnels aura ete un second facteur favorable
pour le Groupe de Reflexion.
La mise en oeuvre de l'essentiel des recommandations issues des premiers travaux du Groupe, dans le cadre
du PASCO, a renforce le positionnement et la credibilite du Groupe aussi bien aupres du Secteur prive que
de l'Administration.
La seconde phase, suivant le lendemain de la devaluation, a et plus complexe. En effet, cette phase
correspond a l'adressage de questions de fond, avec d'importants enjeux. C'est notamment la reforme de la
fiscalite, la restructuration du secteur des Telecommunications et celle du secteur de l'Energie.
La reforme du secteur des Telecommunications a ete exemplaire, en termes de concertation mais aussi de
demarche pour venir a bout de franges opposees a la reforme tant au niveau de P'operateur historique que
de l'Administration.
Ce succ&s a rendu plus ardu le second dossier sectoriel: celui de l'energie ou, des l'implication du Groupe,
les oppositions, souvent violentes se sont manifestees.
Progressivement donc, s'est developpee une attitude de mefiance vis-a-vis du Groupe. Sans que
parallelement, se renforce a son egard le soutien des beneficiaires des reformes, c'est-A-dire le Secteur
prive. A I'analyse, on peut dire que ce dernier s'est souvent confirc dans une attitude d'expectative,
attendant du staff du Groupe qu'il developpe les activites de lobbying propres a accelerer la mise en oeuvre
des recommandations.
Enfin, il convient de souligner, en fm de parcours, l'incidence du contexte politique marquee par I'approche
des elections presidentielles de mars 2000 qui a considerablement ralenti l'instruction des propositions de
reforme par le Gouvernement.
Malgre tout, il est clair que le GRCC aura influe de maniere decisive autant dans le mode gestion de
- 34 -



l'economie nationale en institutionnalisant la concertation Secteur prive-Secteur public que dans la
formulation de propositions de refonmes dont la mise en ceuvre a transfonne l'environnement des affaires
au Senegal.
Au plan du fonctionnement inteme de la structure, il convient de noter que celle-ci a ete handicapee,
souvent lourdement, par les performances globalement mediocres de l'Agence d'Execution.
L'absence de precision dans la definition de la mission d'Agence d'Execution et dans les responsabilites et
obligations des parties a, tout au long de l'execution du projet, pese negativement sur les activites du
Groupe.
C. Comite de Reformes juridigues - C. R. J.
1'evaluation qualitative des principaux resultats sont presentes ci-dessous. Elle porte sur les quatre points
caracteristiques de I'action du CRT, A savoir:
la concertation; la modemisation et l'adaptation du droit des affaires; la communication; et I'appui A la
formnation.
C-1 Sur la concertation Etat - Secteur prive
1.1. Les resultats
En termes de resultats, on peut considerer que toutes les actions du CRJ qui se sont concretisees soit par
des lois promulguees, soit par des projets de textes soumis au gouvemement, soit par un appui logistique A
l'institutionjudiciaire, peuvent etre mis sur le compte de cette concertation qui merite d'etre poursuivie.
L'identification en commun des problemes juridiques du secteur prive, de meme que 1'elaboration concertee
des regles de droit aura pennis d'eviter le f-acheux probleme lie A I'acceptabilite de la norme par ses
destinataires.
En tout etat de cause, cette concertation aura permis d'installer l'idee d'une " Economie de droit " jusque
dans les rangs des operateurs economiques prives, comme l'idee d'un "Etat de droit " s'est installee chez
les politiques et dans la societe civile.
1.2. Les contraintes
Les contraintes proviennent en gen&al, de la traditionnelle mefiance du secteur prive vis a vis d'un
droit codifie et fige et de I 'alternance politique qui, dans ses premiers moments, a gen&re un climat
de mefiance r&iproque entre le nouveau pouvoir public et une frange organisee du secteur prive.
Toutefois, depuis un certain temps, les choses ont evolue et le nouveau pouvoir politique a renoue
avec le secteurprive.
En outre, les membres du secteur prive rencontres dans le cadre de notre mission, regrettent le manque
d'engagement de l'Etat sur la conduite de certains dossiers (par exemple: charte bancaire). C'est peut etre
une des raisons qui font que certaines propositions du CRJ demeurent encore dans le circuit
gouvernemental et que les resultats de la concertation Etat - Secteur prive restent mitiges.
- 35 -



C-2 Sur la modernisation et l'adaptation du Droit des Affaires
2.1. Les resultats
Au titre des resultats, nous pouvons retenir que le CRJ a effectue un travail considerable dans les domaines
de la modemisation et de l'adaptation du droit des affaires. Ce travail ayant contribue A asseoir une
doctrine liberale dans la protection de l'investissement a, plusieurs fois, fait l'objet de satisfecit de la part
des autorites publiques et de la banque mondiale (voir rapport de la mission de supervision - novembre
1999).
L'action du CRJ dans le sens de I'appui A la modemisation et A l'adaptation des textes regissant
l'entreprise a servi tant au droit national qu'au droit supra national.
Par exemple, le droit national a ete enrichi de dispositions nouvelles sur l'arbitrage, sur l'entreprise en
difficulte (textes sur les professions associees au droit de la faillite et sur un mecanisme d'alerte initie par
les Centres de Gestion Agrees...), sur 1'execution des creances detenues contre l'Etat et les personnes
morales de droit public.
En ce qui concerne le droit supra national, le CRJ a apporte un appui A la preparation de l'entree en
vigueur des Actes Uniformes. En ce sens, il a procede A une revue des dispositions applicables au plan
national dans le but de preparer les textes d'accompagnement de l'entree en vigueur des normes de
l'OHADA: textes d'abrogation des dispositions contraires, textes adaptant certaines dispositions aux Actes
Uniformes et textes completant certains Actes Uniformes.
2.2. Les contraintes
Au titre des contraintes, il peut etre note qu 'elles sont soit intrinseques, soit extrinseques au CRJ:
Contraintes Intrinseques:
Le besoin en ressources humaines du CRJ s'est fait sentir tres t6t. Le manque de ressources en
personnel a induit une surcharge de travail du Secretariat Executif qui devait avoir des capacites
intemes touchant A la definition d'approche et A la construction du consensus Etat - Secteur prive,
A la supervision administrative et technique des missions de consultants externes, au suivi
rapproche des interventions en organisation et equipements et au respect du cadre procedural
regissant le projet.
*      Outre cette question, les principales contraintes, celles qui ont veritablement constitue un blocage A
la realisation optimale des activites, resident d'une part, dans les rapports du CRJ avec l' Agence
d'execution et, d'autre part, dans la presidence du CRJ par le Ministre de la Justice lui-meme.
II aurait e  opportun, en vue d'une plus grande rentabilite, de confier les taches d'Agence d'execution a un
organe intrinseque au CRJ de sorte que ce demier ne soit confine dans des fonctions de reflexion ou alors A
un coordonnateur specialement designe a cet effet.
A propos de la presidence du CRJ par le Garde des Sceaux, Ministre de la Justice ou par son representant,
s'il est vrai que l'appropriation faite par cette autorite des actions mises en aeuvre est un considerable gage
d'efficacite, il est aussi vrai que le calendrier charge du Ministre prejudicierait grandement le
- 36 -



fonctionnement du Comite.
En definitive, le facteur bloquant dans le fonctionnement du CRJ semble resider dans 1 'eclatement
des competences.
Contraintes extrinseques:
Le programme du CRJ etait ambitieux par rapport aux moyens materiels et humains dont il
disposait. En effet, le concept de " Droit des affaires " est trop vaste. 11 renvoie au Droit de
l'activite economique aussi bien en ce qui conceme les regles de droit que le contentieux des
affaires.
Par ailleurs, du fait de la concurrence des sources internationales du Droit, le CRJ n'est pas assez
arnme pour maitriser l'origine de la regle de Droit des affaires qui, aujourd'hui, est partage entre
l'OHADA, I'UEMOA voire meme I'OMC...
C-3 Sur la communication
3.1. les resultats
En ternmes de risultats, le Guichet d'information du Ministere de la Justice a realise des emissions a
la radio (Droit de savoir), un bulletin d'information et a assure la promotion de l'association
sknegalatse de droit des affaires (ASDA).
Dans la rubrique de ses activites specifiques, le Guichet a mis en place un important fichier de
correspondants au Senegal et a l'etranger, un repertoire des projets d'appui au secteur prive (fiche
synoptique).
Ses activites ont egalement, ete d'apporter assistance au Cabinet du Garde des Sceaux pour les
observations sur les Actes Uniformes de l'OHADA, au Centre d'Arbitrage de la CCIAD en matiere de
communication pour sa mise en place et son fonctionnement.
11 a enfm, ete conseil en communication pour la mise en place du Programmne Charte bancaire et fait des
communications aux seminaires d'information en vue de faire connaitre au secteur prive les activites du
Guichet.
3.2. Les contraintes
En termes de contraintes, il peut etre retenu trois categories:
Le materiel bureautique et informatique du Guichet n'a jamais ete mis en place (de septembre 1997, debut
de la mission, au mois d'avril 2000, fin de la mission.
Le local qui a e  affecte par le Departement de la Justice au Guichet d'information, n'a jamais e
ream6nage pour faciliter l'accueil, la reception et la foumiture d'informations aux publics cibles.
Le consultant qui a ete recrute pour mettre en place et animer la structure travaillait donc seul en subissant
des retards de reglement de ses honoraires a la fois successifs et excessifs.
- 37 -



C- Sur l'appui a la formation
11 convient d'examiner cette rubrique en retenant deux aspects: Le renforcement des capacites du CFJ,
devenu par la force des choses une ecole regionale pilote, est un debut d'amnlioration de l'environnement
des entreprises.
Le renforcement des capacites du CFJ. Grice a I'appui du CRJ, le CFJ a developpe une politique de
formation axee sur des apports techniques dans le domaine de la gestion des entreprises et sur des stages
pratiques dans le prive.
La justice venait ainsi, avec l'appui du CRJ d'etre ouverte sur 1'entreprise: ce qui est une premiere en
Afrique par rapport a une ecole de formation des magistrats.
Chaque annee, et de maniere cependant selective, un nombre important des magistrats et greffiers
ressortissants de la sous region, poursuivent leur formation au CFJ.
C-5 Recommandations
Globalement, I'action du CRJ peut etre creditee d'un bilan positif. Les recommandations ci-apres ont pour
objet d'ameliorer l'exercice de la fonction " appui juridique au secteur prive " qui demeure d'actualite
malgre l'arret de ce programme.
Les recommandations portent sur trois points:
- la mission (mise en place d'un programme sectoriel pour la justice);
- la structure chargee de la mission;
- et les actions urgentes dans l'attente de la mise en place de la structure
Elles peuvent etre resumees ainsi:
5.1. Sur la mission (Elargissement)
Relativement a la Justice, il s'agira concretement d'agir sur:
- La distribution de la justice (accessibilite, cofits, complexite);
- L'independance et l'impartialite (garantie d'independance du juge, conditions d'un proces equitable pour
le justiciable);
- Les ressources de la justice (personnel, infrastructures et materiels, budget de la justice);
Relativement au Droit, les actions a mener viseront:
- la modemisation par rapport aux contextes national et international;
- et l'adaptation aux contextes national et international:
5.2. Mise en place d'une structure juridique adaptee
La collusion entre le politique et l'economique heritee de I'epoque du parti unique gangrene encore
I'Administration et empeche une gestion rationnelle et transparente du service public.
- 38 -



Pour y mettre un terme, it convient, en s'inspirant des experiences etrangeres principalement
anglo-saxonnes (Grande Bretagne) et du Quebec de proceder a une "agenciation" de certains services
ministeriels.
La specificite de l'agence peut-etre resumee en deux mots: "Autonomie ", "Responsabilite ".
L'organisation de l'Agence peut etre prevue de telle sorte que la concertation public -prive qui etait la
marque du CRJ demeure au sein de I'Agence.
5.2.   Actions urgentes
Elles sont au nombre de deux:
- Appui au Greffe du Tribunal Regional de Dakar;- Poursuite des travaux non acheves ou suspendus.
D-Protlramme de Privatisation
Le Programme de privatisation retenu en 1996 avec la Banque Mondiale concemait les entreprises
publiques suivantes: SSPT, SPHU/Teranga, Air-Senegal, SOTEXKA, SICAP, HAMO, MSAD, SODIDA,
SONEPI, ASAGE, SONADIS, Dakar-Marine.
A ce jour, la situation est la suivante: SSPT: privatisee 1998; SPHU TERANGA: Privatisee en 1998;
SONADIS: privatisee en 1997; ASACE: privatisee en 1997; SOTEXKA: privatisee en 1997; HAMO:
liquidee en 1997; Dakar-Marine: liquidee en 1999; SONEPI: liquidee en 2001; Air-Senegal: privatisee en
2001; SODIDA: privatisation en cours d'achevement d'ici le 30 juin 2002; MSAD: l'issue de trois appels
d'offres infructueux, des contacts sont en cours avec d'autres repreneurs en relation avec l'APIX; SICAP: le
processus a demarr6 avec la vente des actifs de la societe actuellement en cours.
Par ailleurs, d'autres entreprises publiques qui n'6taient pas sur la liste de 1996 ont e  par la suite ajout6e
sur la liste et privatisees: SONEES: privatisee en 1996; SONATEL: privatisee en 1997; SONAFOR:
privatisee en 2000; Senegalaise de Reassurance: privatisee en 2000; Ligne de chemin de fer
Dakar-Bamako: en cours d'achevement d'ici le 30/06/2002; SODEFITEX: en cours d'achevement d'ici le
30/06/2002; SENELEC: privatisee en 1999 mais le processus a ete repris en 2002 et se poursuit
actuellement.
En matiere de privatisation des entreprises publiques, les objectifs fixes ont e atteints a pres de 90%.
III. Performance de la Banque Mondiale
-La conception d'un projet novateur comme celui-ci est toujours delicate car it n'y a pas eu souvent
d'experience comparable. La reference au moment de la preparation du projet etait des projets
d'exportation au Kenya et en Inde. Par ailleurs, les procedures elaborees hors du champ d'une experience
reelle ont ete assez vite decriees. En definitive, le role de la Banque a e  crucial malgre le fait qu'a
l'execution, on a eu a deceler des aspects qui auraient gagn6 a etre modifies.
- La supervision de la banque a ete constante et continue (environ deux a trois missions de supervision par
an). De facon generale, les problemes etaient correctement identifies dans la mesure ou le projet preparait la
documentation necessaire et soumettaient ses preoccupations et problemes a la mission.
- 39 -



IV. Performance du Gouvernement
La performance de I'Emprunteur n'a pas et satisfaisante en matiere de coordination et de suivi du projet.
L'emprunteur a ete tres peu implique dans le suivi ou meme la revision des strategies et des operations. Elle
a plut6t laisse la Banque prendre toutes les initiatives.
Devant les probilmes de coordination entre la FSP et le CRJ/GRCC qui sont survenus en cours d'execution
du projet, I'Emprunteur a tente d'intensifier la coordination en assumant une fonction d'arbitrage entre les
differentes parties sous forme d'un comite de pilotage sans toutefois beneficier de ressources additionnelles
dediees A cette tAche.
V. Enseignements ou leqons A tirer
En matiere de lecons A tirer:
Dans des activites comme les appuis a couts partages, il est important que les procedures soient
simples et conformes aux pratiques du secteur prive en termnes de celrite et de souplesse dans la
mise A disposition des financements;
*      Un projet qui implique plusieurs composantes doit faire l'objet d'une bonne coordination avec une
relation hierarchique claire et une supervision conjointe du bailleur de fonds et I'Etat;
*       Le manque de coordination et l'impossibilite pour la FSP de jouer ce r6le qui n'etait pas dans ses
missions, ont affecte le deroulement du projet.
La fonction d'agence d'execution et de gestion administrative et financiere doit etre mieux cemre.
11 est important de prevoir une Agence d'execution autonome par rapport aux composantes. Le fait
que la FSP ait joue ce r6le est certes une bonne chose mais il aurait mieux valu que cette fonction
soit detachee suivant un manuel de procedure clair, du projet A une composante autonome A
remunerer pour ses services, ce qui eviterait tout risque de conflit de relation;
*      11 fallait responsabiliser davantage les bWneficiaires en leur laissant l'initiative de la designation des
consultants mais en fixant des baremes standards de remunerations et des durees maximales pour
eviter toute forme d'entente anormale;
*      Au sein meme de la Banque, devait exister une philosophie partagee sur le concept. 11 est important
pour le succes de tels projets qu'il n'y ait pas comme ce fut le cas des divergences liees simplement
A la personnalite des chefs de projet;
L'approche consistant A vouloir cofute que cofite decaisser l'integralite du projet doit etre revue. En
effet, ce critere est A notre avis inefficace et ne reflete en rien une bonne ou mauvaise performance.
Par contre, il produit des effets pervers dans la mesure oui il conduit A une forme de tension
malsaine et A des decisions sur des activites qui privilegient I'aspect decaissement au detriment de
la pertinence des activites ou meme du souci d'economie. En outre les re allocations repetitives de
fonds entres les differentes activites des composantes et basees sur les montants non decaisses,
conduisent A des situations qui provoquent des ruptures d'activites programmees tout en favorisant
celles qui ne le sont pas.
Enfin une approche plus analytique doit etre mise en ceuvre des la conception d'un projet A plusieurs
composantes autonomes. Chaque composante doit avoir des le depart un plan de financement distinct avec
des budgets de fonctionnement, d'equipement et d'operations distincts et detailles.
- 40 -



- 41 -






IMAGING
Report No.:        23960
Type:     lCR



