CREDIT NUMBER 2759 SE
Project Agreement
(Private Sector Capacity Building Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
Private Sector Foundation
Dated PRL          , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2759 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     A                 , 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (Ifie Association) and Private Sector Foundation (PSF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that PSF agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)    by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and PSF, the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to PSF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Convention; and
WHEREAS PSF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE H
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PSF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: (a) carry
out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and private sector practices, and in
accordance with the Manual of Procedures, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of
the Project; and (b) ensure that the financing of Sub-projects by PSF shall be made


﻿-2-
pursuant to Financing Agreements to be entered into between PSF and Beneficiary
Enterprises in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the Manual of
Procedures.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PSF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
PSF shall:
(i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Association and PSF, a plan for the future
operation of Part A of the Project;
(ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with PSF on said plan; and
(iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account
the Association's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. PSF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Convention and
the Manual of Procedures. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PSF shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PSF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with
the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Convention and the Manuai of Procedures, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b)    PSF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PSF of its obligations
under this Agreement, the ConventiQn and the Manual of Procedures.
(c)    Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, PSF shall participate
fully in the joint review referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: (a) furnish to the Borrower and the Association
such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in such detail as the Borrower or the
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project; and (b)
following each such review, act promptly and diligently, in order to take, or assist the
Borrower in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming
noted in the implementation of Part A of the Project, or to implement, or assist the
Borrower in implementing, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between
the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
Section 2.06. PSF shall carry out, on an annual basis, a management audit of Part
A of the Project. The said audit shall make a detailed assessment of the compliance of the
rules and procedures specified in the Manual of Procedures by the different entities
associated with the implementation of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.07. PSF shall ensure that its Managing Director shall, at all times, be
acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PSF shall submit
semiannual reports on the progress of Part A of the Project to the Association, giving
details of the progress of Subprojects, training program and studies, and the status of
financial and procurement performance under Parts A and B the Project.
Section 2.09. PSF shall, not later than three months prior to the end of each year,
starting from 1996, undertake, in conjunction with the Borrower, CRG and LRC, an annual
review to discuss the work program and budget for the forthcoming year. The review shall
use, as working documents, reports that shall have been prepared by PSF, CRG and LRC
on a semiannual basis and furnished to the Association.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PSF
Section 3.01. PSF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, and management practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PSF shall at all times operate and maintain its machinery, equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and management
practices.
Section 3.03. PSF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PSF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures and
financial condition in respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)    PSF shall:
(i)    have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿-5-
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of PSF
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)   the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify PSF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shal' be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For PSF:
Immeuble SDIH
3, Place de l'Ind6pendance
Dakar
Senegal
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PSF may be taken
or executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and PSF shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                    411c1-'-2LW~Po~A'
A Chat Regional Vice President, Africa
PRIVATE SECTOR FOUNDATION
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoine is a true copy
of the ori2inal in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


