Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-6231-IUD
14EtORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$175.0 MILLION
TO THE
REBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
MARCH 15, 1994
;MI CROGRAPH IC;3
Report NGc.! '      j2 :J 31 I ND)
T Yp e   A CP
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performauce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUYALENT
(As of ApDril 1993
Cunrency Unit         =     Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$  1.00          =     Rp 2,064
Rp    1000         =     US$ 0.4845
Rp    1 million    =     US$ 485
FISCALYEAR
Government of Indonesia, Provincial and Local Governments: April 1 - March 31
PDAM Surabaya: January 1 - December 31
1 meter (m)                    =      39.4 inches
I kilometer (km)               =      0.62 miles
I square kilometer             =      100 ha or 0.39 square miles
I hectare                      =      2.47 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AiNDAL      -      GOI Detailed Environmental Assessment Study
DJCK        -      Directorate General of Human Settlements
GOI         -      Government of Indonesia
IUIDP       -      Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
KMS         -      Municipality of Surabaya
MPW         -      Ministry of Public Works
OECF        -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
O&M         -      Operations and Maintenance
PDAM        -      Local Government Water Enterprise
Repelita    -      Five-year Development Plan
SLA         -      Subsidiary Loan Agreement (A Domestic Lending Arrangement)
SUDP        -      Surabaya Urban Development Project
TKPP        -      Interagency Coordination Team for Urban Development
UMU         -      Urban Management Unit of KMS



FOR OFPICIAL USE ONLY
INDOWESIA
SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT P-ROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Biorr_ower       Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:   The Municipality of Surabaya (KMS) and the Surabaya Water Enterprise
(PDAM)
' gan Amount:   US$ 175.0 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On1ending I&rm: Part of the proceeds of the loan (equivalent to US$ 153.8 million) would be
onlent by the Borrower to th1e Municipality of Surabaya and the
Surabaya Water Enteiprise (PDAM) at annual interest rates related to market
rates bv indexing it to the prevailing 6 month average of the 3-month Sertifikat
Bank Indonesia (SBI) rate (which is currently about 8%) for terms of 20
years. However, the minimum rate of interest on loans to KMS and PDAM,
regardless of the SBI rate, would be not less than the Bank's loan rate plus 1.75%;
and the maximum rate of interest on loans to KMS and PDAM would not exceed
14%. Interest and commitment charges would be payable during the grace
period. The Borrower would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Eam:
Local      Foreign         Total
(US$ million)
Government of Indonesia            227.8           0.0         227.8
IEBRD                               101.7         84.3         186.0   a
OECF                                50.5         124.3         174.8
Private Sector b/                    29.0          0.0          29.0
Total                              409.0         208.6         617.6
Al   Consists of SUDP loan of US$ 175.0 million plus US$ 11.0 nullion ftom Ln 3304-IND, rounded to one decimal point.
b/ Consists of contributions by land owners of land for public services in newly-developed aras.
Economic Rate of Return: 22% (weighted average for water supply, storm drains, traffic
management and roads accounting for 92% of base costs.).
Poverty Category: Targeted interventions to improve the living standards and the quality of life and
the environment in the poorer Kampung areas of the City of Surabaya, where 70% of the population
live. Poverty alleviating interventions would include community development programs, health
improvement activities, skills training and economic venture promotion to enhance employment
opportunities.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 12516-IND
mv-s:                  IBRD Nos.: 25014 and 25015
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the pedformance of their
I official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED lOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
THE SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.    The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to the Republic of
Indonesia (the Borrower) for US$ 175.0 million equivalent is submitted for approval. The proposed
loan would be for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate,
and would help finance a Surabaya Urban Development Project (SUDP). Part of the proceeds (US$
153.8 million equivalent) would reimburse the Government of Indonesia (GOI) for loans to the
Municipality of Surabaya and its water enterprise, PDAM, Surabaya for periods of 20 years at annual
interest rates related to market rates by indexing to the prevailing 6 month average of the 3-month
Sertifikat Bank of Indonesia rate, which is currently about 8 percent. However, the minimum rate of
interest on loans to KMS and PDAM, regardless of the SBI rate, would be not less than the Bank's
loan rate plus 1.75 percent; and the maximum rate of interest on loan to KMS and PDAM-4 would not
exceed 14 percent. Loans of US$ 174.8 million equivalent from the Govemment of Japan Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) would provide parallel financing for all project components
except for Human Waste and Kampung Improvement, which would be financed by the Bank, GOI
and the Municipality of Surabaya (KMS).
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE
2.    Indonesia's basic development goals, adopted at the inception of President Suharto's New
Order government nearly 25 years ago, are stability, growth, and equity--what has been called the
trilogy of development. Indonesia has come a long way toward attaining these goals. Indonesia's
growth has averaged about 6 percent per annum in the last 25 years, ranking it among the ten fastest
growing developing economies. The number of people living in absolute poverty has declined from
70 million or 60 percent of the population at the beginning of the 1970s to 27 million or about
15 percent of the population in 1991. Other social indicators--reduced population growth (1.7
percent), universal primary education, and 80 percent literacy--have improved dramatically (Annex
A3). Indonesia has maintained economic, political, and social stability on the domestic front and
creditworthiness in international financial markets.
3.    This success can be attributed to a development strategy that has emphasized prudent
macroeconomic management, wide distribution of the benefits of growth and, since the mid-eighties,
diversification of the economic base.
Macroeconomic Manamen
4.    Sound macroeconomic management has helped Indonesia cope with several crises in the last
twenty-five years. First, in the late 1960s, to cope with the severe economic disorder inherited from
the previous regime, the Suharto Government introduced a stabilization program which included: (i)
a major budget reform featuring a prohibition on domestic borrowing by the Government; (ii)
gradual increases in interest rates to make these positive in real terms; and (iii) establishment of a
fully convertible Rupiah and removal of controls on cross-border capital flows. These measures not



-2-
only restored stability in the late 1960s but have since helped mairtain a stable macroeconomic
environment for growth, poverty reduction and economic diversification, especially through non-oil
exports.
5.    Conservative macroeconomic policies were also used to spread the absorption of oil windfalls
of the 1970s over time. Although inflation increased, excessive accumulation of debt was avoided.
Following the Pertamina crisis in the mid-1970s, strict limits were placed on foreign borrowing,
especially by public enterprises. Tax reforms, initiated in 1983, were designed to build a sound
income and value-added tax system and strengthen the non-oil revenue base.
6.    The threat of macroeconomic instability occasioned by oil price declines during the 1980s
was also averted through sound macroeconomic management. When oil prices and the US dollar
declined sharply in the 1980s, Indonesia was severely affected since its exports were mostly
denominated in dollars; its debt and debt service rose substantially. In response, measures were taken
to reduce domestic demand (by cutting public expenditures) and increase foreign demand (by letting
the Rupiah depreciate in real terms). This helped to create a substantial new source of growth in the
form of the non-oil export sector even though debt service has since claimed a large percentage of
the annual budget.
Poverty Reduction
7.    There have been three rtiain planks in Govemment's anti-poverty strategy, two operative since
the early 1970s and the third particularly evident since the mid-1980s. The first two consisted of
substantial public spending on (a) rural development; and (b) human resource development.
Spending on rural development consisted not only of expenditures on physical infrastructure (e.g.
power, roads and irrigation) but also direct subsidies to production (e.g. through rice price supports
and fertilizer subsidies). This helped to raise and maintain living standards in the rural areas which
contained the bulk of the poor. Spending on human resource development was equally important.
Investments in health, education, female literacy, and family planning have helped engender a
remarkable improvement in social indicators and created a supportive base for further economic
transformation. A third aspect, particularly emphasized since 1986, was to adopt an outward-oriented
strategy involving trade, investment and financial sector deregulation. This strategy helped to reduce
poverty further by spurring growth and employment in labor-intensive manufacturing.
Outward Oriented Growth Strategy and Economic Diversification
8.    Emphasis on greater outward orientation and economic diversification came about principally
as a response to the collapse of oil (through declines in oil prices) as the main source of foreign
exchange and budget revenues. During 1986-1992, a series of deregulation measures were
introduced in the areas of trade, investment and finance.
9.    Trade reform aimed to improve the trading environment through tariff reductions, removal of
import restrictions, the provision of duty drawback schemes and exemptions, and the facilitation of
customs procedures, through the introduction of pre-shipment inspection for all imports in excess of
US$5,000.
10.   Investment dereguladion included: replacing a very complex investment licensing list
involving over 7,000 items with a short negative list of some 50 activities; simplifying investment
approval procedures; providing incentives in the form of duty-free imports and tax concessions for
all new investments; and encouraging direct foreign investment by according the same incentives to
foreign as well as domestic investors.



-3-
Table 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS /a
1975-82  1983-87  1988-90  1991   1992   1993 1994-95 1995-2000
Est.     Projected.
Average real growth rates (% p.a.)
GDP                              6.5      5.0       6.8    6.9    6.3    6.3       6.2      6.2
Non-oil                      7.0       5.7      7.8    6.6    8.1    7.3       7.3      7.2
Non-oil exports                 10.5     12.2      11.6   26.6   23.6   15.6    11.8    12.2
Fixed investment                10.7     -3.7      13.2    7.2    2.5    4.0       7.7      7.2
Private                         9.1      0.9      13.2    5.7    1.0    3.3       8.1      7.3
Macroeconomic balances (%) IA
Current accountlGNP             -7.8     -2.5      -3.4   -4.2   -2.0   -2.2    -1.7        1.2
Overall public sector balance/GDP  -4.8  -2.7       0.3   -1.1   -1.3   -0.3       0.5      0.0
MLT debt service/exports        16.7     34.8      29.6   31.0   30.3   30.7    24.9    15.6
Structure of the economy (% /b2
Non-oil exports/total exports   23.0     51.9      54.9   64.5   70.3   75.5    80.3    87.6
Non-oil revenues/total revenues  35.6    56.5      56.8   62.8   66.0   72.1    77.3    80.9
Non-oil manufacturing/GDP        9.9     12.8      14.9   15.4   16.1   16.6    17.8    21.1
Private fixed investmentl
total fixed investment         59.7     69.7     67.4   66.1   64.7   63.7    63.8    63.4
La Balance of payments data are for fiscal years (starting April 1).
/h   For last year of multi-year periods.
Source: Cental Bureau of Statists and World Bk staff estimates.
11.    Financial sector reform included: abolishing credit ceilings; permitting the entry of new
private banks and joint ventures with foreign banks; eliminating interest rate controls; reducing
subsidized directed credit programs; introducing prudential banking regulations; and adopting
measuies to develop capital markets, including privatization of the stock market.
12.    Together with sound macroeconomic policies, these reforms stimulated private domestic and
foreign investment and diversified the production and export base of the economy. Approvals of
foreign investment projects rose from US$900 million in 1986 to US$10 billion in I1S92. As shown
in Table 1, non-oil exports accounted for about 70 percent of total exports, as compared to about 20
percent a decade earlier. Non-oil manufacturing represented about 16 percent of GDP, up from
around 10 percent in the early 1980s.
B. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
13.    Political. In 1993, President Suharto was re-elected for a sixth five-year term and appointed a
new Cabinet. The new team has reaffirmed a commitment to the goals of growth, stability and equity.
The Sixth Five Year Plan (Repelita VI) as well as the President's recent speech on the 1994-95 state
budget, suggest a continued interest in sound macroeconomic policies and deregulation. There are
also signs of increased openness to a broader range of opinion from within Indonesian society;
Government has moved to expand and improve dialogue, for example, with NGOs and community
groups.



-4
14.    On the international level, Indonesia is assuming an increasingly prominent leadership role
among developing countries; it was elected chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement for 1992-95. In
this role, it has advocated a more constructive dialogue with the industrialized nations and the transfer
of development strategies in which Indonesia has some expertise (particularly food security, family
planning, and debt management). Indonesia will host the next summit of the Asian Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum (APEC) in 1994, and is actively pursuing a revolving seat on the UN Security
Council.
15.    Economic. A tendency towards overheating which emerged during 1990-91 was
successfully controlled by 1993 with little loss of growth momentum. Real GDP grew by about
6.5 percent during 1993 while the current account deficit narrowed to around 2 percent of GDP.
However, inflation rose to around 10 percent and there was a deceleration in both investment and
export growth. Also, the budget deficit was larger (1.3 percent of GDP) than programmed; fiscal
performance was helped substantially by the elimination of subsidies on all domestic fuel products
except kerosene.
16.    Prominent actions in the financial sector included the implementation of a new banking
law jj and the introduction of measures to improve the condition of commercial and development
bank portfolios. A committee was established to monitor "problem" loans (including loans to
borrowers exceeding the legal lending limit), and increased efforts were directed to improve laws,
regulations and practices in the areas of bankruptcy and loan collection. The non-bank financial
sector (bond, commercial paper and stock markets) provided a growing source of finance partly in
reaction to the high spreads banks have put in place to offset past non-performing loans.
17.    Among deregulatory measures announced in 1993 were steps to facilitate foreign investment
including (a) less cumbersome licensing requirements; (b) easier means of divestiture (such as the
ability to divest through selling in the domestic capital market); and (c) lower minimum capital
requirements for some investments. However, concerns remain about the attractiveness of Indonesia's
regulatory environment, especially in view of the emergence of China and Vietnam as popular
destinations for foreign investment. Trade reforms included the reduction of import protection
mainly on steel, glass and pharmaceutical products, used machinery and inputs used by the electronic
components industry. Measures were also taken to streamline the tax and duty drawback scheme for
exporters. On the regional level, Indonesia participated in the launching of the ASEAN Free Trade
Area (AFTA) in January, 1993. The AFTA Council agreed to adopt two programs of tariff
reductions to establish Common Effective Preferential Tariffs (CEPT) covering, on average,
87 percent of ASEAN members' tariff lines.
Economic Prospects
18.    Macroeconomic prospects are good over the medium term. The objectives outlined in the
Sixth Five-Year Plan (Repelita VI) represent a conservative extension of recent trends and should be
attainable with continued reforms and policy response to the emerging internal and external
challenges. As shown in Table 1, economic growth is projected to remain at about 6 percent per
annum throughout the decade, spurred by strong growth in the non-oil sector. Indonesia is less
vulnerable to changes in oil prices and world interest and exchange rates because the economy is
much more diversified and resilient than in the past (para. 21). Furthermore, the Government has
consistently taken quick and decisive action to restore macroeconomic stability whenever necessary.
To achieve growth beyond the currently targeted 6 percent. however, Indonesia expects to accelerate
I/f    The new banking law toughens capital adequacy requirements in line with HIS Standards and strengthens rules to maintain adeque
liquidity, to restrict legal lending limits to individuals and groups of firms, and to make mandatory provisions for nonperforming
assets. The new law also provides for the phased reduction of banks' equity participation in non-financial enterprises, the opening
of bank ownership to foreigners, and the conversion of state banmks into linited liability companies with up to 49 percent private
ownership.



-5-
deregulatory measures, especially those designed to attract foreign investment and increase domestic
competition.
19.   Indonesia has built up a solid record on creditworthiness. Despite being a poor country with
per capita income of only around $670, it does not receive funds from IDA and maintains good
access to world capital markets. It continues to be a cautious borrower and an impeccable repayer.
These aspects, together with its record of sound macroeconomic management, have maintained its
investment grade rating in world markets (as assigned by Standard apd Poor). To finance its future
development program the country will require gross external flows n the amount of US$16 billion
per annum over the medium term. Of this, around $5 billion is expected to come from official
sources. Our projections indicate that reliance on external funds will continue to decline as a
proportion of GDP over the medium term even as the nominal debt stock rises.
C. THE EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
20.   Indonesia has become more integrated with the world economy through expanding trade,
foreign direct investment and financing links. Its open capital account reinforces macroeconomic
discipline. Trade represented an estimated 56 percent of GDP in 1993, compared to 47 percent in
1988, and realized foreign investment projects more than trebled from about US$600 million in 1988
to US$2 billion in 1993. Of total external capital inflows, the share coming from commercial sources
increased from low levels in the early eighties to some 50 percent and is projected to remain at that
level throughout the nineties.
21.   Recent outward orientation has promoted increased competitiveness, technology transfer, and
economic diversification. Oil now accounts for 25 percent of total exports compared to 70 percent in
the early eighties. Greater openness and integration as well as a sizable stock of external debt do, of
course, expose Indonesia to risks arising from unfavorable movements in oil prices, interest rates,
exchange rates and the terms of trade for manufactured exports. However, our projections indicate
that Indonesia would be able to cope with sizable magnitudes of external shocks without experiencing
severe macroeconomic distress. For example, an external shock scenario featuring a combination of
adverse movements in oil prices, interest rates and the yen-dollar exchange rate of a magnitude
similar to that experienced in 1986-88 is expected to reduce economic growth by only 0.5 percent in
the year of occurrence and by 0.2 percent per annum thereafter for five years: this is due largely to
the increased resilience of the economy and the expectation, based on Indonesia's record, that
responsible macroeconomic policies would quickly be implemented.
22.   Indonesia has followed a policy of sterilizing the impact of higher-than-projected oil prices in
the past by maintaning a special reserve fund, so the direct effect on the economy of transitory oil
price declines could be mitigated by use of that reserve. Currently a US$1 fall in price of oil per
barrel reduces net export receipts by about US$300 million, equivalent to 0.7 percent of total exports
and 10 percent of the current account deficit. In recent months Government has again taken steps to
adjust overall expenditures to the decline in oil prices.
23.   Good prospects are projected for continued growth in manufactured exports, which represent
59 percent of exports, and constitute the fastest growing segment. The markets for Indonesia's
exports are becoming increasingly diversified, and faster growth in exports to developing Asia
compensates for slower growth in exports to OECD countries. Overall, non-oil export growth is
projected to level off at about 12 percent during the remainder of the nineties. The Government
recognizes the crucial role of non-oil exports in maintaining external balance in the future.



-6-
24.    The most impvrnant change in trading arrangements over the past year was the Uruguay
Round of GATT, 2/ from which Indonesia may obtain potentially significant gains. A preliminary
World Bank assessment of the Uruguay Round suggests that significant increases in trade, income and
investment are likely to accrue to developing countries, especially those with open economies. Direct
gains will be derived from improved market access, especially in agriculture and textiles, and from
enhanced efficiency resulting from their own liberalization commitments. More subtle, but
potentially more important gains are likely to be obtained from more clearly defined rules for trade
and investment, stronger institutions for their enforcement, and exposure to global competition within
these rules. Most of the concrete gains will only be felt in the medium to long term, as the reforms
have gradual phase-in periods (ranging from 5-10 years statting in mid-1995). The impact of the
Uruguay Round on Indonesia will be explored in more depth within our ESW program over the next
year.
25.    Indonesia has prudently and consistently managed its outstanding debt of US$88 billion
(about 55 percent public). Exchange rate risks arise from a mismatch between the currency
composition of external debt (40 percent yen-denominated) and net trade flows (largely US dollar-
denominated).3/ Indonesia has reduced its vulnerability to these risks by taking steps to focus on
appropriate reserve management, in addition to following prudent macroeconomic policies. A
watchful eye is kept over additional debt obligations through an approval committee, the Commercial
Offshore Loan Team (COLT), and recent reform efforts have aimed at improving incentives for
foreign direct investment which reduces the need for debt financing. The Government has also
begun to make use of sophisticated debt management techniques such as currency and interest rate
swaps and is contracting single currency loans from official credit sources where available.
D. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
26.    The development challenges facing Indonesia are being shaped by fundamental structural
transitions underway in the country, inclueing:
*       the shift from an earlier reliance on oil and agriculture to an increasing reliance on export-
oriented manufacturing for continued rapid growth of output, exports, and employment;
the transition from a largely rural to more urban society (the urbanization ratio rose from
22 to 31 percent during the eighties);
*       demographic change featuring falling birth, death and population growth rates and resulting
in a changing age profile; and
*       a political transition featuring mote open debate of public policy issues and the relevant
development roles of Government and other groups (e.g. the private sector, NGOs, and
community organizations).
27.    The structural transitions underway are creating demands for greater volumes and better
quality of infrastructure and social services: for health services that address basic maternal and child
care needs as well as combat diseases of a more industrialized society; for education that better
21      A World Bank study suggests that the overall impact of NAFrA on East Asian exports will be small (less than one percent of East
Asia's non-oil exports to the United States), while the impact of the AFrA Agreement and the CBPT in the near term is also likely to
be small. Among the ASEAN countries, Singapore is Indonesia's largest trading partner (13 percent of exports), but Singapore is
already largely a free trade area for Indonesia. Others in ASEAN account for a very small share of Indonesia's non-oil exports
(about 4 percent) and the potential for growth is modest in the near term.
3/      For example, the appreciation of the Japanese yen during 1993 (about 12 percent against the US dollar) is estirnated to have
contributed to an increase of about US$.9 billion in the stock of public medium- and long-term debt (equivalent to 5 percent of the
1992 public debt), and increased debt service payments by US$200 million (equivalent to about 7 percent of the curent account
deficit).



-7-
prepares school leavers for higher skill jobs; for increased infrastructure services to enhance urban
productivity and protect environmental quality in the wake of rapid urbanization; for development
of manufacturing and service activities on which continued economic growth and diversification
largely depends; and for improvements in the legal framework to support structural reforms,
especially in private commercial dealings.
28.   The above concerns are reflected in Indonesia's Second Twenty Five Year Long Term
Development Program and the Sixth Five Year Plan (Repelita VI). These documents will be reviewed
in the forthcoming Country Economic Memorandum to be distributed to the Board in May 1994.
As expressed in these documents, Indonesia's development priorities and policies may be summarized
as follows:
(i)    Maintaining growth with macroeconomic stability through fiscal and monetary measures,
increased savings and prudent debt management.
29.   The Government's target for Repelita VI is an annual growth rate of 6.2 percent in GDP
(manufacturing 9.4 percent, agriculture 3.4 percent, other sectcrs 6 percent), which would be
sufficient to employ an annual increase of 2.3 million entrants to the labor force at rising levels of
productivity. With sustained growth at these levels and continued emphasis on policia geared to
poverty reduction, the Government expects the population living in poverty to decline from
15 percent to around 6 percent (from 27 to less than 12 million persons) and per capita income to
increase from US$660 to US$1,000, by the year 2000. This assumes population growth declining to
1.51 percent at the end of Repelita VI from 1.66 percent at the end of Repelita V.
30.   To achieve and susin these rates of growth, the overall investment rate will need to rise
modestly from about 28 percent of GDP in 1993 to about 29 percent by the end of the decade. Most
of this investment would continue to be funded by national savings, which are projected to increase
from about 26 percent to about 28 percent of GDP over the same period. The Government, noting
that the key to increased public savings lies in raising non-oil/gas domestic revenues, plans to increase
tax revenues more than 17 percent annually.
31.   The increase in national savings, including productivity increases, will allow Indon. i .o
maintain a sustainable level of foreign borrowings and steadily reduce the current account deficit
from 2.2 percent of GNP in 1993 to about 1 percent by the end of the decade. Debt management,
including the monitoring of mega-projects, will remain important. Government hopes to reduce the
debt-service ratio fromn about 30 to 20 percent.
(ii)   Reducing poverty and enhancing human resource development through higher quality health
and education services; improved employment and skill formation opportunities; and
programs featuring targeting and greater participation of beneficiary groups in design and
implementation.
32.   In addition to the traditional strategy featuring labor-intensive growth and human resource
development, Government proposes to combat poverty in the future through new mechanisms
involving greater participation of NGOs and community organizations and new ways of delivering
funds and services directly to the poor. A relevant initiative that is already under way is the Inpres
Desa Tertinggal (IDT); this is a US$600 million program of grants for rural and urban settlements
which have a high incidence of poverty. Notable features of this program are the participation by
beneficiaries in its design and implementation -- community groups will choose eligible anti-poverty
projects -- and the use of streamlined mechanisms to channel funds directly to targeted communities
without going through traditional local government units and budget processes. The experience thus
gained will serve , a basis for improvements in design and implementation in subsequent years.



-8-
33.   Repelita VI incorporates substantial increases for all categories of human resource
development (education, health and poverty reduction programs) in real per capita terms. It supports
an increase in compulsory education from six to nine years, enhanced quality at all levels, and
expansion of education to poorer groups. Expansion of health centers and subcenters has delivered
significant improvements in access of the poor to health serAices, but theie remains considerable
scope for improving the quality of these services in terms oU te availability of drugs and trained
medical staff. The 1994/95 budget reflects the emphasis upon maintenance and training costs rather
than extension of new facilities. Overall there is a greater emphasis on changing incentives for both
the public and private sectors to provide better quality health and education and reach the poor.
34.   Recent improvements in the national household socioeconomic survey (SUSENAS)
incorporate indicators of access to social services as well as consumption levels, disaggregated to
provincial and district levels. These indicators will allow regular monitoring of overall distribution
between different social groups and will support the design of better targeting of government
interventions to reach the poor. Appropriate policy measures include greater price discrimination for
public services: selective fee reductions targeted to the poor, for example, for junior secondary
education compensated by higher cost recovery for programs used mainly by the better-off, such as
universities.4/ Such data will also help Government design policies to reduce regional income
disparities, a matter of considerable concern at present.
(iii) Enhancing private sector developnent and competitiveness through continued prudent
macroecononic manageinent and increasing deregulation; adopting measures to "level the
playing field" (decontrol of markets, commercial legal reform, standards for accounting,
auditing, and financial disclosure, etc.); and providing better infrastructure and support
services (standards, testing, quality control, and technological extension and research).
35.   Increasing reliance on the private sector is necessary because of the need for higher
productivity growth as well as because of public resource limitations. The Government recognizes
that further structural reforms are needed to maximize the benefits of private participation and attract
foreign direct investment. Further trade and investment reforms will help increase entry, competition,
and productivity in key sectors, thereby continuing to diversify and deepen the manufacturing and
export base of the country. Further financial refonms and restructuring of development banks aimed
at reducing the cost of intermediation should help cut the relatively high cost of capital that tends to
prevail in Indonesia. Improvements in the tranMp=gn y ofLpnodures to involve the private sector in
the provision of public services, and clarification of the regulatory framework, should expand the
pool of potential investors as well as reduce the costs of such transactions to the Government.
36.   The Government is committed to reducing infrastructure bottlenecks, and Repelita VI targets
large increases in road transport and energy. By the end of Repelita VI, it is expected that 79 percent
of villages would enjoy electricity, compared to 49 percent at its beginning. While maintaining the
dominance of road and bridge infrastructure, Repelita VI gives increased attention to transport system
integration, service qualitv and operational efficiency. In keeping with concerns about inter-regional
disparity, there are plans to expand the network of infrastructure services in the Eastern Islands.
(iv)   Improving public sector management through increasing transparency and accountability;
strengthening capacities at all levels of government; decentralization in planning, budgeting,
and management of sector resources as well as greater resource mobilization at local levels;
and reform or privatization of public enterprises.
4Indonesia: Publig Expenditun:s. Prices and thc Por Repont No. 1 1293 IND, December 1992.



-9-
37.   The Government recognizes that more effective public institutions are essential to dealing
effectively with the major structural changes underway in the economy. Improving public sector
management involves adapting to changes in the functions of government by reassessing the size,
skill-mix, and incentives of the civil service, and by decentralizing or privatizing functions when this
will enhance efficiency and effectiveness. Ongoing reforms (e.g., job analysis aimed at better job
classification and skill identification) are producing useful results at the ministry level. Some
innovations and pilot experiments in he .lth and education are aimed at limiting civil service size and
improving the accountability and incentives of civil servants. Special attention needs to be given to
ministries whose functions have changed or are expected to change significantly (e.g., Industry and
Trade as a result of deregulation, Public Works as a result of decentralization) and to interagency
coordination as a result of environmental and other issues (e.g., water resource management and land
markets).
38. The Government is committed to greater decentralization, especially in the assignment of
increased responsibilities to local governments in the provision of public services (e.g., health and
public works). However, implementation is dependent upon development of manpower and
differences in resource endowments. A necessary complement to the assignment of additional
responsibilities to local governments is the enhancement of their financial capacities. Bringing local
governments' revenues into closer conformity with their expenditures involves assignment of tax
bases between central and local governments, raising more revenues from taxes already assigned to or
shared with local governments, and making fuller use of local user charges. Current policy and
budget documents outline increased responsibility and financial resources to lower levels of
government for regional development programs.
39.   The pjblic enl=dwri reform program introduced in 1989 has helped to improve efficiency
and productivity, and private participation has increased in a number of sectors. A major private
sector contract has recently been signed in the power sector (Paiton Project) and joint ventures have
been put in place in telecommunications. The general strategy for industrial public enterprises is to
phase out budgetary support, to privatize selected units, and to liquidate where necessary. The
Government recently proposed the sale of shares in 28 majority state-owned enterprises under joiat
supervision of the Ministries of Finance and Industry (ferilizers, cement, pulp and paper, textiles, and
shipbuilding and repair) and is proceeding with preparation for listings on stock exchanges etc.
(v)   Improving environmental management through more effective natural (land, water, forest)
resource management policies and practices and reducing urban and industrial pollution.
40.   A recent Bank report on the interaction between development and the environment in
Indonesia highlights five areas of concern: 5 (i) water supply and environmental sanitation, (ii)
solid waste management, (iii) vehicle emission (all three in Indonesia's main urban centers) (iv)
industrial pollution control (primarily on Java), and (v) the management of forest concessions in the
outer islands.
41.   Indonesia has already established important elements of a policy and regulatory framework
for environmental protection, largely during the 1980s, but it will take time to integrate effectively
environmental concerns into development planning and implementation. Indonesia is making
encouraging progress in accumulating data on environmental conditions and trends (including the
AMDAL program, which requires environmental impact assessments to be prepared for projects
expected to have significant environmental impact) and in public education and awareness
campaigns. The Government has emphasized that more attention will be paid to environmental issues
during the second long-term development program to ensure sustainable development. It has
5,    Indonesia: Envirnment and Develoment Challenge for the Future. Report No.12083-lNl, 1993.



-10-
particularly stressed the importance of clean water supply, environmental sanitation, and poverty
alleviation, and Repelita VI accords high priority to water resource management.
42.   Indonesia's forests are second only to Brazil's in size and represent 10 percent of the world's
remaining tropical rain forest. The overall rate of deforestation is a matter of growing concern.
However, the Government is aware of the importance of managing this unique resource in a
sustainable manner. It has developed a comprehensive forest management strategy and is slowly but
steadily building institutional capacity to implement it. A substantial increase in stumpage fees
(50 percent) was introduced recently which should improve efficiency in the wood processing
industries and strengthen incentives to conserve forest resources.
E. BANK GROUP'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
43.   The Bank's strategy is to help Indonesia focus on raising productivity and enhancing
competitiveness, improving the delivery of public services and reducing poverty. These objectives
assume the maintenance of macroeconomic stability. The Bank will address these challenges
through:
(a)   continuing the tradition, established over 25 years, of policy dialogue with the
Government on a broad range of macroeconomic and sector issues. The
Chairmanship of the Consultative Group and our Resident Mission in Indonesia have
proven valuable instruments in this regard;
(b)   a lending program addressing infrastructure, competitiveness, human resource and
public sector management bottlenecks through investment and technical assistance
loans (adjustment loans were phased out in 1991);
(c)   an ESW program designed to analyze the increasingly more complex development
strategy Incentives, Investment and Institutional issues across sectors concerning
growth;
(d)   continuing attention to portfolio management to enhance the development impact of
investment; and
(e)   increased attention to environmental and social impact issues in our policy dialogue,
economic and sector work, and lending operations.
Policy Objectives and Dialogue
44.   The matrix on the following page sets out the objectives and measures discussed with the
Government in relation to our operational program.
45.   Continuation of u i               policy is fundamental to our program.
Macroeconomic issues are under constant review with the Government. At presert, priorities include
maintenance of financial sector stability, continued prudent debt management, and acceleration of
market-oriented reforms.
46.   In addition to sector work, we will continue to provide regular advice to the government on
emerging issues. We are currently helping the Government to strengthen its debt management
capacity and complete the financial sector reforms that motivated the Financial S xctor Development
Loan. As challenges to macroeconomic stability arise in the future, we expect to continue our close
association with the Government in helping identify problems and develop solutions.



- 11 -
INDONESA: POLICY OBJCTV  AND COUNTRY AS, ANCE STRATEGY
OUScTIV                                          ACTiON/NE    STIE                       |BDANK ROLE iUD IMTRUMENTS
A. GROWII wirH MACItOECONOMIC SrABIflV
Aprpite bale of fica ni                 Tgten fcl policy by dowiW sndn  grwth Increasing                Policy diogue, CO metg, CEM. ESW on Resuce Mobilzatin
meay poac.                                ewit  through beer ta adsnistration, rabig aDd bringi  on    (MF94), Publik Epe           (FY94) and Fiscal Decontaliauion (FY94)
b-det foesy cevac, rain tax assessn   and prpaty
m,  Improving projc seecton and  np              Contie
pustn  moeary policy, oaing 001 dets at ban  are kep
at mttintumu levels.
Prud    debt man.agm.                   Strengthen debt mangmen by limiting foegn borowig               Policy diogue. CO meeti.
.____________________     (tough COLI) to igh town pojec.
Fincal sc   stability.                  Consi1ts Imtn_Aon of bkg sector efoms and expedie               Policy diogu, CO meeting, apvbion of Financil Secto Development
pAeti  rgai  of nbU* sector (esp. insurance companica          Lem  (FY93), Non-Bank Financial Sector Study (FY94)
and petlo  fands).
D. PRIVATESECTORDEV.oIbuL         ANDCOMPESTrvENU
Coniued deregulatin and trade           Lower bmport tff acrs th board and eithint  raining             Policy diaogue, CO meeting, CEM, PSA (FY93), ESW an Industrial
reform.                                 NTh, expot restrictions (wicb nwmly affct aricu                 Sec  (FY93), Acura  Trfomati  (FY93), Urban Iafture
produc), and negatie UKt on invesnt/DFI In distribution  of    Seices Y94), Eastn Islands StAdy (FY94), Power (FY9S), Roads
arwila products; ease divestiture em e   to en                 (Y95) T           _     , Industril Competion, Prvate Prviion of
fore4p investors &WI  Smics.
Supportive I     _ftr r invesmets.      Talor public nvme  pRojet to e        t cr         succ         Pollcy dialogue, CEM, Public Expet         (FY94) A IA  CPPR,
botenecx whe nreasng role of privae sctor.                     L aft  for Outer sands Power, HIghway Sector n, Kabupaten Roads V,
Petrolmem Dev. TA, Sldlb Dcv. Accty Dcv. (FY94), Land Adminintration,
Rwual Elect 11, Telecom. Modesization, Railys (FY95), Power Tram.
H, Renewable Energy, Sumatra Per Dev., Jalaa Trnport, Industrial
Tech. Strategic Urban Tanort, Kabuaten Roads V.
Continud derltio  of prices and         Intit electricity rate   caes, deregle prices snd mkes          Policy dialog, CEM, Animal CPPR. LnR  for Outer sands Powe,
markets;                                for cemen and fertilizer adS odet IE sectra. ncrese             Pwr Trans. H, Sumatr Power Dev., Rura Elet I.1 Telecon.
Irved r atory framework for             twapareny in dali  wih priwate sacor.                           Moderniaon, Power Trams. 11, Renewable Energy, Sumatra Power Dev.
p   -to pft*kxL                               ____
C. PovERTY RtCTON AND HUMAN RESoDtatC DeVLOnaT
Targeed pr       to reach th poor.      Adopt more dffrated heat  deivey and educati   stteg            Poy dialo, 00 meeting, CEM, ESW on Public Expendiur  and
to taget regioa dipares and hard co  povty; special focus      Poor, Healt Insurance (FY93), Eascen Islwas Strategy (FY94). Ladn
on Eatn Isl , and developm   of new ig-value crops.            to. Integted Swamps (FY94). Poety Reducti, Agr. Extension &
Traning IV (FY95), Agr. Research 11S uaw1e  Area Dev., Health IV, E.
Iands Dev., Pee-shd Education.
Higer qality helt and educatn           Increa  expendiuon hel  and eduatin bet dwbuton                 Pdicy dWge; CEM, ESW on Health Manpower(FY94). Edcato
seri.                                   of teac ane          ti     materials. nhading a ai            (FY95), Delivery of Basik Services (FY96). Lgba for Education
foms of deley.  mrove qity of heFt  services tough            (FY9), Over   Training. Teacder Training (FY95), Higher Education It,
bi     g avality  of drs atp  tradned medica staff.            Base Education Healt IV, Secondary  ducti  IU.
hpoved s   formatin to meet             Ai    ill needs, remowv Impeimea to prat           provison     Poliy dialogue, CEM, ESW on Labor Markets, Training and Growth.
grwing mnanulaeturing sCOr needs.       of ting, impe coa-ctvene  of pblc secr taig                     le laa for Sks Development (FY94).
Prorm.                                                           ___._                          ___
D. PuBLC SECTO9#    MANAlG MTSr
Strengthened capacites at all levds of  Pormnt    aty which Wngrae ongoing refoemfforts and             Policy dialogue, CEM, ESW on Delivery of Basic Servicer. Rolc of Public
govement with baed trasvreny            Identfies se   q    of next steps to be taken.                  Sector. Amual CPPR. LaJxg    operations in all sectos.
and acmabilty.                                                   .
Decentralized responsibilities where    Replicat and expand pilot exeiM    In public wotrs and health   Policy dialoue, ESW on Fisall Deceralization (FY94). Urban
apporite.                               wilth greater role for lower evels of govanment and NGOs.       Infrastructure Services (FY94). jLcnin for Health, Surabaya/Senarang-
Suakart/Kalimantan/East Java/Bl3i UDPs), Water an Sanition for Low-
.________________________          _________________________________________                        Incom te   C om .  (1993).
Reform of rlic entrprise.               Follow through on PE reform program, iludtg privhatit   of      Poicy dialoe, ESW on Industrial Sector (FY94). Lending for Publk
sdected entpries.                                              Enteise Restsenirung Projet, A tural Public Enterprise Reform,
.________________._______                         Telecom. and  Power.
E. ENWR4VtONO.ENTALMANrAGEMENSKIes-:    ______________________________________
Strenghnd  institutias to amess         More clarly define roles of various agencies and arangams for    Polky dialgue. CG meting. CEM, ESW on Forestry (lY93). Enrgy and
alternatives and implment polices.      interagency cordiao   increase supply of skilled manpower in    Envirnmcnt (FY93), Environme  and Development (FY94). Industrial
env imneal analys  and managemnt and conume to involve         Polli  Conl (FY94), Water Resource (FY95). Sanitation and
lal comumDities, project beneficiaries and NGOs more closely.  Seweage Sector. JLNg for BAPEDAI. (FY92).
Effective natural resource managument.  Work twward sustanble managm          of water supply (especialy  Policy diaogue. CG meetig, Lending for Java Water Man., Watershed
in Java), forestry resources (mainly in Outer Islands), biodiversity Conservation & Man., Dam Safety (FY94), Forestry 111. Land Admin.
and land.                                                      (FY95). 1glarta Water Suppy, Biodivcrsity Consevadon, Watershed
Conservation 11.
Reduced urban and industrial polion.    Reduce incisincrease disincenivs for pollution. Focus on        Policy dialogue, CG meeting. rsw on Induttrial Pollution Control (FY94).
ver ant soid wae  nati   and vehic  emissin.                   Lending for all Urban Development Projects. Polhtion Cotr.



-12-
47.   Some 80 percent of the proposed lending program provides indirect support for priva,t
sector development and competitiveness through provision of infrastructure (power,
telecommunications, roads, urban services, technology) and improvements in the quality of the labor
force. Lending operations, particularly in infrastructure, support efficient pricing policies and a
regulatory framework for private participation.
48.   Proposed agriculture and industry loans support market deregulation of specific products
(eliminating price controls and trade monopolies, NTBs and tariff surcharges, reducing subsidies, or
increasing cost recovery). Projects in land administration, industrial technology development,
accountancy and skills development support the development of factor markets. The Financial
Sector Development Loan helps private enterprise by strengthening the foundation for a sound and
efficient banking system.
49.   Our operations foster gverty r-eduction through promotion of an outward-oriented growth
strategy which boosts job creation in both agriculture andl manufacturing, extension of economic
infrastructure and services to the poor, and improvement in the quality of basic social services. A
prominent aspect of our future assistance in this regard will be a focus on social impact. gender and
participation issues. We plan to support Govemment's new poverty initiative and see it as a vehicle for
enhancing participation of the poor and of NGOs and community groups in the design of anti-
poverty programs. Interventions in agriculture and human resources support targeted programs to
alleviate poverty. WID concems are addressed across our portfolio but most conspicuously in our
health projects (matemal and child care).
50.   Improved pablic sector management is a component of many of our projects. Future power,
telecommunications, and urban projects will continue to support the introduction of a transparent
framework for private participation. Urban and health projects will continue to support budgetary
reforms (including greater rationalization and transparency in central-local fiscal relations), while
transport projects support an appropriate balance between capital and O&M expenditures. Public
enterprise reform or privatization is supported by future lending in power, gas, telecommunications,
transport, and industry.
51.   We will continue to support institution-building for environmental management on national,
regional and enterprise levels, in close cooperation with bilateral donors through improving data
collection, environmental assessment capabilities, and capacities for formulation and implementation
of policies.
52.   By continuing to support policies that encourage greater efficiency-increased domestic
competition, market-based prices for natural resources, and cost recovery for investments in
supportive infrastructure -we are advocating win-win policies that also help conserve resources and
reduce pollution. Future forestry, land, and water resource projects will continue to support cost
recovery through reform of fee systems for irrigation (cost recovery of O&M), timber use, and land
acquisition.
53.   However, further efforts are required to reduce pollution, including measures to enforce
emission standards at major sources of air and water pollution, to incorporate pollution costs in fuel
taxes, to invest in the supply of cleaner fuels (natural gas), and to implement investments and
regulatory measures to increase efficiency of energy use. Our energy portfolio will address the full
range of energy issues, including electricity transmission, renewable energy, and efficiency of energy
use. Our urban portfolio will address relevant concerns through such measures as improvements in
storm water drainage and waste management. We also propose to develop industrial pollution control
projects based upon the analysis in our ongoing ESW program.



-13-
ESW Program
54.   The ESW program will continue to be focused on important current concerns of policy
makers, while remaining anchored in a medium-term perspective emphasizing efficient, equitable and
sustainable growth. Among prominent current concerns of Government are:
how to maintain growth of 6-7 percent in the face of emerging domestic and external
financing constraints;
*     how to improve productivity and competitiveness for industrial and technological advance,
and develop a supportive human resource base; and
*     how to achieve equity across several dimensions: inter-regional, to ensure that areas other than
Java share in the fruits of growth; inter-personal, to ensure that absolute poverty continues to
decline; and inter-firm, to ensure that small and medium enterprises are not crowded out by
large oligopolies.
55.   The above concerns are central to our ESW program. The nature of emerging financing
constraints and the appropriate responses are being dealt with in reports on domestic resource
mobilization and public expenditure managemoet. The latter report has been prepared on a schedule
designed to contribute intensively to the formulation of the next Five-Year Development Plan
(Repelita VI). Indeed, the next CEM will focus on long-term development implications of the Plan.
In addition, in view of the importance of a well functioning financial system, we are preparing a study
of Non-Bank Financial Institutions currently and will undertake a Financial Sector Updae, focusing
on the banking system, in FY95.
56.   The experience of the fast-growing East Asian economies suggests that increasing
productivity is the key to higher growth in the future. Productivity, in turn, is most effectively raised
by taking steps to improve competitiveness. How best to do this by integration with the rest of the
world, through trade, investment and finance links, will be the subject of a report entitled Indoeia's
Development in a Global Context; this will also feature an analysis of the implications for the
Indonesian economy of the recently-concluded Uruguay Round of trade liberalization.
Competitiveness can also be enhanced by measures to reduce or eliminate restrictions to domestic
competition; this will be the focus of a proposed study of Industrial Compeititn. Among other
aspects, this report will examine the role of licenses, restraints on domestic trade, and conglomerate
power in Indonesia's economy. Complementing our work on competitiveness will be an.Educadon
Sector Study-and a Training and Labor Mariets Study that will help formulate a strategy for
education and training that responds to the widely felt need for higher quality manpower. The
importance of infrastructure for efficient industrialization is a recurrent theme of our ESW. Over the
next few years, we propose a Road Sector Study to examine the balance, efficiency and effectiveness
of road expenditures (which are prominent in the next five-year plan).
57.   Inter-regional equity concerns will be partly dealt with through a study of development
strategy and consequences in the Eastern Islands. Other equity concerns are the focus of Ielivryf
Basic Servics which will attempt to fill gaps in our knowledge concerning the links between poverty
and the quantity, quality and manner of delivery of basic services.



-14-
Lending Egogram
58.    The evolution of the Bank's lending program, shown in Table 2, reflects our responsiveness to
Indonesia's development priorities. As of December 31, 1993, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$901.6 million (net of cancellations) and 179 Bank loans totalling US$17,908.74 million
(net of cancellations). The last of four structural adjustment loans was committed in 1991.
Disbursements on traditional investment projects have been on track.6/
Table 2: SUMMARY OF BANK OPERATIONAL OUTPUTS
FY89-91          FY92-94            FY95-97
Amount  Percent   Amount Percent    Amount Percent
................................. US$ million .
Lending
Agriculture/Environment                  314           6    862        22       559        14
Human Resource Development               624          13    339         9       600        1 5
Industry, Finance & Telecommunications  1,167         24    682        17       690        17
Power & Energy                          1,295         26    770        20       910        22
Urban                                    531          11    420        11       913        22
Transport                                350           7    862        22       400        1 0
Non-Project (Adjustment)                 630          13       0        0         0         0
Total                                  4,911         100  3,935       100    4,072        100
Number of Projects                        30                  29                 36
Average Project Size                     164                 136                113
Portfolio Management
Projects Supervised (Average)             83                  80                 81
Gross Disbursements                    4,005               3,513              3,579
Disbursement Ratio (Average)              35                  25                 25
59.    Lending to agiculture and related environm;ntal problems has increased in recent years with
the shift from more traditional agricultural projects to natural resource management (water, forestry,
biodiversity and land) and to interventions that directly benefit the poor (e.g. smallholder projects in
the Eastern Islands). Lending for human resource development continues to emphasize the quality
of education and health services and target poorer groups and regions. A poverty project during
FY95 will specifically support the Government's new poverty initiative.
60.    Lending to jnfrastructure is projected to remain large, accounting for some 70 percent of the
program, as we assist Indonesia in eliminating critical bottlenecks. However, there will be some sub-
sector shifts. A rising share for urban recognizes the great and growing deficiencies in urban services
(especially for poor households) and related "brown" environmental issues, such as improving water
quality and waste management. The share of industry. finance and telecommunications remains at a
stable level, with new initiatives in industrial technology development and public enterprise
t     Disbursements declined during the past few years, in comparison to the earlier period, with the phasing out of the fast-disbursing
SAL.s.



-15-
restructuring. In the ower and energ  sub-sector, we will continue to support priority public sector
investments, but also provide assistance to improve the regulatory structure for increased private
participation. We also expect to maintain a substantial presence in land transport to consolidate gains
in operational efficiency.
61.   Over the past several years, projects under preparation have addressed more complex sector
policy and implementation issues (the latter related to environmental, participatory, institutional, and
procurement concerns). As a response to these issues, innovative approaches are being tried in our
projects. For example, the Third Health Project (LN 3042-IND) fosters more efficient delivery of
basic services through budgetary reform and decentralization. This approach is carried further in the
Water and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project (LN 3629-IND), which supports demand-
driven solutions on the part of local communities. Future operations will expand on these innovative
approaches; a proposed project related to Government's new poverty initiative is expected to feature
mechanisms to improve the partigipation of the poor in anti-poverty efforts.
Portfolio Management
62.   Improved portfolio management has long been an objective pursued by the Bank and the
Gover ment of Indonesia. In 1986, a special project implementation and monitoring unit was
established within the National Planning Ministry, BAPPENAS, to deal with procurement and
disbursement problems. Over the past year Government has made progress in streamlining
budgetary procedures to expedite project processing. The Government has also agreed to establish
an evaluation capacity within BAPPENAS and an IDF grant has been provided to assist in its
implementation.                        0
63.   To date, the Operations Evaluation Department has evaluated 138 completed projects in
Indonesia and given 84 percent of these a "satisfactory" rating. The health of the current portfolio
with a net commitment of US$14.2 billion is good (Annexes Al and A6). Although most of the
projects in Indonesia are completed without major delays, some do experience "moderate"
implementation problems-delays in startup activities, long lead time in procurement of goods and
services, as well as unclear arrangements for interagency coordination.
64.   The practice of joint review of the Bank's portfolio through a Country Portfolio Performance
Review (CPPR) is taking hold; the second annual CPPR was conducted in February, 1994. One
outcome of this exercise is the increasing ownership being taken by Government of the portfolio
improvement process and the establishment of a genuine dialogue on portfolio problems, their causes
and their solutions. Discussions have taken place across a broad range of design and implementation
issues and new ideas have increasingly been forthcoming from the Government side. As a result of
the most recent CPPR, we expect a set of action plans on implementation to be issued soon. The
following are expected to feature prominently in the action plans:
*     greater attention to be paid to the cost-effectiveness, management and impact of technical
assistance;
*     greater efforts to assure quality at entry;
*     appointments of key staff and consultants will be made a condition for negotiation, Board
presentation, or effectiveness, as needed; and
X     more critical and constructive supervision of projects and construction works by all entities
involved.



-16-
65.    In keeping with our emphasis on portfolio supervision support, our Resident Mission has
been strengthened by the addition of two units. A Portfolio Management and Implementation Unit
has been created to improve handling of procurement and supervision issues. An Environmental and
Social Impact Unit has been established to better address environmental, resettlement, gender,
participation and NGO issues in the field and provide country-wide specialist input.
Bank Lending Strategy
66.    The Bank's lending strategy and the size of lending program over the medium term will be
shaped by such factors as: Indonesia's financing needs; burdensharing with other donors; progress in
macroeconomic and sector policy dialogue; portfolio quality; and exposure considerations.
BOX 1: IMROVIN  DELIVEIY OF BASC SERVICES BY INCREASING COMMUNnrV PARTICIPATION
The Government considers safe water supply and adequate sanitation facilities to be basic goods, and access to them
to be a key element in poverty alleviation. Some 90 mnillion rural residents in Indonesia sdll remain unserved or underserved
by basic water and sanitation services, leading to a high incidence of waterborne diseases (which particularly imtpact poor women
and children) and lower household income due to the amount of tine and resources spent on obtaining water.
The Water Supply and Sanitation for Low Income Communities Project (LN 3629-IND) builds on Bank and other
donor (UNDP, WHO, USAID, AIDAB, UNICEF, CARE) experience in Indonesia and other developing countries. The project
has the following key features: targeting of poor underserved villages, commnunity pardcipation, demand-driven interventions,
cost recovery, structured learning approaches, human resource and instituional strengthening, and use of NGOs. Conmmunity
participation is a cornerstone of project design-communities are given a voice in the entire project cycle, including choice of
system, operations and maintenance. Commnitment on the part of beneficiaries to maintain the systems should result in
sustainability.
The project involves more intensive training, mnonitoring and supervision than sirmilar projects in the past, involving
various levels of government agen-ies and extensive involvement of NGOs. Risks of project implemnentaion have been addressed
through prior agreement with Government on key project parameters- implementation arrangements at provincial and district
levels, approved village action plans covering O&M and capital cost recovery contributions from beneficiary communities,
submission of action plans to provide training to women and initiation of pilot schemes to enhance their role, and appoitment
of NGOs. Although staff-intensive", it is expected that the approaches of this project can be replicated efficiently on a larger
scale.
67.    Indonesia's gross external fnancin  requirements are expected to total around US$16 billion
per annum over the medium term. In the recent past, concessional assistance has averaged about
US$5 billion per annum, of which the Bank has committed about US$1.3 billion or 26 percent of the
total. Other major donors include Japan and the Asian Development Bank, which have provided
about 30 percent and 25 percent, respectively. The level of their commitments is based on a
reasonable degree of burdensharing relative to the Bank's planned contribution. Based on our
analysis, it will be important to maintain stable concessional flows, on the order of US$5 billion in
annual commitments, throughout the nineties.
68.    Indonesia's sustained record of sound macroeconomic and debt management gives
confidence that the risks of major policy slippage are low. Risks of major problems with project
implementation are also low given the past record of 84 percent of projects being satisfactory. While
problems may occur from time to time, the overall record is one of continued progress in our
dialogue on implementaticin and policy issues. Finally, Indonesia's solid record in poverty reduction
continues to attract and justify donor support.



-17-
69.   Despite the fact that Bank lending to Indonesia has dropped from an average of $1.5 billion
per annum in 1989-91 to around $1.3 billion more recently, our exposure has increased to aropnd
10.9 percent and is projected to stay above 10 percent for several more years. Several factors lying
beyond the control of the country program are responsible for this. The main ones are (a) slower
Bank-wide disbursements while disbursements to Indonesia have remained on track and (b) an overall
reduction in projected Bank lending of 20 percent for FY94-96, from US$75 billion to US$60
billion. It is now projected that IBRD's disbursed portfolio will grow by only 3.9 percent per annum
during the nineties as compared to 11.5 percent during the eighties. We believe that the present trend
of Bank txposure in Indonesia is acceptable given the improving creditworthiness indicAtors for the
economy as a whole (e.g., debt service and debt/GNP ratios, Annex A5), indonesia's past debt
management, expectations of continued good economic performance, and the need to adhere to
certain burdensharing norms in providing concessional financing. Furthermore, ratios of Bank debt
service to total exports remain well below the relevant exposure guidelines throughout the decade.
70.   Based on Indonesia!s excellent performance, the Bank can be expected to continue lending in
a range of $1.2 to $1.5 billion per annum over the next few years. The complex nature of the policy
and institutional measures that are required introduces some uncertainty into project processing
schedules. If it takes longer than now anticipated to develop and prepate the relevant projects and
implement needed reforms, our lending program may drift to the lower end of the range. In addition
to the macro and sectoral policy issues discussed earlier, the lending program will respond to progress
in resolving the generic and sector specific implementation and procurement issues.
Aid Coordinaio
71.   Indonesia has a broad and diversified base of support among the donor community. Funds
are also available through supplier and export credits. Consultations among donors are important for
maintaining funding levels and for focusing development efforts on critical issues and maximizing
effectiveness of aid. The Bank, as chair of the Consultative Group, provides the forum for an annual
meeting and regular consultations. The role of Japan as the largest donor is particularly noteworthy;
our cooperation with Japan extends across a broad range of the operational program. This is true
also of our relationship with the Asian Development Bank. The role of consultant trust funds
(especially the Japanese Grant Facility) is another example of useful donor coordination.
72.   Even though concessional assistance is projected to decline significantly in net terms and in
relation to the size of the economy throughout the decade, it will play a strategic role in starting
critical new projects, in supporting reforms needed for sustained improvements in Indonesia's
creditworthiness, and in mobilizing international debt and equity flows from private sources.
IFC and MIGA
73.   The Bank will continue its close cooperation with IFC. IFC's operations in Indonesia
expanded from the mid-eighties in response to reforms that encouraged private sector development
(Annex A5). IFC's investments encompass many of the sectors contributing most to Indonesia's
private sector growth, including textiles, chemicals, agribusiness, tourism, capital markets, and
development finance. IFC's experience and the good working relationships that it has developed with
a large number of corporate groups in Indonesia place it well to expand its project and capital market
development activities throughout the 1990s. However, IFC's ability to contribute to the extent of its
potential remains constrained on a number of fronts: (i) the presence of public enterprises in many of
the larger projects (oil, gas, telecommunications, power) as well as in the banking sector; (ii) the lack
of transparent selection procedures in key designated private projects; and (iii) regulatory
impediments to capital markets development.



-18-
74.   While IFC's debt and equity investments have recently been in the range of US$100-170
million per annum (historically mobilizing about five times that amount from private sources),
reforms that sharply reduce the cost of doing business could raise this level significantly. The Private
Sector Assessment completed in 1993 discussed the complementary activities of the Bank and IFC
and the strategies of both to enhance private sector development. IFC expertise is particularly
relevant to deepening Indonesia's domestic capital markets; providing project financing, especially
equity, and technical advice to small and medium size enterprises; assisting established enterprises to
rationalize operations and enhance market access; and structuring financing for privatization
candidates.
75.   MIGA sees increasing demand for its guarantees; of a total authorized counitry limit of
US$150 million, US$51.5 million is accounted for in two guarantee operations. It is expected that the
remaining amount will be fully utilized over the medium term.
76.   FIAS, a joint facility of the Bank, MIGA and IFC, is working with BKPM (the Capital
Investment Coordinating Board) in five areas: (i) analyzing ownership and sectoral restrictions in
relation to foreign investment flows; (ii) helping establish an FDI database to track investment
enquiries, approvals, and implementation; (iii) analyzing the approval and licensing process to
determine where improvements can be made; (iv) analyzing the potential for backward linkages from
existing foreign investment; and (v) training in investment promotion.
Cooperation with IME
77.   We will continue our close cooperation with the RAF in our dialogue on macroeconomic
policies, both in Washington and Jakarta. Although the IMF has not arranged standby or extended
funding for Indonesia since 1973, it has provided continued technical and policy input to the
Government. Its valuable analytical work is important to the Bank and to the Consultative Group.
The most recent IMF Article IV Consultation took place in November 1993.
F. AGENDA FOR DISCUSSION
78.   The fundamental thrust of the Bank's assistance strategy will continue as in the past.
Assuming continued good performance, we will support the Government's objectives of sustainable
growth and poverty reduction through: (a) macroeconomic and sector policy dialogue, focusing on
improving competitiveness (b) lending operations designed to have high development impact, and (c)
continued attention to portfolio management to improve implementation.
79.   Indonesia has a solid record of growth, poverty reduction and adjustment to external shocks.
It has taken important steps and policy reforms to deal with issues of growth, equity, competitiveness,
and human resource development. Now it is facing challenging 'second generation" issues-related
to institutional development, transparency, decentralization, participation, and the environment--not
only on the national level but also on regional and local levels. Success with these will require time
and increased consensus building efforts.
80.   The Executive Directors may wish to discuss the appropriate pace of change in a country as
geographically and ethnically diverse as Indonesia.



-19-
PART H. THE SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
81.   Background. The urban population in Indonesia exceeds 55 million and is growing at 5
percent per year, more than twice the overall national rate. About 80 million or 40 percent of
Indonesians will be city dwellers by the year 2000. Due to a centralized and fragmented decision-
making system, coordination of the urban sector has been poor and local participation limited. To
address this problem, all key agencies with responsibilities in the urban sector are represented in
GOI's Interagency Coordinating Team for Urban Development (TKPP) chaired by BAPPENAS, the
National Development Planning Agency. BAPPENAS is responsible for overall planning and the
allocation of resources, focused in Five-Year Development Plans (Repelita) and Annual National
Revenue and Expenditure Budgets (APBN). The Ministries of Home Affairs and Public Works are
respectively responsible for overseeing regional governments and most infrastructure investments
through Provincial offices which also execute centrally-financed infrastructure projects.
82.  Average incomes in urban areas have risen substantially over the past eight years, however
income distribution remains relatively unequal and in 1990, over 17 percent of urban dwellers were
estimated still to be poor. The problems of the poor are exacerbated by deficiencies in basic services
and degraded environmental conditions leading to poorer health. About 76 percent of the urban
population do not have direct access to piped water supply and I 1 percent rely on wells and water
vendors. About 65 percent of low-income groups share toilets and use waterways for sanitation. In
the larger cities, inadequate industrial water supply and liquid and solid waste disposal is a serious
problem. To meet GOrs service and equity objectives, more investment is needed in low-cost, local
or tertiary systems in underserved urban areas. The dominant role of central government grants for
financing local government services is partly the result of limited local taxing authority. Dependance
on grants also perpetuate imbalances and shortfalls in local financial resources and infrastructure
investment in different urban areas. GOI's strategy is to move interest rates on local government
loans towards market rates over the medium to long term and relies on Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Development Programming (IUIDP) for improving local government management,
infrastructure investment, revenue mobilization and consultation between various levels of
government. It is accepted that improvements in coordination, investment efficiency and equity,
would be easier to sustain at the local level than in the large central government.
83.   Surabava East Java's capital, is a relatively clean city of 3.5 million people, but suffers many
of the problems of other Indonesian cities. Rapid population growth (3.5 percent/yr) and
industrialization is depleting the city's natural resources and degrading the environment. Pollution
of the Surabaya River, the city's main raw water source, is a risk to public health, although GOI's
Clean Rivers Program is diminishing discharges of industrial wastes into the river. Only about 40
percent of the population have direct access to the city water system. Many rely on high-priced water
sold by vendors, and too costly for the urban poor, and on low-quality water from wells, rivers and
canals. Solid waste collection coverage is relatively high (65 percent). However final disposal
facilities are problematic causing surface water pollution and endangering coastal fishing and
aquaculture. Poor sanitation results in polluted drains. The incidence of infant mortality and of
gastroenteric, pulmonary, and viral diseases caused in part by pollution, is high among the poor and
those living in flood-prone areas of the city. Poor environmental conditions and land management
are imposing higher-than-necessary infrastructure and maintenance costs on the city and its people.
84.   Concern over the relatively low level of investment in Surabaya and serious deficiencies in
basic services, particularly for the urban poor, has long been expressed at the highest level of
government. Investment in water supply has not kept pace with requirements, despite PDAM
Surabaya's robust financial performance. Transport links between the East and West of the city are
inadequate and not used to guide urban growth, particularly at the city's developing periphery where
basic service investments are urgent. Without adequate spatial planning, the cost of these services will



.20-
rise rapidly over time as planned and unplanned settlement consolidates and environmental resources
are lost or degraded. Surabaya's local government has significant manpower resources and
experience to address many of these challenges. Given the relatively high incomes in Surabaya and
large potential tax base, local taxes and user charges should pay for financing much of the
infrastructure in Surabaya.
85.   Lessons learned from Previous Operations. The Bank experience is that limited planning and
implementation capacity at the central level and the difficulties of providing local services by central
government departments, decreases the efficiency of service delivery programs. However, building
local capacity takes time and needs to be accompanied by an increase in local responsibility,
accountability, and autonomy. While one million people received improved water supply from
Bank-financed projects, implementation was delayed by inadequate preparation and over-optimistic
water demand and unaccounted-for-water projections lead to unmet financial covenants. Also,
institutional development and management of technical assistance was inadequate. In urban projects,
civil works were completed according to appraisal schedules. However, there were delays in the
appointment of consultants and stronger arrangements for operation and maintenance (O&M) were
needed.
86.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Indonesia highlights the need for improving public service delivery to the poor, greater
decentralization of responsibilities, and improved environmental management (See Part I, Section E
and Matrix pg. 11). In the urban sector, the Bank therefore supports the integrated urban
development concept and enhancing coordination of planning, implementation and supervision
among all levels of government, in order to improve the delivery of urban services and enable local
governments to assume greater responsibility for urban management. The proposed project, which is
consistent with the CAS (see especially paras. 38, 50, 53 and 60), would help GOI meet these needs in
the second largest city of Indonesia by emphasizing: the decentralization of responsibility for project
management and implementation to the Municipality of Surabaya (KMS); the integration of
environmental considerations in urban development management; the strengthening of local
government institutions and human resources for urban management; the allocation of services,
priced at an affordable level to lower income groups and underserved areas, as well as new
development areas; community participation in city investment programs; and the generation of
resources for infrastructure investment from KMS' and PDAM Surabaya's internal cash generation.
The thrust of the project is also consistent with the poverty alleviation and environmental
improvement objectives of the country assistance strategy as the project includes targeted
interventions designed to improve the standard of living and the quality of the environment in the
poorer kampung areas of Surabaya where 70 percent of the population live.
87.   Prject Objectives. Basic project objectives are to: (i) improve urban service levels,
particularly for the poor, through targeting poor neighborhoods; (ii) increase the productivity and
the effectiveness of investments through better local infrastructure planning and programming and
especially by enhancing local government capacity for fiscal management, revenue mobilization,
project implementation and O&M; and (iii) protect and improve the environment by enhancing local
government capacity to plan, implement and operate infrastructure in an environmentally-sound
fashion and by enhancing community participation.
88.   Project Descripdon. To achieve these objectives the project would finance:
(a) Urban arterial, collector and local roads bridge and footpath construction and traffic
management improvements and technical assistance (25 percent of cost) to improve
traffic management and O&M and reformulate Surabaya's transport strategy;



-21-
(b)  Water supply distribution system works and equipment (35.7 percent) including
rehabilitation of the existing system, construction of transmission mains, secondary and
tertiary distribution networks, about 190,000 new service connections, a public hydrant
program in low income areas, and the second Karang Pilang water treatment plant, as
well as strengthening the management of PDAM Surabaya for water supply and human
waste disposal and technical assistance to improve water quality in the Surabaya river;
(c)  Storm Drainage works and equipment (31.4 percent) to convert irrigation canals to
urban storm drainage, construct and improve secondary city drains and technical
assistance to strengthen O&M;
(d)  Human Waste Management (4.4 percent), including collection and disposal facilities the
construction of waste water and septage treatment plants, small bore shallow sewers and
conventional sewers in the new Central Business District, public toilet and washing
facilities (MCK);
(e)  Solid Waste Management (1.3 percent), including construction of collection depots and
transfer stations, land fill improvements and the purchase of collection and disposal
equipment;
(f)  Kampung Improvement (2.4 percent), including improvements of roads, drains, water
supply and sanitation, household loans for home and sanitation improvements,
community participation in planning, implementing and operating and maintaining
improvements, and a land management program to improve land registration
certificates and building permits;
(g)  Sites and Services construction (0.4 percent) on about 12 hectares of land to provide
serviced plots for resettlement of project-affected people; and
(h)  Technical Assistance and Training (9.3 percent), particularly to KMS and PDAM, to
develop human resources and a sustainable capacity to implement and manage project
implementation and financial programs.
89.   Project Implementation. The project involves several central government implementing
agencies as well as the East Java Provincial Government, KMS and PDAM Surabaya. Apex policy
and program coordination would be provided by GOI's Urban Development Coordination Team
(TKPP ), chaired by the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS). The Directorate
General of Human Settlements, Ministry of Public Works, would be responsible for central technical
supervision and management of SUDP. In Surabaya, all project implementing agencies would be
coordinated by KMS' Urban Management Unit (UMU).
90.   Prject costs are estimated at US$ 617.6 million. The loan to the Central Government of US$
175.0 million equivalent would finance about 28 percent of total costs, exclusive of taxes and duties
(US$ 30.0 million), and vehicles and computers (US$ 1.2 million), which will be financed by GOI.
The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) would provide US$ 174.8 million of
parallel loan financing to the Central Government for project roads and stormdrains implemented by
the Central Government, for the western zones of the water supply component, for the solid waste
component, implemented by PDAM/KMS and for related technical assistance. From the proceeds of
the Bank and OECF loans, under Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA), KMS and PDAM would obtain
from GOI US$ 75.8 million and US$ 144.5 million respectively. The onlending term will be for
periods of 20 years at annual interest rates related to market rates by indexing to the prevailing 6
month average of the 3-month Sertifikat Bank of Indonesia rate, which is currently about 8 percent.



-22-
However, the minimum rate of interest on loans to KMS and PDAM, regardless of the SBI rate, would
be not less than the Bank's loan rate plus 1.75 percent; and the maximum rate of interest would not
exceed 14 percent. Retroactive financing of US$ 10.0 million has been proposed for expenditures
on civil works and consultancy services incurred after January 31, 1993. Schedule A shows project
costs and the financing plan. Schedule B sets out the amounts and methods of procurement and
disbursement. Schedule C summarizes key project processing events, and the status of Bank Group
operations in Indonesia is given in Annex A6. Two maps are attached. The Staff Appraisal Report
No. 12516- IND, dated February 15, 1994, is being distributed separately.
91.   Project Sustainability. Project sustainability would be enhanced by delegating overall project
implementation and management responsibility to KMS, providing greater local contributions to
infrastructure from KMS' and PDAM's own internal cash generation and from loans from GOI
financed by the Bank and OECF, supporting more participation in project planning and
implementation by project beneficiaries and by strengthening local institutional capacity, with
technical assistance, to manage and finance urban programs and services and to monitor and mitigate
environmental impacts, including resettlement.
92.   Environment-l Impact. Most project activities would have a positive environmental impact.
As this is an "A" category project, the Environmental Assessment Summary was distributed to the
Executive Directors on January 26, 1993. Water quality and quantity and sanitation would improve.
Pollution would be reduced in the Surabaya River, the city's largest water source. Enhanced priority
for public transport would help to maintain air quality. The Resettlement Plan would provide for
displaced families to reestablish homes and employment at least under conditions comparable to
previous locations. Procedures for consultation with resettlers include representation from affected
communities in KMS' Land Acquisition Committee and a Public Information Center. The relocation
arrangements would be monitored carefully with project technical assistance.
93.   Impact on WoM. A Public Service Information Program, Community Development
Training, Environmental Health Training and Small-Scale Economic Business Training included in
the project to support KIP implementation, would also provide for the fuller integration of women
into KIP planning, implementation and maintenance.
94.   Actions Agreed. Agreements were obtained from the Borrower on the following:
(a)  proposals will be submitted by the Borrower to the Bank for mitigating pollution at
Kenjeran landfill by September 30, 1994;
(b)  (i) the relevant Implementing Agencies will make funds available for acquiring land
required for carrying out their respective parts of the Project at least one year before the
scheduled start of implementation; and (ii) KMS will by April 30, 1995, acquire the
land required for resettlement during the year following April 30, 1995;
(c)  proposals for subprojects for inclusion in the annual works program funded by the
project, would be selected in accordance with agreed principles, criteria and procedures
and submitted for the Bank's approval by April 30th each year, including as required,
an environmental action and/or Resettlement plan;
(d)  funds will be made available out of the proceeds of the Loan to KMS and PDAM under
subsidiary loan agreements (SLA) satisfactory to the Bank including that the interest
payable on the principal amount of its subsidiary loans withdrawn by KMS or PDAM
from time to time shall be at rates equal to six-month average of the three-month



-23-
Sertifikat Bank Indonesia rates subject to a maximum rate of 14 percent and a
minimum rate equal to the rate of interest of the Bank loan plus 1.75 percent;
(e)  (i) the SLA between the Borrower and KMS will provide that KMS will produce, for
each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30
percent of the annual average of KMS's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that year, the previous year, and the next following fiscal years; (ii) before
October 31 in each of its fiscal years, KMS will prepare forecasts for the Bank's review
to establish whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (i); and (iii) if
the review shows that KMS would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (i),
KMS and the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet
such requirements;
(f)  the SLA between the Borrower and PDAM will provide: (i) PDAM will produce, for
each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1994, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than 20 percent of the annual average of PDAM's
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, or that year, the previous year,
and the next following fiscal year; (ii) before September 30 in each of its fiscal years,
PDAM will prepare forecasts for the Bank's review to establish whether it would meet
the requirements set forth in (i) above; (iii) if the review shows that PDAM would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (i), PDAM and the Borrower will promptly
take all necessary measures in order to meet the requirements; and (iv) PDAM will not
incur any debt unless the estimated net revenues of PDAM for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to be incurred will be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service
requirements of PDAM in such year on all debt of PDAM including the debt to be
incurred;
(g)  KMS and PDAM will carry out their respective parts of the project in accordance with
the Operational Action Plan agreed with the Bank;
(h)  the Project will be carried out in accordance with the implementation schedule agreed
with the Bank;
(i)  commencing in December 1994, KMS and PDAM will annually review the previous
year's operation and maintenance expenditures and, in case these are less than the
amounts agreed with the Bank,will make up the difference in expenditures during the
following year;
(j)  that: (a) funds are available with all implementation agencies for acquiring land
required for the project at least one year before the scheduled start of schemes in the
following year's program; and (b) by April 30, 1995, KMS will acquire the land
required for resettlement in FY 1995/96; and
dj) KMS will, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank: (i) carry out the Resettlement and
Rehabilitation (R&R) Action Plan; (ii) provide affected people adequate land,
residential and non residential structures, cash compensation, services and resettlement
options; (iii) ensure that adequate consultations with affected people would be carried
out; (iv) make the Environmental Assessment Summary (EAS) available annually,
starting in June 1994, to people, affected by the project in each year; (v) make available
to affected people either serviced plots and cash compensation or adequate numbers of
residential or non-residential structures in accordance with the objectives of the
resettlement plan and people's informed preferences.



-24-
95.   Conditions for Loan Effectiveness are:
(a) execution of Project Implementation Agreements (PIA), acceptable to the Bank,
between the Borrower and KMS and PDAM; and
(b) execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA), acceptable to the Bank,between the
Borrower and KMS and PDAM.
96.  EPoject Benefits and Risks. The project would substantially improve services and the quality
of life and environment in Kampung areas of the city, where 70 percent of the population live in the
poorest conditions. Benefits of the components would be as follows.
(a) Kampung Improvement. About 600,000 of the city's inhabitants would obtain water
supply, sanitation, drainage, access roads and paths and household improvements as
well as community development programs.
(b) A Land Management program would assist 110,000 households in kampungs to
upgrade their land permits and rental rights and 200,000 existing permanent houses
would obtain building permits.
(c) Drainage. Reducing flooding in low lying areas of the city, where the urban poor
generally locate, would reduce financial losses and health hazards and increase the
supply of affordable land for development.
(d) Solid Waste. Improving collection and disposal would increase the coverage to 90
percent of all KMS households, raise waste management productivity, and increase
employment percentopportunities, mostly for lower income people.
(e)  Sanitation and Waste Water. Improving waste disposal systems and upgrading public
shower, washing and toilet facilities and environmental and health conditions would
benefit about 250,000 people in the most densely populated and poorer areas of the
city.
(f) Roads and Traffic Management. Road construction and improvements in traffic
management, by providing better access to urban services and accommodations and
giving priority to public transport, would benefit the poor, the general public and the
environment and create new formal and informal opportunities for business activities
and employment.
(g)  Water Sup.ply. A significant part of the water supply program would be targeted
towards lower income households in poorly-served areas and Kampungs. As a result, a
sharp decrease in the price paid for water by poorer households and general increases
in the quality and quantity of water is expected.
(h)  Resettlement. The resettlement plan for about 16,500 people, would provide cash
and/or physical resettlement options at least as valuable as vacated properties, in
locations where livelihoods and lifestyles would be at least as good as before, with
secure tenure, which in many cases would be better than in vacated properties.



-25-
(i) Technical Assistance would strengthen local participation in planning, financing and
allocating infrastructure investment to basic local needs and build institutional capacity
for O&M.
97.   Rigka. GOI has agreed to fund land acquisition costs for national projects in Surabaya,
reducing the financial constraint and risks of delay in land acquisition. Land acquisition for the first
year has been completed and is well advanced for the second year. Delays in the appointment of
consultants have slowed past project implementation. To reduce this delay, terms of reference have
been prepared for most technical assistance activities and KMS and PDAM would obtain critical
technical assistance early. Water income and demand projections have been over-optimistic in
previous projects with adverse affects on financial performance and SUDP runs a similar risk.
However, the selection of the Surabaya River, with investments in treatment in Karang Pilang 2 as the
1996 source of additional raw water, would reduce the risk to PDAM, which will be positioned to
match the distribution system expansion to revenue growth. As KMS and PDAM would contribute at
least 30 percent and 20 percent respectively of the funds required for their programs from their own
cash generation, there is a risk that over the 6 year project period the revenue and/or expenditure
forecasts are upset. However, KMS and PDAM revenue and expenditure has been projected with
conservative assumptions based on robust past performance. A substantial proportion of PDAM's
new revenues will come from increasing the supply and connections through infilling the existing
distribution system, the less risky part of PDAM's investment program. Sewage Disposal: increasing
the water supply, will also increase the waste water to be disposed of and risks worsening sanitary
conditions and groundwater quality. This risk would be addressed by implementing a large-scale
pilot sewerage disposal scheme based on the national sanitation strategy and funding sanitation
improvements in Kampungs for 600,000 people and areas adjacent to Surabaya under the on-going
East Java Bali Urban Development Project (Ln 3304-IND).
98.   Recommendain. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would cotnply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
March 11, 1994



Annex Al
Page 1 of I
SELECTED INDICATORS OF BANK PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Indicator                                                      FY91       FY92      FY93
Portfolio Performance
Number of projects under implementation                           82        81         81
Average implementation period (years) /a                         4.5       4.5        4.4
Average ratings
Development objectives /1                                    1.35       1.48      1.49
Overall status /c                                            1.55       1.69      1.70
Percent of projects rated 3 or 4
Development objectives /b                                     1.2        1.2       1.2
overall status /c                                             3.6        3.7       3.7
Cancelled during FY ($ million)                                    0         0          0
Disbursement ratio (%) /d                                       24.8      23.3      23.0
Portfolio Management
Supervision resources (total US$000) /e                       2,584      2,580     3,078
Average supervision (US$000/project)                              32        32         38
Supervision resources by location (in %)
Percent headquarters                                            82        80        80
Percent resident mission                                        18        20        20
Supervision resources by rating category
(US$000/project)
Projects rated 1 or 2                                           31        31        38
Projects rated 3 or 4                                           38        63        49
Memorandum item: date of last CPPR (February, 1994)
/^ Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
/l  Extent to which the project will meet its development objectives (see OD 13.05, Annex D2).
/c  Assessment of overall performance of the project based on the ratings given to individual
aspects of project implementation (e.g., management, availability of funds, compliance with
legal covenants) and to development objectives (see OD 13.05, Annex D2). The overall status
is not given a better rating than that given to project development objectives.
/d  Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio.
/e  Excluding resources on CPPR, ARPP and PCR Preparation.



Annex A2
Page 1 of 1
BAuK LuDiNo PROSRAM FY91-97
-*------Past   --         Current   ------Planned/a--
Category                                 FY91    FY92    FY93        FY94     FY95       FY96      FY97
XBRD
Commitments (WS$m)                      1,638    1,587      868     1,480     1,412     1,340   1,320
Sector (C) lb
Agriculture /Environment               9       26       10        23         15         8       17
Human Resources Development           16        9       11         7         11        17       17
Industry, Finance and Telecomm.       22       24       35         0        27          0       22
Power and Energy                      17       27       12        16        28         38        0
Transport                              0       14       23        30          4        11       15
Urban Development                     21         0       9        23         15        26       27
Adjustment Lending                    15         0       0         0          0         0        2
TOTAL                             100      100      100       100       100       100      100
Lending instrument (I)
Adjustment loans /2                   15        0        0         0          0         0        0
Specific investment loans
and others                          85      100      100       100       100       100      100
TOTAL                             100      100      100       100       100       100      100
Disbursements (US$m)                    1,259    1,043   1,167      1,200     1,160     1,278   1,345
Adjustment loans /2                    250         0       0          0         0         0        0
Specific investment loans
and others                         1,009    1,043   1,167      1,200      1,160     1,278   1,345
Interest (US$m)                           780      810      854       854       869       882      891
Principal Repayments                      593      616      719       816       966     1,077   1,139
IFC
Investments FY91-94
Approvals (US$m)                          177      130       98       160        NA        NA       NA
Sector (%)
Agribusiness                           0         0       9         0          a
Capital markets                        4         0       7        14          a         n
Chemicals/fertilizers                 51       31        0        11          a         n
Manufacturing                         45       69       84        32          n         a
oil/mining                             0        0        0        43          a         n        n
TOTAL                             100      100      100       100         a          n
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                                 78       77       59        75          a         n
Equity                                21       16       21        25          a         a
Quasi-equity /_                        1        7        0         0          n         a
Swap                                   0        0       20         0          n         n
TOTAL                             100      100      100       100          n         nf
MIGA Guarantees (US$m)                50.0       1.5    20.0        0.0         a
/a  Ranges that reflect most likely scenario presented in the Country Strategy Paper.
/b  For future lending, rounded to nearest 0 or 51.
/c  Structural adjustment loans and sector adjustment loans.
/d  Includes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Indomia  Priority Poverty lnicators
U40    Mo    fdoMew 5m,puwmgwq
Us& of            YOM3        15.3                                           highs'WLOW
Iisdkw                                     w.                  aweaye                (a.'F.       Ass a     lam.W
POVERTY
Upper povwiny i                          bal ad                               . 
-                                        Ice ai                  ..          ..          ...                      ..
Hoambu                                  %dpop.                              ..         15          10
GNPps'apiw                                  USS                  ..        210         610         650         350        1,610
SHORT TERM INCOMZ INDICATORS
Uekdildsbamq                             bd0W.                   ..          ..       11176
Rwam.. .. _d.                                                    ..                      ..
C.nsrvi pihude                           I987-100                2          28         135 
Fod                                                             ..          ..        144.
Ub                                                             ..          ..          ...._,
Rm.                                ..                                  .    .                      ..          .. 
SOCUIL INDICATORS
- bIoh uiwm an bai esiu ms               %... DP                                         ..
ore. mamnnoasi
Pimary                                %   mab  App P.           72          86         117         128         113         100
ma                                          *                  79          94         119         133         122         106
mla                                         ^                  65          78         114         124         106          98
lfmmtaly                              thaw. live bbUm         128         109          74          42          70          40
1--   i                                     6                                         I 111       32          98          $3
MN"                                    %p        ,              ..                     6S          a8          73          70
Dr                                           ^                               .71                   90          81          74
aiIunumuwi   (_nds.S)                                            ..                     14           .           -
L(.aqim.asy
ToWal                                                          44          31          60          a           63          67
pml      a                                rati                1.04        1.06        1.06        090         095         10
Teafutl rat                            biapwSi 5X                           5.0         3.0         2.6         3.7         3.5
Matnamaitat.                          100.000 Kw b_h                         -         450         114           _
Population gv. t rate                       Infat moraly rate                           Primar  enolment
(PM)                                   (t-  oflib)                                    (p.)
6~~~~- ~~250                                                               120+.
5   ~ ~ ~~~~20100
200~~~~~~~~~~8
3                                                                                     60
too
2                                                                                     40
-i                                     soc20
0  ~      ~       I0                                                             0       -          -    -     - -
mtid 60s    Mid 70s     ov                 .d60i    midW7s         an                  mid 60s    add 70,     mn
- LAoWusa



Indoneuia: Resources AndEzmdm
25.40       154.6                                          AlgAeNo
ussitef                        71     401              km         loop.    iIsinS
Indi                                      Mew.                ae                                  AiAO     LAIIS        -gro
HUMAN RESOURCES
PopuiaUo Itednv,19)                       mmiami               105         133         181        1.667      3.127         774
AeS agospndn  ratio                        ratio              0.81        0.32         0.64       0.54        O."6        0.71
Urtan                                     %oiP*p              15.2         19.4        31.0        52.6       40.1        5339
Populaton powthre                         aml                  2.2          2.4         1.7         1.5         1.9         1.7
Urban                                       *3.2                           4.8         3.3         6.5         5.2         3.1
L-Abor forn(15.64)                        mi.4 1                            5 1         73         914        1,448        302
AgmftWrm,                              % oflaWmforce            71          62                       ...-
lnduv                                                            9          1 234                                            i
FenWe                                          ~~~~~~~~29   3 131433I
Fenule per 100 maim
Ufban                                    i umbe                ..           .          102
Rural                                                           .                     106           . 
NATURAL RESOURCES
Arm                                      hamn. sq km         190          190         I"90       16,36      3832         23,990
Deulty                  p~~~~~~~~~.            55.0~~~"    70.0        920          9.         77.0         L
Aakalland                          %   bad am            16.4         III7        18.2       332         47.4        4U.
Ckmpmpiaamualland                    &Do%                 401          1.0         0.1         0.0         0.0         0.
AUiaalraI  undandr irigation                               1339        15.1        22.4         7.5        13.7        12.6
Forataanlwodland                     tutst. sq. km        1,233        1,22        1.134       4,235       9.197       5.396
Deoms(nu)                           &Doal %              .0.          0.0         0.0
IN1COME
Household mcm
Share ofcp20% ofhouseholds             %O(uuin                  ..49                   4 1
Shmsofbcm   40% of1uabomidi                                                 14         42
Slim of boomu 20% of'  ald                                       .7                    21
mNDIURE
Food                                     %QtGDP                  .            ..
Corslim.v                             tbss.mwloomu             239        1,424      L1*i        31,616      34,00       44,418
Food aid in cormaha                                              .         301          39         391        6,6        4,4
Foodpautieaperepits                 197941-100              76          90         123         131         122         101
FinIIIIZirCOSIZZIFIO.          ~krUa                6.0         25.0       107.0       5sit         47.5        94.2
Shnmofauwhlrs.D?                         %*(GDP               56A          30.2        19.3        19.6        22.7
Housing                                  %to(DV                              ..
Aveangs bmiacold are                 p.um        bWAMsldO                                            5  
Urban.                                                                      -                       4
Fixad invwuines housing                  % *;OD?                 ..-.
Vial .d Po"                              %*(GDP                  .-.
EnsrV,onsmtion per capna               kS ofoilequiv.           91         133         272         570         350        1.249
Hoshlswith .lamieity
Urban                                 %4ofoulloboids            .            .
Rurad                                                          ....
TotalmadIamoh                               km                   ..                 219.009
INVESTMENTINN UMAN CAMAL
Amosstolnealthwe                         %*fp0P6                ..            .... 
PoPulatimenp4mbyician                     p..               3t.700      2698          7.023       1,02
Populatio per nmara                                          9,437        4,85                    1.330 
Population per hospital bad                                      .        1.22        1.50         553        1,048        so9
ADtosaa WaSW                          %0fp*p                ..         1.0         42.0        71.8        70.6
Urban                                                          ..         41.0        65.0        S2u         79.3
aUraI                                       P                              4.0        32.0        60.7        62.3
Om[ td**mum t raupy (udsr-S)             %otfaaea                .                      39          40          32
Education
Groin emillrmtabiito
Secondary                            %o(sdaoal.agp*p            12          20          45          50          4456
Fanaha                                                          7          15          41          43          37
Pupikeacher ratio priurypupis a  uw                             41          29          23          23          39          25
Pupil,teatw ratio: Snhay25                                                  17          1 4         16          20 
Pupils reschigmde 4                     % a                        -73                  90          as5
Rcpea mrie: prunary                    %o(towalrmoll                        I 1I        10           6
lllitutacv                           %o(pop. (AP IS.)                         .23                   24          39
Feal.k                              % offan.(agslS*)            .                      32          34          52
Newioavaocutiauon                       perhoit pop.                        1           14          46
Source World Bank IniwEaul Eacooa.am Depamnn. April 1993



Annex A4
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA--KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual             Estimated            Prolected
1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994      1995      1996
National Accounts (% GDP at Current
Market Prices)
Gross Domestic Product                     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                               23.4      21.5     19.6     19.2
Industry                                  37.1      39.4     41.2     40.3
Services                                  39.5      39.1     39.2     40.5
Consumption                                 67.3     684      69.1     68.3     69.4     69.6      69.3      69.0
Gross Investment                            29.7     29.7     28.9     29.1     28.0     28.0      28.3      28.6
Public Fixed Investment                    18.7     19.1     18.8     17.7     16.9     16.9      17.1      17.2
Government Fixed Investment                8.6       9.2      9.6      9.6      9.6      9.6      9.7        9.9
Exports of Goods & Non Factor Services      2S.8     27.2     28.2     29.2     29.4     30.0      31.2      32.7
Imports of Goods & Non Factor Services     22.8      2S.2     26.2     26.6     26.7     27.6      28.8      30.4
Gross National Savings                     27.9      26.6     25.6     26.6     25.8     26.0      26.5      26.9
Gross Domestic Savings                      32.7     31.6     30.9     31.7     30.6     30.4      30.7      31.0
Memorandlm Items
Gross Domestic Product (US$m at          94,449  106,859  115,876  126,364  140,255  153,645  167,986    183,183
Current Prices)
Gross Domestic Product per Capita (USS)    536      600      639       686      749      809      873       939
Public Finance (% of GDP at Current
Market Prices)
Current Revenues                            16.8     19.9     17.8     16.9     17.8      17.2     17.4      17.4
Current Expenditures                        11.4     11.6     11.0     10.5     10.9      10.8     10.6      10.6
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                   5.4      83       6.9      6.5      7.0       6.4      6.8       6.8
Capital Expenditure                          6.6      6.6      7.7      7.7      7.3      7.2       7.2       7.3
Foreign Financing                            1.4      0.6      1.0      03       -0.5      1.0      0.7       0.8
Real Annual Growth Rates (%)
Gross Domestic Product                       7.5      7.2      6.9      6 3      6.3      6.2       6.2       6.2
Gross Domestic Income                        7.3      8.8      6.S      S5.      6.1      6.4       6.9       6.9
Real Annual Per Capita Growth Rates (%-
Gross Domestic Product                      S.7       6.1      5.2      4.6      4.7      4.8       4.9       4.8
Total Consumption                            2.6      81       6.0      2.S      S.8      4.9       S.0       S.0
Private Consumption                          1.S      92       6.1      2.2      6.1      4.9       5.0       5.0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (%)                                 35.1      43.0     43.8     46.4 4
Growth of M2 (%)                            39.8     44.2     17.0     20.2
Private Sector Credit Growth/Total Credit
Growth                                      1.00     1.05     1.00     1.00



Annex A4
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA-XEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual             Bstimated            Prolected
1989     1990     1991     1992     1993     1994      199S      1996
Balance of Payments (USSm)
Exports of Goods & Non Factor Services    25,433   30,240   32,129   38,S0S   42,123   47,447   S4,060    61,901
Merchandise f.o.b.                      23,803   28,041   29,S27   35,341   38,429   43,071   48,950    55,943
Non-Factor Services                       1,630    2,199    2,602    3,164    3,694    4,376    S,110      S,958
Imports of Goods & Non Factor Services    22,480   28,434   31,021   34,489   38,S04   43,783   49,907    57,S80
Merchandise c.i.f.                       19,624   2S,683   27,679   30,300   33,747   38,472   43,657    50,411
Non-Factor Services                      2,856    2,751    3,342    4,190    4,7S7    5,311    6,250       7,169
Resource Balance                           2,9S3    1,806    1,108    4,01S    3,619    3,664    4,1S3      4,321
Net Factor Service Payments               *4970    -5766    -6308    -6848    4931    -7003    -7500        .7836
Net Cvrrrot Transfers                       446      207      259       204      214      22S      400       400
Current Account Balance                   -lS70    -37S3    -4941    -2629    *3098    -3114    -2947       -3116
Direct Foreign Investment                   722    1,424    1,S31    1,705    2,00S    2,205    2,426       2,668
Medium and Long-Term Loans (Net)           2,490    4,362    4,839    S,842    1,234    2,999    2,361      2,130
Public                                    1,199     576    2,238    2,224    1,6S9    2,134    1,860       1,946
Private                                   1,291    3,786    2,600    3,618     -42S      865      501       184
Other Capital (including Errors and
Omissions)                                -1642    -2033    -1429    -4919      -141    -2090    -1840      -1683
Change in Total Reserves                 -1112    .474S      *444    -6709      770    -3547    -3562      -3675
Memorandum items
Exports of Goods & NFS (% of GDP)          26.1     27.7     27.1     29.6     29.4     30.1      31.5      33.0
Imports of Goods & NFS (% of GDP)         23.0      26.0     26.2     26.S     26.8     27.8      29.1      30.7
Resource Balance (% of GDP)                 3.0      1.7      0.9      3.1      2.S      2.3       2.4       2.3
Real Annual Growth Rates (1983 Prices)
Merchandise Exports                         1S.8      1.1     13.2      9.9      8.9      6.S       6.3       7.2
Non-oil Exports                            313      -4.5     26.6     23.6     1S.6      11.5     12.2      122
Primary                                     9.0      3.3     17.1      5.0      8.9      7.0       5.9       5.1
Manufactures                              S8.5      -5.4     32.9     36.5     19.5     13.5      14.8      14.9
Merchandise Imports                         18.9     23.5      6.1      4.7     10.7      103      103       12.0
Price Indices (1983=100)
Export Price Index                          89.7    104.3     97.7    106.1    106.2    111.8    1192       126.9
Import Price Index                         127.6    13S.1    137.4    143.6    144.4    1493    1S3.7       158.4
Terms of Trade Index                        703      772      71.1     73.9     73.S      74.9     77.6      80.1
Real Exchange Rate Index (1988-100)        101.4     99.4     97.1     93.9       ..        _
Consumer Price Index (% growth rate)         6.1      9.4      9.9      S.0        _.
Real Interest Rates                          8.S      9.6      9.2      9.1        _
GDP Deflator (% growth rate)                10.2      9.8      7.4      6.8      8.0       6.0      6.0       5.0
Note: National accounts, monetay statistis, real effective exchange rate Index, and CPI are on a calendar year basis. All other data
and Indicators are on a fiscal year basis.



Annex AS
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA--KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
Actual             Estimated             Prolected
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995       1996
Total Debt Outstanding and Disbursed
(TDO) (US$ m)                              56,111   69,642   79,604   88,442   88,675    93,127   97,229    101,390
Net Disbursements (USSm)                    4,5S0   10,19S    8,038    9,671       234     4,4S2    4,102      4,161
Total Debt Service (TDS)(US$m)              9,709    9,776   11,10S   12,671    14,037    13,700   14,939     16,086
Debt and Debt Service Indicators %)
TDO/XGS                                    213.8    223.0    239.8    22SS    206.6    192.1    17S.3        159.2
TDO/GDP                                     S9.4     6S.2      68.7     70.0     63.2      60.6     57.9      5S.3
TDS/XGS                                     37.0     31.3      33.S     32.3     32.7      28.3     26.9       2S.3
ConcessionalTDO                             26.2     24.4     24.3      23.1     24.3      24.3     24.0       23.S
IBRD Exposure Indicators (%)
IBRD DS/Public DS                           13.9     15.5     17.4      17.6     17.9      19.7     21.8       23.0
Preferred Creditor/Public DS                17.2     20.0     23.1      24.0     2S.2      28.5     31.7       33.4
IBRD DS/XGS                                  4.1      3.8      4.1       3.7      3.6       3.4      3.2        3.0
IBRD Portfolio Share                         9.8     10.0     10.4      10.6     10.9      10.4     10.4       10.4
IFC (USSm)
Loans                                       22.6     24.8     822       99.9    170.8       na        Da        na
Equity and Quasi-equity                     28.5     42.9     49.0      S3.7     70.S       na        Da        Da
MIGA
MIGA Guarantees (USSm)                       0.0      0.0     50.0      51.S     71.S      S1.5       na        Da



AMMA
Page lol2
STATUS OF 9ANK1 GROUP OP!RATIONP IN INDONE81A
A. STATEMENT OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS a of Oombor 3t 193 h
Lat ARPP
Loan                                                    Amount In US1 mlion            supervision rafit
Credit   Fiscal                                         p(se canltion)               Devwlpt   Overall
number   Year                Purpose                     Sank      IDA  Undlabwtsed   Objscd^"    Ob,othve
One-hundred-eeventeen loans and                      90,45.65   901.d0
founrylght credits fully disbured
Of which SECALS. SALs and Program Loans to
2780 1987 Trade Policy Adjustment                      300.00
2937 1963 Second Trada Policy Adjustment               300.00
3080 1989 PrIvate Sector Development                   350.00
3207 1991 Second Private Sector Development            250.00
Subtotal:                                            1,200.00
2431 1964 Second Swamp RecamatIon                       64.00                   2.60      2           3
2474 1985 Upland Agriculture and Conseuvaoln            11.30                   2.09      2           2
2543 198I KedungOmboMuhipurpose Dam                    158.00                   1.78      1           2
and IrrIgation
2647 1985 Second Unwnity Dvelopment                    147.00                  3.98       2           1
2632 1986 Second Esat Java Water Supply                 43.19                   1.73      2           2
238 198t Nusa Tenggara AgrIculture Support              33.00                  7.15       1           2
2690 1986 Gas DIsibution                                34.00                  10.41      1           1
2705 1986 Manpower Development and Training             88.10                  4.95       2           2
2773 1987 Fisheres Support Services                     20.00                  726        2           2
2817 1987 Regional CItUes Urban Transport               51.00                  0.48       2           1
2681 19  Second Rural Roads Development               190.00                  20.3       2           2
2930 1988 Fostryinstitutions&Consetvaton                30.00                  0.33       1           2
2932 1988 Jabotabek Urban DveWpment                    150.00                 49.17       2           2
2040 1988 AccountancyOevelopment                       113.00                  32.J2      2           1
2944 1988 Higher Educaton Development                  140.30                  4.64       2           1
2992 1989 Tree Crops Human RsR Dvelbpment               18.40                  5.21       2           2
3000 1989 Tr" CropsProcessing                          118.20                  74.55      2           2
3031 1989 AgrIculture Research Management               35.30                  10.28      2           2
3040 1989 InductrWResructurIng                        2t4.00                   62.56      2           2
3041 1989 Small & Medium IndustrIal EnterprIse         100.00                  9.1w       I           1
3042 1989 Third Health                                  43.50                  16.02      1           2
3097 1989 Power Sector EffIclency                      337.00                 133.46      2           1
3098 1989 Pafton Thermal Power                         354.00                 120.10      1           2
3112 190 Public Works lnsItuIonal                       36.10                  9.89       1           1
3133       Development & Tralnino                                                         1           2
3133 1980 Highway Sewtor                                                        .08       1           2
3134 1990 Profewonal Human Reo       Development       117.50                 27.49       1           1
D"elopment
3168 1990 Second Secondary EducatIon                   154.20                 992        .2           2
3180 1990 Rural Electrlficat                           329.00                 144.35      1           1
3182 1990 Third TelecommuncatIons                      360.00                 171.45      1           1
3209 1990 Gas Utilization                               86.00                 7428        1           2
3219 1990 SecondJabotabe kUrbanDevelopment             190.00                 135.28      2           3
3243 1990 Second Forstry Inuitudon                      20.00                  14.33      1           2
and Conservation
3248 1891 Third Jabotabek Urban Development             61.00                 48.15       2           2
3249 1991 Second BRUKUPEDESSmnlCredit                  125.00                 40.30       1           2
3282 1991 FertIlizer ResucturIng                       221.70                 64.26      2            2
3298 1991 FIfth Population                             104.00                 62.67       1           1
3302 1991 Provincial Irrigated Agriculture             125.00                 105.68     2            2
Development
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part Ab idescribed in a separate
report on all Bank/lIOA-financed proj  In execudon which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Drectors on A   30 and
October 31.
h    Approved during or after FY80.



Annex AS
Page 2 of 2
Last ARPP
Loan                                                    Arnount In US$ million         superviion rating
Credit   Fiscal                                         (ieNe oancellation)          Development   Overall
number   Year                Purpose                     Bank      IDA   Undisbursed   Objectives   ObjectiVes
3304 1991 East Java/Bali Urban Development             180.30                128.53       1          2
3305 1991 Yogyakarta Upland Aea Development             15.50                  10.09      1          2
3311 1991 Second Higher Education                      1S0.00                 86.89       1          1
3340 1991 Sulawesi-irian Jaya Urban                    100.00                 78.06       1          2
Development
3340 1991 Power Transmission                           275.00                232.54       1          1
3385 t199 Technical Assistance Project for              30.00                  25.47      1          2
Publio and Private Proviin
of Infastuoture
3382 1992 Second Irigation Subsector                   225.00                 107.41      2          2
3402 1902 Agricultural Financing                       106.10                  81.42      1          2
3431 1992 Third Non-Formal Education                    69.50                  57.86      2          2
3448 1992 Primary Education Qualty Improvement          37.00                 33.20       2          2
3454 1992 BAPEDAL Development                           12.00                  10.84      1          2
3484 192 Treectop Smalholder                            87.80                 76.87       2          2
3482 1992 Fourth Telecommunications                    375.00                350.67       1          1
3490 19O2 Third Kabupawn Roads                         215.00                 149.50      2          2
3498 1992 Primary School Teacher Development            38.60                 33.46       1          1
3501 1992 SuralayaThermalPower                         423.60                 417.98      1          2
32 1993 Financial Setorevelopment                      307.00                206.70       1          1
3550 1993 Third Community Health & Nutrion              93.50                  87.29      1          1
3579 1S93 E Indonesia Kabupaten Roade                  155.00                 142.42      1          1
3586 1993 Integrad Pat Management                       32.00                 31.01       1          2
3588 1993 GroundwaterDevelopment                        54.00                  54.00      2          2
3589 1993 Fore. Earthquake Reonsruotion                 42.10                 35.98       2          2
3002 1993 Cirata Hydroeetric Phae I                    104.00                 104.00      1          1
3620 1993 Water Supply& 8anltatn for                    80.00                 80.00       1          1
Low Income Communities
3658 994 National Waterhed Management and               56.50                  56.50    N.RA         N.R
Consrvation /a
tal                                                  17.8.74   901.60
of whioh has been repaid                             3.714.12   105.40
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       14.194.62   788.20
Amount sold   88.08
of which repaid 76.47
Total undifbursed                                                           4.329.20
la Not effective as of DOeember 31. 1993



Schedulwe A
INDO;N,ESIXA
SURABAYA URBAN DEVEhLOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cost And Financing Plan
Local       Foreien    Tota
(US$ million)
A.    Urban Roads and Traffic Management            98.8         22.3       121.0
B.    Water Supply and Distribution                 73.2         87.4       160.6
C.    Storm Drainage Works & Equipment             108.6         33.1       141.7
D.    Solid Waste Collection & Disposal              3.1          3.5         6.6
E.    Human Waste Collection & Disposal             13.9          6.0        19.9
F.    Kampung Improvement & Community Services      19.8          2.9        22.7
G.    Resettlement and Rehabilitation                1.6          0.6         2.2
H.    Technical Assistance                          11.6         22.0        33.6
Base Cost                            330.6         177.8      508.3
Physical Contingencies                       16.0          13.1       29.1
Price Contingencies                          62.4          17.8       80.2
Total Project Cost                   409.0         208.6      617.6  W
p/    Including taxes and duties, estimated at US$ 30.0 million equivalent rounded to one
decimal point ano interest during construction (ICD) of US$ 30.2 million.
Financing Pln
Local      ~Forign   IToal
(US$ million)
Government of Indonesia                     227.8          0.0       227.8
IBRD at                                     101.7         84.3       186.0
Japanese Loan (OECF)                         50.5        124.3       174.8
PrivateSector b/                             29.0          0.0        29.0
Total                                409.0         208.6      617.6
a/    Consists of SUDP loan of US$ 175.0 million plus US$ 11.0 million from Ln 3304-IND, rounded to one
decimal point.
b/    Consists of land contributions by land owners of land for public services in newly-developed areas.



Schedule R
INONESIA
SURABAYA URBAN D-EVELLOPMENT PROJ1C
Prourm eng Method and Disbursement
(US$ million)
Expenditure Category                     ICB        LCB       Other /a     NBP       Total Cost Including
Contingencies
I.  Civil Works (KMS &                             14.0       64.1         0.0      126.8           204.9
Central Govermnent)                           (8.4)     (38.5)      (0.0)                      (46.9)
2.  Civil Works (PDAM)                              6.2       31.2         0.0       23.7            61.1
(4.4)     (21.8)      (0.0)                     (26.2)
3.  Goods (KMS & 7.4                                0.3        0.1         6.3       14.lCentral Government)
(7.4)        (0.3)                            (0.1)                  (7.8)
4.  Goods (PDAM) 47.6                               0.0         0.1       45.9       93.6
(47.6)      (0.0)      (0.1)                      (47.7)
5.  Technical Assistance &                                                40.0       24.6            64.6
Training                                                           (40.0)                      (40.0)
6.  Sub.Loans to Households for                                           10.8                       10.8
Latrines & Home Improvwment                                          (6.5)                      (6.5)
8.  Land, Taxes & Duties                                                            110.5           110.5
9.  Increment O&M & Project Administration                                           58.0            58.0
Total                            75.2       95.6       51.0       395.8           617.6
(67.8)     (60.6)     (46.7)                     (175.0)
AAmount Financed by OECI (on a parallel basIs).                     174.8
Notes:   Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.P.: Not Bank financed (e.g. OECP, GOI, KMS or PDAM financed programs), including vehicles and
computers, which GOI wisbed to finance, and EJBUD-funded pipes.
/a       Includes shopping; and consultancy services following Bank guidelines.
Disbursements:
category                                                Amount        Disbursement Rate
(a)      Civil works by KMS & Central Govemnment                   42.8         60 percent
(b)      Civil works by PDAM                                       23.8         70 percent
(c)      Equipment and materials                                   50.3         100 percent of foreign expenditures,
(exclusive of vehicles & computers)                                    100 percent of ex-factory costs and 65
percent of the cost of other items
procured locally
(d)      Consultancy services and training,                        36.0         100 percent
(e)      Loans for home improvements, water                         6.5         60 percent
connections and serviced plots
(f)      Unallocated                                               15.6
TOTAL                                                    175.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
Bank PY1                          19   9 4             122i   19      7           122    19        9   22
Annual                       6.6          30.3          40.0         31.8          33.3          30.1           2.9
Cumulative                   6.6          36.9          76.9        108.7         142.0         172.1         175.0



Schedule C
INDONESIA
SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare:        :            4 years 1/
(b)   Prepared by:                                Government and local and foreign
consultants with Bank assistance
(c)    First IBRD mission:                        June 1990
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:   :            February 1993
(e)    Date of negotiations:         :            January 1994
(f)    Planned effectiveness date:   :            June 1994
(g)   List of relevant PCRS and PPARs:
Loan No               Project                            Date         Report No.
Ln. 1040-IND          Jakarta Urban Development          06/30/83     4620 (PPAR)
Ln. 1049-IND          Five Cities Water Supply           06/10/86     6256(PPAR)
Ln. 1336-IND          Second Urban Development Project    07/15/85    6329 (PPAR)
Ln. 1653/1972-IND     Third & Fourth Urban Devt. Project   05/24/90   8583 (PCR)
Ln. 1709-IND          Second Water Supply Project        94/30/90     8622 (PPAR)
Ln. 2275-IND          East Java Water Supply Project     12/20/91      10226 (PCR)
Ln. 2275-IND          East Java Water Supply Project     07/20/92      10853 (PPAR)
Ln. 2408-IND          Fifth Urban Development            12/24/92      11501 (PCR)
Ln. 2816-IND          Urban Sector Loan                  12/24/92      10388 (PCR)
1/ Preparation and appraisal of the project was delayed because of uncertainties about the source of
bulk water for the project water supply component, an integral part of the infrastructure
investment program in Surabaya supported by the project.
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia during February
1993. The mission was led by Mr. E.R. Rotner and consisted in addition, of Messrs. S. Whitehead
(EA3IN), S. Dice (ASTES); and J. Richardson, J. Atkins, W. Gunawan, D. Newbury and K. Tamaki
(Consultants). The peer review team comprised Messrs. Ford (INURD); Read (EA2PH); Silverman
(AFTIM) and Morell (EAIIN). Mr. A. Khanna, Chief (EA3IN) and Mrs. M. Haug, Director
(EA3DR) have endorsed the project.



IBRD 25014
1 12'3O<
/edayy 1---F   >     Bngkolon                      MADURA
'                               f                                     anakalan        ~~--
t-   \                  \                     '~~~~~~~~~N.  _~- 
NGAGEomongan                                                            |Kebnyor6mur
/     Yz             fi KEUSANGAA~~~~~NGGE
TREATMENT PLANT
\K1 NONOgLO ESERVOIR &
KALAN.IG PILANG I  IPLMPING STATION
TREATMENT PLANT              (OECF Poe)       Strit        rO
o f
M o d u r a
\~~~~~~~~~~~Pngn                                           Gompo/1l   PUPN Sdo      AT!
7130
JombanB                        O                                    RESEVOIRE                  Pusu oej
-   -       PIPE LINES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R                                                    asm
0  Q       WATER TREATMENT PLANTSPA
J     SPRINGSSPRI
-       AIRO INDONESIA                                                                T, sa ha e
SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                   i \   t 'e e c
METROPOLITAN AREA BULK WATER                                                                       SPRINGUMUU
SOURCES AND PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                                                                   SPIG
EtSIINO    PROJECT   PROJECT                                                              rede   d
-  -         -     ~~~~~~PIPE LINES                                      )        
z   z             ~~~~~WATER rREATMENT PLANTS                        y      
Q          X      ~~~~~PUMPINrG STATIONS                        1 
(i)  SPRINGS                                                    J
i    RESERsOIRS                        \                                                   W
-  ROADS                                                     I Bimbing
.RAILROADS                                                                      Th ris mphas bwn  ,e,rd
SURAEAYA MUNICIPALITY                               \/|{2{tit e8w n
tO  2030  G             Gra nup The denointsons used
I              I              I              1                        1                      \nthi map do not imp, on the
port of The World Banw Grourp,
KILOMETERS                                                                    any ju-vwent on the Ieol
11230'                                           drusent orcpr
OCTOBER 1993



ISRD 250 15
DRAJNAGE PROJECTS                                                                                                                                           INDONESIA
1  Gunngsori Diversion     11  G. Sod B. Udp              21                                                                                                            URBAlN   DOEV                O        E
2 K.Sim ollstage oufolIgate 12 ON.Scl B.&Sunghane          22 K KWpqing                                                                          SURABAYA URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4 PonjoagJioo              13 G. Sori boongsot             23 K. Mu                                                                                      URBAN ROADS AND STORM  DRAINAGE
4  Pogc4                14 Morgornulp                  24 K. *anyr                                                                                                   BANK PROJECT  OECF PROJECT
S  Dhonnowongas            15  K.Wanonejo                  25 K Kenerqn,                                                                                                  ROADS
6  K.Pegidan & Outfoll gate  16  K. Bokor& Outfofl gae     26 Godig                               JAVA   SEA                                                                                              PRIM Y ROADS
7  K.Jebrokan & Outfall gate  17 Semolowaru                27 sdtoe                                                                                                               _                        1992/93 PRIMARY ROADS
8  K.Domi & Outfoll gate    18  Modolkon Semomnpir        28 Kedunn        Note: 29,30 ond 31 ore retrred to                                                                     .                         BRIDGES
9  K.Perbotoson            19 Morokremmbongon              29 Bo       l         by Samba floodCnrol
10  K.Simo Stage 1          20  K. Kebon agung& Outff  gote 30 Ka                   t  0 CI                                                                                                                  NEW DRAINAGE CHANNELS
e ~~~~~~~~~31 Se.,.g                                                                                                                                                     NE    DRING  CHANEL
--        --    ~~~CONVERSION OF IRRIGATION
CHANN  018V&PAJAGE CHANNEL
......  ...... I   NO            TIONOF DRAINAGE
CHANNEL
Morok embangan                                                                                                       7FISH POND
MANGROVE AREA
... .K*                                     - >0TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT AREA
V * .                                                                 Q h-                                                                                                                    mwTADES  Rk  w
~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                                                                                            5PIROADFRJCS e4\2/ Bi2t7 
1 4    1                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUNICIPAL BOUNDARY
1.1  lladercMiddleRingRaod-Stagel ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      .4                                                                                                                            1             3 
1.2 JlAhmad Yani/l. Jemursd Jun   n -101.1                                                                                                                                                 7
1.3 Ji. Keniern Stoage &I
1.4 JI. BnyuUnipStagnt& Il
1.5 Gentng Kali - Undoon Kulon Bndge
1.6 JI. Tidar - Ji. Kolibutuh
1.JIi Ngindn to JI.,A A engon~                                                                                                                                                  K   AM
1.8 J       kgir Bridge
1.9 Jl. Jemursnri . Jl. Paniong Jiwo                    Retenton Basin                                                  1.2
1.10 il. Jogalcn - Kolionyor  -Ngaglik .s 2 8                               ..*.IDII..                                                                                    21
1.11 JI. Tonjung Sr to City                                                                                                                        20
2.1  JI. Komng Tembokl
2.2  l. Pondegiling                                                                                                                                      9
2.3 JI. Kedungsoas - JI. Tegoleod - Jt. M. DuIIod                                                                                                                                                                        Ti  a    a   "       p
2.4 J8. Indrogiri it1. Podmosuotr*obyTeWd     rk?sff
2.5  l. Petro Aung Wetn-J.TmbngBoyo                       I J                                                         _euvlyfoPROJECTtROADe9en/93)                                                                                    d  a  ir   the
2.6 Jl. Morgomulyo Second Caoriagewu syU Jl.Ahmad YcniGbrauh tur                                                                                                                                                             pdwlsre d TnhiWond used
2.7 Jl. Ngaglik - JL. Kcpc Krcmpung                                                                                                            iJ Karlimuc Bcau| No         t.e 28u.d1urus  pe ttbnd of                            in 0    s |
3.1  EostemrNoddleRrng Road- Stagel IJiI. KongiTon B501 N UoPw 2o8 n Keutuso mpeesdtotig is                                                                                                                      ~                       ip  o ftu
3.2  Easten Middle Ring Rood Bridge                                                                                                           J       TSUPATEN S!    )AfO@J RuJQokRi            nO       P               r                   1ir
3.3 JIt Fondegiling toil. Sukresi                                                                                                             Jeutotn Pok ekon                                                           stcts hounerin r 
OCTOBER 1993



