REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS                 PEOPINSI JAWA TIWJAK
DIRECTORATE GENERAL CIPTA KARYA           indWAHD*A>I4     ATI
DIRECTORATE  DINA  PROGRAM               KOTAMADVA SUPAMYA
E134
C,2 2 A 3teA
IUIDP   , j Bt '
SURABAYA
Preparation of Integrated Urban Infrastructure
Development Project in Surabaya Municipality
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
SUMMARY -WORLD BANK FORMAT
JIlls PT. INDULEXCO                                           OCTOBER  1992
I         In assocition with
~~= MOTr MACDONALD INTERNATIONAL
1111=P.T. PEiRSADA ADHI CIPTA



SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOBIENT P80JECT
UY12OV.1MENTAL ASSESSXENT SUWUARY
WORLD BANK FORAUT
October 1992
CONTENTS
Page
1.   Introduction                                   1
2.   Project Description                            2
3.   Baseline Data                                  3
4.   Impacts                                        7
5.   Analysis-of Alternatives                      12
6.  Mitigation Plans                               14
7.  Monitoring and Evaluation                      15
8.   Institutional Needs                           17
9.   Public Participation                          18
enas-sun



Surabaya Urban Development Project (SUDP)
Eavironmental Assessment Summary - World Bank Format
1.      Introduction
1.1     Key Parties
The Executing Agency for this project is the Directorate General of Human
Settlements, Public Works Department. At central government level, it is
assisted by the Directorate General of Highways, the Directorate General of
Water Resources, the Directorate General   of Land Transport and the
Department of Home Affairs. The finance of the project is executed through
the Department of Finance.
The Principal Implementing Agency is the Municipality of Surabaya (KMS).
The City Water Company (PDAM) is the project implementing unit (PIU) for the
water supply.
The Co-Financers of the project are the World Bank and the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund.
1.2     Policy and Administration
The bc.sic provisions of environmental management are formulated within Act
No. 4 of 1982 which requires any proposed project which is likely to have a
significant impact on the environment to be accompanied by an environmental
impact assessment. There are sixteen subsequent regulations, decrees and
guidelines relating to the environmental process for a project of this
nature issued by the Minister for Population and Environment, the Minister
of Public Works, the Governor of East Java and the Mayor of Surabaya.
The preliminary environmental examination (PIL) initiated in June 1990 and
approved by the Vice Governor of East Java on October 30, 1990 recommended
that an environmental impact assessment (ANDAL) be prepared for the Urban
Roads, Drainage, Solid Waste and   Sanitation components as well as
environmental management and monitoring plans (RKL/RPL) for all components
including water supply.   Studies for the ANDAL were conducted from March
1991 to February 1992.
The ANDAL for all components was issued in April 1992 in English and in
October 1992 in Bahasa Indonesia.
The RKL/RPL for Water Supply was issued in both languages in September 1991
and for the other components in May 1992 in English and in October 1992 in
Bahasa Indonesia.  The RKL/RPL is supplemented by a Compensation and
Resettlement Plan issued in October 1992.
The documents were issued to the World Bank in July 1992.  The East Java
Regional Commission for the environment (KOMDA) are scheduled to review the
documents in October 1992.  It has been agreed that KOMDA are responsible
for approval, with the National Commission invited to attend evaluation
procedures as appropriate.
enas-sum                           1



2.      Project Description
The project is for integrated urban infrastructure development and
environmental improvement in Surabaya and includes all expenditure in
Surabaya for the next six years on urban roads and transport, urban
drainage, water supply, solid waste management, sanitation and kampung
improvement. It also includes improvements iu urban management by institu-
tional and human resources development, in financial management, in
community participation and in land management, as well as technical
assistance and training.
The list of components is:
-  200 km of new and improved urban roads
- 5 No traffic management schemes
- 92 km rehebilitated water pipelines
- 1020 km water distribution pipelines
- 146000 water connections
- 72 km transmission and primary water pipelines
- 2 pump stations and reservoirs
-  Water leakage programme and computer systems upgrade
- 143 km of new and improved drains
- 197 new or rehabilitaLed solid waste depots or transfer sites
- 27 container trucks + 336 containers
- 14 compactor trucks + 1033 waste bins
- 350 hand carts for solid waste
-  11 new or overhauled-landfill equipment
- 47 km of new sewers or pump mains
-  6200 house connections
- 2 pump stations
- 1 sewage treatment (Stabilisation pond) plant
- 1 septage treatment (digestion) plant + 4 No sludge vehicles
-  1200 ha of improved kampung
- 30000 septic tanks or pit latrines
- 15000 kitchen and bathroom improvements
- 110000 improved land certificate holdings in kampung areas
- 200000 building permits in kampung areas
- Community development programmes in at least 72 kampungs to
encourage community participation in development, develop the
role of women and small scale business ventures and improve
awareness of health and welfare issues.
- Improved operation and maintenance for roads, drainage, water
supply, solid waste and sanitation.
- Humar resource development to strengthen RMS and PDAM.
- Training for 3000 government officials and 24000 community
officials and inhabitants.
enas-sum                           2



- Technical assistance for urban. management, desPgn and super-
vision, operation and maintenance, master planning, human
resource development and training, revenue improvement, land
management, community development and transport management.
- Environmental monitoring and management to ensure that project
mitigations are carried out especially resettlement of persons
displaced by roads and drains, monitoring of nearby wetlands and
loss of irrigated areas.
The roads and drainage improvements directly affect 7185 properties by land
acquisition and 2952 of these must be relocated. The road and transport
components will improve access to and within the city, improve safety,
pedestrian access and public transport. The drainage will provide flood free
areas.
The water supply component will provide potable water to an additional
146000 properties.
The roads and drainage improvements will enable development close to coastal
wet lands but not on the wetlands.
The drainage improvements will convert irrigation channels and cause
irrigation to cease, a process which has been occurring rapidly as the.
city develops, but until now with already developed areas subject to regular
flooding whilst the remaining irrigation continues.
The solid waste manageamer.t and sanitation components will improve the
environment in these sectors increasing solid waste collection to 90X
coverage, introducing controlled landfill procedures and improving
sanitation for 250000 people.
The proposed implementation schedule is shown on Figure 1.
3.      Baseline Date..
3.1     Location
The area is the Municipality of Surabaya which lies between latitude 70 12'
and 70 21' South and between longitude 112° 36' and 1120 54' East.
The municipality is a lowland  plain, 3 to 6 * above sea level, with two
gently sloping hills in the south west rising up to 50 a above sea level.
The whole municipality is 290.4 square kilometres.  See Figure 2 for the
intensively observed ecological borders of the project.
3.2     Climate
The area enjoys a tropical climate with a wet season from November to April,
Kay transitional, and a dry season from June to October. Rainfall is about
1860 m- per year with about 25 mm/month in the dry season peaking to 350 -
per month during January and February.  Humidity is between 63 and 85Z. Air
quality is generally good and there is no major noise pollution.
enas-sum                           3



Surabava Urban De"vlopment Project - Implemen tation Programme - Figure 1
g3/    1  94/5   1  95_    6    j_ _6/7        9718       9819
Urban Roads                                       i j         (
Eastern Ring Road'
JI. Kenjeran
Jl. Banyu Urip
Inner Ring Road                   m               i
Traffic Management                      I          I
Other Roads                     _     .
Drainage                                           II
Stage 1  
Stage 2
Stage 3
! Stage 4 Morokrembangan
Staoe 5 RungKut              !
i Stage 6j
Other Drains                            j          [               -
Central Funded Drains
Solid Waste
Buildings
Containers Trucks Bins
Disposal sites
Human Waste
Sludge Collection & Treatment
Sewerage Pilot Project                       -
Kampung Improvement                                                       1
All aspects                       -                     -
Water Supply
Wonocolo - P.Gede Transmission
North Link Main
West Ring Main
East Ring Main                                          -
Secondary & Tertiary              -
PRehabilitation
Pump Station &Structures
HiumanResources &Training                                                      -
All aspects|
Technical Assistance              -
All assignments                   -
4                                           _FI



ECOLOGICAL BOUNDARIE.S
, , ' ' (" I \X6%g 8 18 , * * * * * lD~~~~~ B                                                    O   A R Y   K D l A M A D Y A |
N  lirG                       , a  ;                           .   oWNDARY WE AYAH|
*--ORAIHACf toNEHr   "   fPoRSGStaac>sFOl SlltS                                                                                         l~~~~~~~~~KELUAHA
00e1£51f WASlt   E   lEAIIOH Of lAHOfUl~~~~~~.
3  hlPCtH                    51



3.3     Geology
The low land plain is alluvial soil consisting of clay, sandy clay and sand
covered shell.   The hilly areas are formed from old alluvial soil also
consisting of clays and sand.
3.4     Hydrology
Kali Surabaya flows to the north and divides into two, namely Kali Wonokromo
which flows to the east and Kali Mas which continues to the north.  Rsli
Surabaya has a flow between 20 m3/s and 370 m3/s at Mirip Outfall.   At
Gunungsari Dan, the water surface can be kept up to 4.7 X above sea level to
divert flow to Gresik and West Surabaya but as Gunungsari channel has
insufficient fall there has been zero flow diverted for several years.
There are also dams at Ngagel to divert water to the water treatment works,
and at Gubeng to retain water for flushing and local irrigation.
The land east of Kali Mas and Kali Surabaya drains directly to the east
coast via many parallel drains. The land south of the hills drains to K.
Kedurus and into K. Surabaya. The land north of the hills drains directly
-to the north coast.   Consequently the catchment for the K. Mas is very
narrow.
Generally soils have very low permeability, about 5 x 10-4 cu/sec and wells
have very limited capacity. Groundwater is about 3 to 8 m and 0.5 to 3 a
below ground level in the dry and wet season respectively.
Water quality of the rivers and groundwater is very poor with heavy
pollution from human waste.
3.5     Biology
a. Flora: lost of Surabaya is au antificial ecosystem consisting of housing,
industry, warehousing, ricefields, upland fields and fish ponds.   Only a
small strip (1 to 30 m wide) is natural mangrove swamp along the north and
east coast. There are 42 sq km of rice fields, 25 sq km of which is rain
fed and many of the designated irrigated. areas cannot receive irrigation
water at any time. The reported crop (1989) for rice is 26000 tonnes per
year. Secondary crops sucb as maize and cassava give over 700 tonnes per
year. Vegetables and fruit are also produced. Most animals are domestic.
b. Fauna: Several types of wild birds occupy the coastal wetlands, resting
in the mangrove at night. Seven species- are protected. Fishing occurs at sea
and in fish ponds producing 4585 tonnes and 5132 tonnes respectively.
Fishing in fresh and general waters is minimal.
3.6     Socio economic
Most people are employed in merchandising, hotels and restaurants (33X) and
many in social services (27X). Manufacturing and Industry (21X) and
transport (1lX) are the other major sectors.
enas-sum                          6



Surabaya people are relatively healthy, the most common disenseS being
diarrhoea and skin diseases.
The 1990 population was 2.6 million, 51% of which were female. The most
populous age range is 20 to 24 years old.
The people directly affected by the project have been identified atnd are as
shown in Table 1.
The future trend without the project would lead to the economic sLagnation
of Surabaya. The trend for many years has been for urban infrastructure
expenditure to increase but still it has not caught up with demand. Roads
and transport expenditure at this stage is considered vital to avoid future
major congestion being  experienced by other cities.  Flooding in a major
problem in Surabaya and improvements are long overdue. Water supplY is also
a major problem which is holding back development in many parts of the city.
Solid waste expenditure is a continuation of major improvements made in the
past few years and the sewerage pilot project enables a start to be' made to
reduce pollution from the city centre. The kampung improvement programme
will build on the successes of the past twenty years involving the community
even more and improving sanitation and land rights.
4.    Impacts
4.1    Urban Roads
The urban road and transport improvements will improve access to and within
the city, improve public transport facilities, decrease through traffic,
Improve traffic ma nagement and improve freight transport. It will improve
safety, improve the pedestrian environment and guide sound land use. Other
benefits include improved operation and maintenance and work opportunities.
Major adverse impacts include the resettlement necessary due to land
acquisition, the problems during construction in existing narrow roads for
traffic and the possibility of road construction encouraging development in
adjacent or nearby wetlands. These are discussed below.
Other possible adverse impacts studied were extraction of sand and gravel
for construction, loss of green verge areas, changes in air qualitY and
noise, and the possibility of new roads causing changes to drainage
patterns. These were evaluated and found not to be major problems' for this
project.
4.1.1 Land Acquisition for the Roads
By far the greatest adverse impact is caused by the land acquisition. Full
surveys have been carried out to calculate the scale of the impact  A
complete (100%) enumeration of each property affected was implemented during
1991. Each property has a one page survey sheet. The results were logged
and analysed and are summarised in Table 2.
enas-sum                       7



Table I
People DIrectiy AfQted by the Project
Comfponent                Boneticl.lly AlleCted                     Adver-ly Affected
Roads                - The Whole populaUon will bensfil   - 8060 famIly member. end 571 mrvt. workers
from tho Improved road and trans-    and others In 247t propernls must feost  as
port system.                         theIr property wil be demolsed.
- 4201 family member and 13300 servants.
Workers and others In 2540 propertI must m
back on their propeny r tho property wi be
palisdly demolished.
Dranage              - 154725 peopIe befeilt In the currently    - 1813 family membrs and M servants, workers
tlooding areas and 2 mIlion bonefit  and othemr In 4S1 propertles must rrosttb *
within the catchment areas. Most of  their property wv  be demolihd.
the people In flooding afeas are low
Income.                            - 7076 lamIly members and 74M servanta.
workers end other In 168 propet  must mov
back on their property a ther property will be
partidally demolished.
- 510 ha of ricetid wil chnmg to nan fed
or non graity fed Irrgaton.
Water supply         - Over 700000 people ot aft Incomes In    - Possible minor lrteuptona t vaious people
146000 propernes will be connected   wu occur during construcOn.
to CtY water.
Solid Wato           - Over 470000 peopIe will have Improved  - The peopl near 77 new troaner aonsldepots
serice. 170000 of these are Iow      may su*er nuisance ffCoperallons and manage.
Income.                              mrnt are InauMclent About 1000 people winl
ibe affctd.
Human Waste          - Over 5S000 people equivalent will be  - No one n addwerelY ated except tor minor
connecte d10 the new sewerae systm.   InluptIons durlng conarucbon.
- 200000 people wol have Improv d sep-
tic *nk emptying and sludge tmea-nenL
Kampung Improvement -Ovr 600000 People WI have improved   - Them Is nuteance durng conretructon only.
living condiions, land holding and
comnmunity parUolpaton.
Training             - Over 3000 officials and 24000 In-   - No one is adversely affected.
habimtas wdll receive traIning.       __
8



Table 2
Roads Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Number of
Property          ----------------------- --------------------- 
Properties        Family    :  Servants
Members   :  Workers
Others
--  - - - - - - -   - - -- - - - - --  -   -- - -- -   -- - - - -
'1. Completely            2471            8080           5728
Demolished
(Must resettle)
,2. Partially             2549            8201     '   13399
Demolished
(can move back)                 '
*--- -   -- - - - - - I - - - - -   -  - - - - - -
Total                 5020           16281           19127
35408
A further 5X questionnaire (five pages) was also carried out to ascertain
peoples circumstances and attitudes to resettlement.   Most people accept
that the project is necessary and prefer fair monetary compensation for
their properties.
4.1.2  Traffic Disruption during Construction
There are four locations in the city where vehicles will be unable to pass
during construction and several roads where traffic will only be able to
pass with difficulty. For most there are alternative routes but one road at
Jl. Karang Teabok has no viable alternative and will cause problems unless
special measures (night work) are taken to allow traffic to get through.
4.1.3   Possibility  of Change  of Use or Partial  Loss of Wetlands due to
proximity of Eastern Middle Ring Road
The Eastern Riddle Ring Road together with improvements to water supply and
drainage will enable development to proceed on the east side of the city up
to the sea dyke.  This in turn may  encourage further development in the
wetlands outside the sea dyke. The wetlands are already non natural having.
been developed for fish ponds and salt pans except for small coastal areas
of mangrove.  The further development of the wet lands in due course is
probably inevitable.   What must be done is to guide the development to
ensure suitable land use and to retain what mangrove there is left.
4.2    Drainage
The drainage improvements will provide flood free areas for existing
developments and for future development. There will be reduced losses
caused by flood damage together with improved health and living conditions.
enas-sum                          9



Major adverse impacts include the resettlement due to land acquisition,-
although not on such a large scale as the roads, and the loss of irrigation
water where channels are to be converted to drains.
Other impacts which were anticipated could be major, but were not, include
the effect on the downstream wetlands and the possibility of excavation and
disposal of toxic sediments from existing drains which are to be deepened.
All these impacts are summarised below.
Other possible adverse impacts studied were traffic interruptions during
construction, changes in air quality and noise, disturbance to other
utilities, erosion, disposal of spoil and loss of some greenery. These were
evaluated and found to be not major problems for this project.
4.2.1 Land Acquisition for the Drainage
This was studied in the same way as for the roads. The people affected by
the drainage are summarised in Table 3.
Table 3
Drainage Land Acquisition and Resettlement
___.--_ ______ _ _
Number of
*  Property         -------…
Properties        Family        Servants
Members '  Workers
Others 
-~~~ -          -    ---------- -
,1. Completely              481            1813            765
Demolished
(Must resettle)
'2. Partially              1684            7076           7469
Demolished
(can move back)
* _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~________  ,I    
Total                  2165            8889           8234
17123
4.2.2   Loss of Irrigation
The loss of irrigation is occurring rapidly due to urbanisation without the
project. The subsequent developments are then subject to flooding as
insufficient drainage is available.   Much of the land designated as
irrigated is also not actually receiving irrigation water.   Nevertheless
some still is irrigated and this is what will-be lost when conversion-takes
place.
Conversion is the only economic solution to provide drainage as the
corridors are the only ones available.   It is estimated that all the
irrigation will disappear even without the project within ten years and the
project will only speed up the process slightly.
enas-sum                          10



Most of the owners of the ricefields will benefit as they will be able to.
sell their land for developsent.  However the rice farmers will lose their
livelihood during the dry season only as they will be able to operate the
fields as rainfed.   Also downstream users may still be   able to obtain
gravity fed water if tide gates are kept closed during the dry season and
the water is backed up.  Upstream users will only be able to continue to
irrigate by using hand or mechanical pumping.
4.2.3   Downstream Wetlands
There will be no change to downstream wetlands as tidegates will be uprated
but not moved.  Concerns about the wetlands have led the project to design
unlined channels through the wetlands and to ensure that watergates to ponds
are left undisturbed or replaced.
4.2.4   Possibility of Toxic Sediments
Testing of sediments in existing channels showed that there are no major
concentrations of toxic substances. Only one high reading of DDT was found
but not upstream or  downstream  of that reading.  DDT has been banned in
Indonesia for several years.
4.3     Water Supply
No major adverse impacts occur due to the water supply component. There is
a major beneficial impact in that water supplies to the city will almost
double.
Other impacts considered and evaluated were interruption to water supplies,
and other utilities, access restriction, traffic disturbance, safety
hazards, destruction of vegetation,  instability   of structures, waterway
flows and quality, and reduction of urban amenity.   The evaluation showed
that the water supply component has a very linited potential to affect the
environment.
4.4     Solid Waste
The solid waste improvements will improve collection, transfer and transport
systems and upgrade disposal to controlled landfill through improved
operation and management. Solid waste is under further study by JICA.
Significant impacts will be at Keputib and Kenjeran Beach landfills and at
the transfer site/depot locations.   No major leachate problems have been
identified but this -is being studied further by JICA as is long term
capacity of the landfills and the need for new sites.
Recycling is at a high level and will be encouraged to continue.
4.4.1   Keputib Landfill
Upgrading to controlled landfill as proposed by the project is urgently
needed to minimise smell, smoke and rodent nuisance to adjacent areas.
enas-sum                           l1



4.4.2   Kenjeran Beach
This landfill is causing' pollution to the sea and is too close to a
designated recreation area.  It is not controlled by Kotauadya Surabaya as
it is a private operation.
4.4.3   Transfer Stations and Depots
If the new transfer stations and depots are Pot well managed, nearby homes will
be affected with smells, dust and litter.
4.5     Sanitation and Sewerage.
The only significant adverse impact is disturbance to people and traffic
during construction of the' sewerage network.
Other aspects studied were all concluded to be positive except for the
possibility of smell at the treatment works and pump stations. The treatment
works is to be located at Tandes well away from residential areas and the
pump stations will be designed to minitise smells.
4.6     Kaupung Improvement (KIP)
There is disturbance during construction of KIP when bouse fronts are
demolished and moved back but otherwise-there are no adverse impacts.
5.     Analysis of Alternatives
5.1     Urban Roads and Transport
Full studies of roads and transport requirements have been made.  The
locations of improved roads and new roads have been selected by checking
traffic demands and road capacities using a computer model.  Upgrading of
roads will follow an approved road grid layout of arterial, collector and
local roads designed to achieve the objectives of the project. The project
forms part of the city transport strategy.
5.2     Drainage
The drainage proposals are part of the drainage master plan.  Most of the
proposed drainage channels are on existing drainage alignments or are
conversions of irrigation channels and will be at suitable levels to collect
stormwater from adjacent land and there are no economic alternative
alignments.
New channels in Kali Simo/Tandes area have   been located to enable
stormwater to be drained quickiy and efficiently. The channels are located
to coordinate with planning of adjacent land.
Benefits for each channel have been evaluated and the economic internal rate
of return calculated. These are in the range 31X to 1651.
enas-sum                          12



Additionally for each sub-project, the percentage of land value increase has
been calculated in order to achieve an internal rate of return of 10 (and
15X and 20X). The land value increases required are in the range of 1.7X to
125.  These figures show that all the projects are economically viable as
experience shows that the ratio of the value of well drained land to flooded
land is well above the maximum value required.
5.3     Solid Waste
The locations of the landfill sites are existing and will be used to their
maximum capacity. A new site is planned at Benowo. Additional studies will
be required before this is brought on stream. These are on going funded by
JICA.
The locations of the new transfer stations and depots have been agreed with
the Lurah of each Kelurahan and sited in the most suitable location but away
from any immediately adjacent residential land to minimize disturbance. Each
trarsfer station must be located within 1 to 2 km of the collection area
and be sufficiently close without causing nuisance. The locations can still
be moved if any chosen location proves unacceptable.
The city wide solid waste system uses the least cost, environmentally
acceptable alternatives and has been evaluated by financial analysis (as
some of the benefits are economically difficult to place a value on) and
the financial internal rate of return is about 20.
5.4     Waste Water
The location of the pilot sewerage project has been carefully selected.
Kelurahan Petemon was established as a sewerage pilot area for the following
reasons
:    IUIDP integration. : the SUDP drainage sector includes Gunungsari
drainage channel which will eliminate periodic flooding in the western
parts of the Kelurahan.
*    Water supply is programmed to be upgraded in the Kelurahan.
*    Income levels are sufficiently high to assist in cost recovery. Cross
subsidisation is possible.
*    Good location within  reasonable distance of business/commercial
district.
Similarly, the locations for the on-site sanitation facilities have been
carefully analysed for suitability according to the following criteria
* . population density
*    resident income
*    percentage of septic tanks installed
*    groundwater level and soil permeability
*    flooding.
*    availability of water supply
*    existing facilities
The criteria set are in accordance with the National strategy for sanitation.
enas-sum                           13



5.5     Kampung Improvemnet
KIP sites are selected using EMS criteria of flooding, water supply,
sanitation facilities, accessibilitY, community attitude to development,
population density, income, education, age of Kampung, physical condition,
layout and estimated impact of KIP. These are scored and weighted and the
kampungs then prioritised. It is proposed to improve 10 to 12 kampungs on a
zonal basis each year.
6.      Mitigation Plans
These are set out clearly in the Environmental Mangement Plan (RKL) and are
sumarised below.
6.1     Land Acquisition and Resettlement - Road and Drains
An improved land acquisition procedure will be followed in accordance with
the law but which in addition gives those affected early consultation,
improved (NGO) representation on the land aquisition coomittee and a choice
of options on resettlement. This is fully detailed in the Compensation and
Resettlement Plan which has been agreed by both Kotamadya Surabaya and the
World Bank.
The main alternative option to monetary compensation is resettlement in
sites and services schemes giving a total of 936 plots which will be capable
of housing about 32X of those whose property is completely demolished. This
is the proportion revealed by the questionnaire. The sites and services
schemes will be implemented by the KIP unit of Kotamadya Surabaya and be
confinanced by World Bank.
Other alternatives to be offered include
Fringe Kampung Improvement
Housing by Perumnas
Housing by YKP
Private housing funded by BTN
Walk Up Flats
Cost for the sites and services scheme (Rp. 4.1 billion) and for NGO
assistance (0.2 billion) are allowed for in the medium term programme.
6.2     Traffic Disruption - Roads, Drains and Sewerage
Traffic disruption plans will be made outlining alternative routes and
traffic management arrangements with organisation agreed with the traffic
authorities to publicise the arrangements.
Traffic flows will be monitored by traffic engineers.
enas-sum                          14



6.3     Possibility of Change of Use or Partial  LoSB Of Wetlands due to
proximity of Eastern Middle Ring Road
A land use study will be carried out and a land use plan will be prepared as
part of the Regional Master Plan. This will determine how best to use,
develop and protect the wetlands for the benefit of the whole city. The city
authorities will then enforce it.
6.4     LOBS or Irrigation due to Conversionx of Channels to Drains
Some monetary compensation and the provision of temporary PUsPiiAg may be
needed. It is necessary to identify in detail what areas still actuallv
receive irrigation water and whether there are imminent plans to develop. No
areas are designated to stay as irrigated rice fields in the laster Plan
which has been available for over ten years. A baseline survey is to be
carried out just prior to construction to ascertain areas, production and
income and whether phasing of the conversions can be improved to minimise
impacts. A further survey will be carried out after conversion takes place
to determine that necessary compensation measures were taken and that they
are fair.
6.5     Wetlands Management during Drainage construction
A fisheries expert will be made available during construction to engure that
water flows are not unnecessarily disturbed by channel excavation.
6.6     Kenjeran Beach Landfill for Solid Waste Disposal
This site should be closed as soon as possible. A management plan should be
drawn up by KMS/JICA to enable effective management of the closedown. JICA
are studying this in depth.
6.7     Transfer Stations and-Depots for Solid Waste Management
Rules for the siting, construction and operation of the stations/depots have
been drawn up. Management of all solid waste management will be strengthened
by provision of technical assistance.
7.      Monitoring and Evaluation
The environmental monitoring plan (MKL) sets out clearly what monitoring and
evaluation is required   and this is summarised below and is also shown
clesrly in Table 4.
7.1     Land Acquisition and Resettlement - Roads and Drains
The questionnaire survey (5X) and complete enumeration survey provides a
very substantial base line for monitoring the land acquisition and
resettlement.
enas-sum                           15



Impact                   Mitigations                   MonItoring
ROADS
1. Resettlement of afflcted  Resettlament & Compensation   Follow up soclo economic survey
people.                  Plan with aIternalive options,    based on ANDAL questionnairs
survey.
Traffic disruption.      Traffic management and public  Observation surveys of traffic flows
information.                during construction.
Encouragement of Accale-   Land use study and plan.   Aerial survey or land survey to
rated wetiand development                             determine that zoning rogulations
due to Influence of nearby                            are being enforced.
ring road.
DRAINAGE
; Resettiement of affected  Resettlement and Compensation Follow up socio economic surveys
people.                  Plan with alternative options  based on ANDAL questonnalre
survey.
Traffe Disruption.       Traffic management and public  Observation of traffic flows during
Information.                construction.
Changes to Brackich water   No lining to channels down-    Supervision by fisheries expert
ponds In East Surabaya.    stream of tidegates.       during construction.
Watergat-c to ponds left
undisturbed or replaced.
Change to agricultur, due    Temporary pumping.       Baseline and follow up survey by
to conversation of Irrigatlon  Increase In value of land.  Irrigation engineer to determine
channels to drainage     Possible monetary compensa-  extent and value of agricultural
tion to farmes.             lo".
SOUD WASTE
8. Expansion of Landfll at   Operational Improvements to    Regular checking by solid waste
Keputih.                 upgrade to Controlled LandfilL  expen that operanonal ndes are
being followed together with air
and water quality tests.
Continued Operatlion of  Temporary closure whilst JICA   Water quality testing and socia
Kenjoran Beach Landfill  and GOUKMS study the possibi- survey to ensur nearby recreation
ity of reclamation and establish  area can operate satisfactorily.
operating rules and legal Issues. Surveys required are baseline. one
If closure made permanent JICA year after and five years after
to provide guidance on rehabili- closure.
taton.
10. Air pollution and health risks  Good design and construction.  Air and water quality testing and
to residents near new depots Strict operation rules.  sociological survey of 10% sample
or transfer stations.     Containerisaton.            based on ANDAL survey.
SANITATION
Temporary traffic disruption. Traffic management plan specifi- Regular traffiengineer.
air and noise pollution due to cation and control of equipment Inspections and constructon
digglng sewer piee trenches. land spoil storage/transportation, supervision.
1 6



The random sample used for the questionnaire will be used for follow up
surveys to be carried out just prior to the people being moved, six months
after land acquisition is completed and then two y-ars later to ascertain
that arrangements were indeed fair and satisfactory. In this way it will be
possible to monitor the social and economic situation of those displaced or
partially displaced people and to adjust arrangements if necessary.
7.2    Traffic Disruption - Roads, Drains and Sewerage
Traffic management for these components will be monitored independently by
the traffic management technical assistance and recommendations made for
improvements as necessary.
7.3     Possibility of Change of Use or Partial- Loss of Wetlands due. to
proximity of Eastern Middle Ring Road
A yearly survey of the wetlands will be carried out by an ecologist and a
sociologist to monitor that land use zoning regulations are being followed.
7.4     Loss of Irrigation due to Conversion of Channels to Drains
.The baseline survey of irrigated areas is not yet determined as it is
continually changing at a rapid pace. The baseline survey for each channel
will be carried out by an irrigation engineer prior to construction and then
after conversation is completed. This will enable determination of actual
changes in agricultural practice and income.
7.5    Solid Waste Disposal Sites
All landfill sites operations will be monitored yearly, and air and water
quality tested quarterly, by the solid waste management expert.
For Kenjeran Beach, additional monitoring will be carried out by a
sociologist to determine that the recreation area does not suffer any health
hazards, and by a marine ecologist to determine if there is continuing
coastal pollution. This additional monitoring will be carried out prior to
closure of the landfill and one year and five years after closure.
7.6     Transfer Stations and Depots for Solid Waste Management
A baseline survey of 1OX of the stations and depots was carried out for the
ANDAL. This sample will be resurveyed one year after construction and
monitored for sociological reaction and for air and water quality.
8.      Institutional Needs
The izplementation arrangements for SUDP will also encompass the management
and monitoring of environmental requirements. In particular each
implementation unit will be responsible for management of its component to
ensure that mitigation measures are fully implemented. Specific additional
arrangements to carry out independent management advice and monitoring will
enas-sum                           17



be made by Kotamadya Surabaya. In particular they will appoint Airlangga
University to carry out continuing resettlement surveys as they were
involved in the baseline survey, appoint the NGO for resettlement,
preferably the one previously used for the KIP womens involvement survey,
and appoint specialists such as the ecologist, sociologists, marine
ecologist and irrigation engineer for monitoring. These specialists are in
addition to specialists appointed under technical assistance for
implementation who will also be monitoring in their disciplines as
necessary.
Environmental management supervision will be by the Urban Management Unit of
Kotamadya Surabaya, by the Provincial Planning Board (Bappeda Tk 1) and by
the Directorate General of Human Settlements (Cipta Karya).
Environmental training courses for City staff have been included in the
project as part of the Human Resources Development and Training component.
Enforcement measures. and legal strengthening is being carried out on a
national and regional basis by the new BAPEDAL agency and these will be
sufficient without further measures under this project.
9.     Public Participation.
To date, consultation has been by survey on an individual basis. Surveys
have been carried out for :
Land acquisition for Roads and Drains Survey - 1991
Household survey - 1989
Pilot Project Area Household & Commercial Sewerage Survey - 1991
.Solid Waste Industrial Survey - 1991
Role of Woman in SUDP Survey - 1991
All these surveys have been questions to individuals to ascertain base data.
An NGO carried out the Role of Women in SUDP Survey in conjunction with the
preparation consultants.
The only group basis survey has been through the focus groups for the Role
of Women in SUDP Survey.
There has been no further consultation yet and there will not be until funds
are assured in order to avoid embarassment. This is early enough as the
project is on a 5 year programme basis.
Funds are now assured from OECF and it is planned to announce the project in
November 1992 concurrently with appraisal by World Bank. The announcement
will be to the press and public and will include release of this
environmental assessment summary in the Indonesian language.
After that, group consultations will commence with the first and second year
priority projects and will continue for the whole programme.
enas-sum                          18



A public information centre is to be set up as part of the project to be the
focus to disseminate information and receive complaints. NGOs will
participate in SUDP for the land acquisition and resettlement and as part of
the community development under the KIP sector but which has the aim of
community development for the whole programme. Community participation will
continue to have a high profile in the solid waste sector and there will be
special community programmes drawn up and carried out for the sewerage pilot
project.
;
enaS-sum                           19






