Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22214-IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37260; SCL-3726A; SCPD-3726S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$175 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 27, 2001
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupiah
Rp. 1 = US$ .0000892
US$ I = Rp 11,200
METRIC SYSTEM
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACFIU         Anti-Corruption and Fraud Investigation Unit (of the Bank)
BAPPENAS   National Development Planning Agency
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DGCK          Directorate General Cipta Karya (Public Works)
Dinas PU      Public Works Department
DPRD          Local Legislative Assembly
EPS           Executive Project Sunmmary
GOI           Government of Indonesia
IPLT          Septage Treatment Plant
IUIIDP        Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program
JBIC         Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KIP           Kampung (poor neighborhood) Improvement Program
KMS           Kotamadya Surabaya
MCK           Communal Washing and Toilet Facility
MOF           Ministry of Finance
OECF          (Japanese) Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
PDAM          Water Utility Corporation
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
RIS           Revised Implementation Plan
TA            Technical Assistance
TKPP          Urban Development Coordination Team
TOR           Terms of Reference
TTL           Task Team Leader
UFW           Unaccounted for Water
UMU           Urban Management Unit
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mr. Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Stephen Dice, EASUR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA: SURABAYA URBA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LN. 3726-IND)
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                      12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     17
9. Partner Comments                                                                    18
10. Additional Information                                                             18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  26
Annex 8. Comparison of SAR-RIS and Realization                                         27
Annex 9. ICR Mission Aide Memoire-March 2001                                           28
Annex 10. Action Plan for Future Development: 2001-2007                                49
Annex 11. Government of Indonesia Evaluation of Project Implementation                 61
Letter of July 16, 2001 and Report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003998                                        Project Name: SURABAYA URBAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Finn Nielsen                                  TL UniJ: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date. June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  L/C/TF Number: CPL-37260;
SCL-3726A;
SCPD-3726S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/14/1989                               Effective:                     01/13/1995
Appraisal:  01/14/1993                                 MTR:                       11/11/1997
Approval:  04/12/1994                               Closing: 09/30/1999           09/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOI/SURABAYA MUNICIPALTY
Other Partners: OECF (now JBIC)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jamil Kassum                               Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                 Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Keshav Varma                                Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:   Finn Nielsen                              Evan Rotner
ICR Primary Author:   Stephen R. Dice
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HU
Sustainability: HUN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qtuality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes






3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Surabaya is Indonesia's second largest city, as well as the capital city and the commercial and
administrative hub of the Province of East Java. When the project was first conceived in 1988, the
population was approximately 2.5 million, and the projected population for the year 2000 was 3.5-4.2
million. By and large, Surabaya was a relatively clean city, but the rapid pace of urban growth and
industrialization was depleting the city's natural resources, degrading ground, river and coastal waters with
domestic and industrial waste, polluting the air and contaminating the soil. Adverse effects on human
health and quality of life were being felt with growing acuity. Investment in infrastructure was not keeping
pace with needs and considerable deficiencies remained in key areas such as transport, water supply,
sanitation and solid waste. Effective policies and programs for operations and maintenance (O&M),
private sector participation, revenue generation and institutional capacity development were lacking.
The strategy of the Government of Indonesia (GOI) for the urban sector called for Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Development Programming (IUIDP) as the operational approach to: (a) strengthen local
government capacity to build,operate and maintain local services; (b) improve planning and programming
of infrastructure investments; (c) implement coordinating financing and administratative systems; and (d)
strengthen the consultative process. Recognizing Surabaya's growing needs and capacity constraints, GOI
sought the Bank's assistance to implement an urban development project for the city using the IUIDP
format.
The project's objectives were: (a) to improve the efficiency and equitability of urban infrastructure and
service delivery by financing high priority infrastructure investments in Surabaya; (b) to enhance local
revenue generation and improve financial management; (c) to strengthen local institutions for managing
and providing city services, particularly the IUIDP process, and assisting GOI/KMS (Kotamadya
Surabaya) to move from the relatively confined IUIDP process to an enhanced IUIDP process embracing
better development planning, land and environmental management, coordination arrangements in the
framework of improved capital budgeting, O&M and policies with more explicit foci on efficiency and
equity objectives; (d) to improve O&M; and (e) to contribute towards urban poverty alleviation and
improve and protect the environment, particularly for the urban poor.
The project was the initial attempt to comprehensively address the elements of GOI's 1988 Urban Policy
Statement and Action Plan in a large city context. As such, it was central to both GOI and Bank strategy in
the sector, and presented major challenges in clarifying local functional and financial responsibilities, as
well as assessing capacity-building and institutional reform necessary to implement the more decentralized
pattern of urban services delivery envisioned by the new GOI policy package. The extended preparation
time of more than three years reflects the complexity of defining the revised procedures and implementation
arrangements. The project was jointly appraised with OECF, who agreed to finance approximately one-half
of the investment assistance defined during the appraisal. The resulting project SAR is both very
comprehensive and very clear in identifying the challenges to be faced in implementing huge, multi-faceted
program including the required institutional development but, in retrospect, failed to adequately address the
risk factors which caused the substantial failure of the project. In fact, evaluation of risks in the SARwas
descriptive only, and did not adequately identify needed responses to risk occurences, nor the responsible
parties for such responses.
3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project had seven components which are described below. The total funding needs for each component
are the SAR totals including GOI, Bank and OECF funds proposed at appraisal. Bank share shown in
brackets [xx].
Roads and Traffic Management (US$121 million [$19.577 million]). This component supported (a) 8
km of improved arterial roads; (b) 33 km of partial or half width arterial roads; (c) 5 km of full arterial
roads; (d) 140 km of local roads; (e) 13 km of improved main collector roads; (f) all non-routine operation
and maintenance; (g) area traffic management schemes in five central city sub areas; (h) building and
calibrating a traffic flow model, based on a traffic management study completed during project prepration;
and (i) institutional improvements, including establishment of a new KMS section for traffic management (
Dinas Lalu Lintas) and strengthening of the road maintenance unit.
Water Supply (US$160.6 million [$85 million]). This component funded: (a) rehabilitation of the
existing system; (b) expansion of the transmission mains and primary, secondary and tertiary distribution
networks; (c) major new service connections (190,000) program, 35% of which would be in low income
areas; (d) pumping stations and related elevated and ground reservoirs; (d) a public hydrant installation
program; (f) construction of a water treatment plant; and (g) related technical assistance and advisory
services.
Stormwater Drainage (US$141.7 million [$19.675 million]). The project financed new and improved
drains. A number of irrigation channels were to be converted to storm drainage. This component also
provided for seven tide gates, land acquisition, and O&M strengthening.
Solid Waste Management (US$6.6 million [0]). The project provided new and rehabilitated collection
depots and transfer stations, new containers, waste bins, hand carts and trucks, and supported the overhaul
of existing compactors and bulldozers, as well as operations and maintenance.
Human Waste (US$19.9 million [$13.059 million]). The main feature of this component was piloting a
sewerage project to test appropriate sanitation systems for Surabaya, in accordance with the National
Strategic Plan. It also was to rehabilitate and construct public showers, washing and toilet facilities
(MCK) in new and densely populated areas, and provide a pumping station and pond treatment for septage
with prior treatment by anaerobic digestion. An institutional action plan was also included to clarify
institutional arrangements in the sector.
Kampung Improvement Plan (US$22.7 million [$11.871 million]). This component provided (a)
physical infrastructure improvements in fringe areas and rehabilitation of some existing KIP (kampung or
poor neighborhhod improvement program) areas; (b) a household loan program to assist the poor in
installing septic tanks and improve home sanitation facilities; and (c) a land management program to
improve land registration and the granting of building permits.
Sites and Services for Resettlement (US$2.2 million [included in above component totals]). The project
funded sites and services schemes for the resettlement of some 16,400 project affected persons, who would
be displaced by alignments of roads and stormdrainage schemes.
Technical Assistance and Training (US$33.6 million [$25.817 million]). TA packages were designated
for the Urban Management Unit of KMS, the water enterprise (PDAM), and central government. Training
was provided to KMS and the PDAM. Engineering design and supervision of the works were also included
- 3 -



in this component. One noteworthy study was to be carried out: a study to develop Surabaya Urban Policy
to the year 2010 including environmental improvement and public transportation.
Prepararion of this project occurred in stages (based on available funding) over a four-year period from
1989 through appraisal in early 1993. All parties agree that the preparation took far too long, being
complicated by protracted and ultimately unsuccessful negotiations for the private development of the
Umbulan Spring Bulk Water Supply Project. Uncertainty related to this proposed private investment was
also in part the cause of the delay of two years between appraisal and loan effectiveness.Project preparation
included attention to all facilities and needs in each of the above sub-sectors, including investments which
were the responsibility of the central GOI Ministry of Public Works and the Province of East Java, as well
as the City of Surabaya facilities. Another key feature of project design was the clear assignment of central,
provincial or local responsibility for each sub-project in the overall program. OECF ultimately agreed to
finance a parallel project of roughly similar size which focussed primarily on the Ministry of Public Works
sub-projects, leaving the Bank project to focus mainly on the KMS and PDAM investments within the
integrated framework.
During appraisal and negotiation of the project, agreement was reached (see SAR para. 7.1(b)) with all
parties on the principle that the responsible level of government would bear all costs associated with their
respective sub-projects, specifically including land acquisition and resettlement expenses; this was a major
departure from typical GOI practice under which local government bore all land costs for development
projects executed by any level of government. The appraisal mission deemed this policy change critical to
project design, as the estimated land acquisition costs of more than $65 million (or more than Rp. 130
billion) were beyond the financial capacity of KMS.
3.4 Revised Components:
During the Supervision Mission of March 1997 it was agreed that KMS would prepare a "Revised
Implementation Schedule (RIS)" for discussion by the subsequent mid-term review in November 1997. In
the proposed RIS several of the components were significantly modified (most down-sized) during
implementation due to the land acquisition problems and the impacts of the financial and socio-political
crises afflicting Indonesia during project implementation, as discussed in the following sections. However,
no formal restructuring of the project was done, but the RIS was formally approved in January 1998.
(Annex 8 compares the SAR, RIS and actual project realizations by component.) At the request of GOI, in
January 1998 as part of the Bank's crisis response, a component was also added to the project to finance
labor-intensive, small-scale civil works projects for employment generation and allocated $5 million.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The QAG did not exist at the time of Board presentation. Quality at entry is deemed to be satisfactory
because of the attention to detail and assessments of institutional capacities reflected in the preparation
documentation, as well as the clear priority attached to the project by GOI and all involved KMS agencies.
Ownership and commitment to the project objectives seem to have been clear. The partnership with OECF
for the parallel project addressing central GOI investments in Surabaya appears to have been carefully
designed. The project responded to GOI priorities and fit with the Bank's CAS and urban sector strategy.
In short, by any reasonable measure, this was a well prepared project, although very slow to be prepared
and delivered to readiness for implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite repeated, lengthy discussions and assurances during appraisal and negotiation of the project, the
innovative arrangements for sharing the responsiblities for land acquisition financing were almost
- 4 -



immediately rejected by BAPPENAS after the project was declared effective in January 1995. Central GOI
funds for programmed land and resettlement costs were deleted from the FY 95/96 budget, and letters were
sent by BAPPENAS to KMS and East Java Province stating that the funds would not be forthcoming from
the national budget, so local arrangements should be made for all needed land acquisition. The impact of
this decision on the project was immediate and dramatic, as all central GOI sub-projects (roads, drainage,
water supply, etc.) requiring land purchase were delayed pending new arrangements for financing the land
acquisition. This decision seriously impacted elements of the parallel OECF project as well. Effectively this
decision disrupted all the integrated implementation planning prepared for the project, and thereafter left
each implementing agency to adjust annual programs to match available land acquisition funding for many
of the key elements of the program.
Compounding this problem was the failure of KMS to develop the Urban Management Unit (UMU),
intended to be the coordination and management focal point for both this project and OECF project, as well
as other urban issues and investments. Although some advisory support was available from remaining
preparation funds to assist the formation of UMU and initial activities, the mobilization of advisory
services in support of the UMU was further delayed by procurement and administrative disputes which
resulted in the UMU consultants actually beginning work only in February 1997, more than two years after
Loan effectiveness (although an OECF-financed team of advisors began their support for UMU operations
in mid- 1995, approximately six months after loan effectiveness). A "daily management unit" under UMU
was established, with no effective authority over planning or implementation decisions. The UMU
consultants were attached to this secondary unit, and were thus distanced from the main decision-making
processes. However, during the entire project implementation period, there are no records of formal UMU
meetings for any decisions or coordination of project activities.
Within six months from the full mobilization of the UMU team, the East Asia Region began the historic
economic collapse of 1997-98, the financial and political consequences of which are still being felt in
Surabaya today. The final three years of the project (from mid-term review of November 1997 until closing
September 2000) were strongly affected by the crisis conditions, accompanied by social and political
turmoil, which further complicated efforts and may have constrained local budget allocations to resolve
land acquisition problems and related compensation/resettlement issues. While not excusing the poor
performance of the project, it must be acknowledged that the project faced serious obstacles, particularly
during the second half of the project period.
Overall, achievement of the project's objectives is rated highly unsatisfactory. An overview of results by
objective follows:
Objective (a) to improve the efficiency and equitability of urban infrastructure and service delivery.
The systematic upgrading of urban services delivery intended by the project was not achieved, as major
gaps in key roads and drains remain, water supply coverage targets were not met, and most of the
sanitation program was cancelled from the project. KMS and PDAM have prepared an Action Plan (see
Annex 10) to complete the highest priority missing segments and incomplete facilities. The Action Plan is
endorsed by the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure, and will receive partial financing from
the extended OECF/JBIC project, but even full implementation of the Action Plan would leave facilities
and service levels far short of original targets.
Objective (b) to enhance local revenue generation and improve financial management.
While KMS and PDAM revenue streams remained remarkably strong during the crisis, and PDAM did
- 5-



obtain approval of a 30% tarriff increase in 1998, other needed reformns in revenue generation and financial
management were left unaddressed by the project, and were further confused by national legislation in 1999
which mandated substantial functional and financial decentralization, but which remain with only partial
implementing regulations and guidelines for local governments to date. Earlier national legislation in 1997
had constrained local government authority to increase tax revenues and other local charges.
Objective (c) to strengthen local institutions for managing and providing city services, particularly the
IUIDP process, and assisting GOI/KMS to move from the relatively confined IUIDP process to an
enhanced IUIDP process embracing better development planning, land and environmental management,
coordination arrangements in the framework of improved capital budgeting and O&M and policies with
more explicit foci on efficiency and equity objectives.
The continuous series of changes in both KMS/PDAM leadership and central GOI management of the
project, as well as the broader urban policy and institutional strengthening agenda has resulted in very
limited progress toward this objective. The PDAM and UMU advisory assistance was mobilized but advice
and recommendations appear to have been frequently ignored (per final report of UMU team). The KMS
Urban Policy Plan for 2018 was prepared, but attempts to foster inter-department concensus for its
recommendations largely failed, as did efforts to coordinate this work with the metropolitan-scale planning,
financed in parallel from the Second East Java Urban Development Project (Loan 4017-IND). Almost no
attention to environmental management or improved capital budgeting is evident from project documents.
Land and O&M issues were clearly not resolved, indeed the O&M advisory services contract was never
approved or mobilized. UMU never fully played its anticipated role as project focal point.
Objective (d) to improve 0 & M
KMS and PDAM did achieve O&M expenditure targets established during project appraisal as
minimum necessary budgets. However, these targets were not adjusted for changing prices and conditions
as events unfolded during the course of the project. In 1998 alone, general price inflation reached nearly
80% during the worst of the crisis, civil service salaries were increased on several occasions, and prices for
all imported materials and equipment (especially critical for PDAM chemicals and spare parts) soared by
multiples of three to fives times in Rupiah terms as the exchange fluctuated wildly. The ICR mission
confirmed that no current estimates of minimum O&M expenditures were available, and O&M levels were
generally viewed as inadequate. It seems clear that this objective was not achieved.
Objective (e) to contribute towards urban poverty alleviation and improve and protect the environment,
particularly for the urban poor.
PDAM failed to install the programmed 58,000 new water supply connections in KIP (poor) areas, citing
the unwillingness of households to repay the connection cost, even with the availability of loan funds. The
sanitation investments from the original project design were almost all cancelled. However, as previously
noted, a labor-intensive works component for employment generation was added to the project in January
1998 at GOI request and allocated $5 million; although records for this new component are sketchy, it
appears to have been an effective source of emergency employment in the peak of the crisis.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(Please see Annex 9 for additional details as documented by the ICR mission aide memoire of March
2001. It must be noted, however, that from project effectiveness onward the Bank's project and the parallel
OECF project (IP-400) were managed as quite separate activities by GOI, KMS-UMU and PDAM, not the
integrated implementation process envisioned at appraisal.)
- 6 -



The original project design included procedures for review and adjustment of the annual work programs
based on progress attained, budget available and results of studies and engineering work financed in earlier
years. However, by 1997, with the land acquisition financing problem slowing many major components and
the effects of the crisis beginning to be felt, one of the initial assignments of the advisory consultants to
UMU was to prepare a Revised Implementation Schedule (RIS) for the entire program. The RIS proposed
dropping Bank financing for several major subprojects requiring significant land acquisition, as well as
most of the sanitation/sewerage component, while adding a large number of road widening projects not
meeting original project criteria. The RIS program was reviewed and agreed (with recommended revisions)
by the Bank's mid-term review mission of November 1997, but final, revised version submitted by GOI in
January was not carefully checked against the mission agreements and thus had the practical effect of
opening the project to an annual revision of program content without careful focus on original project
objectives and criteria.
As noted above, in early 1998 the Bank approved GOI's request that the project be amended to include a
labor-intensive community infrastructure component and increased disbursement percentages on all
components which drastically reduced the required counterpart funding for all works and equipment. These
increased disbursement percentages were in effect until loan closing, but the project still experienced great
difficulty in meeting disbursement targets because of the land acquisition problems, slow contractor
progress, and the significant devaluation of the Rupiah. Thus, at GOI request in 1998 the Bank cancelled
$30 million from the KMS portion of the Loan, and in 1999 a further $35 million was cancelled from the
PDAM component when the one-year extension of project closing date was agreed to. The following
summarizes achievements for Bank-financed subprojects only:
PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES. Overall, achievement of the project's physical objectives is rated highly
unsatisfactory.
Roads and Traffic Management: Of the 130 contract packages for roads construction and improvement,
the procurement of 41 contracts was cancelled, and an additional 14 contracts failed to be completed (with
progress ranging from 70-90%, but largely unusable), in almost all cases due to land acquisition issues.
The collapse of the "MERR IIC" bridge in October 1998, while still under construction, is also included in
the "failed to complete" category. Approximately $10.2 million of the originally programmed loan funds of
$13.8 million were utilized for these road improvements, but the incomplete and cancelled packages have
left gaps and bottlenecks in the roads network which limit the real benefit attained by the completed works.
While in the traffic managernent component, design and procurement disputes reduced physical progress on
the appraised program, but KMS included significant new minor works in the annual work plans. A total of
$3.6 million of the loan component of $5.7 million was utilized, but almost none of the original program
was implemented. The original focus on facilitating public transport and pedistrian traffic with special
attention to transport needs of the poor was almost completely lost. Rating: Highly unsatisfactory.
Water Supply: PDAM carefully prepared and agreed to a program requiring $85 million, but completed
works utilizing only $48 million (56%). The major achievement under this component was the completion
of Second Stage Karang Pilang Water Treatment Plant with the capacity to produce an additional 2000
liters per second of treated water for Surabaya. However, the distribution of the water is problematic, as
major gaps have been left in the primary distribution ring main and related links, reducing system pressures
in many areas and resulting in dry connections in others. Of the project's target of 132,000 new household
connections to the system, approximately 102,000 were installed, but effectively none of the additional
58,000 connections for poor households in KIP areas was completed. Rating: Unsatisfactory.
- 7 -



Stormwater Drainage: Of 59 originally programmed sub-projects, 25 remain incomplete of which 15 were
never contracted, mainly due to land acquisition issues and design disputes among implementing
agencies.Central GOI refused to accept KMS proposals (based on international design standards) which
would have significantly reduced the required land acquisition and allowed more rapid implementation.
Only $8.2 million (42%) of the allocated loan funds totaling $19.6 million were utilized, with much of the
completed work being for rehabilitating secondary and smaller channels while related work on primary ;
drain channels remains only partially completed, thus limiting the benefits attained. The effect of patially
completing the designed network of channel improvements has in fact been an increase in local flooding due
to the improvement of some upstream channel sections prior to the necessary downstream capacity
expansion. Rating: Highly unsatisfactory.
Solid Waste Management: Although included in the SAR description of the project, this component was
entirely financed by the parallel OECF (now JBIC) loan, and has not been routinely reported or supervised
as a component of this project. EASES included this component in a thematic supervision of solid waste
investments in Indonesia, and commented negatively on the observed collection and disposal practices by
KMS.
Human Waste: The capacity expansion of the septage treatment plant (IPLT) at Keputih, from a capacity
of 100m3/day to 400m3/day, is the only part of this component to be implemented, other than some of the
consultant services intended to detail the KMS Sewerage and Sanitation Development Program. The
consultancy was terminated after the initial phase and their reports reflected a poor understanding of the
issues and demand- responsive approach intended for this component. All further works were cancelled
from the project. Actual absorption of loan funds for this component was less than $0.5 million from the
original Loan allocation of nearly $11.5 million. KMS (or GOI) never displayed real commitment to this
work. Rating: Highly unsatisfactory.
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP): The intent of the appraised component clearly was to provide a
broad range of assistance to residents of at least 97 poor neighborhoods (kampungs) of Surabaya. This
assistance was to include basic infrastructure (new or rehabilitated), loans for household sanitation
facilities and water supply connections, land rights certification, and assistance for participatory
community development planning and mainstreaming of services provision by KMS. Until the final year of
the project, only the physical improvement of basic infrastructure in 60 kampungs had been implemented,
even then without the particiption of PDAM who only later arrived to install water lines in some of the
areas by trenching in newly paved streets and footpaths without adequate repaving.
As noted above, PDAM never implemented the water supply connections program for KIP areas. The
quality of the works and linkage to adjacent secordary infrastructure are generally below the standards
achieved in previous KMS-Bank projects for kampung upgrading (e.g., Urban II, III and V Projects). Only
in the final year of the project did KMS attempt to launch "KIP Comprehensive" in 15 selected kampungs,
which utilized the community-based approach and channelled some funds to community groups for
development planning and other local priorities. Issues of land tenure, sanitation, household water supply
connections and other key issues for urban poverty alleviation remain largely unaddressed. Of the nearly
$12 million allocated from the Loan for this program, less than half ($5.1 million) was utilized, although
this was in part a result of the Rupiah devaluation. Rating: Unsatisfactory.
Sites and Services for Resettlement: The agreed site for development of a relocation altemative for
"project- affected persons" (PAP) at Penjaringan Sari was a marginal solution for the original intent of the
component and was only completed during the final weeks of project activity in September 2000 (more than
three years late). At project closing all basic services were finally available and the kiosks for relocation of
- 8 -



affected small businesses were constructed. However, the ICR mission found in March 2001 that none of
the house plots and none of the business kiosks had been allocated to the PAPs! In fact most PAPs and
businesses who had received at least partial compensation and left their previous locations, had moved to
nearby "greenway" space along the river banks and were erecting at least semi-permanent structures there,
compounding the negative impact. KMS indicated that inter-departmental disputes and coordination
problems had delayed the allocation of the plots and kiosks with needed building permits and land
certificates, and still there was no firm schedule to complete the compensation of PAPs and the allocation
of plots. Rating: highly unsatisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
GOI attempted to estimate the net present value (NPV) and/or economic rate of return (ERR) for a
significant sample of subprojects financed by the Loan. The full presentation of survey results and data is
available in the project file. However, upon reviewing these calculations, two basic difficulties have to be
acknowledged:
(a) the urban roads and KIP components are evaluated based on changes in land price for affected
properties as a proxy for the value of benefits accruing to the surrounding land owners; however
the socio-political crisis and continuing economic instability have made land prices an unreliable
indicator due the tendency for those seeking "safe haven" for Rupiah in the crisis to invest in
tangible assets such as land, distorting the market's ability to reflect benefits; and
(b) as noted above, many of the roads, drains and other facilities remain incomplete with entire
sections missing, and GOI has tried to calculate both current benefits and those after full
completion of the investments (utilizing JBIC assistance).
Even with these difficulties understood, the reported rates of return are generally lower than estimated at
appraisal. ERRs for fully completed road subprojects are estimated in the 12-15% range, while sections
only now partially completed are estimated to produce ERRs of 0-10% currently, rising to 13-20% after
full completion. ERRs for completed KIP investments for basic infrastructure were estimated to range from
30-59%, which is consistent with previous KIP experience. For a very limited sample of completed
drainage subprojects ERRs are estimated on the basis of "avoided flood damage" to be in the range of
13-20%, while for incomplete schemes the estimates are in the 5-13% range. These estimates are
questionable, particularly in light of the economic instability and failure to complete many critical
subprojects. It is quite possible that a more complete review of the project investments upon the retum to a
more stable economic climate and land market will conclude that many of the project investments were
unjustified.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Four components of the appraised project were estimated to have financial rates of return: water supply,
solid waste management, sanitation/sewerage and the household loans subcomponent of KIP. Of these, the
solid waste component was entirely financed by the on-going OECF/JBIC project for which no data is
available, and the sewerage investment was cancelled from the project. By the end of 1999, the last year for
which audited financial results for PDAM are available, the incomplete water supply investments were
producing a financial rate of return of 9.8%, which was likely to decline further as escalating costs were
experienced on an essentially stable revenue base, at least until the major missing distribution system
elements can be finished and the house connection targets previously agreed can be achieved. The revolving
community funds component of the "KIP Comprehensive" has had a promising beginning, with financial
rates of return estimated to be slightly above 20% to date, but limited to 15 kampungs during less than two
years of experience with this approach.
-9-



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The principal institutional development objective of the project was to improve the management capability
and performance of KMS and the PDAM. This was intended to be achieved with advisory consultants for
on-the-job guidance of UMU and PDAM activities and decisions, as well as special topic training and
information systems development. In discussions with key project staff and former consultants serious
frustration was expressed about the frequency of staff and management reassignments, refusal to follow
established project procedures (e.g., for procurement and land acquisition), the lack of transparency in
decision-making, the disproportional influence of the Mayor in many decisions of a technical nature, and
related problems (especially the use of allocated land acquisition funds), including the persistent allegations
of corruption, collusion and nepotism (known by the Indonesian acronym "KKN") by KMS and PDAM
management. While some aspects of the institutional development issues faced by Surabaya, and more
generally GOI based on the 1999 decentralization legislation, are discussed in the following sections, little
evidence that any significant improvement in the capacity of KMS or PDAM exists. Rating: negligible.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two significant factors outside the control of GOI affected the project's implementation and outcome.
First, prior to the mid-term of the project in November 1997, the Bank simply did not adequately supervise
and assist the project during the critical initial stages of project mobilization and early revision of
implementation schedules (see discussion in preceding section 4 and Bank performance assessment in
section 7 for further details).
Second, with the onset of the regional financial/economic crisis in mid-1997, the extraordinary devaluation
of the Rupiah (from Rp 2400=USS 1 in July 1997, to nearly Rp 15,000=US$1 in January 1998, with wide
fluctuations since, and currently at more than Rp 11,000=US$l in June 2001) and the related budget
issues, as well as socio-political instability, has forced the GOI to reduce counterpart funds availability,
request increased disbursement percentages (granted by the Bank in 1998), and seek emergency relief from
the donor community for conditions which could not have been anticipated or even imagined during the
preparation of the project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Without question the single biggest factor affecting the project negatively was the 1995 decision by the
National Development Planning Agency, BAPPENAS, to refuse to honor their negotiated obligation to
finance the land acquisition and related costs for central GOI projects, and to revert to the "traditional"
system of expecting local govermment provision of all needed lands (also see preceeding discussion in
section 4). As all parties acknowledged that KMS did not have the financial capacity to fulfill this burden,
this decision completely disrupted the carefully designed implementation plan and initiated the series of
delays and revisions which plagued the project throughout its life.
KMS was also very slow in the selection and mobilization of the advisory consultants to support the UMU
and to assist in managing the implementation process. Although KMS prepared early estimates of the
budget impact of shifting all land acquisition responsibilities to KMS (e.g. the land for proposed urban
roads alone exceeded the entire KMS development budget by several times), KMS was not particularly
articulate or forceful in responding to the BAPPENAS decision and clarifying the impact of this decision in
terms of the required revision/rescheduling of project activities. GOI and KMS should have communicated
more clearly with each other and the donors regarding this basic change in project financing, but the Bank
and OECF must bear some responsibility for not vigorously pursuing this issue when the decision was
announced. Overall, the effectiveness of the UMU in managing and coordinating the project, the parallel
- 10-



OECF project, and related urban issues as envisioned during its design, was severely limited by staffing
changes, apparent lack of political commitment by senior KMS officials, and the failure to give the project
high priority in the crisis atmosphere prevailing after mid-1997.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The primary implementing agencies for the project - the KMS Department of Public Works (Dinas PU,,
later renamed Dinas PU Bina Marga) and the water corporation (PDAM) - were severely constrained by
the annual budgets for land acquisition and counterpart financing as the project unfolded. However, both
agencies willfully and repeatedly violated the agreed project procedures by (a) signing contracts for works
prior to land acquisition being completed for the subproject; (b) diverting funds from contracts for
unapproved works; and (c) adding works to annual work plans which had not been appraised or approved,
in apparent efforts to utilize loan funds and counterpart budgets even when the agreed subprojects were
delayed by other obstacles. This has resulted in the current situation in which several of the highest priority
subprojects in the program remain partially complete (and mostly ineffective) or cancelled, while as much
as 20% of the Loan funds disbursed were used for subprojects improperly added to the annual programs
without formnal UMU, GOI or Bank approval. While also reflecting poorly on the effectiveness of UMU
and supervision of the project, the failure to adhere to program processes must be seen as a lack of
commitment by implementing agency management to the Project Implementation Agreement, signed as a
condition of effectiveness by each key agency.
These problems were compounded by frequent management and staffing changes in the agencies, budget
realization uncertainties (exaserbated by the crisis since 1997), cost uncertainites as exchange rates
fluctuated wildly from 1997 until present, and the socio-political instability which has been disrupting
Indonesia since 1998. However, the problems and delays experienced due to improper procurement,
unauthorized change orders to contractors, failure to promptly follow up design or construction errors (e.g.,
responsibility for MERR IIC bridge collapse in 1998 remains unresolved), and lack of clear responses to
allegations of corruption and funds diversions have left a general impression of an incompetent, corrupt
bureauracy at work in KMS. This stands in sharp contrast to the effective performance of KMS in
implementing previous Bank-financed projects. The delays and lack of transparency in the land acquisition
process and the intended community-based KIP and environmental management components pose further
concems. The GOI Attomey General's Office and the Bank's Anti-Corruption & Fraud Investigations Unit
are following up several matters related to this project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As with the physical scope of the project, the financial terms of the program seemed to be in a constant
state of revision/renegotiation throughout the course of implementation. Much of the project financial
management effort was expended on the nearly endless negotiation of land acquisition funding between
KMS, East Java Province and central GOI. In total, approximately Rp 58.5 billion was expended on
project land acquisition and related costs from GOI FY 94/95 until the extended closing of the project, less
than 45% of the originally estimated requirement of Rp 134 billion stated at appraisal before accounting for
the impact of the crisis on land markets, and this has resulted in relocating 1,363 households of an
estimated total of 4,427 which require acquisition to achieve project objectives (i.e., 30.8% complete). It
must also be noted that many of the household relocated represent only partial clearing of project sites,
where work is still not able to proceed and leaving free land for squatters to re-occupy.
From the $175 million of the approved loan, only $93.6 million was disbursed by the extended closing date.
As noted above, the Loan Agreement was amended at GOI request to (a) add a labor-intensive works
component of $5 million in response to the crisis; (b) increase disbursement percentages on civil works and
equipment to 80%, (c) cancel $30 million from the subsidiary loan to KMS; (d) cancel $35 million from
- 11 -



the subsidiary loan to PDAM; and (e) extend the project closing date by one year (from September 30,
1999 to September 30, 2000). In light of the Loan financing the repayment of the project preparation
advance (PPF 154) of $1.8 million, total consultant fees during the project implementation period of $23.4
million, and the nearly full utilization of the $5 million labor-intensive works new component, only
approximately $63.5 million of the Loan proceeds were invested in physical works, and substantial portions
of this investment remain incomplete or were for unapproved subprojects. Again, the major sources of these
changes and the massive underrun of the appraised investment program were the difficulties in the requisite
land acquisition financing and the 1997 onset of crisis which severely disrupted exchange rates, local
revenues and budgets. The final undisbursed $16.4 million was cancelled with the closing of loan accounts.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated highly unlikely. In every significant measure of sustainability this
project was a disappointing failure. The commitment to reform land acquisition and related responsibilities
was lost with the change in leadership at BAPPENAS in 1995 (and was compounded by the sudden death
in 1995 of the BAPPENAS Deputy Chairman who had negotiated this project). Local political commitment
was lost with the change of local administration early in the project (1995) which removed or transferred
many of the key local officials who had participated in project preparation. Allegations of corruption and
fraud surrounded the project almost from the outset, particularly regarding land transactions, public works
project procurement, and PDAM equipment and works. The formation of the public information center for
transparency and commnunication with project affected persons was never fully endorsed or assisted by the
new city administration. The Operational Action Plan, including the environmental management plan
appended to the SAR was all but ignored. In short, no aspect of the program was implemented as designed,
and no sustainable improvements to KMS or PDAM institutional capacities or systems are identifiable.
The general lack of public information and transparency remained a significant issue for many local NGOs
and the new local legislative assembly (DPRD), elected in October 1999.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
in March 2001 and in subsequent discussions, KMS and its PDAM, with the assistance of the ICR
consultant and the support of the Director General for Urban and Rural Development in the Ministry of
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (now the central executing agency for urban projects), prepared an
Action Plan and proposed financing plan to address the issues of incomplete physical works needed to
achieve the most critical intended benefits of the project. Preliminary agreement is said to have been
reached with JBIC to provide financing of the needed works for PDAM from the extended JBIC loan
(IP-400). JBIC has been approached to consider financing other portions of the Action Plan. However,
other components are still dependent upon completion of essential land acquisition and related resettlement
estimated in the Plan to cost at least Rp 330 billion for which the only identified source of financing is
KMS general revenues. The Action Plan schedules the realization of these additional works over the period
from 2002-2007, well beyond the expiration of the current JBIC loan. Annex 10 provides a summary by
sector of the proposed Action Plan works and financing arrangements. If fully implemented, the Action
Plan would realize many of the intended benefits of project investments. The Action Plan does not address
the issues of KMS or PDAM institutional capacity building or improved govemance or O&M budgets.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project preparation was marginally satisfactory, but was slowed by delays in
obtaining adequate preparation financing (eventually two JGF (now PHRD) grants totaling more than $1.5
- 12-



million and a PPF of $1.8 million were made available) and by changes in Bank task team leaders (TTL)
during the prolonged preparation process. The total project size increased from an initial estimate of $350
million to the final appraised program of $617 million, but even at the higher level land acquisition and
related cost were significantly underestimated.
Identification and Preparation. The project team took important steps to reduce the scope and complexity
of the project as originally conceived. For example, in the Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS) of
1989, the project included the cities of Surabaya in East Java, and Semarang and Surakarta in Central
Java. By the time of the review of the second EPS in late 1991, the cities of Semarang and Surakarta had
been, rightfully, defined as a separate project. The Surabaya components of the loan were further split into
two projects: a water supply project with possible private sector participation called "Surabaya Urban
Development Project I"; and the "Surabaya Urban Development Project II" which was composed of the
remaining ILUIDP components. In 1992 the water loan was recombined with the other components because
the central Ministry of Public Works had assumed control of the potential private investment scheme for
bulk water supply, and the integrated planning/preliminary engineering suggested that co-locating major
water and roads investments would produce significant cost savings (e.g., major water supply ring main
proposed to follow the right-of-way for the proposed Middle-Eastern Ring Poad (MERR)). Also during this
period, OECF (now JBIC) reached agreement in principle with GOI and the Bank to provide a large
parallel financing loan which would reduce the size of the Bank project by nearly one-half.
Fit with Bank and GOI Strategy. The project was regarded by both GOI and the Bank as the large-city
pilot project for the implementation of the GOI Urban Policy Statement and Action Plan (versus the East
Java-Bali project piloting the approaches for smaller urban areas). Again, delays were encountered while
details of sector financial arrangements and division of functional responsibilities among central, provincial
and local agencies were resolved, as well as dividing financing responsibilities between the Bank and
OECF. However, by the completion of project preparation in late 1992, all parties involved believed that
the project proposal fully reflected the agreed policy framework and urban development strategy of GOI
and the Bank, and would provide an excellent pilot environment to test the effectiveness of the new
approaches. It would also mark the initial entry by OECF into the integrated urban infrastructure financing
in Indonesia.
The Bank ably assisted GOI and KMS with project preparation by closely supervising the implementation
of the work performed under the Japanese project preparation grants and the PPF. The activities included
all the relevant aspects of preparation: technical, financial, economic, conmmercial, institutional,
environmental, sociological, and consistency with Bank safeguard policy. These aspects are covered in
depth in the SAR and legal documents.
Appraisal and negotiation. The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The SAR reflected the high quality
of the project preparation and the intensity of the dialogue with GOI and local officials. The final SAR
reflects the whole range of issues addressed during appraisal and negotiations, including the land financing
arrangements, resettlement planning arrangements requiring full consultation with affected persons, annual
reviews of progress and adjustments to the following year programming to realistically reflect financial
capacity and physical conditions/changing priorities, and an exceptional environmental management plan,
which was unique in IUIDP projects to that point. The SAR and the depth of negotiation dialogue were
regarded by regional management at the time to be of "best practice" quality. Only in hindsight can these
efforts be questioned for making the project design so critically dependent upon innovative institution and
financial provisions which ultimately failed. Even now, it is difficult and seemingly unfair to criticize the
attempts to find new solutions to long-standing urban development issues in Indonesia, as reflected in the
SAR. The inability of both the Bank and GOI to maintain this spirit of constructive change and creativity
- 13-



under rapidly changing conditions during implementation led to the disappointing results achieved. The
SAR, the Project Implementation Agreements, Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the Land Acquisition,
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan, and the Operational Action Plan (including key environmental
management measures) which resulted from the appraisal and negotiation are still very viable examples for
future reference in Indonesia urban program design and preparation.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision was highly unsatisfactory. Continuity of task management and
supervision staffing was a serious problem, with four TTLs and numerous other staff changes during the
5+ years of project life. Upon the retirement of the appraisal TTL in 1995, the project was assigned to a
relatively new Jakarta-based Bank consultant, who was not fully familar with Bank procedures regarding
safeguards, reporting, documentation, etc., and appropriate support and training were not made available to
him. This left the critical period of initial project implementation (1995-96) inadequately resourced, poorly
documented and all but ignored by HQ unit management until the project was declared a "problem project"
in late 1996. Bank headquarters staff resumed task management (albeit with a TTL who was new to
Indonesia) upon the departure of the Jakarta-based TTL in November 1996. As the major impacts of the
crisis began to be felt in late 1997 and through the economic and political upheavals of 1998, only three
Bank supervision missions were mobilized during this nearly two-year period (interestingly, after the first
of these missions in November 1997-the mid-term review-the project was returned to "satisfactory" rating
which raises the question of the depth of the mission's evaluation). The task manager was again changed in
November 1998 to an EASUR staff who was generally quite experienced, but also new to the Indonesia
urban program. This fourth task manager remained with the project until the extended loan closing date of
September 30, 2000.
The Bank missed critical opportunities to proactively intervene to improve project performance, restructure
or simply stop the poorly performing components of the project. Many local and GOI officials, as well as
some involved Bank staff, now see that the early GOI decision to change the basic land acquisition and
resettlement financing arrangements should have triggered at least a careful review of the revised financing
plans and capacities, that probably would have led to a major restructuring to downsize the KMS
investment program. It is quite revealing to review the data supporting Annex 4: Bank inputs. In Bank FY
96 - the critical project start-up period from July 1995 through June 1996 - the total Bank supervision
expenditure was minimal and that only one supervision mission was conducted between January 1995 and
December 1996, a period of 22 months. While it is true that the TTL in Jakarta held frequent informal
discussions with the project staff and GOI officials, the Bank must acknowledge that grossly inadequate
support and supervision were provided to this complex project.
The "restructuring" which occurred in 1998 and 1999 resulted in cancellations totaling $65 million, but
these cancellations were mostly for dealing with the effects of the crisis and were largely reductions in the
project scope to reflect earlier failures in land acquisition and local revenue growth needed to meet project
objectives; they did not result from a constructive evaluation of altemative means to achieve intended
benefits or reviewing local priorities. The final one-year extension of the project closing date to allow
completion of some works in progress now appears to be a somewhat questionable decision, as very little
was actually achieved during this additional year despite KMS and PDAM promises to the contrary. In
summary, the Bank dealt very poorly with the changing circumstances of the Surabaya UDP from
beginning to end, seeming to rely on the Indonesian performance record of "somehow muddling through" to
an acceptable outcome, when the reality in Surabaya clearly pointed to serious problems.
Regarding the attention of Bank management to the issues, supervision resources and staffing skills mix,
quality of advice, enforcement of covenants (particularly on advance land acquisition, resettlement and
- 14 -



environmental actions), continuity of management and staffing, frequency of missions or nearly any other
measure chosen, the Bank's supervision of this important, complex project was woefully inadequate. Even
communication with the parallel OECF/JBIC project (IP-400) was almost non-existant, as both GOI and
KMS tried to deal with the two loans as completely separate operations although they shared common
preparation and implementation arrangements and experienced similar problems. Even now, only very
incomplete records are available to the Bank regarding this parallel operation, making it difficult to classify
this program as a successful "partnership" in any sense of the term.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance rating is unsatisfactory. The very poor performance in supervision
overshadows the marginally satisfactory perforrnances in lending.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
GOI had adopted the "Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program" as its model for urban
development. GOI chose to focus on Surabaya for development because: (a) it was the second largest city
in Indonesia; (b) large needs in urban infrastructure remained, especially for water supply, urban roads and
drainage, despite earlier interventions; and (c) large growth was expected and GOI wanted to develop
Surabaya into an economic counterpart to Jakarta (according to the Minutes of the second EPS, para 4).
GOI was eager to promote its decentralization policy, and one feature, which was innovative at the time,
was to assign as much financial and management responsibility as possible to the local govemment.
Surabaya was thought to be in a more advantageous position to assume substantial responsibility for
project implementation. (ref: GOI letter of May 14, 1992). KMS was, therefore, made the implementing
agency for the project, with the understanding that subsidiary loan agreements would be prepared
separately for KMS and its PDAM for the bulk of the Bank loan funds (with OECF funding to be focused
on the central GOI components of the roads and drainage systems and the sewerage/sanitation pilot works
primarily). Overall, GOI and KMS performance during project preparation was satisfactory, and included
significant, constructive participation from the Ministry of Public Works, BAPPENAS and the Urban
Development Coordination Team (TKPP) secretariate staff in support of the leadership role played by
KMS through their BAPPEDA, PDAM and key sector agencies (dinas).
Appraisal and Negotiation. As noted above, the detailed appraisal and negotiation of this complex project
dlesign were viewed by all involved as a very positive experience while testing the limits of GOI and KMS
willingness to innovate in the development of potential solutions for long-standing problems ranging from
land acquisition finance to O&M management and sewerage/sanitation strategies, and more. (The late Prof
Dr. Soegianto S., Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS during this period deserves a large share of the credit
for establishing this creative approach to the project. His untimely, sudden death in 1995 was a major blow
to realizing many of the innovations agreed for inclusion in the project.)
7.5 Government implementation performance:
T he Government performance in implementation was highly unsatisfactory. GOI simply failed to perform
its basic roles within the agreed project design. BAPPENAS made two decisions with fundamental negative
impacts on the project: (a) the refusal to budget for central GOI funding of agreed land acquisition
expenses for GOI subprojects; and (b) in 1996, dissolving TKPP which was to have provided policy reform
leadership for the sector with Surabaya serving as one of the flagship projects.
In turn, the Ministry of Public Works, Directorate General for Human Settlements (DG Czpta Karya), as
GOI lead executing agency, failed to perform its role as the technical oversight and central implementation
- 15-



coordinator. Disputes with the DG Water Resources staff regarding design standards for converting
former irrigation channels to urban drainage facilities, a key feature of the flood control and drainage
component, delayed the final design and integration of the system, and are still not fully agreed. Similarly,
coordination with the DG for Highways was poor and two proposals for privately financed toll roads were
allowed to create much confusion, although obviously infeasible. No leadership was shown in resolving the
technical approach or financing policy for sewerage or sanitation improvements, resulting in cancellation of
this component. While DG Cipta Karya did assign a staff member to assist in strengthening the UMU
secretariate staff in Surabaya, communication between UMU and DGCK was sporatic and almost entirely
focussed on budget issues or technical assistance procurement matters. The GOI commitment to supervise
and constructively support project implementation was largely unfulfilled, as the other TKPP members (the
ministries of Finance and Home Affairs, and the National Environment Board) provided even less support.
With the onset of the economic/financial/political crisis in 1997, GOI agencies engaged the Bank in a series
of discussions regarding crisis response and portfolio restructuring, which resulted in the January 1998
reallocation of $5 million to finance an emergency, labor-intensive community works program, increasing
project disbursement percentages, and in the eventual cancellation of $65 million from the Loan. However,
at no point during this process is there any evidence of GOI evaluation of the ground reality in Surabaya,
as the actions were requested on a sector-wide basis, relying on UMU for current status information. GOI's
role was further impaired by the series of Cabinet and management changes from early 1998 until today,
with poor continuity of leadership or staffing. Delayed release of annual GOI INPRES grant funds was a
problem throughout the project period, as was delayed payments of up to eight months for work performed
on central GOI contracts.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The City of Surabaya (KMS) performance during project implementation was highly unstaisfactory. It
appears that political commitment to the broader urban policy and governance objectives of the program
was lost with the change of mayors in 1995, which resulted in the appointment of key officials who had not
been involved during project preparation and did not share the medium-term vision underpinning the
program. The UMU focal point for managing the program and broader urban issues was never properly
established or empowered to control project implementation. Implementing units (dinas) regularly ignored
the assigned role of UMU as the channel of communication with central GOI and the Bank.
After the GOI decision to have land acquisition funded by KMS (with some hope of provincial assistance),
it appears that any efforts by UMU or others to systematically evaluate the program was undermined by
KMS parties with their own agendas. Most departments simply prepared annual prograrns based on
available funds, often involving subprojects not in the agreed program (on several occasions diverting funds
from approved subprojects and required land acquisition!). The "Operational Action Plan and Project
Implementation Agreement" agreed during negotiations were apparently all but ignored, as were the
agreements regarding the consultations and assistance to persons affected by the project (mainly for
households and businesses taken by land aquisitions).
The lack of appropriate counterparting of consulting services and the failure to properly supervise
construction contracts (as documented in the Technical Audit) compounded the problems. Many
subprojects were initiated prior to completion of necessary land acquisition, in direct violation of project
covenants, and resulting in the many unfinished or terminated works now scattered around the city.
Perhaps, the "lowlight" of the KMS performance was the collapse of the MERR-2C bridge noted earlier,
for which until today no responsibility has been assigned, no insurance or liability claimed or damages
assessed; i.e. there is no "ownership" of the program in the current KMS, so nobody is at fault, nor is there
any effort to find real solutions to problems. KMS has devised the attached "Action Plan" (see Annex 10)
- 16 -



for completing the most serious missing infrastructure segments, but the Plan is silent on institutional
capacity and other project objectives.
The local government-owned PDAM was recognized as a separate implementing agency with a separate
subsidiary loan agreement and Project Implementation Agreement. PDAM's performance during project
implementation was somewhat better than KMS, but still must be regarded as unsatisfactory. The PDAM
achieved considerable success in completing the second phase of the Karang Pilang Water Treatment
facility and significant portions of the primary and secondary distribution network (although important
gaps remain), as well as the politically difficult 30% increase in the average water tariffs in 1998.
However, the failures to complete the distribution network, particularly the tertiary distribution and house
connection targets, and ignoring the project Implementation Agreement provision to install 58,000 house
connections in association with the KIP component for low-income households, are seen as major failings
of the PDAM performance, despite repeated reminders from Bank supervision teams. Construction quality
of the completed works was also problematic according to the Technical Audit results, to which there has
been no response to date.
The replacement of the management team of PDAM in 1998 under accusations of fraud and corruption
further tamished its public credibility and lessened the impact of institutional development and training
undertaken for the former team. The new management seems uncommitted to the project objectives and
dismissed the PDAM strategic advisor for questionable reasons. Until the arrival of the ICR mission in
March 2001, PDAM had been withholding many of its procurement and financial records from the UMU
and the GOI completion report consultant for unspecified reasons. The PDAM, to an even greater degree
than the dinas agencies, never accepted the coordination or management role of UMU in the project
implementation, and frequently requested "no objection" letters and other GOI and Bank inputs
independently from KMS or UMU. The proposed Action Plan submitted by KMS (see Annex 10) includes
provisions for completing the missing links in the PDAM primary and secondary distribution network with
JBIC financing, as well as belatedly installing the KIP house connections.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's performnance is rated unsatisfactory. The satisfactory performance in lending is, like the
Bank's, overshadowed by the very poor performance in implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
1. Major changes in fundamental project financial responsibilities MUST automatically trigger reappraisal.
2. Supervision resources for the initial 1-2 years of a new Bank project are directly related to the quality of
project implementation, as procurement procedures, covenant enforcement seriousness, and project
ownership are established during the initial years of implementation. In this case, this was a major failing of
the Bank.
3. The Bank MUST work with GOI to improve the legal, regulatory and policy frameworks governing land
acquisition for public purposes (and preferably broader work on land tenure and rights, as well as dispute
resolution mechanisms as envisioned for the Second Land Administration project now under preparation)
4. The Technical Audit conducted late in this project was useful and should become a part of future
projects, but GOI, KMS and all other project participants have thus far failed to follow up on any of the
findings; even by the Provincial Inspectorate contracted to manage the audit! We suggest that the results of
such audits be provided to the local legislative councils (DPRD), as well as being made available in
- 17 -



summary form to the public.
5. External shocks to project implementation should be continuously assessed, particularly when of the
magnitude of the complex economic/financial/political crisis which has befallen Indonesia.
6. Enforcement of loan covenants must be improved, particularly when well documented in Project   4
Implementation Agreements. Land acquisition and procurement compliance in this case was shameful, but
barely remarked upon during supervision reporting. Strict adherence to the requirement for completion of
all land acquisition prior to issuance of an NOL for each subproject would have avoided many of the
"partial completions" and other problems, but would have undoubtedly slowed project tendering and
implementation.
7. Future projects should contain improved provisions for public information and transparency, and explicit
procedures for investigating and publicizing results in cases of alleged corruption or fraud.
8. It is questionable whether projects of the complexity and planned intregration of the Surabaya Urban
program are appropriate for parallel financing arrangements such as those used in the Bank and OECF
projects. At minimum, clearer conmmunication and coordination of implementation and supervision
arrangements were needed.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A compilation of GOI comments, dated July 16, 2001, are presented in Annex 11.
(b) Cofinanciers:
JBIC provided "inforrnal" comments by electronic mail dated 26 June 2001, confirming that their project
(IP-400) was on-going and that their intemal post-evaluation division would conduct a seperate assessment
of the program after completion; thus, they would not provide formal comments on this report. The
message also indicated that JBIC was "not satisfied with the communication with the World Bank" during
the joint implementation period. The message also stated that the JBIC financing indicated in the GOI
"Action Plan" (Annex 10 of this report) has not been agreed with JBIC to date, but discussions with GOI,
KMS and PDAM-Surabaya are continuing.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
none
10. Additional Information
none
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                  ActuaULatbst Estimate
(A) Improve Urban Service Delivery etc:                                      The journey Ume from Ahmed JanUJemursar
(i) Roads and Traffic Management: Joumey                                     Junction to Gubeng Station did not decrease
time from Ahmed Jani/Jemursari Juncton to                                    because major portions of the road were not
Gubeng Station                                                               rehabilitated, leaving many of the same
bottlenecks now as existed before the project.
(ii) Water Supply: Additional consumer                                       102,000 (77%) of the connections were
connections:                                                                installed, but effectively none of the additional
Target for Bank-financed section: 132,000                                    58,000 connections for KIP areas were
Of which KIP areas: 58,000                                                   completed.
(B) Revenue Generation:                                                      Forecast of revenue/expenditure needs not
(i) KMS to generate sufficient intemal                                       updated for crisis impact
revenue to meet at least 30% of the annual
investment program
(ii) PDAM to generate sufficient revenue to                                  Same as above
meet at least 20% of the annual investment
program
(iii) PDAM Accounts Receivable: Target - 75                                  Not met
days
Please note that the targets above are not for the whole project, but for the Bank-financed portion. No data
is available to show results of the total combined portions of the Bank and OECF.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Procted In last PSR                   ActualLtest Estimate
Water Supply. Capacity of Water Treatment                                    Treatment Plan produces additional 2000
Plant increased to produced X liters                                        liters per second of treated water
persecond of treated water
Water Supply: 132,000 new connections                                        102,000 installed
Drainage:                                                                   Incomplete project data
Rehabilitation ... km of canals
Human waste: Capacity of septage                                             Capacity of plant is 400 m3/day
treatment plant to increased to .... per day
Roads: X km of road rehabilitated                                           Incomplete project data
X bridges built...
End of project
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million     Is
Urban Roads and Traffic Management                   121.00          13.76
Water Supply and Distribution                        160.60          41.71
Storm Drainage Works & Equipment                     141.70           8.24
Solid Waste Collection & Disposal                     6.60            0.00
Human Waste Collection & Disposal                     19.90           0.49
Kampung Improvement & Community Services             22.70            5.14
Resettlement and Rehabilitation                        2.20           0.00
Technical Assistance                                  33.60          18.10
Labor-Intensive Works/Crisis Response                 0.00            4.74
Total Baseline Cost                                  508.30          92.18
Physical Contingencies                              29.10
Price Contingencies                                 80.20
Total Project Costs            617.60           92.18
Total Financing Required             617.60           92.18
Note: Actuals are for Bank loan portion only of the overall program defined at appraisal; records
incomplete for other parts of the overall program.
As figures for the OECF-financed procurement are not available, only Bank-financed financed procurement
is shown above.
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The works completed are fragmented and data is too piecemeal to calculate a viable ERR. The ICR mission
could not accept GOI-KMS estimates based on increased land values. These estimates may be reviewed in
the GOI Completion Report submission (in project files and available with KMS and GOI executing
agency). See discussion in Section 4.3.
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
2/1990                        5   I Municipal Engineer, I
Operations Officer, 2 Financial
Analysts, I Environmental
Specialist
7/1991                        4   1 Financial Analyst, I
Economist, I Sanitary Engineer,
I Transport Specialist
2/1992                       10   I Economist, 1 Urban
Environment Specialist, I Urban
Planner, I Municipal Engineer, I
Urban Transport Specialist, I
Transport Specialist, I
Operations Officer, I Water &
Sanitation Specialist, I
Environmental Specialist, I
Financial Analyst
8/1992                        6   1 Economist, I Urban
Environment Specialist, I
Transport Specialist, I Municipal
Engineer, I Urban Transport
Specialist, I Water & Sanitation
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal:                    8    1 Economist, I Financial
02/1993                           Analyst, I Urban
Environment Specialist,
Water & Sanitation
Specialist, (Atkins),
(Gunawan), (Newbury), I
Urban Planner
Negotiations:                 7   1 Economist, I Urban
1/1994                            Environment Specialist, I Urban
Planner, I Municipal Engineer, I
Financial Analyst, I
Disbursement Officer, I Counsel
Supervision
01/95                         2   1 Economist, I Municipal             S              S
Engineer
12/96                         6   1 Economist, I Financial             U              S
Analyst, 1 Urban Planner, I
Municipal Engineer, 2
Resettlement Specialists
3/97                          3   Operations Officer, Municipal        U              S
Engineer, Environment
-22 -



11/97                         8   Operations Officer, Municipal       U              S
Engineer, Resettlement,
Financial Analyst (2), Transport
Specialist, Environment, Human
Resources Development
05/98                         8   Operations Officer, Municipal        S             S
Engineer, Resettlement,
Financial Analyst, Transport
Specialist, Environmental Spec.
11/98                         6   Municipal Engineer, Operations       U             S
Officer, Financial Specialist,
Transport Specialist,
Environmental Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist
03/99                         6   Operations Officer, Urban            U             U
Planner, Operations Officer,
Financial Analyst, Resettlement
Specialist, Environment
Specialist
11/95*                        5   Operations Officer, Municipal        U             S
Engineer, Financial Analyst,
Urban Planner, Resettlement
Specialist (*note this mission not
in Bank HQ project records or
costs)
ICR
11/00                                                                 HU             U
03/01                        5    1 Urban Planner, I Sanitary         HU             U
Engineer, I Transport Engineer,
I Financial Analyst, I
Resettlement Expert
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                117.7                      472,375
Appraisal/Negotiation                     100.5                      410,875
Supervision                              237.4                       790,960
ICR                                        15.0                       61,500
Total                                    470.6                     1,735,710
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                            OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Sector Policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                  O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Financial                                 O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
 Institutional Development                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                             O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                  O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
j Gender                             OH OSUOM OiN *NA
F Other (Please specify)             O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Resettlement/Land Acquisition
D Private sector development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
I Public sector management                  O H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
*II Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
"Other" Social Outcomes refers to Resettlement of Project Affected Persons
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
3 Lending                                           OHS*S  OU  OHU
3 Supervision                                       OHS OS  O U  * HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  * HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  OU  * HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS   * u  O HU
Under implementation agency performance, the performance of KMS is rated highly unsatisfactory, while
the performance of the PDAM is rated unsatisfactory.
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. ICR Mission aide memoire (See Annex 9)
2. Consolidated Report for Surabaya Urban Development Project Completion Data/Information, prepared
by P.T. Bina Asih Consultants for the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure, April 16, 2001
(4 volumes in both languages)
3. UMU Advisors Final Report on Project Completion, prepared by BCEOM in association with P.T.
Parama Artha Santika, October 2000 (7 volumes containing bilingual report)
4. Technical Audit Report for Surabaya Urban Development Project, prepared by P.T. Bina Asih,
September 2000
5. Project files containing full records of preparation and supervision activities in EASUR and IRIS
- 26 -



0.
lhere is a sigrificant diange in IBRD Loan 3726-IND  specfied in the Loan Agreeannt / SAR and in its reaization, wuhich bridly is preserted in
the following table  This dng.e has its inmlicatimn in the absorption process, where thewe is dday and a lesser anxxnt of absorption  The
comsequaices of this delay in the absorption causes rathe significant commitment charges.
Allocation and Realization of IBRD Loan 372-IND
In Surabaya Urban Devdopment Program  (SUDP)
1. j   r*we  VSSI
Sector              SAR                  RIS                Aijvmd              Contrwt            Reuintioz     |
SLA PDAM                       55.00o                *5.000 j50,4000                         4*16                480
Physi-d                        73.79s                73,697               43,150             41,828              41.712
Tech. As.                       11,202               11,303                6,850              6.333               6,333
SL4 KMS                        6J,300                65,517               35,300             34,t68              34,359
PhWsical                       52z708                52.806               30,229             27,646              27.142
Urbsa Road                     13,540                17,926               11.500             10,476              10,160
T_MS                            5,737                 7.372                4,000              3,787               3,600
Dr nage                         19,675               19,625                9,400              8,242               2,242
KIP-Physic                      5,400                 6,005                4.900              4,782               4.7u2
KIP-Comp                        6,471                 1,s7s                  429                359                 359                                      N
Saitation                        1,5S4                   0                     0                  0                   0
Tech As&                       15,592                12,711                8.071              7.222               7,217                                      0
CENTPAtL                       21,7e                 14,729               21,700              917                 557
Phby.: .-itfttion           _ 1.   7                  5.982                  500               436                  486
Tech. Ass.                      10,225                8,747                5,300              2,939               2,743
Urban Powc                                                                 5,000   4,,        ,73                 3,830
SUDP Pre  atioun                                                           1,_14              1S14A               1 14J
i allocated                                    .                           9,0S6
ToTAL                         175,0MO              1565,546                 ,900e  ______2 91,277
Socg: UtVA4s5oc, 4st5t1 30 September 2 WO
Note: IIME &ICR Ce.m.Jreag notstgeggAs ,rmkerw   suear Av n.sAi&M,uofWardc 2001,Wtr [aE 93.9677.64S. :swtt fAq Lwe't pW the suyfruti l a1W



Additional Annex 9. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire-March 2001
INDONESIA
Surabaya Urban Development Project (SUDP)
(Loan 3726-IND)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Mission
Aide-Memoire
March 14 - 30, 2001
1.    A World Bank mission, led by Mr. Stephen Dice, visited Indonesia from March 14-30,
2001 to gather information and discuss with relevant GOI officials the status of the preparation
of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Surabaya Urban Development Project
(SUDP) which closed on September 30, 2000. The mission's objectives included assessing the
final achievements of the project in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, enviromnental, and land acquisition and resettlement practices, and discussing the
technical audit and project benefits, project monitoring and evaluation.
2.    Mr. Dice was joined for several discussions and a field visit to Surabaya (March 20-24,
2001) by WBOJ staff members including M/M. Robert Scouller (Sr. Transport Engineer),
Risyana Sukarma (Sanitary Engineer), Leila Elvas (Financial Analyst) and Sulistiowati
Nainggolan (Resettlement Specialist). The mission sincerely appreciates the assistance and
cooperation of the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (Kimpraswil), Bappenas
and City of Surabaya staff and consultants who helped to make the mission pleasant and
productive. This aide memoire summarizes the mission's main findings and conclusions.
3.    Prior to the mission's arrival, the Bank had received and reviewed the following
documents in preparation for discussions with GOI in preparing the ICR for this project:
a) Final Project Completion Report of SUDP Advisory Services to the Urban Management
Unit (UMU); October 2000 (BCEOM-PAS);
b) Draft Report of Technical Audit of SUDP; November 2000 (Bina Asih);
c) Draft GOI Implementation Completion Report SUDP; November 2000 (Bina Asih); and
d) Audit of Project Accounts of KMS and PDAM Surabaya (BPKP).
All of these reports noted issues and questions regarding implemented works which required
further discussion by the mission with GOIMKMS.
28



4.    The aide-memoire is divided into eleven sections. Section I gives a short background of
the project. Sections II-IX discuss the project's achievements and shortcomings by component
as described in the Staff Appraisal Report. These include urban transport and traffic
management, water supply, storm water drainage, solid waste management, human waste, the
kampung improvement program, sites and services for resettlement of project affected persons,
and technical assistance and training. The component discussions and ratings are then followed
by Section X on the financial aspects of the project. The aide memoire concludes with Secfion
XI on the mission's conclusions and next steps.
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
5.    The Surabaya Urban Development Project was appraised in February 1993. The Project
was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors on April 12, 1994. The Loan Agreement was
signed on May 17, 1994 and became effective on January 13, 1995. The original closing date
was September 30, 1999, which was extended by one year to September 30, 2000. The Project
was estimated to cost US$617.6 million with the Bank loan for US$175 million, co-financing
from OECF for $174.8 million, a GOI contribution of US$227.8 million, and private sector
contributions (mainly of land) for US$29 million equivalent. During implementation, US$30
million was cancelled on August 26, 1998 and another US$35 million was cancelled on
December 13, 1999 for a total of US$65 million or 37% of the original Loan amount. In both
instances, the cancellations were the result of project restructurings and project cost savings
largely due to the devaluation of the Rupiah during the East Asia economic crisis. To date,
US$16.3 million remains undisbursed. The final date for submitting withdrawal applications to
the Bank was January 31, 2001.
II. ROADS AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
6.    Roads. This component, for US$147.7 million, financed: (a) 8 km of improved arterial
road; (b) 33 km of partial or half width arterial roads; (c) 5 km of full arterial roads; (d) 140 km
of local roads; (e) 13 km of improved main collector roads; (f) all non-routine operation and
maintenance; (g) area traffic management schemes in five central-city sub areas; (h) building and
calibrating a traffic flow model; and (i) institutional improvements.
7.    The mission finds the implementation of the roads and traffic management component
highly unsatisfactory. Numerous road expansion packages undertaken in the project were not
successfully completed because of failure to complete land acquisition. Some of these packages
date as far back as 1994/95. The incomplete road works which are considered the most detrimental
to the project's outcome and hence the city's development are: the Middle Eastern Ring Road
(MERR); Jl. Menur I and II (only 70-85% complete); and Jl. A. Yani - Jemusari Intersection. This
was a planned flyover for this junction which is a major access point from the North - South arterial
road JI. A. Yani to the six-lane Jl. Jemusari. The intersection remains two lanes wide.
8.    The following sections of road were contracted but not completed due to land acquisition
problems and were subsequently canceled:
a) Packages not completed (and under breach of contract status):
29



1. Road 10.5   JI. Menur I
2. Road 10.6   JI. Menur II
3. Road 10.9   JI. Kedungsroko
4. Road 30.1    JI. Bronggalan
5. Road 50      Jl. Simpang Dukuh
6. Road 56     JI. HR. Muhammad
7. Road 57      JI. Kedungbaruk
8. Road 59.1-2  Jalan Akses Jembatan MERR IIC packet I & 2
The benefits of the above packages were not realized; therefore they limit the functioning of the
Inner Ring Road.
b) Packages that failed to be implemented are:
1. Road 01      MERR I
2. Road 06-03   MERR IIC
3. Road 08      Jl. Achmad Yani/Jemursari Junction
4. Road 09      Jl. Tidar Kalibutuh
5. Road 27      JI. Pandegiling
6. Road 52      Gajah Mada Bridge/Wiyung
c) Road 22-01   MERR IIC Bridge collapsed in October 1998
The incomplete MERR and MERR IIC limit the provision of a good solution for Kota Surabaya
traffic, particularly for streets within the city center.
In summary, of 130 planned road packages, 41 (31%) were canceled, 14 (11%) were left
incomplete because of incomplete land acquisition.
9.    In addition to the above incomplete road works, one access bridge to the proposed
MERR was not completed because of failure of the foundations and abutment backfill on the
south side of the bridge. The mission expressed concern that the proposed revised design will
suffer a similar fate, as it does not adequately address the problem of soft soil existing at the site.
Similar conditions in Central Java have been overcome by limiting the backfill heights to + 2 m
to avoid over-stressing the soft soil beneath the structure. Similar analyses need to be carried out
at this location.
10.   The result of this poor implementation is that the economic return to the city of Surabaya
is considerably less than it would have been had the packages been completed. The mission
noted that attempts have been made to calculate benefits (EIRR) for individual road packages. These
calculations are fruitless, as any estimates of benefit (EIRR) would have to address the completed
road segment, from start to finish, including all packages where multiple packages have been
awarded for the upgrade of a specific road link.
11.   The failure to complete the MERR has had an indirect and consequential effect on the
implementation of the water supply component (see section III). The widened MERR was to
provide the route for a 48 in (1.2 meter) diameter trunk main to supply water to the eastern and
northern parts of the city. Failure to provide the access has resulted in: the trunk main
remaining incomplete; many 'dry' service connections in the new north and eastern areas; and
under-demand on the new Karang Pelang treatment plant.
30



12.   Traffic Management. A number of traffic management and control studies have been
undertaken for the city of Surabaya over the years prior to and during the implementation of
SUDP (I1990-99), including studies under the Regional Cities Urban Transport Project
(RCUTP), the Surabaya Urban Transport Study (SUTS), and the Surabaya Integrated Transport
Network Planning Project (SITNP) I and II. A number of the recommendations coming from
these studies were to be included in the SUDP traffic management component of the project.
Unfortunately very few of the proposals have been realized. The following summarizes the areas
not yet implemented:
a) The 2-way traffic concept has not been introduced;
b) Traffic signs have in general not been installed;
c) Failure of both inner ring road (Jl. Menur) and outer (MERR) ring road means that Surabaya
city centers remain congested; and
d) Traffic signaling proposed for 18 inner city intersections (necessary to permit right tums) has
not proceeded despite two attempts at bidding the package.
Overall, the objective of reducing traffic congestion in the city has not been achieved because of
incomplete road construction, coupled with poorly integrated traffic management plans.
III. WATER SUPPLY
13.   The water supply component, estimated to cost US$206 million, financed the following
activities: (a) rehabilitation of the existing system; (b) expansion of the transmission mains and
distribution networks; (c) major new service connections (190,000 program) of which 35%
would be in low income KIP areas; (d) pumping stations at Wonocolo and Putat Gede; (e) a
public hydrant installation program; and (f) construction of the Karang Pilang Water Treatment
Plant (WTP). At closing, most of the works were 100% complete except for those noted below.
14.   The mission finds the water supply component unsatisfactory. This component has seen
a few achievements. Out of 52 contract packages, four packages were for the construction of the
new Karang Pilang II WTP, with a contract value of $6.2 million equivalent'. The WTP is
completed and fully operational. The rehabilitation and expansion of distribution pipes were also
completed. The installation of public hydrants far exceeded the target with 5,014 hydrants now
in place. On the other hand, from the committed program, the following subprojects were not
completed: supply to KIP areas; Wonocolo and Putat Gede pumping stations and water tower;
and completion of the ring main. Water supply to KIP was not implemented because the
implementation of KIP itself was delayed (see Section VII below). The pumping stations and
water tower were not implemented, as funding for them was delayed and eventually cancelled in
the restructuring of the loan. (The facilities in Putat Gede were completed under the JBIC loan.)
The extent of supply services was not optimum as the main distribution system (the eastern ring
main) was not completed in three different locations: MERR, Wadung Asri (located in Kab.
Sidoarjo), and Waru. In the first two locations, the works were suspended due to a dispute over
compensation for the land to lay the pipes. In Waru, the work was suspended after serious
Due to currency fluctuation, the average of Rp7,500 for $1 is used.
31



delays were encountered to correct construction quality problems, then the balance cancelled
from the loan.
15.   Proposed Plan. The mission noted that the PDAM has approached JBIC to complete the
ring main, to be financed under an SLA from the JBIC loan (recently extended for an additional
two years, per information from Kimpraswil). The mission also noted that the number of
additional connections is only 102,820. This is below the target of 132,000 stated in the SAR.
Following the results of the discussion with PDAM Suraba'va, the mlission requested that in order
for the system to be completed andfiullv' operational, thefollowing tdata mutst be completed and
provided to the Bank before end of March 2001:
*  Plan to complete the loop in the eastem ring main, and confirmation from JBIC, the proposed
source of financing;
*  Plan to complete additional house connections, as stated in the SAR, to be included in the
revised financial projections (FINPRO).
16.   Pending Issues. The mission learned that the ICR consultant had difficulty in getting
data on the procurement details, among others, from PDAM Surabaya. The mission stated that,
in accordance with the Loan Agreement, all information needed for project implementation
should be accessible to the Bank. The mission urged and PDAM agreed that all the information
related to procurement details (dates for all processes ofprocurement for about 52 contract
packages) be provided to the ICR consultant not later than March 31, 2001. The ICR consultant
will also calculate estimated rates of return for PDAM investments for the final ICR..
IV. STORM WATER DRAINAGE
17.   The storm water drainage component (US$178.9 million of the total project costs), was to
finance the conversion of irrigation channels to drainage only, to enable urban development on
the dried land. The program included seven tide gates, land acquisition and strengthening
operation and maintenance. The objective was to reduce local flooding, both at the existing
frequently inundated areas (1994) and the newly built up areas, to minimize loss of health due to
floods, and to provide more land for urban development.
18.   The mission found the drainage component to be unsatisfactory. As experienced first
hand by the mission, the city still suffers from frequent local flooding and traffic disruptions
because of ineffective drainage. For example, there appears to have been little planning before
actual implementation. Work has been done on upstream sections of drainage channels without
completion of the downstream outlets. The result in many cases has been to magnify the local
flooding problems in some areas, where the upgraded channel has directed more water to
specific locations. The failure to complete the downstream section means the storm water cannot
drain from the area. This situation has been aggravated by the lack of routine maintenance and
cleaning of channels, many of which are blocked or reduced in capacity by garbage and waste.
19.   Disputes in the early stages of the project (1994-5) over the design criteria for storm
drainage (between the Ministries of Public Works and Irrigation) did little to facilitate
implementation. In some cases no work at all was done because design criteria for assessing
32



capacity could not be agreed upon. In other cases, the land necessary for the upgraded cross-
section of the old irrigation channel to handle storm drainage could not be acquired, and this
resulted in packages remaining incomplete or no action at all. Of the 28 drainage channels
proposed for upgrading to relieve flooding, only 12 have been completed (42%); of eight
packages for supply of pumps or control gates, only five have been completed. The result is that
Surabaya still experiences frequent localized flooding - often up to 0.70-1.00 meter deep.
V. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
20.   This component, for US$7 million, included new and rehabilitated collection depots and
transfer stations, new containers, waste bins, hand carts and trucks and the overhaul of existing
compactors and bulldozers. All operation and maintenance were included.
21.   The status of this component was not reviewed by the mission as all financing was
undertaken from the OECF/JBIC parallel loan for which documentation was unavailable.
VI. HUMAN WASTE
22.   This component, for US$24.5 million, was a pilot sewerage project to be implemented by
central GOI and wholly funded by the Bank to test appropriate sanitation systems for Surabaya.
The component was expected to improve the wastewater disposal system which would have
served 200,000 people, through desludging of septic tanks and sewage treatment. The project
included the rehabilitation and improvement of existing sludge treatment plant (IEPLT) in
Keputih; construction of a new sludge treatment plant (IPLT) in Benowo, and a pilot off-site
sewerage system in three locations, which was expected to cover 34,700 households and 21,400
units near the central business district area.
23.   This component is rated highly unsatisfactory. The pilot sewerage scheme was not
implemented because the proposed system was not deemed to be feasible by the Ministry of
Public Works (although more cost effective options were not studied). Construction of the new
IPLT in Benowo was cancelled due to excessively high costs for land clearance, and subsequent
delays which limited time remaining for implementation. The minimal achievements in this
component included: Rehabilitation and improvement of the IPLT in Keputih was satisfactorily
completed and is now operational. The plant has a design capacity of 400 m3/day. Since
September 2000, the plant has been maintained and operated by Dinas Kebersihan (the KMS
Cleansing Department), based on a decree of the Mayor of Surabaya. The plant consists of
influent chambers and preliminary treatment, two sets of oxidation ditches, clarifiers and sludge
drying beds. The project financed the preliminary treatment equipped with an electric crane;
rehabilitation of an existing oxidation ditch (originally constructed by municipal funds/APBD
with assistance from the Bank's Urban V project around 1990); rehabilitation of drying beds;
roads (paving block) in the plant complex; and fencing around the site.
24.   Plant Operation and Maintenance. The mission noted that, although operated at 50%
(200 m3/day) of the maximum design capacity, the plant is operated and maintained properly.
The plant can be used for at least another five years. There are eight operators working around
33



the clock on three shifts. However, the mission noted that one of the clarifiers and sludge drying
bed was overloaded due to low efficiency of the oxidation ditch. The mission was informed that
the oxidation ditch will be cleaned once the budget is available. The treatment efficiency is about
95-98%. The BOD content of the effluent is 150 mg/I, which is below the acceptable level of the
river water quality (class D) at the point of discharge. The effluent quality (mostly BOD and
COD) is tested regularly by sending it to an outside laboratory. The plant laboratory is testing
suspended solids on a daily basis. Dinas Kebersihan obtained an annual budget from the municipality
of about RplOO million for plant operation and maintenance. This excludes the salaries of the
operators and electricity costs. Overall, the mission was impressed with the degree of
maintenance of the plant.
25.   Desludging Operation. There are 17 desludging companies in the city, operating with
two trucks on average for each company. Each truck has to pay a fee of Rp3750/m3 every time
it disposes sludge at the IPLT. BKS, an association of desludging companies, controls the
number of the companies and enforces the mayor's decree on desludging fees of Rp5O,000/m3
and utilizing the IPLT for sludge treatment. The mission suggested that Dinas Kebersihan
request that BKS keep records of the number of septic tanks being desludged and the volume of
sludge being treated, to be used by Dinas Kebersihan for its future development plans. From the
existing desludging operation, the mission considered that the target coverage of 200,000 was
probably achieved.
VII. KAMPUNG IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
26.   This component, for US$30.9 million, consisted of (a) a full program of KIP physical
infrastructure improvements in fringe areas and rehabilitation of some existing KIP areas (for
600,000 people); (b) a household loan program to assist the urban poor to install septic tanks, and
improve homes and bathroom facilities(15,000 loans); and (c) a land management program to
improve the granting of planning permission, land registration and building permits (200,000
properties). Elements of (a) and (b) above were linked with increases in tax collection, the water
connection program and the human waste component. The program also included a community
development program and a Community Development/Kampung Action Plan to identify specific
needs and the methods to be used to enable effective community participation, and finally, the
development and utilization of sector agencies to implement community-based programs design
to develop the role of women and small businesses and increase community awareness on health
and welfare issues.
27.   Based on mission discussions with KMS Dinas Tata Kota (Planning Department) and
brief field visits, the mission considers this component as unsatisfactory. Until the final year of
the project, only the physical improvement of basic infrastructure in 60 kampungs had been
implemented, even then without the participation of PDAM who arrived only after the basic
works had been finished and in some areas trenched the newly paved footpaths and access roads
without adequate repaving. As previously noted, PDAM never implemented the water supply
connections program for KIP areas. The quality of the works observed during the field visits and
the needed linkages to adjacent secondary infrastructure were generally disappointing and below
the standards achieved in previous KMS-Bank projects for kampung upgrading (e.g. Urban II,
III, and V projects from 1978-90). Only in the final year of the project did KMS attempt to
launch "KIP Comprehensive" in 15 selected kampungs, which utilized the community-based
34



approach and channeled some funds to community groups for local development planning and
other local priorities. Issues of land tenure, sanitation, household water supply connections and
other key issues for urban poverty alleviation remain largely unaddressed by the project. Less
than half ($5.1 million) of the nearly $12 million allocation for this component was utilized.
VIII. RESETTLEMENT
28.   The sites and services component, for US$3.3 million, was to fund sites and services
schemes for resettlement of people affected by the project. The sites and services schemes were
to cater to the resettlement of 16,400 people mostly from the alignment of roads and storm
drainage schemes.
29.   In the last regular supervision mission conducted in July 2000, the Bank had agreed to
finance the construction of Jl. Dukuh and Penjaringan Sari relocation site only if the City of
Surabaya agreed to the Bank's requirements. The agreed conditions were to be met before the
Loan's closing date of September 2000 and should have referred to the Mayor Decree of
December 1999. These conditions involved: a) the relocation site to be offered to the project
affected people (PAP) of JI. Dukuh Kupang and Jl. Kedung Baruk; b) compensation to the PAP;
c) relocating of the displaced families to the relocation site including certificate and IMB
(Building Permit); d) submitting adjusted certificates to those lots that were partially affected;
and e) distributing new kiosks in the relocation site to the eligible affected businesses.
30.   To optimize the use of this site, the LARAP team promised the July 2000 mission to
actively promote this option to the PAPs from both road widening sub-projects by distributing a
brochure about the site. The UMU and LARAP team were to work together with Dinas
Perumahan (KMS Housing Department) to closely manage the relocation of the PAPs.
31.   The ICR mission found actions taken on resettlement to include: a) land acquisition has
been completed except Jl. Kedung Baruk; b) site and services and kiosks in the relocation site
have been built but have not been distributed yet; c) PAPs have not received their new
certificates, adjusted certificates and IMBs. The Mission expressed its doubts about the
seriousness of the City of Surabaya to complete the Mayoral Decree since there is no clear
action/schedule, no allocation budget for land acquisition in this year, and no continuation of the
LARAP Team as facilitator for the PAP. The Mission suggested that the UMU organize for the
City of Surabaya the preparation of an action plan for completing resettlement including an
estimated budget for land acquisition and constructions. The City of Surabaya should have a
strategic plan outlining how to finish the main work. Under these circumstances, the Bank could
refuse GOI reimbursement requests for the funds which were disbursedfor construction of the
relocation site.
IX. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
32.   This component for US$13.9 million financed: a study to develop Surabaya Urban
Policy to the year 2010; improve revenues; develop transport and traffic management capacity;
assist KMS road and drainage maintenance; develop and train maintenance capacity; improve
land management; develop sewerage operations and maintenance; train community development
workers; improve work methods for the Cleansing Department; develop and update the sewerage
35



and sanitation master plan; establish the home loan program; develop and implement a public
service information program; develop an urban freight distribution plan. Specific TAs were also
provided as follows: TA to PDAM (US$15.7 million); TA to Central Government (US$8.8
million); Human Resources Development and Training assistance - KMS (US$2.7 million);
Human Resources Development and Training Assistance - PDAM (US$7.2 million);
Engineering Design and Supervision.
33.   The mission rates this component as unsatisfactory. While the management advisory
services to both UMU and PDAM appear to have been performed professionally, much of the
advice was obviously ignored. Many of the other assignments appear to have been generally
ineffective or had little impact on KMS capacities. (The UMU Advisors completion report also
contains an overview of these services.) In discussions with key project staff and former
consultants the mission found serious frustration on all sides about the frequency of staff and
management changes, refusal to follow agreed procedures (e.g. procurement), the lack of
transparency in decision making, the disproportional influence of the Mayor in many decisions
of a technical nature, and related problems, including the persistent allegations of KKN
(corruption, collusion and nepotism) by KMS and PDAM leadership. Little evidence was given
to the mission that these efforts made any significant improvement in the capacities of KMS or
PDAM. To the contrary, most agencies seemed to be less capable than at project appraisal.
36



X. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
34.    The paragraphs below describe the financial situation of the project, the City of Surabaya
and the PDAM.
35.    Below is the status of disbursements by category as of March 19, 2001.
Status of Disbursements. Based on Bank records 2001 shown in 'I'able I below, $93.7 million has been disbursed as
of March 19, 2001.
Table 1. Status of Disbursements as of March 19, 2001
Armounts in US $
Category         Category Description           Total            Disbursed         Undisbursed
1-A    CWRKS.AJC/D/E/F/G                       26,000,000.00     25,023,488.14        976,511.86
1-6    CIVIL WORKS PT.B                        16,700,000.00     15,008,901.75       1,691,098.25
2     GOODS(EXCL.VEH&COMP)                    29,310,000.00      28,278,700.45      1,031,299.55
3     SUB-LOANS(60%DiSB.                        429,000.00         172,240.85        256,759.15
4     CONSULT.SER.TR.OTHER                    20,100,000.00      18,652,402.62      1,447,597.38
4-A    CONS.SERV.PRT.H8                         5,000,000.00       4,734,039.83       265,960.17
5     PPF 154 (REFINANCE)                      1,814,209.00       1,814,208.16            0.84
6     CIVIL WORKS PT.I
CONV-SA  SA - Conversion
SA-A    CONVERTED FROM CPL                                          (16,333.26)         16,333.26
UNALL   UNALLOCATED                             10,646,791.00               -         10,646,791.00
Totals (for all 9 Categories)          110,000,000.00     93,667,648.54      16,332,351.46
36.    Financial and Technical Audits. Recommendations from both audits, especially
returning paymnents made which were disallowed in audits, have to be responded to. The Bank
should be given a copy of the project's response to BPKP and ITWILKOT.
Kota Surabaya
37.    Capital Expenditures Coverage. According to the Loan Agreement, "Kota Surabaya
shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on March 31, 1994, funds
from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the annual average of Kota Surabaya's
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred for that year, the previous year, and the
next following fiscal years." Table 2 shows that Kota Surabaya has always exceeded this 30%
minimum requirement, where the actual coverage ranged from a high of 69% in FY 1994/95 to a
low of 50% in FY 2000.
38.    Solid Waste Cost Recovery. Coverage of solid waste expenditures started to be
insufficient in FY 1999/00. Expenditures were adjusted to conform with the prevailing
economic conditions. Revenues, however, have not been adjusted accordingly. Kota Surabaya
has to review the adequacy of its retribusi kebersihan (collection service fees) to cover O&M
expenses to enable the city to properly maintain its facilities, vehicles and equipment.
37



Table 3. Kota Surabaya Solid Waste Cost Coverage
Amounts in Rp Million
1994195    1995196     1996197     1997198    1998199      1999100     2000        2001
Actual     Actual      Actual      Actual      Actual      Actual     Actual      Budget
REVENUES                                 8,070      11,480      12,577      13,744      14,082     14,215      11,243      15,544
% Increase over Previous Year                         42%         10%          9%          2%          1%        -21%        38%
ROUTINE EXPENDITURES                     8,911       9,480      10,538      11,193       9,627      14,631     15,971      23,281
GeneralAdministrabon                     6,172       6,645       7,602       8,254       7,204      11,571     12,499      18,781
Salanes                                  2,194      2,311       Z648        3,165       3,730       5,154       4,967       7,638
Supples                                   253         253         266         286         365        356         688         805
Maintenance of                          1,773      1,968       2,362       2379        2998        1,762      4,547       6,307
Vehicles, Heavy Eqpt
Garbage Disposal                                                                                     325         294         600
Other                                    1,951       2113       2,326       2,424         111        914        2,004     (1,069)
City O&M                                 2,740       2,835       2,936       2,939       2,422       3,060      3,472       4,500
Excess of Revenues
over Routine Expenditures                (841)       2,000      2,039       2,551       4,456       (416)      (4,728)    (7,737)
Expenditures Coverage Ratio               0.91        1.21        1.19        1.23        1.46        0.97       0.70        0.67
' 9-month fiscal year; still draft
39.   Debt Service Coverage Ratio. The debt service coverage of Kota Surabaya has always
been above the minimum requirement of 1.5 times, as can be seen from Table 4 below. It is on
time in its debt servicing, except on IBRD Loan 3726. Kota Surabaya should improve its
collection of local revenues so that it can have sufficient funds to fully service its debts so that
the Central Government does not have to deduct the unpaid debt service from its general budget.
Table 4. Kota Surabaya Debt Service Coverage
Amounts in Rp Million
1994/95     1995196     1996197      1997198      1998199     1999100       2000-
Actual      Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual      Actual       Actual
Revenues, Grants & Subsidies
Local Revenues                                82,624      104,614     118,973      142,239      122,055     138,685      131,115
Assigned Revenues                             24,376       32,829      46,429       46,512       72,035      84,857       90,197
Grants & Subsidies                             15,702      16,999       18,572      21,798       68,359      91,983       84,152
Total Revenues, Grants & Subsidies             122,703      154,442     183,974      210,549     262,449      315,525     305,464
Routine Expenditures                            65,468      81,364      105,043      121,194     175,976      230,285     234,399
Net Surplus                                     57,235      73,078       78,931       89,355      86,474       85,240      71,066
LoanAmortization&lnterest                       10,516       12,930      13,600       16,113      30,714       35,621      26,937
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                       5.44         5.65        5.80         5.55        2.82         2.39         2.64
9-month fiscal year; still draft
38



40.   Revenue Implementation Action Plan (RIAP) Performance. Kota Surabaya's local
revenue collection has recovered from the economy crisis, which peaked during FY 1998/99.
This can be seen in the drop of total local taxes and charges to Rp 122 billion during this fiscal
year, from Rp 142 billion of the previous fiscal year. Collection of taxes continued as usual, but
not for local charges and profit share from PDAM Surabaya. Collection started picking up from
FY 1999/00, as can be seen from Table 5 below.
Table 5. Kota Surabaya Local Taxes and Charges
Amounts in Rp Million
1994r95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00   2000'    2001
Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual   Actual  Actual  Budget
LocalTaxes            33,416   41,776   51,458   62,455   69,814   77,137   69,185   82,003
Local Charges         36,792   47,594   57,441   68,876   43,615   46,398   48,041   62,369
Profit Share from PDAM  3,878    3,944    4,060    4,695    2,221    6,269    6,711    9,639
Other                  8,538  11,300   6,013   5,662   6,406    8,881   7,178  20,912
Grand Total           82,624  104,614  118,973  141,688  122,055  138,685  131,115  174,923
'9-month fiscal year; still draft
41     O&MProvision. Overall, KMS has met the level of provision of O&M for roads,
drainage and solid waste management as agreed during negotiations. Details can be seen from
Table 6. In spite of the height of the economic crisis in 1998, the total expenditures for
operations and maintenance for roads and drainage continued to increase. This increase, though,
was not commensurate to inflation and the devaluation of the rupiah. A correction of the
provision was made in FY 2000. Provision for O&M of solid waste management has always
been higher than the amount agreed during negotiations. Provision of O&M for roads and
drainage have almost been at par with the agreed levels. In 2000 and 2001, these appear to be
higher than the provision in previous years.
PDAM Kota Surabaya
42.   PDAM Kota Surabaya will update their financial projections to reflect the actual 2000
figures, the 2001 budget and the effect of the full implementation of the tariff increase in July
2000. This is due for submission to the Bank on March 31. 2001. Meanwhile, findings and
recommendations from the July 2000 partial supervision mission that are still relevant are
reiterated below. They may slightly vary once the above updates have been made.
43.   Compliance with financial covenants. PDAM Kota Surabaya has always been able to
comply with the covenant of having gross revenues being able to cover operating expenses
including depreciation from 1994 to the present. Please see Table 7 for the details. Its debt
service coverage ratio has always been above the minimum acceptable ratio of 1.5 times,
although this is decreasing because of the substantial IBRD and OECF loans. It dips dangerously
low to 1.6 in year 2000 based on projections. (See further discussions on the Financial Recovery
Action Plan below.) Tariff rates, however, have not been increased as projected during appraisal.
Advance dividend payments due to the city have been recorded and became the city's additional
equity contribution in the PDAM. There was no cash outlay involved, only book entries.
39



Table 7 PDAM KOTA SURABAYA: MONITORING OF FINANCIAL LOAN COVENANTS COMPLIANCE
Amounts in Rp Million
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Audited  Unaudited    Projected
Gross Revenues - [Optg Exp-OepnJ  21,265   15,492   28,934   14,914   13,267   17,229   24,438
DebtService Coverage Ratio (should be =>1.5)  7.8  5.7  4.3  2.5  2.1  1.9    1.6
Dividend Payment              2,495   2,974    3,082   3,850   4,428   4,978   -
Net Intemal Cash Generation   39,872  18,597  39,136  33,702  10,831  (6,582)  (14,853)
20% of 3-Yr Ave. Capital Expenditures  8,143  11,092  9,886  17,299  15,506  13,630  7,942
Allowed?                       yes    yes      Yes    yes      no     no      no
Tarff Increase                 0%     25%     0%      0%      31%     0%      0%
44.   Dividends to the Local Government. Although the PDAM had been assessed to remit
dividends to the Pemda, no cash was paid. Only book entries were involved to record that the
Pemda earned dividend income from the PDAM, and that the Pemda in turn reinvested these
earnings as additional equity to the PDAM. The Bank has no objections to this system of book
entries, as long as there will be no actual cash transfer from the PDAM to the Pemda. The Loan
Agreement mentions conditions when the PDAM may pay cash dividends. The rationale of this
covenant is for the PDAM to be able to build up its cash reserves so that it can finance
investments necessary to improve its operations, especially in controlling leakages and
expanding its service to the remaining population of the city of Surabaya.
45.   Financial recovery action plan (FRAP). During the July 2000 partial supervision
mission, the PDAM presented its action plans on how to improve specific areas of its
performance. These are discussed in general in the following paragraphs.
46.   Increase in new connections. Based on the SAR, the PDAM is short of almost 86,000
new connections as of 1999. Table 8 below shows that in 1999 the PDAM was able to add
18,549 new connections, higher than its target of 15,000 new connections. The PDAM has
accelerated making new connections since 1997. Lately, the PDAM set up two special teams to
deal with this activity. The first team concentrated on looking for prospective customers by
public information and survey, especially in areas with new in-fill of tertiary lines. The other
team handled the processing of the application until the installation of the connection was
completed. One factor that deters applicants from connecting is the service connection fee which
can be unaffordable to many of them. This fee is based on the area of the lot where the applicant
lives, as determined in the land certificate of title. The PDAM considers this as an indication of
the applicant's ability to pay. For a daily worker who happens to live on a big tract of land that
he inherited, the service connection fee may be unaffordable. Another deterring factor is the
strict terms of payment for this fee. The present PDAM policy is a down payment of 60% of the
fee, with the balance payable in two equal monthly payments. The PDAM should rethink its
policy on new service connections, so that it can increase its service coverage faster. The PDAM
sees most of the population not yet served as belonging to the household category that is being
subsidized by the other consumer categories. In this light, it can adjust its tariff structure during
the next round of tariff increases so as to be able to generate enough revenues for all its
requirements, while being able to serve a higher portion of the population.
40



47.      Collection period. Table 8 shows that the average collection period in 1999 went up to
55 days, the longest since the start of the project in 1994. The PDAM is strictly monitoring this
indicator by keeping a close watch on its 17 collection contractors. The PDAM has required
them to make more frequent remittances of their collections, from weekly to every three days.
For year 2000 the PDAM targets a 47-day average collection period.
48.      Employees per 1,000 connections ratio. The PDAM  is improving in this ratio which has
steadily been decreasing from 9.0 in 1994 to 6.6 in 1999. The PDAM aims to reach 6.2 by the
end of year 2000.
49.      Unaccounted-for water. At the start of the project, unaccounted for water was 33.4%.
This went up to 42.5% in 1998, and improved to 37.9% in 1999. The PDAM projects it will at
least maintain this level during 2000.
50.     Debt service rescheduling. The PDAM  may have an acceptable debt service coverage
ratio, but it has depleted its cash reserves so that it does not even have enough to pay in full its
monthly cash operating expenses, much more so, its debt service payments that are due. Its cash
coverage for operating expenses was only 60% in 1998, improving to 120% in 1999 (effect of
the partial tariff increase in 1998), but dropping to 70% in 2000 (see Table 8 below). Since the
PDAM has not been formally allowed by the Ministry of Finance to reschedule its debt
servicing, it came up with a system of payments whereby it will pay interest and principal on as
much of its loans as can be allowed, and pay the corresponding penalty for the unpaid portion
that is past due. This process will be followed until it gets up-to-date in its payments by year
2002. The last loan to be updated will be its subsidiary loan arising from IBRD Loan No. 3726-
IND.
Table 8. PDAM KOTA SURABAYA: FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Amounts in Rp Million
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Audited   Unaudited  Projected
DEMAND
Population Served (%)                            64%       65%       66%       67%       68%       70%
Number of Connections                184,917    198,014   204,794    223,002    238,088    256,637    272,137
Increase in Connections               15,559    13,097    6,780     18,208    15,086    18,549    15,500
Forecast Volume Sold - Mm3            92.349    103.077    106.203    114.688    115.159   122.591    123.896
% Unaccounted-for Water               33.4%     32.6%     33.3%     37.4%     42.5%     37.9%     38.0%
WaterProduction-Mm3                  138.705    152.838   159.238    183.292    200.417    197.433    199.833
MANAGEMENT
# Days Accounts Receivable             41         50       41         35        49        55        47
Number of Employees                   1,656     1,718     1,725     1,680      1,704     1,690     1,681
Employees per 1000 Connections         9.0       8.7       8.4       7.5        7.2       6.6       6.2
FINANCIAL
Cash / Mo. Operabing Expenses          3.9       2.1       2.2       1.0        0.6       1.2       0.7
Current Ratio                          1.8       4.7       3.8       1.8        1.4       1.8       2.7
AverageTariff -Rp/m3 sold              715       631       875       879       1,202     1,216     1,482
Average Tariff Increase                         -11.7%    38.6%      0.5%     36.7%      1.1%      21.9%
Debt Service Coverage Rato             7.8       5.7       4.3       2.5        2.1       1.9       1.6
41



51.   Operations and maintenance. Table 9 below shows how the PDAM performed in
providing O&M as compared to amounts agreed during loan negotiations. By the end of 1999,
the PDAM had achieved 90% only of the cumulative agreed amount to be provided for the
operations and maintenance of its infrastructure. Its budget for year 2000 shows a 12% increase
over the actual provision in 1999.
Table 9. PDAM KOTA SURABAYA: MONITORING OF OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURES
Amounts in Rp Million
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Agreed Durng Negotiatons    37,844  45,368  55,922  65,338  74,227  90,388
Actual I Budgeted           33,139  38,199  50,276  59,066  82,457  85,154  95,718
OverI(Under) Achieved, Cumulafive  (4,705)  (11,874)  (17,520)  (23,792)  (15,562)  (20,795)
% Achieved from 1994 -1999  88%    80%    79%    80%    86%    90%
XI. CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS
52.   A pre-wrap up meeting was in Surabaya on Friday, March 23, 2001, during which
follow- up action programs outlines were agreed by all parties, to be completed by April 15.
These outlines were subsequently confirmed during the mission wrap-up meeting in the offices
of Kimpraswil on March 28. (The Bank received the summary Action Plans by sector as a report
from the GOI ICR consultant dated April 16, 2001; see Annex 1 for a copy of this summary.)
53.   The mission agreed in principle that the PT. Bina Asih contracts could be
extended/amended to cover the additional time-work needed.
54.   The mission requested that the Bank receive copies of the KMS, PDAM and Kimpraswil
responses to the BPKP audit findings on project accounts. The mission also expressed
disappointment with the obvious lack of follow up or response to the Technical Audit findings
and recommendations by any of the project agencies or by the Provincial Inspectorate, and
requested that the Bank receive copies of any responses to the Technical Audit.
55.   The mission further requested that the draft GOI ICR by completed as quickly as
possible, including estimation of benefits accruing from project investments while recognizing
that such benefits would undoubtedly be limited for many subprojects by the failure to complete
the missing sections or portions of the planned systems. (The Bank received the GOI final report,
dated April 16, 2001, and will use this data to prepare the final ICR for the project.)
56.   The mission was troubled to conclude that there was an obvious failure by KMS in the
execution of the SUDP project to attain the intended benefits for the citizens of Surabaya or to
achieve the improved institutional capacities targeted by the project. Appropriate responses and
next steps for this situation will be further explored with GOI and Bank management.
42



TOTAL ITEMS I FINDINGS                                                                                                        Table - 4
AUDIT RESULTS OF SECTORS
(LOAN NO. 3726-IND)
SECTORS
NO  FtSCAL YEAR      WATER SUPPLY (WS           URBAN ROAD (UR)        TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT          DRAtNAGES (DR             Ktrnu                  sANnATIoN (SN*           RESELENENTIKSB          TECMNICA ASSISTANCE    TOTAL
WATER SUPPLY (91'S)                   ~~~~~SUPPORT (TM)          RIAE'RSKP(rfbW)                                 S(AIONSon S LEEf IKBflatS)
PLAN   ORO TEND CONST PLAN  ORG TEND CONST  PLAN  ORG TEND CONST  PLAN  ORG TEND CONST PLAN  ORG TEND CONMT  PLAN  ORG  TEND CONST PLAN  OR                                      PLAN IORG  TEND | IPC
1.   1993119Al
2.   199411955
3.   19A951 5       6            6 6.           .           .            ..                    1      -....14
4.   1991SCO7       5            53                                                                               2      3           2     O2                                                                                  31
S.    09s    l      to          to    A       2                 I                        -      8 .  .            5      4                                                                                                     _3 i0
N.   1          P9159  - N7                              2      2      4 n2                     1 i n3S. 
7.   199912000      I                         2           I     I                                                                                                                                                               9       . ...I.
3.      2000               I     I     -      2           2     2.          ......1I10
TOTAL   23     0   ~~~23    5     13    0    9      S      4     0    @      2      14    0    0_   a        12    0    0      33      1     0    0      0      1     0     0      1      0     0    I 
______   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     -II162
TOTALISECTORS        5~1                       24                       622                                               54                        1                         2                        2
ReSmarksI         PLAN      Planning
ORG   O:panization
TEND     Tund.ing
CONST   Ctuction
S.dcrat Pr*t
-43-



egal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                         OD 13.05 - ANNEX D
AST ASIA AND PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                          Page:
Acrr Country Office:  Jakarta                                                                                                                         Run Dato:06/18/2001 at 12:31:1
'ountry: Indonesia
'roject ID: P003998   Name: IND-SUPtBAYA UDP
Original    Revised
Covenant       Covenant                      Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)       Status                        Date         Date         Description of Covenant
greeent: LOAN
ec. 4.01(a)                         01             Complied with                                           Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices, operations, resources &
expenditures in respect of project of departments
or agencies responsible for carrying out project
or any part thereof.
,ec. 4.01(b)(i)                     01             Complied with                                            Borrower shall have records and accounts referred
to in para (a) of this Section including those for
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principlesconsistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
;ec. 4.01(c)                        01,09          Not complied with                                        For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, records and
accounts will be maintained and the audit report
shall contain a separate opinion on their
reliability.
;ec. 4.01(b)(ii)                    01             Not complied with                                        Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, the
reporter such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Dec. 5.01(e)                        10             Complied with                 06/30/1996                 Following additional events are specified: The 2nd
OECF Ln Agmt shall have failed to become
effectiveby 6/30/96, or such later date as the
Bank may agree; provided that provisions of this
para shall apply if Borrower establishes to
satisfaction of of Bank that adequate funds are
available to Borrower from other sources on
terms&condit. of Borrower under SUD Ln Agreement.
;chedule 4                          03,10          Complied with                                            Procurement of goods, works and services to be
carried out in accordance with provisions of
Schedule 4 of LA
Schedule 5, Section 1               06,10          complied with                 09/30/1994                 The Borrower shall submit to the Bank a proposal,
-44-



egal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                          OD 13.05 - ANNEX D
AST ASIA AND PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                          Page:
ACIF Country Office:  Jakarta                                                                                                                         Run Date:06/19/2001 at 12:31:1
:ountry: Indonesia
-roject ID: P003998   Name:  lND-SUYABAYA UDP
Original    Revised
Covenant       Covenant                      Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)       Status                        Date         Date         Description of Covenant
satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating
pollutionat Kenjeran landfill and, thereafter,
carry out the mitigation measures included in the
said pro- posal in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
;chd 5, Sec. 2                      05,10          Complied with                 12/31/1994                 The Borrower shall annually review previous
year'soperation & maintenance expenditures of [KMS
& PDAMin case these are found to be less than
amounts agreed with Bank, cause [MS & PDAM to make
up the diff. in said expend. during following
year.
;chd 5, Sec. 3(a)                    10             Not complied with                                       Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordancewith an implementation schedule agreed
by the Bank.
)chd 5, Sec. 3(b) ()                04,10           Not complied with                                       Borrower shall make or cause the relevant Imple-
menting Agencies to make funds available for
acquiring land required for carrying out of their
respective parts of the Project at least one year
before the scheduled start of implementation under
schedule.
)chd 5, Sec. 3(b)(ii)                 7             Complied with                                           Borrower shall make or cause KMS to, by April 30,
1995, acquire the land required for resettlement
under Part G of the Project during the year follo-
wing the said date in a manner consistent with
itsobligations hereunder.
;chd 5, Sec. 4                       10             Complied with                                           Borrower shall carry out the training under the
Project according to a program, agreed to by the
Borrower and the Bank, in a manner satisfactory
tothe Bank.
,chd 5, Sec. 5                        6, 7, 9,10   Complied with                                            Borrower shall select sub-projects for Parts A.1
&A.2 of Project for financing under the Loan from
its annual works program in accordance with prin-
ciples, critera & procedures agreed by the
Borrower and Bank, and submit for Bank approval,
environmental action plan and/or resettlement or
rehabilitation action & monitoring plan(s), and
ensure their implementation progress.
Schd 5, Sec. 6 and Section 3.03    3, 6, 7, 9   Complied with                                               Borrower shall enter into PIA with KMS and PDAM
-45-



egal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                    OD 13.05 - ANNEX 0
AST ASIA AND PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                    Page:
ACIF Country Office:  Jakarta                                                                                                                    Run Date:06/18/2001 at 12:31:1
ountry: Indonesia
roject ID: P003998   Name. IND-SURABAYA UDP
Original    Revised
Covenant      Covenant                     Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)       Status                      Date         Date         Description of Covenant
onterms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
including Section 6 of Schedule 5 of the LA, and
make available subloans to KKMS and PDAM, and
exercise PIAs and SLAs.
ch.5, Sec. 7(a)(i)                 2, 4          Complied with                                          Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, KMS shall produce, for each of its
fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on March
31, 1994, funds from internal sources equivalent
to not less than 30% of the annual average of
KMS's capital expenditures incurred, or expected
to be incurred, for that year, the previous year,
and the next following fiscal years.
;ec. 5, Sec. 7(a) (ii)              2, 4, 9       Complied with                                         Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, KMS
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by KMS
and satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank,
review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in para. (i) in respect of such year and the
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to
the Borrower and the Bank a copy of such review
upon its completion.
;ec. 5, Sec. 7(a)(iii)              2, 4          Not yet due                                            If any such review shows that KMS would not meet
the requirements set forth in para (i) for KMS's
fiscal years covered by such review, KYS and the
Borrower shall promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
3ch. 5, Sec. 8(a)(i)                2, 4          Complied with                12/31/1994                PDAM shall produce, for each of its fiscal years
after its fiscal year ending on December 31,
1994,funds from internal sources equivalent to not
lessthan 20% of the annual average of PDAM's
capital expenditure incurred, or expected to be
incurred for that year, the previous year, and the
next following fiscal year.
3ch. 5, Sec. 8(a) (ii)              2, 4, 9       Complied with                                          Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years,
PDAM shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
PDAM and satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, review whether it would meet the require-
ments set forth in para (a)(i) in respect of such
year and the next following fiscal year and shall
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a copy of
such review upon its completion.
-46-



egal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                    OD 13.05 - ANNEX D
AST ASI  A   PACIFCPage
ACIF Country Office:  Jakarta                                                                                                                    Run Date:06/18/2001 at 12:31:1
ountry: Indonesia
roject I0: P003998   None: IND-SURA3AYA UDP
Original    Revised
Covenant       Co*venant                   Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(s)       Status                      Date         Date         Description of Covenant
ch S, Sec. 8(c)(i)                  2            Not complied with                                      Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, PDAM shall not make any distribution
with respect to its net income, unless, after such
distribution has been made, funds from internal
sources are equivalent to not less than 20% of the
annual average of PDAM's capital expend.
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
year, the previous year, and the next following
fiscal year.
-47-



egal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                    OD 13.05 - ANNEX D
oull Text of General Covenant Classification                                                                                                    Run Date: 06/18/2001 at 12:31:1
Covenant Class
01 Accounts/audit
02 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
03 Flow and utilization of Project funds
04 Counterpart funding
05 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
06  Environmental covenants
07 Involuntary resettlement
OB Indigenous people
09 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other
-48-



Additional Annex 10. Action Plan for Future Development: 2001-2007
Format 3
ACTION PLAN
Sector: Water Suppl 
No.       Code                      Activities                  C O S T (Rp. Million) & FUND SOURCE                                      DURATION
No. ___________ Cod             Activitis                       LALA               Construction                  2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
_         2                            3                             4                   _       _6                   7 _8 _          9      10             12      13             14
6 2  - I             Installation of Primary Pipe                                  4               975        975                                                             P        Dir.
Continued
2    6.2E - I1        Installation of Primary Pipe                                 (4)             1,260      1,260                                                            PDAM Dir
Continued
3    6 2H-1-1         Installation of Primary Pipe                                 (4)            16,950     16,950                                                            PDAM Dir
Continued
4                   Installation of HC on KIP Project                                                                                                                        PDAM Dir + KIP
5                _  Addition of PDAM HC               |_T____                             _                                  |_ _ _ _ _                                        PDAM Dir.
_i]                  1                Total               =-                                       19,185     19,185          _I    I
Note
) Land Acquisiton
Implementation period is adjusted to JBIC agreement                                                                                                                   Surabaya, April 2001
(I) Central, (2) Prov: Province, (3) City: Surabaya City; (4) BLN  Foreign Aid (Loan)
:I Physical (construction)
* Land Acquisiton
Approved by                                                                                                                          Director of Surabaya PDAM
Walikota Surabaya                                DPRD Kota Surabaya
(    .. .. ............. ...............  ...        )   ( ..................                                                                 ......... .
-49-



Format 3
ACTION PLAN
Sector: UIrban Road (Packages failing to be Complete)
No.     Code                    Activities               C     S T (Rp. Millon) & FUND                         2002   2003   2004  RATI  2006                          Responsible by       Implementing
_        2                         3                          4                                        7        8      9      10          1 2        13     14                                   16
4    ROAD57   Improvement of JI. Kedung Baruk  )(                 23212                                                                                                 PEMKOT            PU. BinaMarga
(3)        2322      (3)            470       2,1                                                                 EKT              P.Bn   ag
5    ROAD 10-5  Improvement of Jl. Menur I
(Kaibokor Bridge-JI. M. Sabrangan)  (3)          9,400   (3)                475      9,874                                                             EKTP.BnMag
6    ROAD 1046  Improvement of JI. Menur 11 ( Jl.
Manyar Sabrangan - J1. Manyar        (3)        13,668    ()1,732                   15,399                                                            PEMKOT            PU. Bina Marga
Kertosrjo) #)
7    ROAD 10-9  Improvement of Jl Kedung Sroko         (3)         11,742   (3)             1,71 9    13,461                                                             PEMKOT            PU. Bina Marga
8    ROAD 30-1  Improvement ofJI Bronggalan            (3)         2,459   (3)              1,600      4,059                                                1 I I I      PEMKOT            PU. Bina Marga
9     ROADSO   Improvement oflI SimpangDukuh           (3)         11000   (3)                500     11,500                                                             PEMKOT            PLp. BinaMarga
10    ROAD 56   Improvement ofJl. HR. Muhammad         (3)         18,203   (3)             5,688    23,891                                                              PEMKOT            PU. Bina Marga
-                     ~~~~~~~~SuabTOTAL                     66,471 [       [        11,713]   78,184                                           --I______ 
Grand TOTAL                           76,607     1            20,908,    97,515  I                                                                           _ 1
Note;                                                                         #)   First priority, couse of fund limitedness so not all packages could
*) Land Acquisition                                                            implemented withthe some time
(I) Central , (2) Prov Province, (3) City: Surabaya City, (4) BLN  Foreign Aid (Loan)
Surabaya, April 2001
E Land Acquisiton
O Physical (Construction)
Approved by                                            DPRD Kota Surabaya                                                          Kadis Bina Marga
Walikota
(                       )                                  (                        )                                                  (                     )
-50-



Format 3
ACTION PLAN
Sector: Urban Road (Psckaltes failinc to be Complete)
=~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~_______ =DURAT_ON
No.      CdActivities                                     C O S T (Rp. Million) & FUND SOURCE                                      DURATION                              Responsible by       Implementing
______Code_____Activities ________         LA                 Construction         Total    200    2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
I        2                         3                           4                      6                 7        8      9       10  _          12     13      14              I5                   16
I    ROAD 59      J I1AccessMERRII C(Package )         (2)         3,240    (1)               945      4,185                                                              PEMPUS             PU. Bina Marga
_________   _______ ________ ________  (3)                         __  _ _  _  _     _ _  _                                                          _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _PEM        KO T
2    ROAD 59-2  MlAccess MERR   C (Package 2)          (2)          5,801    (I)             2,250      8,051                                                              PEMPUS            PU. Bina Marga
_________   _______ ________ ________  (3)                 __  _   _ _  _  _  _ _   _ _  _ _I                                                        _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _PEM KOT
(1)1                                                                                                    -    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3    ROAD 22-1  MERR II CBridge                        (2)          1,095    (I)             6,000      7,095                                                              PEMPUS            PU. Bina Marga
Li               SubTOTAL                 1~~~~~~~~~(3    Ioij919j--______                                                                                                        PEMKOT
__                                             _____                 ____ Sub_OTAL___1____i     19,331   1  1  1  1I               II   J   E   I      1I    _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _
Note
) Land Acquisition
(I) Central; (2) Prov: Province; (3) City: Surabaya City, (4) BLN  Foreign Aid (Loan)
Surabaya, April 2001
Land Acquisiton
Physical (Construction)
Approved by                                       Dit. Anggaran                               Bappenas                                     Kimpraswil
Walikota
(                    )                            (                     )                    (                   )                        (                     )
-51-



Format 3
ACTION PLAN
Sector Urban Road (Packages failing to be implemented)
_        _      _                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C O S T (   Million) & FUND SOURCE                          DURATION
No.     Code                     Activities                  CTotal  ilin &FN  SUC                                                                            ___         Responsible by       Implementing
Nn   Code                     Aetivitiff                  LA i        Preparation "    Construction             2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
_ 2                                3                          4               5               6            7        1      9      lo      1      12     13      14             15                   16
2   ROAD 06-03  MerrgiliC                              (2)    11,500  (2)      375      (2)      7,500    19_375                                                           PEMPROP            PU. Bins Marp
(31       (+)  ______                ____PEMPROP
3    ROAD 08   Ahmsad Yani/Jemursari (junction) #)      (2)     5,000  (2)     375      (2)      7,500    12,875                                                           PEMPROP           PU. Bins Marga
1                           ~~~~~~(3)            _____PEMPROP
4    ROAD 09   It. Tidar Kalibutun     g                (2)    113000  (2)     350      (2)      7,000    18,350                                                           PEMPROP              PEMPROP
S ROAD 27   Jt. Pandegiling                          ()     0,00 2)         1000      (2)    20,000    121,000                                                          PEMPROP            PU. Bina Marga
(3) _______         __2 ____PEMPROP
6    ROAD 52   Gajah Mada Bridge/Wiyung                 (2)     3,000  (2)     500      (2)    10.000    13,500                                                            PEMPROP            PU. Bina Marga
Sub Total               _    130,500f[           2,600         52,000   185,100                                                                             _    _      _
__  |________              GrandTotal              I       170,500       [   3,100          62,0001  23s600_ | |||            |    |_____
Note
) Land Acquisition                                                                   (+)  Maybemore,itisstillininvestigating(uptotheendofApr. 2001)
*) Preparation cost is assumed 5% from Construction cost                              P)  First priority, couse of fund limitedness so not all packages could
(for review design/supervision/study/sosializationtcommunity counterpart)              implemented withthe some time                                               Surabaya, April 2001
(1) Central ; (2) Prov: Province; (3) City: Surabaya City; (4) BLN  Foreign Aid (Loan)
Land Acquisiton
[J  Physical (Construction)
Kadis. PU Bina Marga              Bappeda                Pemerintah Kotamadya Surabaya            DPRD 11               DPRD I
Kota Surabaya                    Walikotamadya                 Kota Surabaya           Jawa Timur
(                 )             (                          (                   )         (                  )        (                  )
Bappeda Tingkat I              emenntah Provinsi
Jawa Timur                    Jawa Timur
(                 )              )
-52-



Formd 3
ACTION PLAN
Sector Urban Road TMS) 1 i.netion p-eluies with ATCS  ro  r m ihbl were canceed
No.      Codc                      Actvities                               CO S T (Rp. Million)                  Total_DURATION                                                                       -         Responsble by LRtTtION
______2_____                                                  LA            Preparsto         Coon.I-eat.               2001 _        002        20C03        2004         2005        2006    2007        Re__________mn __
I    2                           3                            4                                  6_                                                                                                                                   _ II_2_314i
I                 Dipenogoro - Bany..np 0)PEMKOT                                                                                                                                                                                        DLLAJD
2                 Mustopo - Dharwoo sa ng )                                                                                                                                                                       PENMOT                 DLLAJD
3                 MItopo - Kar.mg Menj.ogo n)                                                                                                                                                                     PEMKOT                 DLLAJD
4                  KCrg Menjaogao - Dhm-ro gwooosa 0)                                                                                                                                                             PEMKOT                 DLLAID
5                 Aicmggp - Dha wanow    a N)                                                                                                                                                                     PEMKOT                 DLLAJD
61                P'glima S.dioeon - Soookecabng                            (3)       23             450         473                                                                                              PEMKOT                 DLLAID
7                 Kayoon - S-lkeosb"o                                                                                                                                                                             PEMOKOT                DLLAJD
0                  Bengo      -o  D rmokoili                                (3)        13            250         263                                                                                              PEMKOT                 DLLAJD
! D e <,,, ,0 w .,0 4 <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L r   W E 
9                 Bege  - Dlarmnokali                                       (3)       20             400         420                                                                                              PEMKOT                 DLLAJD
10                Dinoyo -BAT                                               (3)       20             400         420                                                                                              PEMOKOT                DLLAJD
II                 Ngogot -BAT                                                                                                                                                                                    PEMKOT                 DLLAID
12                 Osbo       ioaoPEMO                                                                                                                                                                                                    LAD
|3                 Solowosi - Sumatra                                        (3)      23             450         473                                                                                              PEMKOT                 DLLAJD
14                 S.Iawesi - (ubeog                                                                                                                                                                              PEMKOT                 DLLAJD
Is                 Keputran - Paodegiling                                    (3)       13            250         263     _                                                                                        PEMKOT                 DLLAJD
16                 Pandegilig-UUipSS.otfar]o                                 (3)       15            300         315                                                                                              PEMKOT                 DLLAJD
17                 Kat..-Irntoarr,Boryol                                     (3)      tO             200         210                                                                                               EMOT                  DLLAJD
IS                 Sulaweo - Biliton                                                                                                                                                                              PE OOT                 DLLAJD
-                         ~~~~~~~                          ~ ~~Total              153j                   320 
Not.:                                                                                                  P)  Hau wompleted with city govenmet fund tn FY 2000
) Land Aequisition
) Preparation cost is an ed S% from Construction ost
(for review designsupevsson/study/sosaaliznoo(coommunty counterpart)
(I) Cevto  (2) Prov Province; (3) Ciy Swacbays City (4) BLN. Focegn Aid (Low)
I  : '   175 i 7| Physcal (costwction)
NSSSSSI         . Ltind Acqussition
Approvod by
Wat Kot. SurabaY                                                               DPRPD Kota Surnbay.                                                              Kadis BDina Magc
(                      ....                                                                          ..                                                                     , ,, . )  (   ,, .,  .  )  ( ......)
-53-



Format 3
ACTION PLAN
Sector: Drainage
No.                                           ~~~~~~~~CO0S T (Rp. Million) & FUND SOURCE                                DURATION
0i  Code                   Activities                  C OST(Rpill;m)&LA')    Construction        Total    2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006  2Z00-7          Responsible by
1         2                            3                              4                    6                 7        8      9      10      11     12      13     14              15
I DRAIN-04-01    KaI; Simo Channel Phase 1, Package I A)       (3)       13,000   (3)            10,740    23,740                                                              Pemkot
2  DRAIN-04-02   Kali Simo Channel Phase 1, Package 2 )        (3)        7,200   (3)             5,125     12,325 _                 I _-                                      Pemkot
3  DRAIN-04-03    Kali Simno Channel Phase I, Package 3        (3)        6,800   (3)             4,850     11,650                                                              Pmo
4  DRAIN-04-04    Kali Simo Channel Phase 11                   (3)        15,000   (3)            9,285     24,285                                                              Pemkot
5  DRAIN-20-03    Kali Manyar Channel Package 3                (3)          600   (3)               70        670                                                               Pemkot
JI. Manyar Jaya - Kalibokor Channel
6  DRAIN-0643   Improvement of Jeblokan Chanl. Pack. 3         (3)         1,520   (3)             250       1,770                                                              Pemkot
Ji. Pacar Keling - JI. Kapas Kramnpung
7  DRAIN-06-05   Improvement ofJeblokan Chani. Pack. 5         (3)         1,465   (3)              125      1,590                                           I                  Pemkot
Ji. Kenjeran - Jl. Kyai Tambak Deres
8 DRAIN-06-06   Improvement of Jeblokan Chani. Pack. 6         (3)        3,037   (3)             1,400     4,437                                                              Pemkot
11. Kyai Tbk. Deres - Jl. Nambangan                                                                       111H11 7
9  DRAIN-12-06    Kalibokor Channel PackageS                   (3)        8,416   (3)              650      9,066                                                              Pemkot
Menur Bridge - Tompotika Bridge
10 DRAIN-12-07    Kalibokor Channel Package 6                  (3)         1,406   (3)              200      1,606                                                              Pemkot
Tompotika Bridge - Ngasem Baru Bridge
-54-



Format 3
ACTION PLAN
Sector: Drainage
No._     Code                       Activities                  COST (Rp. Million) & FUND SOURCE                                        DURA TIO
No.       Code                      Activities                  COST(RpMiLA')          Construction         Total    2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007          Responsible by
I         2                             3                              4                    6                7_    8          9      lo 1           12     13      14   _15
11 DRAIN-12-08    Kalibokor Channel Package 7                  (3)         1,281   (3)               So      1,331                                                              Pemkot
Ngasem Baru Bridge - ITATS Bridge                                                                                                                 I
12 DRAIN-12-09    Kalibokor Channel Package 8                  (3)         4,313   (3)              600      4,913                                                              Pmo
ITATS Bridge - Araya B. Megah Bridge
13 DRAIN-12-01    Repaired of Kalibokor Channel Phase I        (3)        25,301   (3)            3,000     28,301                                                              Pemkot
14 DRAIN-,12-11   Kalibokor Chanel, Down Stream part                               (3)            5,000      5,000 
(follow up DRAIN-12/Kalibokor channel
Centre, part) #
IS DRAIN-,l2-12   Kalibokor Channel, Lower Course part         (3)         5,426   (3)            4,500      9,926                                                              Pmo
(follow up DRAIN- I2fKalibokor channel
Centre part)
16 DRAIN-,12-14   Developed & Installed Pump House                                 (3)            6,000      6,000                                                              Pemkot
(at Kalibokor water gate)                                                                                                    T
17 DRAIN-,42-01   Improvement/Rehab. of Wonorejo channel       (3)         5,500   (3)            4,500     10,000                                                              Pemkot
& Box Culvert Ji. A. Yani
18 DRAIN-,42-02   Improvement/Rehab. of Wonorejo               (3)        11,250   (3)            8,500     19,750                                                             Pemkot
channcl Package 3 #)
19 DRAIN-,06-09   Developed & Installed Pump House                                 (3)           11,000     11,000                                                              Pemkot
(at Jeblokan water gate)
-55-



Format 3
ACTION PLAN
Sector: Drainage_                                                                                                             _
No.      Code                      Activitits                  C 0 S T (Rp. Million) & FUND SOURCE                                   DURATION                             ,e,,,ile_
LA*)             Construction                  2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007        Responsible by
1        2                            3                             4                     6                7        8      9                     12     13     14
20 DRAIN-,08-03   Developed& Installed Pump House             (3)          188  (3)              8,000     8,188                                                             Pmo
(at Kalidarni water gate)
21 DRAtN-,19-02   Kalijudan Channel                           (3)        22,400   (3)            2,000    24,400                                                             Pemkot
(follow up DRAIN-19 / Kalijudan channel)
22 DRAIN-,41-03   Developed&InstalledPumpHouse                (3)          170  (3)             11,000    11,170                                                             Pemkot
(at Pegirman water gate)
23 DRAIN-,43       Developed, Improved/Rehabilitation of                          (3)           4,500      4,500                                                             Pemkot
K(ali Mir. # 
___________            ~~~~Total                            1423j101,345   235,618                                              Ij1 1-      -1I I- T
Note:
t) Land Acquisition
#): First priority
(I) Central; (2) Prov: Province; (3) City Surabaya City; (4) BLN  Foreign Aid (Loan)
- Land Acquisition
Physical (Construction)
Approved by
Wali Kota Surabaya                                             DPRD Kota Surabaya                                        Kadis. Bina Marga
(           .                            .)................... ...                                                           ...........
-56-



Format 3
Action Plan
No.      Cod                                 Activities                                            Co.t (Rp. Milli..)                          Total                                    D .. tiol                                    Reponsible by
l   2  _  3                        4        =           5                                    T 7                                                                                   Resp9     l b y 12  13  14
r Sanitasi                                            CstacyS epo Septage Treatment Pladt  tt)            3,360       Ca)    84e000           87,36 0                   0         2                !*                  20521     Central
I Proauremcnt ofDE nd Supervislon Consultmcy ServT
2 Review design andengmeerng estimate
3 Ecosmy Feasibility Study
4 UJKL &UJPL Studies
5 Preparaton and JCB Tender
2         |       Bo.gkaoam.-Pe.setehShallowSeserModule                                     (1)              674  (t)             13,472       14,146                                                                             Central Goverment
I Established of Project& PascaProjectImplementingAgency
2 Procurement of DED and Sapervision Consultancy Serv.
3 Review design and engineenng estimate                                                                                                                                                   I
4 Established of house connection cost and sosialization
5 UKL and UPL Studies                                                                                       i__
Total                                     _                  4,034                  97,472
Note
*) Land Acquisition
*-) Preparation cost is assumed 5% from Construction cost
(for review desig/supprv-sion/study/sos,aiantiorkcommunity counterpart)
(I) Central (2) Prov Provinmce; (3) City Surabaya City, (4) BLN Foreign Aid (Loan)
[    . Physical (Construction)
Dinas Kebersihan                           Bappeda                                                 Pemerintah Kota Surabaya                                  Departemen Keuangan                            Bappenas                             Kim
Kota Surabaya                          Kota Surabaya                                                    Walikotamadya                                          Republik Indonesia
(                       )  (                                             )                        (                                     )                   (                              )       (                             )(
DPR - RI
57-



F-snot 3
ACTION PLAN
Sen,or KIP
C o S T (IR  Million) & FUND SOURCE                                          DJURATION
No.      Code                         Aclinilies                         LA           Prrp-i..ln)   Cons r.. tion       Total    2001   2002   2003   2004    2005   2006   2007            Respon.ibi by         Inmpletenting
1        2                               3                               4                 5               6             7        8       9      lo      II      12      13      14             IS5                    16
in pi entcoutioti ofKSIP - Cot 15
Kanpungs Phase 11
Comrurnoty coentspart ofKIP - C for                                                                                                                                  Kepala Dinas Tata    PM  of KIP-C
4 Ka..p.gs (Ke1 Pemjanigsari.,                                   (3)         o100                        lo                                                             Kota Surabaya              2001
Kd Nginden-iJngkungan, Kel Kejawn P.tih
Kel Tombak and Kel Sumurwelut)                                        _                _______
Kepala Dinas Taba    PM  of KIP-C
2                 I.ple-etation of KIP - C 2001 at 4                                                                                                                                      Kota Surabaya              2001
Kampungs (Kel. Penjanngonsari,                                                    (3)         gOo        SOD
Kel. Ngmnden-Jangkinigan, Kel Kejaan Puibh
Kel Toobak nod Kd Sumurael.t)
Kepala Dtnas Tata    PM  of KIP-C
3                 Comtmutnty counterpart of KIP - C for                             (3)         ISO                        150                                                            Kota Surabaya              2002
5 kampungs (Kd. Kalinugkul, Kdl
Banyuunp, Kel Kupang Krajan, Kel.
Sintolawarg, Kel. Wonokusumo)                                   I                     I                                      I I I _         | | _           . .
4                 lInpi,etmemnton of KIP - C 2002 at 5                                               (3)       1,250      1,250                                                         Kepala Dinas Tata    PM  of KIP-C
ktmpungs (Ked Kalintngksu, Kdet                                                                                                                                         Kota Surabaya              2002
Banyuuaip, Kd Kupoog Krajan, K.l
Sintolwang, Kel. Wonokurwuo)
S                 Comantuny counterpart of KIP -C for                               (3)         175                        15---Kepala Dinas Tata    PM  of KIP-C
6 kmpungs (Kel Rungklt Menanggat. Kde                                                                                                                                   Kota Surabaya              2003
Pagesaogan, Kel Bolos Klaupik, Ke Kedunus,
Kel. Balongsarn, Kel Banjarsugihan)
6                 Implementation of KIP - C 2003 a16                                                 (3)       1,500      1,5C0                                                         Kepala Dmnas Tala    PM  of KIP-C
ksspungs (Ked Rungkut Menanggal, Kel.                                                                                                                                   Kota Surabaya              2003
Pagesangan, Ket. Boals Klumptik, Ket. Kednus,
Kel Balogsttri, Ked Ban rsugihom)
7                 Preparation of k_png tt pt.                                       (3)         500 _                                                                                   Kepala Dinas Tata         Proj. Mgr.
(IS5 kotpuangs)KoaSrby
|<                Prepaation of katmp.ng site pln                                  (3)          500                                                                                    Kepala Dinas Tata         Proj Mgr
(I 5 kamrunes)                                I                                                  I   I_                                                                 KotaSurabaya
Toa '   t                                               1,425          3,550      4,97           m_:__________
Note
) Land Acquisition
) Preparatson cost is -ssamed 5% from Construction cost
(for revIew desig.dsapetvmsioafstudy/sosialization/commonty counterpart)                                                                                                        Surabay., Aptil 2001
(I) Cetu) .(2) Prov - Pravince (3) City S.rabayn City (4) BLN  Foreign Aid (Loao)
fM Land Acqustton
[J Physical (Constnuction)
Approved by                                  DPRD 11                                                          Kodis. Tato Koto Surabayn
Watikota                                 Kota Suraboy
I                                                             (                  )



RECAPITUIATION
COST NEEDED
COMPLETION OF TROUBLED PACKAGES
Rccommcndation
Sector          ILand Acquisition                                                                     Tot. of Land  _________________Preparation  )____________Tot, of
2001       2002        2003        20.04]    2005          2006   J 2007            Acq.        2001         2002]    2003           2004        2005        2006        2007       Preparation
______________          37_                                                                     9          0-.119        1112131                      [14 [ 1   ~      I.s     ]      t           is 1      1  -11./di7
Water Supply 0   )---                                                                                 -                         27         932                     -                       -I           -              959
Urban Road 0)20,637                    66,201      62,173      17,434     41,000       50,375      12,500     270,320          -18                   1,232       1,001         764         519        1,000          4,533
Drainage *)66,165                                  51,308      16,800                                          134,273         -.                    2,218       1,206        1,643         -5,067
Sanitation                    -           .           -                                               --                       807       1,614       1,614         -           -           --4,034
KIP)                          ---                                                                     --100                               650          675         --                                                1,425
:1          Total   ~         20637        132.3661    113,481      34,234]    41,0001   50,375         12,500]    40,9              3         ,13        5,739       2,207       247           519        1,000         16,018
p                     ~~~~Recommendation           -i                                                                     ,       -T
2001  2002       2003    =2004           200         2006        200      const-action 1j 2001         2002        200       T00a       _____          2006        2007      GrdToa
2  ~~~f      i~]         20          21          22    1     23          24          :5       261 ]foidiz] 2to27                      29          30          2           32          33I    34-27./d33
Wager Supply )0)45                     18,641         .           -           -           -           .         19,185        572       19,573         -           -           .           -20,144
Urban Road n)-                           350       24,645      20,014      15,275      10,375      20,000       90,659      20,637      66,569      88,050      38,449      57,039      61,269      33,500        365,512
Drainage *0)                                      44,365      24,125      32,855                               101,345         -        66,165      97.891      42,131      34,498         -           -240,685
Sanitation                                         55,472     42,000          -                       .        97,472         807        1,614      57,086      42,000         -                                  1 -01.506
KIP)                          80        1,250       1,500         .                                   -          3,550        900        1,900       2,175                                                          4,975
- Total              11    1,345]    20,2411    125,982      013]        48,130      10,375]       ,00]    31,111   22,9161   155,820]   245,202              122,580 ]~91,537         61,269      33,500L       72,22
'lote
1) Water Supply Sector is assumed I Yen =Rp. 75,.
0)Preparation:          Review Design, Survey, Additional Study & Sosialization, are assumed 5% from cconstruction cost
-59-



IDUOWO rf ?RCA   OSORAA     USA  I1OVIPMErT frlocXAMMZ WOAIlI SROTIID 37
_.                                          .  _          .              T    P A_                                         TOUL                              CET                                          MP RTCE                                        PEAOT                                       _   A1
_   2                                            3                          *            _   t~~        ~       ~      ~          ~          ~~~          ~         ~~          ~         ~~~~OST  S   OIUN CCIu017  .1.0                 01             ____________
k    M_E_d                                      1s                     .                             G                                     , 3,000,C03,002DO       ~         ~ .p.n   ________  5200000o_ _                           1X0310000__   1o25,7201           00 _IO  _  _  9  sWCTC
0as1r.2.0001                                                ___,   . ___soo.0.___
T-                      2I~50,14                           -      ---                                                                                             - . w"om- -,- - =
1h0..a                                     IS                  LasS           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7427 0 300009  ~     .          790001 ______                                 O20O,w                                         4.    009
J  s                                          2                      C _                               .          s7T2AMlS041C0zmr o.C    ..4.0030           ....         W            .2NVO               _     107m                                               .       __ _0
r_7s!                    4,D40200,D o,OC       O          0           _          _ .  .      30.01. _  .                                   _ l2.g.i _
T_                     194,75,00.000 0        I          c                                                                      .                      .         43__72A.0_                               ___  _  ___WD
07 47-Zct--1               5772.ECJOSO             9.747.2M WCo________                                                              
-60-



Additional Annex I l. GOI Evaluation of Project Implementation: Letter of July 16, 2001
and Report
REPUBL}C OF INDONESIA
MINISTRY OF SETTLEMENTS AND REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
JL. Pammura mo. 20 Kebyoran ftbl-kAab Selatan 121L0 Tel. (Q2-21) 72796158, Fox. 727961t5
Our ref.: 1HL.02.01-DK/255                                           16 July 2001
Mr. Keshav Varma
Sector Manager
Urban & Water Supply Sector Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Re:   Surabaya Urban Development Project
Independent Government Evaluation of Project Implementation
Dear Mr. Keshav Varrma,
We refer to your letters U dated 1I Juiie 2001 and accompanying, draft Implementation
Completion Report, and 21 June 2001 submitting the ICR Mission Aide Memoire. As
indicated in our letter dated 27 June 2001, it was impossible to organize the requested
comprehensive responses to a difficult and important subject in a short period. We have now
discussed with all the relevant parties, and enclose the Goverrunent's Independent Evaluation
of Project Implementation. We trust this will be taken into consideration for preparation of
the inevitable project audit.
The Government shares the Bank's disappointment at the project outcome and is fully aware
that many key elements of the project have not been implemented yet. Even so, not all the
conclusions can be agreed by Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development, Kota
Surabaya, or PDAM Surabaya. The overall impression is given that a lot of money has been
spent in the city! but that there was very little implementation activity of benefit. As shown
on the attached summary, there have been significant achievements in a number of project
components.
In actual fact, many project components have been completed, in some cases with
considerable success. However, it is acknowledged that many inter-linkages have not been
completed to achieve the overall benefit planned under SUDP. The reasons for this are clear,
a lack of finaiicial resources for land acquisition and counterpart funding at a time when all
levels of government were struggling to cope with the consequences of the unparalleled and
totally unexpected East Asia economic crisis. Also, it was very difficult to implement land
acquisition during the period of rapid political changes that were taking place in 1998 and
1999.
The Implementation Completion Report concludes that the Surabaya Urban Development
Project is highly unsatisfactory for reasons that were beyond the control of any single party.
We would prefer that more emphasis is given to the impact of the crisis, and the willingness
of the Government, KMS and PDAM to continue to improve urban services within the
overall SUDP framework, but at a slower pace than had been originally proposed
-61-



We also need to refer back to project preparation, because it now appears (in retrospect) that
too much was being asked of Kota Surabaya and its PDAM, even without the financial
stresses imposed by the economic crisis. It is worth asking whether an ICR evaluation of this
nature should be made for a project that was extremely difficult from the outset, and that
quickly became impossible soon after the serious problems of land acquisition arose,
followed then by the economic crisis. Responsibility for the preparation lies jointly with the
Government and the Bank; considering that it took so long, we would seriously question the
Bank's claim that Quality at Entry was satisfactory. If, as we now believe, it was highly
unsatisfactory, it means that the project performance should be based on this condition, not
the objectives detailed in the SA. In other words, achievements measured agrainst the
achievable rather than the unachievable.
There are some aspects of the draft Implementation Completion Report and the ICR Mission
Aide Memoire that are not acceptable to the Government. Examples are:
 the draft ICR frequently refers to fraudulent practices during project implementation.
Whilst the Govermnent is very concerned, we do not concur with the bank's accusative
position Any legal proceedings will take their natural course under the responsibility of
the concerned authorities. As such, this Directorate General does not intend to respond to
item (d) of your letter dated 21 June 2001 because this does not fall within our Ministry's
responsibility;
* according to our records, Bappenas has not dishonored "their negotiated obligation to
finance the land acquisition costs for central government projects' (please refer to Annex
A of our evaluation). We have the impression that this was wishful thinking by some of
the parties closely involved with project preparation in the drive "to make it work' after
such a long period of preparation. As an example of the confursion that seems to have
prevailed at negotiation is that the Indonesian delegation documents indicates that all land
will be provided by KMS/PDAM/developers, whereas the SAR contradicts the
Govemment's position that was signed by the Minister of Public Works.
* inadequate attention was paid to these very high SUDP costs for land and physical works
compared to the national budget for roads and drainage/flood control throughout the
country. If central government had borne these costs as given in the SAR, a very large
proportion of equally important development programs would have been curtailed. The
Bank's staff and the responsible preparation groups at the time, including DGHS, were
naive to imagine that this level of funding could have been concentrated in Surabaya for
supporting one program, or they were confused,
*  it is worth noting that when SUDP was originally prepared, there was extreme confidence
in Surabaya's economy whereas after almost 7 years of preparation it was fairly obvious
to many that developers would only be able to contribute a limited amount of land that
was already reserved for the planned infrastructure. The gaps remain because many of the
developers have either ceased business or are not investing because of the present
economic climate;
* as soon as it was confirmed by central government (through Bappenas) that land
acquisition funds were not adequate to implement SUDP as originally proposed, the local
government took immediate measures to identify the scale of the problem. It is not true
that KMS was very slow in revising/rescheduling project activities. The actions taken
were swift and comprehensive to the point that all parties, including the Bank and OECF,
knew of the impending implementation constraints; and
-62-



* it was not possible to start drainage channel improvements from the downstream end
because of land acquisition and resettlement constraints. As a result, KMS targeted those
sections that could be implemented in the most cost effective manner given the
circumstances at the time. A similar approach was adopted for urban roads where many
sections have been completed under SUJDP, but the "whole has not yet been realized
because of the funding limitations caused by the crisis.
We regret that our independent evaluation could not be submitted within the 9 days indicated
in your letter dated 11 June 2001. Because that was a very unrealistic request, we do expect
the Bank to incorporate the Government's position (as attached) into the final ICR, and to
make the appropriate corrections. We also point out that the ICR Mission Aide Memoire was
sent by the Bank after the requested deadline for the independent evaluation of 20 June 2001,
and was distributed to the concerned parties only on 6 July 2001.
We thank you for your continued cooperation, and we look forward to addressing the on-
going critical urban infrastructure and services issues with the Bank.
Sincerely yours,
BudinAi
Director General of Ui an and Rural Development
cc
1. Director of Human Settlements and Urban Development, BAPPENAS
2. Director of External Funds, MOF
3. Director of Subsidiary Loan Management, MOF
4. The Mayor of Surabaya
5. Chairman of Regional Developmnent Planning Board, Surabaya
6. President Director of PDAM Surabaya
7. Head of Bureau of Planning and Foreign Cooperation-, MSRI
8. Director of Metropolitan Regions, DGURD
9. Director of Technical Development, DGURD
-63-



SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IBRD LOAN - 3726 IND
Summary Physical Targets Achieved and Physical Outcome
%age
DESCRIPTION                              TARGET               ACHIEVEMENT   Achievement                                      Outcomne I Cotmments
to Target
WATER SUPPLY
Procurement (Goods)
Karangpilang Treatment Plant                          2.000 I/det               2,000 I/det           100%  Provides additional volume of water for distribution to new customers in strategic
areas of the city, after completion of connection targets and pnmary system.
Primary Distribution Pipes                           4.756 m                   23,865 m                53%  After completion of the action plan, approximately 3,800m of pnmary pipeline will
Secondary and Teniary Pipework                      265,608 m                 311.325 m               117%    be implemented, completing the outer ring and achieving 106% of SAR target.
Property Connections                                190,000 unit               87,220 unit             46%  After completion of the action program, the total number of connections will increase
to about 80% of the projections given in the SAR for year 2002.
Rehabilitation Pipework                              92,000 m                 125,000 m               136%  Pipeline material is available to PDAM for the further reduction of UfW post SUDP
Civi Works
Karangpilang Treatment Plant                          2.000 I/det               2,000 I/det           100%  As above
Primary Distribution Pipes                            19,700 m                 23,182 m               118%  As above
Secondary and Tertiary Pipework                     524,000 m                 325,760 m                62%
Property Connections                                132,000 unit                5,014 unit              4%  Action Plan proposes more than 100,000 connections (more than 80% of SAR in 2002)
Public Hydrants                                     190,000 unit               87,220 unit             46%  As above
Rehabilitation Pipework                              92,000 m                  32,978 m                36%  Due to limited funding sources, PDAM counterpart funds for civil works have been
assigned to other system and resource development priorities.
URBAN ROADS I TMS
Total No. of Packets (including Retroactive)                94 Packets                81 Packets         86%  Additional 3 packages to complete JI. Menur and Remedy MERR IIC bndge
Road Construction / Improvement                        96,233 m                  65,976 m                69%  Additional 1,000 metres will complete inner eastem nng road (Jl. Menur)
Bridge Construction / Upgrading                             6 No.                     7 No.             117%  Not including MERR IIC that will be completed under the Action Plan
Traffic Management Support (in 5 zones)                      5 Zones                  5 Zones                  Although TMS packages were implemented in each sub-zone, the overall
improvements have not yet been achieved. The 2-way traffic concept has not been
implemented because KMS was not convinced that this would benefit the ciry.
DRAINAGE
Drainage Construction / Channel Conversion             46,695 m                  41,047 m                88%  An additional 4,200m of drainage improvements will result in almost 97% targel
Tide Gates                                                   7 Unit                   5 Unit             71%    completion. It will also provide flood relief for the north-eastern parts of the city.
SANITATION
Increase the Capacity of Keputih IPLT from
100 m3/day to 200 m3/day                                 100 m3/day               300 m3/day          300%  The total required treatment capacity of 400 m3/day has been achieved but ai only
Construction of Benowo IPLT                               200 m3/day                 -   m3/day           0%    one location at Keputih. The Benowo IPLT could not be imipemented due to land
Development of Pilot Offsite Sewerage Programs               3 Packets               Nil Packets
KIP
KIP (Physical)                                             97 Kanmpung               104 Paket          107%
KIP (Comprehensive - with sanitation improvements)         60 Kampung                 15 Paket           25%
Sites & Services to Resettle Project Affected Persons        I Ha                      I Ha             100%  Although the works were completed (later ttin planned) demand for these sites was
very low due to distance from the main economic activities in the city.
-64-



I
SURABAYA URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(IBRD Loan No. 3726-IND)
Independent Government Evaluation
of Project Implementation
-65-



Surabaya Urban Development Project (SUDP)
Surabaya Urban Development Project
flBRD Loan No. 3726 - IND)
Independent Government Evaluation of Project Implementadon
Contents
1.    Introduction
2.    S11DP as a Response to the 1987 Urban Policy Statement
3.    Preparation of a Comprehensive Multi-Disciplinary Program
4.    Launching SUDP and Initial Constraints
5.    Impact of Adjustments to Land Acquisition Funding
6.    Summary of Project Achievements
6.1 Water Supply
6.2 Urban Roads)and Traffic Management
6.3 Drainage and Flood Control
6.4 Sanitation and Sewerage
6.5 Kampung Improvement Program (KIP)
6.6 Technical Assistance
6.7 Local Financial Development
6.8 Environmental Aspects
6.9 Institutional Aspects
7.    Potential Benefit of Action Plan to 2004
S.    Support by the Bank
9.    Project Outcome and Sustainability
10.   Lessons Learnt
ANNEX
A.    Comments Received from BAPPENAS
B.    Comments Received from Kota Surabaya
C.    Summary Description of IBRD and OECF Loan Amounts
Inclependent Government Evaluation of Project IMplementation         Page I ofl 8
-66-



Surbavn Urban Developmlent Project (SUDP)
1. Initroduction
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has forwarded the draft
Implementation Completion Report with their letter dated I 1 June 2001 for the Surabaya
Urban Development Project (SUDP, Loan 3726-IND). IBRD has requested the Directorate
General of Urban and Rural Development (DGUTRD) to prepare an independent government
evaluation of project implementation. This document, which is submitted in response to the
Bank's request, is an assembly of Govemment views and opinions based on project records
and recollections of events since preparation first commenced in 19S7.
This independent evaluation is subjective, and takes into account some of the information
being assembled by ICR consultants PT. Bina Asih who have been appointed to prepare the
SUDP Implementation Completion Report. Our evaluation does not attempt to categorize the
project outcome or sustainability according to terms used by the Bank, and it does not
directly respond to the Bank's ICR, about which the Government does not fully concur.
Throughout this document, care has been taken to respect the enormous difficulties faced by
all parties to implement a large and complex within the constraints caused by the 1997/98
economic crisis, and also the difficult decisions that had to made by the Government
regarding land acquisition funding for national project components,
2. SUDP as a Response to the 1987 Urban Policy Statement
The Surabaya Urban Development Project (SUDP) is an urban infrastructure development
program through integrated approach, better known as the Integrated Urban Infrastructure
Project (IUIDP). Chronologically, the implementation of Surabarya Urban Development
Programme (SUDP) is distinguished into 2 (two) phases (periods), which are: Firstly, the
period of preparation, starting from the period of the preparation of SUDP up to signing of
the Loan Agreement. This period covers a time of about 7 (seven) years. Secondly, the period
of implementation - starting from loan signing in May 1994 up to the closing date of the loan
after its extension (30 September 2000). This period also covers a time of about 7 (seven)
years.
3. Preparation of a Comprehensive Multi-Disciplinary Program
KMS commenced SUDP preparation 1987, assisted by a UNCHS Advisor. In 19S8, Bappeda
assisted by Bank funded consultants prepared the program in the form of Invertmeni Plant anrd
MlItizyear Expenditures Program - PJIM accompanied by the Financial Development Action
Plan (FDAP) and Institutional Development Action Plan (IDAP). Preparation was initially
completed in May 1988, but this then underwent a series of revisions until March 1989. In
May 1990, the investment program was discussed comprehensively, and was approved by
Directorate General of Human Settlements and Tim Koordinrasi Penibaugrriant Perkotaan
(TKPP).
Indepenkeni Goiernmenl Evaluation ofProject lin pltnenaltion         Page 2 lf 1 8
-67-



Surabvo vUrban Development Project (SVDP)
In the period June-July 1990, those documents were discussed, processed and approved by
the local parliament (DPRD) and by the Mayor. To further consolidate the PJM and meet
Bank preparation requirements, additional project preparation was mobilized to prepare the
Project Preparation Report (PPR), finished in September 1991. After the PPR, the investment
progam was once more consolidated, with the arrangement of the Project Memoranda and
ended with the Final Project Memoranda; this was finished in November 1992.
In March 1993, the Bank evaluated the investment program and the readiness of KMS for
SUDP implementation. This evaluation resulted in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) that was
approved on 15 March 1994. The Loan Agreement between the GOI and the World Bank was
signed on 17 May 1994. The subsidiary loan agreements by KMS and PDAM were signed on
14 September 1994, and the loan became effective on 13 January 1995.
Overall, the project preparation was not well planned or coordinated, and there was
insufficient working cooperation between the concerned agencies. Preparation definitely took
too long and became too complex. All parties and individuals involved should share
responsibility for this: blame cannot be assigned to anj one group. In retrospect, the
Govenunent now believes that despite enormous effort, project preparation was not adequate
and did not involve a sufficient number of senior personnel in XMS orPDAM.
4. Launching SUDP and Initial Constraints
SUDP implementation commnenced afler the loan was signed on 17 May 1994. There were
some selected activities that started prior to loan effectiveness on 13 January 1995.
Consultant support for the Urban Management Unit (UMU) in Bappeda Surabaya was
mobilized relatively efficiently by KMS with the intention of coordinating the tasks of each
related agency at central and local government level. DGCK assigned 3 counterpart staff to
support UMU. However, despite these efforts, the project did not achieve the level of
integration and harmony required.
Local budgets were not adequately prepared to support a quick start to implementation,
mainly because there was so much uncertainty following the very long preparation period.
This problem was further exacerbated due to the land acquisition difficulties described below.
Institutionally, KMS was less well prepared than was expected, caused by personnel changes
(see Annex B) and a lack of awareness of the overall program objectives. Local govemment
personnel were aware of individual sub-projects and knew how to process these, although the
agr-eed procurement arrangements were not quickly adopted. As with many urban
development projects at the time, local govemment's simply preferred "business as usual". In
PDAM Surabaya, the Project Management Unit was initially more effective in its approach to
meeting overall objectives, and appeared to have a clearer understanding of the overall
project objectives compared to KMS officials.
At this initial stage of the project, difficulties arose in the implementation of Central
Government and OECF funded components, again due to lack of budgetary support as well
as the severe land acquisition constraints described below. Integration of objectives funded
laitlepeindkn; Governmenr Evalnlyion of Project huplenientalimn    Page 3 of l S
-68-



Surobnya Urbnn Developnment Project (SUDP)
by IBRD and OECF was not adequate; this persisted throughout the project. The Bank's
support at this crucial start up phase was probably not adequate, with resulting impact during
the main implementation period.
5. Impact of Adjustments to Land Acquisition Funding
Of 161 packages of urban road, S packages (31.7%) required land acquisition. Of thcse,
only 9 packages (17.7%) were concluded within the scheduled time of one fiscal year. Other
packages requiring land acquisition that were not settled in time numbered 25 packages
(49 0%). Packages requiring land acquisition that were not concluded by the end of the
project are 17 packages (33.3%).
In the drainage sector, from the 59 packages, 26 packages (44.1%) had related land
acquisition problems. Only 5 packages (19.2%) were settled in a timely manner within one
fiscal year. Packages where land acquisition has been resolved within a period of more than
one fiscal year are 2 packages (7.P%). Packages where land acquisition is not yet resolved are
19 packages (73.1 %).
Central government also faced constraints in financing land acquisition, and required KMS to
contribute significantly towards organizing land for urban road and drainage and flood
control components in accordance with conventional practice, despite apparent agreements
brokered by the Bank and Bappenas to finance these projects from central government
resources. The level of attention paid by GOI and OECF to this important issue was not
adequate and raises serious questions about the overall efficacy of project preparation. In
Annex A, Bappenas has explained the Government's position now and at the time of
negotiation concerning the financing of land acquisition. It is also to be remembered that the
Government's position on finding land acquisition was different from the SAR (see also our
covering letter)
The lack of KMS financial resources to finance land acquisition for IBRD funded projects
has had an impact on XMS ability to implement SUDP components according to the
originally agreed schedule. Actual costs were greater than originally planned because&of the
introduction of new government regulations concerning compensation. This funding
constraint became even more serious with the onset of the economic crisis because local
funding sources had to be diverted to finance higher routine expenditures, whilst local
revenues declined due to the closure of businesses and a reduction in the hotel and restaurant
taxes, for example.
Whilst these land acquisition constraints had a severe impact on implementation, it would not
be realistic to place blame only on the local government or central government; the economic
crisis played a most important part in the ability of all parties to implement SUDP according
to the agreed plans, and was not expected, least of all by the World Bank's economists.
6. Stimmary of Project Achievements
A total of 442 project packages were proposed for IBRD funding support, consisting of 31
packages under central government responsibility, 57 packages funded under the PDAM-
Jntlepenkeni C,overmlient Evalufflion ofProject hnpIiEientation    Page 4 of I 8
-69-



Surahqva Urban Developmient Projecr 'SUDP)
SLA, and 354 packages under the KMS-SLA. There were 55 retroactive project packages (5
PDAM packages and 50 KMS packages). This large number of packages was much greater
than originally planned, and was a consequence of KMS breaking down the original
components into smaller packages. The reasons for this included land acquisition constraints,
annual budgeting regimes, and also the tendency in Indonesia to subdivide projects into
smaller components to support medium and small size contractors. There were no significant
initiatives in KMS to execute SUDP using multi-year contracting procedures for larger scale
contracts. In contrast, actual contract packaging in PDAM tended to be more efficient than
original project planning arrangements.
6.1    Water Supply
This component covers 50 procurement and civil works packages, and 7 Technical
Assistance packages. Physical works comprised procurernent of primary and secondary and
tertiary distribution pipes, laying of these pipelines, development of Karangpilang I
treatment plant, pumps and reservoirs and M&E. The realized procurement of primary
distribution pipes is 23,865 meters, while the target in the SAR/RIS is 44,756 meters, which
means a realization of only 54%. The realized procurement of secondary pipes (included
ertiary) is 311,325 meters while the target in the SAR/RIS of secondary pipes is 265,608
meters, which means a realization of 1 170/. Other realized procurernents are rehabilitation
pipes of 125,000 meters, water meters and accessories of 12,000 units, and material for house
connections of 397,400 meters. The installation of primary distribution pipes is realized
23,182 meters, while the SAR/RIS target isl9,700 meters, or a realization of 188%. The
instalation of other distribution pipes consists of 113,508 meters secondary pipes and
214,983 meters tertiary pipes.
Included in the implemented PDAM-SLA are 3 project packages of Primary Distribution
Pipes, which are pending, where the physical realization only reaches 67-89%. The cause of
the stagnation is problems of land acquisition, disaccord in the compensation, and
disagreement in the price for Pipe Jacking.
6.2   Urban Roads and Traffic Management
Under this component, 81 packages of Urban Road and 80 TMS packages have been
implemented. Of this sector is realized 65,936 meters, while the SAR1US target was 96,233
meters which means that 69% of the target is realized. Viewed from the number of packages,
there are 94 SAR/RIS packages, of which is realized 81 packages or 86%. From the
implemented project packages of Urban Road there is indicator that 16 packages are pending,
where 10 packages have a physical realization of <100% and 6 packages are not yet
contracted. The main reasons are land acquisition problems and budget constraint There is
also the problem of the collapse of the supporting beam of the MERR 1I C bridge.
6.3    Drainage and Flood Control
Of the drainage sector is realized 42,154 meters, while the SARJR[S target is 46,695 meters,
which means a realization of 90%. Of the non-channel works (water pump gates) are realized
Indtepenckln GoCoernternt Evaluation ofProject )Impknientauion       Page 5 oft  8
-70-



Surabaya Urban Devlopnient Project (SUDP)
21 units, while the SARJRIS target is 22 units. Under the implemented Drainage packages
there are 25 packages pending, of which 10 packages are realized for 47-97%  and 15
packages are not yet contracted. The causes are pending land acquisition problems and some
questions relating to design and construction techniques. The KMS components financed by
the Banlk seem to be reasonably satisfactory; after completion of Kalibokor (section 7)
significant achievements will have been made in the north eastern part of the city.
However, this component suffered from an overall alarming lack of cooperation between the
relevant agencies and between the Bank and OECF. At project launch, the Bank's Task
Manager was quoted as saying that IBRD would withdraw Bank financing if technical design
criteria and project priorities were not better coordinated for this sector. Of course, nothing of
this sort happened, but it must go down as a lesson learnt. The result is that a very
comprehensive program has failed in its efforts to provide the city with relief from frequent
severe flooding. This has been caused by institutional differences within the ex-Ministry of
Public Works, lack of attention to the local government's well documented and professional
proposals, and also inadequate finds for land acquisition. The responsible parties have been
etremely incomnetent in the management of this sub-secto.
6.4    Sanitation and Sewerage
Of the sanitation sector is realized the capacity enhancement of IPLT Keputih from
1 0M3/day to 400 M3/day, whereas the target of the SAR/RIS is the enhancement of IPLT
Keputih, the development of IPLT Benowo and 3 pilot projects of Site Sewerage (Kapasan,
Wonokromo and Bongkaan/Peneleh). Under this component, only the target of IPLT Keputih
is realized because there were no land acquisition I community acceptance difficulties. The
problems are the increased project costs with Rp 70 billion, land acquisition constraints at
Benowo (arrangements with developers collapsed due to the economic crisis), and strong
community reaction to the sub-project. Households were not willing to pay the high sewerage
connection costs of Rp 2 million/unit, and the requirement to follow ICB tender procedures
were disincentives to completing the sewerage sub-components prior to the loan closing date.
6.5    Kampung Improvement Program (KIP)
Of the KIP sector is realized 104 packages of KIP-Physic, I KSB package and 15 KIP-
comprehensive while the SABIRIS targets are 97 KIP-Physic, sanitation improvements in 60
kampungs and housing improvement in 60 kampungs. There were 15 packages pending that
were then excluded from SUDP when the loan amount was reduced by USS 30 million.
6.6    Technical Assistance
Excluding the cost of the assignment "Future Project Preparation' (that obviously has not
happened), the total planned investment in Technical Assistance support was USS 23 7
million with following division of responsibility:
I Ccntrnl GovernLuiet USS 6.23.tion  | KMS USS 10.63 miiiion | PDAM USS 6.84 millio l
INkpcn,knt Goiernment Evaluatlon of Project lrnpiemenZaiion           Page 6 of  8
-71-



Si/raboitn Ur ban Deuelopaienr Project CSUDP)
Actual loan utilization for TA was USS 23.4 million, demonstrating that if land and
counterpart budgets are not an issue, it is fairly simple to disburse Bank funds. About USS
63.5 million has been invested in physical components (excluding the labor intensive works
approved to respond to the economic crisis), meaning that the proportion of TA funding from
the loan has risen from 22.5 % (Loan Agreement Schedule 1) to an alarming 36.8%. There
does not seem to have been any serious attempt made to optimize the provision of technical
support for a project that was clearly floundering soon after Loan Effectiveness Also, it is
not sure how much of this costly effort has achieved significant and sustainable benefit to
KMS and PDAM. A separate review of TA support is suggested, so that future programs will
have TA investments limited to not more than 15% of physical implementation (other than
exceptional circumstances).
6.7   Local Financial Development
In the SAR, the PAD projected revenues at Rp.78.2 billion (1993/94) with the tendency to
rise and in year 1998/99 becoming Rp.155.0 billion, where the total during the 6 years is
Rp.698.4 billion and annual average of Rp.114.9 billion. The total of realized PAD during 6
fiscal years (1994195-1999/00) is Rp.707.6 billion with an annual average realization of Rp.
117.9 billion, despite the severe decline in revenues for 2 years following the 1997198
economic crisis.
Using the first indicator (the presentation of the total realized PAD projected on the total
planned PAD), the FDAP performance is considered satisfactory because realization is 103%,
despite the severe constraints caused by the economic crisis. But using the second indicator
(the average annual presentation of the realized PAD projected on the planned PAD of the
fiscal year), the FDAP performance is only 94% of target. By using the third indicator (the
tendency of the realization from one fiscal year to the next fiscal year, the FDAP performance
was affected by the economic crisis. Based on the three indicators, FDAP performance is
satisfactory, although it is not certain if these targets would have been achieved in any event
without SUDP projeot support.
In the approach of the evaluation is used the comparison between the planned POMMS
according to SAR and realization of POMMS. In the SAR, the O&M costs (routine and
additional) during FY 1993/94-1998/99 is estimated at Rp.102.8 billion, with an annual
average of Rp. 17.2 billion. The realization during the period of FY 1994/95-1999/00 is
Rp.125.l billion, with an annual average of Rp.20.9 billion. Average realization against the
planned O&M costs, the O&M performance is close to project objectives.
Based on the Surabaya PDAM audited reports by BPKP for 1997 up to 1999, and the
projection for year 2000 up to 2007, the realized receipts froim water sales during the last
three years increased at an average of 20 % per year. When this is compared with the,
financial projections in the SAR, these water sales are higher than targets. Based on the
growth rate of receipts from water sales and the increase in operation costs, and the average
growth during the last three years above, the Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DCR) projected
Independent Gouirnment EI-niuation ofProject inpleinenlation         Pnge 7 of 18
-72-



Surabtiyo Urban Dlevelopment Project (SUDP)
for 2000 - 2007 will vary between 1.50 up to 3.62 which is satisfactory and compares well
with the SAR.
However, despite these revenue increases, it has to be realized that both KMS and PDAM
need significantly higher revenues to meet increased O&M costs and the much higher
procurement and constraction costs that occurred following the economic crisis. Achieving
SAR targets is obviously not adequate to meet.the program objectives.
6.8   Environmental Aspects
In the implementation of the Surabaya UDP, the sector of Water Supply and Sanitation are
already accompanied by environmental documents, the UKL/UPL and special studies related
to the environment. The principal adverse affect was the need to resettle people and
businesses whose properties must be completely demolished; accordingly, a Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan acceptable to the Bank was prepared.
The vague existence of the environmental project documents of the Surabaya UDP is caused
by factors like the poor filing system for data. The reporting mechanism about the
environment appears to have been 'impotent" vith a poor awareness that environmental
documents are an essential part to achieving optimal project benefits.
It appears that there has been a tendency to treat environmental documents merely as
paperwork that must be fulfilled as a formal requirement for the administration of a project,
without any obligation to put them into realization. This attitude has influenced project
management as well as the affected community. Due to this neglect, it has not been possible
to evaluate environmental management achievements compared with SUDP objectives.
Generally, the main constraint to implementing satisfactory enviionmental management has
been the non-existence of a budget to monitor and implement the agreed measures. This has
caused a missing link in the chain of control by the Borrower and the Bank. Evaluation of the
environmental aspect is considered as unsatisfactory because the required documentation (as
set out in the SAR) has not been made available, if it ever existed.
6.9   Institutional Aspects
Generally the problems experienced by KMS with regard to strengthening its institutions are
(i) the structural organization and work procedures that are not yet filliy implemented and (ii)
the proposed training to improve capability is not yet fiully implemented. The problems
related to institutions are among others:
X  No clear job description, much overlapping between working units with SUDP
components, no clear work procedures and no hierarchy ofauthority.
* Rules existed but probably they should have been improved, or there were no rules at all.
*  Inadequate Iuman resources, either in qualifications or experience There has been a lack
of motivation and work access. There were limited facilities and means to do the work.
*  Coordination between working units was not optimal
Indepenlent Governnienl Evaluation ofProject Inmpeinentoaton          Page 8 of 1 8
-73-



Surabaya Urban Developmaent Projeci (SUDP)
*  Evaluation instruments are still simple, without clear expressions such as "k  or g Q".
 Bappeda was charged with coordination of plans and programs, whilst UMU coordinated
implementation and reporting. Actually, UMU need not be established, when the formal
unit is solid, because UMU's role was to strengthen the Bappeda.
Requirements to attend the courses is not yet final, which has been caused among others by:
* The selection process for candidate participation was not clear. Often, other tasks were
considered more important, so that less qualified personnel were assigned.
 The assigned personnel were not informed what they have to face in the SUDP program.
They were ignorant of the aims and benefits that could be acquired by the training,
resulting in low motivation. This is quite different with other courses (non-SUDP) like the
Course for Local Treasurer (KBD) or the Course for Project Management (KMP), which
are far more promising, because it is included in the requirement for promotion to
Treasurer or Project Manager.
* The effect of training on the performance of working units has been adequate, because
several factors are of importance to implementation of the task. However, it is not
possible to define whetber this has been the result of SUDP training, or of other factors.
7. Potential Benefits ofAction Plan to 2004
The Govemment has worked with KMS and JBIC (formerly OECF) to implement selected
priority investments that were not completed during the original SUDP schedule because of
funding constraints, especially fbr land acquisition. Whilst this plan does not tackle all the
original components, it will serve to complete key objectives as follows:
* the eastern water supply ring main will be completed to provide an integrated system in
accordance with initial project planning. This will allow the PDAM to distribute water to
more consumers, and convey additional volumes of treated water from Karangpilang 11
(and also stage III within 5 years as demand for new connections increases);
 further property connections will be made so that the total number of connections will be
closer to original SUDP targets although later than planned because during the crisis it
was difficult for people to pay for new connections;
* new road investments to be made by KMS will contribute towards improved traffic flow
in the central eastern and south eastem parts of the city; and
* investments with estimated costs Rp. 66.6 billion by KMS from their own funds are
proposed for completing Kalibokor that will provide an integrated drainage arrangement
in the north east ofthe city by end 2002.
Unfortunately, the high priority main drainage / flood control drainage channels that were the
responsibility of Pengairan in central government have not been completed under SUDP,
resulting in a low benefit for many communities in the coastal plains (see also lessons learnt).
Idckepenkni Govyernnment Evahlation ofProjec Impleanentorion         Pnae 9 of 18
-74-



Surobavn Urban Development Projeca (SUJDP)
The action plan does not address these project components because it has been institutionally
too complex to resolve.
8. Support by the Bank
It is assessed that the role of the staff members of the Bank in the identification and
preparation of the project was not so concrete, because they did not become intensely
involved in local problems. In this matter we see that the Bank staff only made adaptations to
existing reports, and was less interested in checking in the field.
In the SAR are specified the technical aspects that should be addressed by the Bank's staff, to
ensure whether they are in compliance or not. In these things, it seems that the Bank's staff
have not contributed sufficiently to the substance of the documentation.
The evaluation process has a broader sense; it includes the process of appraisal and the
physical evaluation. In this phase the Bank should be more intensely busy with the evaluation
and supervision. This lack of intensity is seen from the frequency of field visits, which is
more focused during the consolidation phase facing the final report. Looking back, a case
could have been made to mobilize an Indonesian staff member from the Bank to be based in
Surabaya to interact with all the concerned agencies, at least in the preparation period' and in
the initial 2 years of implementation.
In general the Bank's support was helpful, but in retrospect it was probably not sufficient nor
adequately focussed on the responsible implementation units. Too much emphasis was given
to the role of the UMU that was only a temporary unit designed to serve the project and then
to melt away. It has been argued that this was the result also of lack of knowledge of
Indonesian government by some of the Task Managers, perhaps adding further justification to
mobilize a Bank representative to the locality for any future large multi-sectoral project.
9.    Project Outcome and Sustainability
Concerning the evaluation of the outcome, results of the project development activities
indicate that for all the sectors there has been some benefit. The investments have increased
the levels of service and have achieved a positive impact in selected areas of the city.
However, these benefits are not yet adequate to meet original overall project objectives
caused mainly by land acquisition funding constraints for national urban roads and drainage
and flood control components. This has caused increased traffic congestion in key areas of
the city where SUDP components have been postponed. Local drainage improvements have
provided relief from flooding in the easteni part of the city. However, in the central west area
the major SUDP flood alleviation measures have not been implemented, with the
consequence that low-income communities are still subjected to major frequent flooding that
also causes traffic congestion. This has been caused to a large extent by institutional
problems that probably require ministerial level intervention to resolve.
'Tis night possibly have rcsultd in a more efricient and cffcctive preparation effort thal actuially occtirred.
Independent Gowrnment Eva/lot ion ofProject Implementation             Page 10 ,of 18
-75-



S'urabova Urbdan Development Project (SUDP)
The evaluation of the service level in each sector vary. The water supply is presently not
adequate because connection targets have not been achieved and there are frequent problems
of raw water and treated water quality. In the drainage sector and the urban road sector, the
result is good in selected locations but is lacking in overall benefit because important links
have not been implemented. In the sanitation sector the development of IPLT Keputib has
provided benefit to serve 200,000 residents and achieve better effluent quality Although this
is considered acceptable, the reduced transportation objectives have not been achieved
because of land acquisition difficulties in western Surabaya. The sewerage program did not
even start, except for the technical assistance for planning and design. The KIP
Comprehensive program has supported poverty alleviation, but indicators are not adequate to
demonstrate benefit or indeed if the alleviation would have happened anyway without SUDP.
Project sustainability may be influenced by '7follow-on activities" through continuation or
extension of the project components. The commitment of the local government and PDAM to
continue projects is reflected in the existence of the action plan for pending packages, which
are strategic and conform with the city development plans. Project sustainability must also be
measured through assessment of financial aspects, project management, and community
participation, and also whether the local.government will continue to implement originally
identified planned components without the Bank's financing support. -Present indications are
that SUDP must generally be considered as sustainable because what happened before and
during the project, and is happening after the project, are a continuum - the Bank's role
should be seen as providing funds for a 5-year time slice after which KMS and PDAM will
continue to function in an acceptable and improved manner within the Indonesian context.
Limited KMS funds have been and still are a serious constraint. Operation and maintenance
costs are just being met, but the overall improvement expected under the project has not been
realized. PAD revenues must be further improved and alternative funding sources defined to
finalize original large SUDP components that are still important to an efficient Surabaya
urban system and to achieve improved urban environments such as relief of flooding in the Jn.
Banyu Urip area and the introduction of wastewater management proposals to contribute
towards improved community health. Funds are also required to address new urban
development needs that have arisen during implementation.
Further efforts to empower the KMS apparatus are taking place in response to the
decentralization opportunities. There is no doubt that the city's institutions and agencies have
benefited from the experience of SUDP implementation, but there are still significant
improvements to be achieved (but a future SUDP type program may not be the right vehicle).
The involvement of the community in the program preparation and planing is now accepted
as having high importance, it was absent from much of the SLUDP preparation effort despite
the role of UNCHS in the early stages of the project preparation. Even so, it is assessed that
the program structure and its components, and implementation would have been substantially
the same apart from resettlement to the sites and services area in eastern Surabaya (which has
not generally been accepted by the project affected persons).
Indsendnii Governm,eni Evalitafinn r,,Proiect I,:wlententation   Plave I1 et 18
-76-



Sureabva Urban Deeluopinint Proyect (SUDP)
Apart from the O&M costs that must be provided, the water supply sector requires
restructuring of tariffs and implementation of new facilities to meet higher demand and serve
the urban poor. A significant effort is being made to increase the number of properties
connected but central government support may be required to promote a further extension of
this initiative.
Sustainability of the urban road sector will be handicapped where street flooding persists so it
is important that originally proposed key components of the drainage system be implemented.
Frequent flooding is still a very serious problem in Surabaya, therefore central and local
government should revisit original SUDP objectives and develop an urban flood remedial
pi oZram, and identify a suitable institutional framework and funding source that can respond
to lct;al community needs.
The SUDP sanitation components that were implemented are sustainable, but the original
concept of making a start to providing sewerage did not get past the detailed design effort.
When there is a more environmentally concerned group of individuals within KMS, at least
part of the city could be considered an excellent pilot area for a comprehensive urban
wastewater management and sanitation initiative.
10. Lessons Learnt
The Bank's draft ICR that accompanied the request for an independent government evaluation
of project implementation is extremely critical of SUDP, almost to the extent that a reader
might feel that nothing was implemented. This is not true of selected individual project
components, but it is acknowledged that overall program objectives were not achieved
because a significant number of key project components could not be completed due to
funding constraints, especially for land acquisition.
Looking back, the Government assesses that project preparition was poorly planned, and was
not a cohesive or well coordinated effort. The resulting SAR and Loan Agreement contained
some elements that were not well formulated, or that did not necessarily meet local needs and
priorities. These documents did not conform to the Govemment's formal position at
negotiation as set out in documentation signed by the former Minister of Public Works. It is
also doubtful that enough personnel had a clear understanding of all the project objectives
that were appraised and formed the basis of loan negotiations. Implementation evaluation
should therefore be measured against what could have been achieved rather than the task that
was set during the preparation effort. Perhaps the very long preparation period should have
been a warning to all concerned that SUDP was simply too complicated and did not fijly
belong to the local government because there are indications that it was not fully understood
in the city; there was certainly a lack of consensus building.
Apart from possibly being too complicated, SUDP suffered from the parallel financing
arrangements whereby JBIC (then OECF) financed national urban roads, flood control /
drainage projects and a limited amount of KMS solid waste collection and transportation
equipment lmplementation of some of these components was a necessary precursor to
successful completion of Bank funded projects. Major cut backs in OECF funded drainage
InteDendlent Govermuenl Em'aluation of Proijec Irmpleienlation      I'age 12 of 18
-77-



Surabava Urban Devtop lent Projec* (SUDP)
and flood control programs will have a severe negative impact on many city drainage
systems, and also contribute towards damage of many urban roads (including some roads and
drains that were implemented under SUDP). Differences in approach to land acquisition and
setting incorrect drainage priorities would not have occurred if the Bank was the sole project
lender. So for future complex urban development progams. there should be only one funding
ag&nc .
Another lesson learnt is that the Govemment, the Bank and OECF should have paid greater
attention to SUDP financing problems at a much earlier stage, and cancelled loan funds more
quickly to avoid commitment charges. All the land acquisition funding constraints were
known at Loan Effectiveness, but insufflcient attention was given to the documentation
prepared by KMS in 1994 and 1995.
At the same time, considerable effort was made by KMS with consultant support to show that
drainage practices for low lying areas should be adopted instead of the outdated Rational
Design Method. Central Govemment was just not prepared to listen to KMS, proceeding
instead with their own agenda that did not address the city's drainage priorities nor the overall
SUDP urban flood alleviation objectives.
The 1997/98 was an extrao4dinary unforeseen event. As soon as it happened, the Government
and the Bank should have slashed the remaining loan funds to reduce loan commitment
charges and also redefine the project to achieve an affordable investment program. The post
evaluations could then have been based on this more modest set of objectives. The response
by all parties was just not qtuck enough, but it is easy to observe after the event. At the time,
everyone's energy was being channeled into urban poverty reduction efforts, so less attention
was being given to the fuller picture.
Lastly, the institutional arrangements between the Executing Agency, KMS and PDAM were
not successful. Undoubtedly there were some personality difficulties, but in essence the
arrangements were flawed. This evaluation is not the place to analyze these problems, but for
future projects much greater importance should be given to the established formal agencies to
ensure their development and achieve sustainability. Temporary units such as UMU should
have played a more supportive guiding role, instead of the prominence given it by the Bank
and the Executing Agency under SUDP.
rtucJcenacni    ;<.  -~/.-,,n Of Project InpleorwnenCion           Pt'ge 13of 8 S
-78-



Surabeav Urban Developmnent Project (SUDP)
ANNEX A
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM BAPPENAS
In overall, we appreciate the ICR draft prepared by the World Bank. We found that the ICR is
objective in measuring the Bank Perforrmance rating.
We also found that the ICR pointed the land acquisition financing as the key factor in
affecting the project negatively. However, it would be more objective and proportional to
describe that land acquisition issue by explaining the reason or the background of national
policy change regarding the land acquisition financing.
In between the loan negotiation and the loan effectiveness, due to the national budget
constraint, there was an inescapable situation to change the national policy regarding the land
acquisition. The new policy of land acquisition financing is the central government policy,
meaning it was agreed by several related central agencies. In other words, the new policy was
not merely agreed by Bappenas.
In the negotiation, Bappenas acted as the head of Indonesian delegation. In that capacity,
Bappenas represents the Government of Indonesia. Every committed point in negotiations
was agreed by both the World Bank side and the Government of Indonesia side. Therefore,
we disagree that the commnitment of land acquisition and related responsibilities was lost with
the sudden death of the Bappenas Deputy Chairman in 1995.
Every commitment stated by the Bappenas Deputy Chairman in the time of negotiation is the
commitment of Government of Indonesian. Hence, each related stakeholder in Surabaya UDP
is responsible to take part in fulfilling the GOI commitment.
Moreover, it does not correctly reflect the real fact to mention that Bappenas rejected or
refused to honor the negotiated obligation. The unavoidable national policy change in land
acquisition affected not only Surabaya UDP but also other urban projects. It would bring
negative impression if the central government give an exceptional for Surabaya UDP in land
acquisition policy.
Due to the national policy change, Bappenas sent letters to KMS and East Java province to
informed the new policy and its implication to the arrangement of land acquisition financing,
particularly in relation to the central financing arrangement. With that letters, Bappenas
expected the adjustment of project scope, financing arrangement, and activities schedule. It
also should be noted that in fact not all the needed lands provision funded by local
governments, the central government also still attempted and gave contribution in the land
acquisition financing. For that reason, it is clear that there is no any intention of Bappenas to
refuse or reject to honor the negotiated obligation.
Concerning the TKPP, we view that the main role of TKPP is developing and evaluating the
national urban development policy. In this matter, the executing agency plays a key role in
overall supervision of each urban project. Therefore, the project supervision still should be
able to implement, regardless the TKPP existence.
Jnfdepenlent Goverrnment Evluamion ofProjeci Iniplewenini ion     Page 14of1 8
-79-



Surabqva Urban Deivelopment Project (SUOP)
ANNEX B
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM KOTA SURABAYA
1.    General
An implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a portrait of the whole implementation
activities of a project. It is not just a comparison record of the pre-implementation figures and
post-implementation figures. The ICR should carefully analyze whole implementation
aspects.
SUDP is a very complicated program, many components implemented by different level of
agencies from central, provincial and municipal level. The capacity of implementing agencies
varies from one to another. It needs a very strong coordination in implementation.
Constraints, handicaps and difficulties are major part in the implementation.
During preparation of SUDP, some assumptions were taken into consideration. During
implementation such assumptions are not in place. An important example is land acquisition
mechanism. During preparation, land acquisition mechanism is mainly managed by Mayoral
Decrees. During implementation, Keppres 55 (1993) should be adopted, in addition IBRD
forced to apply EBRD mechanism (known as OD 4.30) for land acquisition and resettlement
process. Implementing agency staff did hot have sufficient understanding to carry out such
mechanisms. Meanwhile, the people had their interpretation of the Keppres 55 for their
interes. As a result, there was long delay of negotiation for land acquisition due both sides did
not have sufficient understanding about new mechanisms In some case, negotiation totally
failed to obtain agreement. Implementing agency staff often get frustrated to find optional
solution for the land acquisition process.
The ICR of SUDP (MIRD Report 22214-IND) provides insufficient perspective of the whole
implementation of SLIDP. Activities, process, constraints, handicaps, changing, and all results
.during the implementation should be components of the ICR. Unfortunately, the SUDP ICR
does not provide sufficient information about the analysis of the implementation. The report
mainly compares the appraised subprojects and the results of the project. (The report even
does not include the final figures of SUDP). It seems that the report implies a lack of
understanding iri the whole process of the implementation of SUDP. The report does not fully
touch real daily life of the project implementation. The ICR is still far from balance, and fair.
The approach in preparation of the ICR is based on a very narrow perspective. In fact, a lot of
information and documentation that can be used to analyze the implementation. IBRD Aide
Memoires, correspondence, no objection letters and supervision missions (discussions) are
available to provide sufficient information.
The report rates several items into satisfactory, unsatisfactory etc. However there is no
sufficient explanation about the measurement system for the rates. For example in order to
achieve satisfactory status what should be performed. Is it based on observation, scoring
system or others. The Final Report ICR of SUDP (December), issued by Directorate General
Urban and Rural Development, shows different rates of the implementation. The ICR SUDP
(IBRD version and Directorate General Urban Development version) has different results.
The reports may have different approach, so, the results are different. In that case, different
agencies will have different results for the same items. Therefore, any one can have different
conclusion of the implementation of SUDP.
Independent Goverrnent Favtuatiod? of Projeci Implemlenteaion       J'oge 13 of 18
-80-



Surnboyn Urban DevelopnmenL Projc&t (SUDP)
The report does not assess the impact of economic crisis.  The economic crisis has
tremendous impacts on KMS and PDAM cash flow, the capability to provide equity budget
dropped dramatically. Therefore, many project packages changed.
2.    SUDP Scopes
a.    Project Components
Road and Traffic Management.
Changing of packages project in the implementation is due to technical problems in the field.
IBRD supervised the implementation. Although official supervision mission from
Washington was not so often, particularly in the beginning of implementation, IBRD Jakarta
representative officials were quite often visited Surabaya. From Surabaya point of view,
anyone, from IBRD office (Jakarta or Washington), is an official supervision mission. Any
visit to Surabaya from Jakarta IBRD office provided assistance and opinion. No objection
letters and Letter of Acknowledgment are issued. There is no rejection by IBRD to the
proposed project packages. One must be aware, that capacity of KMS staff in procurement
Waler Supply
During mid period of implementation PDAM has explained about the house connections in
the low-income areas. A detailed explanation to EBRD has been submitted at that time. Due
to economic crisis, low-income people loose their power to connect to the water supply
network. The priority of low-income people was changing to the most basic needs.
There are several kelurahans in C-KIP areas connected with water supply from PDAM under
initiative from the community. C-KIP provided assistance to the community to be connected
to PDAM network.
Stormwater Drainage
Major constraint during implementation is land acquisition. As mentioned above, related
agencies for land acquisition did not have sufficient time to master the Keppres 55, 1993 and
the IBRD OD 4.30. LARAP was prepared under intensive assistance of IBRD staff, almost
at the completion period of implementation. Again, the field staff needs enough time to- digest
the LARAP and mechanisms.
H7mtan wasle
GOI is very concern about human waste. During implementation, there are a lot of handicaps
and constraints in the field. Site selection is very difficult. The willingness and the affbrdable
of the target group are too low. Public campaign was carried out intensively, however, the
respond from the people is not sufficient to support the operation of the system. Cost per-
capita for investment and for operation of the system is high. IBRD involved in all process
and steps of the implementation. At the end, IBRD rejected physical implementation of
Benowo wastewater plant proposed by Cipta Karya. Cancellation of sanitation is the most
appropriate option to avoid further inefficient investment.
Independent Govermntent Evaluation of Project lmplenientalion        Page 16 of 18
-81-



Surabaya Urban Developrnenl Projecr (SUDP)
Kampting Improvement Program
There are C-KIP and Physical KIP in the implementation of SUDP. C-KIP was implemented
late because the implementing agency took a lot of time to ensure the mechanism and process
of implementation. The implementation in 15 kampungs is very successful, the responds of
the people are very high to participate in the program. Cancellation of the second 15
kampung is due to cancellation of USS 30 million from SLA KMS. Physical KIP was
implemented in accordance to the need in 104 kampungs.
Site and Servtcesfor Resettlement
The plot is allocated for the project affected people. Until March 2001, the PAP needs to
complete administration procedures in order to be in the plot.
b.    Institutional Developments
Generally, changing of personnel is a routine activity in a big organization such KMS. A lot
of factors in contributed to the changing process. Mayor of Surabaya did not have full
authority in selection of new personnel in KMS official. East Java Province had to approve
the appointing of key personnel. (In some cases, the Mayor could not do anything). The
Mayor has full authority in appointing personnel for KMS after the effectiveness of New
Local Government Act in irniary 2001.
it is admitted that some key personnel who involved during preparation removed to other
positions. During the implementation of SUDP, changing of the key personnel who involved
during preparation contributed to lack of coordination amongst the implementing agencies.
Due to personal difficulties, the Mayor did not have sufficient and appropriate support of
information in decision making process. The new personnel did not have sufficient capacity
to coordinate and to manage the implementing agencies because they did not have sufficient
understanding in the project.
Indepeneknt Government Fvnlunlion ofProjed Inmplenenlalion       Paos J 7 of I S
-82-



Svrabqva Urban Developnent Project (SUDP)
ANNEX C
SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF IBRD AND OECF LOAN AMOUNTS
In the SAR document, the planned funding of SUDP has a total of USS 617.6 million,
consisting of Local Funds of USS 409.0 million and Foreign Funds of USS 208.6 million. Of
the Foreign Funds df USS 208.6 million, the IBRD share is USS 84.3 million and the OECF
share is USS 124.3 million. From the total funds of USS 617.6 mnillion, is planned for: Urban
Road and TMS US$ 121.0 million, for Water Supply USS 160.6 million, for Drainage USS
141.7 million, for Solid Waste USS 6.6 million, for Sanitation USS 19.9 million, fbr KIP USS
22.7 million for Resettlement US$ 2.2 million, for Technical Assistance USS 33.6 million;
and for contingencies (physical and price) USS 109.3 million.
Based on the Original Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the amount of
the OECF Loan (JBIC IP-400) is JPY 11,251 million, consisting of the Central Government
Loan of WPY 5,818 million, PDAM-SLA of IPY 4,934 million and KMS-SLA of PY 499
million. Whereas the amount of IBRD Loan 3726-IMD of USS 175.0 million, consist of the
Central Government Loan of USS 21.7 million, PDAM-SLA of USS 85.0 million and KMS-
SLA of USS 68.3 million. In the implementation, either the OECF Loan (JBIC IP-400) on the
I3RD Loan 3726-IND were revised, with regard to the principle amount and the closing date
of the loan.
The principle amount of OECF Loan (JBIC IP400) was increased into JPY 15,511.53
million, divided in Central Government Loan of JPY 8,979.88 million, PDAM-SLA of lPY
5,954.00 million, and KMS-SLA of PY 577.65 million. The closing date was extended from
10 March 2001 to 10 March 2004. The total absorbed funds up to 30 September 2000 was
WPY 8,146 million or 74.4%S. of the ptinciple. Of the Central Government Loan is realized WY
3,638 million or 65.9% of the principle, which is for the funding of Artery Road and
Drainage (PSAPB Brantas). Of the PDAM-SLA is realized JPY 4,057 million or 82.2%o of
the principle. Of the KMS-SLA is realized JPY 451 million or 90.4% of the principle, which
is fbr the physical costs of Solid Waste and Technical Assistance (UMU Advisor and the
Solid Waste Management of Dinas Kebersihan).
The principle amount of IBRD Loan 3726-lND was reduced into USS 110.0 million, divided
in Central Government Loan of USS 21.7 million, PDAM-SLA of USS 50.0 million and
KMS-SLA of US$ 38.3 million. The closing date was extended from 30 September 1999 to
30 Septernber 2000. Of the total Loan is contracted USS 93.0 million and until 30 September
2000 was absorbed USS 91.28 million or 83.0/o of the principle.
I4kemnelerIt Goverm,ent Evaluation ofProjecr ltp#einlenntion      Page le of I 8
-83-



