Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3726 IND
                                Loan Agreement
                     (Surabaya Urban Development Project)
                                    between
                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                      and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated May 17, 1994
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3726 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B) the Borrower has entered into an agreement, dated
February 26, 1993, (the First OECF Loan Agreement) with the Japan
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) for a loan (the First OECF
Loan) in an amount of Japanese Yen 11,251,000,000 to assist in
financing Parts A, B, C, D, and H of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the First OECF Loan Agreement;
      (C) the Borrower also intends to contract from OECF a loan
(the Second OECF Loan) in an amount equivalent to about $81,000,000
to further assist in financing Parts A, B, C, D, and H of Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Second OECF
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
      "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the
            Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Affected Person" and "Affected Persons" means
individually the person and collectively the persons whose right,
title or interest in any property is acquired or is intended to be
acquired or whose property is otherwise possessed or intended to be
possessed and who as a result thereof has been or would be displaced
or dispossessed from his/their habitat or land or precluded from
carrying out his/their business, occupation or work on account of
the execution of Parts A.1 and C.1-C.2 of the Project; and "Affected
Family" means the immediate members of the Affected Person's family
residing with the Affected Person at the time of said acquisition or
possession of the Affected Person's property.
      (b)   "BAPPEDA I" means the provincial development planning
agency, or any successor thereto, of East Java Province, a political
sub-division of the Borrower.
      (c)   "BPN" means Badan Pertanahan Nasional, the National Land
Agency of the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
      (d)   "Eligible Beneficiaries" means the selected individuals
to whom Sub-loans (as the term is defined herein) are provided out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (e)   "Implementing Agencies" means Directorate General of
Bina Marga (Highways) (DGBM), Cipta Karya (Human Settlements) (DGCK)
and Pengairan (Water Resource Development) (DGP) within MPW, BPN,
BAPPEDA I, KMS, and PDAM (as the terms are defined herein).
      (f)   "KMS" means Kotamadya Surabaya, the Surabaya municipal
government.
      (g)   "MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works or
any successor thereto.
      (h)   "Operational Action Plan" means the action plan, agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, for various Implementing Agencies
including KMS and PDAM to carry out their respective Parts of the
Project, as such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
Page  3
      (i)   "PDAM" means Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum, a Surabaya
local government water supply enterprise, established and operating
pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower's Law No. 5 of 1962, Law
No. 5 of 1974, Decree No. 26 of 1975 of the Borrower's Ministry of
Home Affairs, and Joint Decree of the Borrower's Ministry of Home
Affairs No. 3 of 1984 and the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works
No. 26/KPTS of 1984, as any of the same may be amended from time to
time.
      (j)   "PIA" means the Project Implementation Agreement entered
or to be entered into between the Borrower and KMS and PDAM pursuant
to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
      (k)   "Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan" means the
Surabaya Urban Roads and Drainage Compensation and Resettlement
Plan, dated October 1992, prepared by KMS and DGCK, MPW for carrying
out the resettlement and rehabilitation of each Affected Person and
Affected Family, as such plan may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
      (l)   "respective Parts of the Project" means, in respect of
(i) KMS, Parts A, C, D, E, F, G and H.1-H.6 of the Project, and (ii)
PDAM, Parts B and H.7 of the Project.
      (m)   "SLAs" means, collectively, the subsidiary loan
agreements entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and
KMS and the Borrower and PDAM respectively pursuant to Section 3.03
(b) of this Agreement; and "SLA" means any of the SLAs.
      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
      (o)   "Sub-loans" means the loans granted to Eligible
Beneficiaries out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part F.2 of the
Project pursuant to paragraph 7 (b) (i) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (p)   "Surabaya" means the Surabaya municipality, a political
sub-division of the Borrower, or any successor or successors
thereto.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred seventy five million dollars
($175,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c) For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
Implementing Agencies, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
environmental and resettlement practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a project
implementation agreement with KMS and PDAM on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank including those set forth in paragraph 6 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (b) The Borrower shall make $68,300,000 and $85,500,000
equivalent out of the proceeds of the Loan available to KMS and PDAM
respectively under subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the
Bank including the following: (i) the interest payable on the
principal amount of its subsidiary loan withdrawn by KMS or PDAM
from time to time shall be at rates equal to six-month average of
three-month Sertifikat Bank Indonesia rates subject to a maximum
rate of 14% and a minimum rate equal to the rate of interest payable
under Section 2.05 of this Agreement plus 1.75%; (ii) the commitment
charge payable on the principal amount of its subsidiary loan not
withdrawn by KMS or PDAM from time to time shall be equivalent to
the rate prescribed by Section 2.04 of this Agreement; (iii) the
term of each subsidiary loan shall be 20 years; (iv) financial and
other covenants shall be prescribed for KMS and PDAM as per
paragraphs 7 and 8 respectively of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the PIA and
SLAs in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and
the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement;
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project, and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the PIA or SLAs or any provisions thereof.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
Page  6
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   KMS or PDAM shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the PIA.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that KMS or PDAM will be able to
perform its obligations under the PIA.
      (c)   The laws and regulations establishing KMS or PDAM shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, or repealed so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of KMS or PDAM to perform any
of its obligations under the PIA.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of KMS or PDAM or for the suspension of its operations; and
      (e)   The Second OECF Loan Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by June 30, 1996, or such later date as the Bank
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
Page  7
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (f)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the agreement providing the same, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of ninety
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
the PIA and SLAs have been executed by the parties thereto.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that (a) the PIA, and (b) the SLAs
have been duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are
legally binding upon said parties in accordance with their
respective terms.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
Page  8
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta 10710
            Indonesia
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-IA,
                  Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                          197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                        By  /s/ Arifin M. Siregar
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By  /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                           Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  9
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:
      (a) under Parts A,        42,800,000      60%
          C, D, E, F, and
          G of the Project
      (b) under Part B          23,800,000      70%
          of the Project
(2)   Goods (excluding          50,300,000      100% of foreign
      vehicles and                              expenditures, 100%
      computers)                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 65% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Sub-loans                  6,500,000      60% of amounts
                                                disbursed
(4)   Consultants'              36,000,000      100%
      services and
      training
(5)   Unallocated               15,600,000
                               ___________
      TOTAL                    175,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may be made in
respect of Categories 1, 2, and 4 on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 31, 1993.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and works not exceeding two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
improve: (a) the urban service levels particularly for the poor; (b)
the productivity and effectiveness of investments; (c) the quality
of the environment; and (d) the local government management, finance
and resource generation and allocation, in Surabaya.
Page  10
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Urban Roads and Traffic Management
      1.    Construction and improvement of national, regional, and
local roads and bridges through sub-projects comprising: (a) about
10 kilometers of arterial roads; (b) about 35 kilometers of partial
or half-width arterial roads; (c) about 5 kilometers of full
arterial roads; (d) about 140 kilometers of local roads; and (e)
about 15 kilometers of improved main collector roads.
      2.    Carrying out of sub-projects for non-routine maintenance
of urban roads, traffic management works, and provision of equipment
and facilities therefor.
      3.    Carrying out of area traffic management schemes in five
central city sub-areas.
      4.    Building and calibrating a traffic management model
including the reformulation of transport strategy to emphasize the
priority of public transport.
      5.    Institutional strengthening of KMS's departments and
agencies responsible for roads and traffic management including the
establishment of a new section for traffic management within KMS and
strengthening of KMS's Road Maintenance Unit through the provision
of technical assistance.
Part B:     Water Supply and Distribution
      1.    Rehabilitation of the water distribution system.
      2.    Expansion of the transmission mains and primary,
secondary, and tertiary distribution networks.
      3.    Installation of about 190,000 new water service
connections.
      4.    Construction of pumping stations at Wonocolo and Putat
Gede and related elevated and ground reservoirs and provision of
equipment therefor.
      5.    Carrying out of a public hydrant installation program
targeted towards low income households who cannot afford a house
connection in poorly served areas of Surabaya.
      6.    Construction of the second Karang Pilang Water Treatment
Plant to treat about two cubic meters per second of raw water from
the Surabaya river.
Part C:     Storm Water Drainage
      1.    Provision of new and improved storm water drainage
system.
      2.    Conversion of irrigation channels into storm drainage.
      3.    Institutional strengthening of KMS's capacity for the
operation and maintenance of the storm drainage system.
Part D:     Solid Waste Management
      1.    Construction and rehabilitation of collection depots and
transfer stations.
      2.    Provision of new containers, waste bins, hand carts and
trucks, and overhaul of existing compactors and bulldozers including
operation and maintenance thereof.
Part E:     Human Waste and Waste Water Disposal System
Page  11
      1.    Carrying out of a pilot human waste/waste water program
comprising the construction and rehabilitation of: (a) a waste water
treatment plant; (b) ponds for septic tank sludge disposal with
prior treatment by anaerobic digestion; (c) small bore shallow and
conventional sewers including about two pumping stations; and (d)
digesters, thickeners, drying beds and ponds for septage treatment.
      2.    Construction and rehabilitation of public showers,
washing and toilet facilities in new and densely populated areas.
      3.    Provision of about five sludge collecting vehicles and
pumps.
      4.    Provision of a pumping station to take dry weather
polluted flows from the Gunungsari channel away from polluted
sections of the Surabaya river.
Part F:     Kampung Improvement Program
      1.    Carrying out of a program of physical infrastructure
improvements in fringe area Kampungs and rehabilitation of some
existing Kampung areas.
      2.    Carrying out of a household loan program to assist the
urban poor to install about 30,000 septic tanks, and to improve
about 15,000 homes and bathroom facilities.
      3.    Carrying out of a land management program to improve the
granting of planning permission, land registration certificates, and
building permits.
      4.    Supporting a community development program through
training and other activities to enable Kampungs to identify
community problems, potential and resources and to develop the
community's self reliance for problem solving.
Part G:     Resettlement and Rehabilitation
      Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons including:
(a) the provision of (i) housing, serviced plots, building
materials, utilities, civic facilities, access roads, and (ii)
training; and (b) the administration, monitoring and evaluation
thereof.
Part H:  Technical Assistance and Training
      Provision of technical assistance and training for:
      1.    Project coordination and management;
      2.    Human resource development and training, including
community development;
      3.    Monitoring and implementation of measures to ensure the
execution of the Project in accordance with sound environmental
standards and resettlement policies;
      4.    Improvement of land management and revenue generation
from taxes on land and buildings;
      5.    Carrying out of studies to develop: (a) greater Surabaya
metropolitan area urban policy to the year 2010, (b) sewerage and
sanitation master plan, and (c) urban freight distribution master
plan;
      6.    Improvement of the Implementing Agencies' institutional
capabilities in managing finance and materials supply; and
      7.    Improvement of PDAM's capabilities in water meter
maintenance, human waste and waste water management, water quality
monitoring, leak detection and utilization of computer systems.
Page  12
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1999                         3,315,000
May 1, 2000                              3,435,000
November 1, 2000                         3,560,000
May 1, 2001                              3,690,000
November 1, 2001                         3,825,000
May 1, 2002                              3,965,000
November 1, 2002                         4,105,000
May 1, 2003                              4,255,000
November 1, 2003                         4,410,000
May 1, 2004                              4,570,000
November 1, 2004                         4,740,000
May 1, 2005                              4,910,000
November 1, 2005                         5,090,000
May 1, 2006                              5,275,000
November 1, 2006                         5,465,000
May 1, 2007                              5,665,000
November 1, 2007                         5,870,000
May 1, 2008                              6,085,000
November 1, 2008                         6,305,000
May 1, 2009                              6,535,000
November 1, 2009                         6,770,000
May 1, 2010                              7,015,000
November 1, 2010                         7,270,000
May 1, 2011                              7,535,000
November 1, 2011                         7,810,000
May 1, 2012                              8,095,000
November 1, 2012                         8,390,000
May 1, 2013                              8,695,000
November 1, 2013                         9,010,000
May 1, 2014                              9,340,000
_____________________________
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
Page  13
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
      1. Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred
to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank,
one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other
to the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b) In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
      2. Bidders for civil works under Parts A, B, C, E, F, and G of
the Project shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of
the Guidelines.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D: Other Procurement Procedures
      1. Civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000
Page  14
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $95,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
      2. (a) Except as provided in sub-paragraph (b) hereof, goods,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
      (b) Goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
Part E: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
      1.  Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a) With respect to each contract for (i) civil works,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and (ii)
goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
      3. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause the relevant Implementing
Agencies to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
Page  15
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1994, submit to the Bank
a proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, for mitigating pollution at
Kenjeran landfill and, thereafter, carry out the mitigation measures
included in the said proposal in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    The Borrower shall, commencing in December 1994, annually
review the previous year's operation and maintenance expenditures of
KMS and PDAM and, in case these are found to be less than the
amounts agreed with the Bank, cause KMS and PDAM to make up the
difference in the said expenditures during the following year.
3.    (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with an implementation schedule agreed with the Bank.
      (b) The Borrower shall: (i) make or cause the relevant
Implementing Agencies to make funds available for acquiring land
required for carrying out of their respective parts of the Project
at least one year before the scheduled start of implementation under
the said schedule; and (ii) cause KMS to, by April 30, 1995, acquire
the land required for resettlement under Part G of the Project
during the year following the said date in a manner consistent with
its obligations hereunder.
4.    The Borrower shall carry out the training under the Project
according to a program, agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank, in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.    The Borrower shall: (a) select sub-projects for Parts A.1 and
A.2 of the Project for financing under the Loan from its annual
works program in accordance with principles, criteria and procedures
agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank, (b) by April 30 of each year
commencing in 1995 submit, for the Bank's approval, a proposal (in
a form agreed with the Bank) for each selected subproject to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan including, as required, anenvironmental 
action plan and/or a resettlement and rehabilitation
action and monitoring plan(s) therefor, and (c) ensure that during
the execution of each approved sub-project the environmental action
plan and resettlement and rehabilitation action and monitoring
plan(s), if any, therefor are carried out in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
6.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the PIA shall
include, inter alia, provisions whereby:
      (a)   KMS and PDAM shall declare their commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to that end, they shall agree to undertake their
respective Parts of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering, environmental and resettlement practices, and to
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required therefor. Without limitation upon the
foregoing, KMS and PDAM shall, except as the Borrower and the Bank
may otherwise agree, carry out their respective Parts of the Project
in accordance with the Operational Action Plan.
      (b)   KMS and PDAM shall agree that procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under this Agreement shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   KMS and PDAM shall agree to use the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan exclusively for the
purposes of the Project.
      (d)   KMS and PDAM shall agree that the Borrower or the Bank
Page  16
may from time to time inspect the goods, works and services under
the Project including all records and documents relating thereto.
      (e)   The Borrower may suspend or terminate the right of KMS
and PDAM to use the proceeds of the Loan made available under this
Agreement upon their failure to perform any obligations under the
PIA or upon notice by the Bank to the Borrower that it intends to
exercise its remedies under Article V of this Agreement.
      (f)   KMS and PDAM shall agree to promptly inform the Borrower
and the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of their respective portions of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan under this
Agreement, or the performance of their respective obligations under
the PIA.
      (g)   KMS and PDAM shall agree to cooperate fully with the
Borrower and the Bank to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished.  To that end, KMS and PDAM shall agree to: (i) from
time to time, at the request of either the Borrower or the Bank,
exchange views with the Borrower and/or the Bank regarding the
progress in carrying out their respective Parts of the Project or
the performance of their respective obligations under the PIA, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan, and (ii) furnish
all such information and documents related thereto as may reasonably
be requested.  KMS and PDAM shall further agree to provide such
information and documents as may be required by the Borrower to
fulfill its supervision, monitoring, recording and reporting
obligations to the Bank.
      (h)   KMS and PDAM shall agree to comply and assist the
Borrower in complying with the audit and accounting covenants in
respect of their respective Parts of the Projects.
      (i)   KMS shall agree to carry out the Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Action Plan, with due diligence and efficiency and in
a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. Without
limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, KMS shall further
agree specifically to:
            (i)    provide to Affected Persons adequate land,
                   residential and non residential structures, cash
                   compensation, services, and resettlement and
                   rehabilitation options in locations and on terms
                   and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
           (ii)    ensure that consultations with Affected Persons
                   are carried out in a manner satisfactory to the
                   Bank;
          (iii)    make available, commencing in June 1994, an
                   environmental assessment and environmental
                   assessment summary annually to the Affected
                   Persons in the year covered by such assessment;
                   and
           (iv)    make available to Affected Families either
                   serviced plots and cash compensation or
                   residential or non residential structures in
                   adequate numbers in accordance with the
                   objectives of the Resettlement and
                   Rehabilitation Action Plan, the informed
                   preference of the Affected Family, and on terms
                   and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
                   including, without limitation, the following:
            Serviced Plots and Cash Compensation:
            (A)    the serviced plot's total area shall be at least
            as large as the plot from which an Affected Family is to
            be resettled but in any event not less than thirty
            square meters;
Page  17
            (B)    the total amount to be charged to an Affected
            Person for the rights set forth in (C) below shall not
            exceed the lesser of: (1) the total amount of cash
            compensation, at replacement cost, to be provided to an
            Affected Person for the plot acquired or possessed
            therefrom, excluding the amounts to be provided under
            (D) below, and (2) the total cost to KMS of providing
            the serviced plot;
            (C)    each said plot shall be made available to an
            Affected Person under renewable and transferrable legal
            rights (hak guna bangunan) for a period of not less than
            20 years, provided, however, that if the legal right of
            an Affected Person was a hak milik then that Affected
            Person shall be granted a hak milik to the said plot.
            For this purpose, the Borrower undertakes to
            expeditiously issue, through BPN, the required
            certificates of the aforesaid legal rights to Affected
            Persons; and
            (D)    cash compensation, at replacement cost, shall be
            provided to an Affected Person for the residential or
            non-residential structure acquired or possessed
            therefrom.
            Apartment Buildings (rumah susun):
            (A)    the total area of an apartment in a rumah susun
            shall be not less than eighteen square meters;
            (B)    the total amount to be charged to an Affected
            Person for the rights set forth in (C) below shall not
            exceed the lesser of: (1) the total amount of cash
            compensation, at replacement cost, to be provided to an
            Affected Person for the plot and the residential or non-
            residential structure acquired or possessed therefrom,
            and (2) the total cost to KMS of providing the apartment
            to an Affected Person; and
            (C)    each apartment shall be made available to an
            Affected Person under renewable and transferrable
            leasehold rights (Hak Sewa) for a period of not less
            than 20 years. For this purpose, the Borrower undertakes
            to expeditiously issue, through BPN, the required
            certificates of the aforesaid legal right to Affected
            Persons.
7.    (a)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the SLA
between the Borrower and KMS shall include the following covenant:
      "(i)  Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
      agree, KMS shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after
      its fiscal year ending on March 31, 1994, funds from internal
      sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the annual average
      of KMS's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be
      incurred, for that year, the previous year, and the next
      following fiscal years.
      (ii)  Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, KMS
      shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by KMS and
      satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, review whether it
      would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (i) in
      respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
      shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a copy of such
      review upon its completion.
      (iii) If any such review shows that KMS would not meet the
      requirements set forth in paragraph (i) for KMS's fiscal years
      covered by such review, KMS and the Borrower shall promptly
      take all necessary measures in order to meet such
      requirements.
Page  18
      (iv)  For the purposes of this Section:
            (1)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, including tax
                         revenues and service charges, and land,
                         property and other tax revenues assigned
                         to KMS by the Borrower, but excluding
                         routine budget subsidies; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations, including payments for
                         incinerator expenses, administration,
                         adequate maintenance (excluding provision
                         for depreciation and other non-cash
                         operating charges), debt service
                         requirements, and other cash outflows
                         other than capital expenditures.
            (2)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
            (3)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                   expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
                   related to operations.
            (4)    Whenever for the purposes of this section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank."
      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the SLA
between the Borrower and KMS shall, inter alia, also include a
covenant whereunder KMS shall agree to:
            (i)    onlend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan
                   made available to it by the Borrower to Eligible
                   Beneficiaries under sub-loan agreements to be
                   entered into between KMS and each Eligible
                   Beneficiary in accordance with the procedures
                   and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
                   Borrower and the Bank including the following:
                   Each Sub-loan made under Part F.2 of the Project
                   shall have a maturity of not more than 36
                   months, and shall be charged, on the principal
                   amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from
                   time to time, interest at a rate equal to 1.75%
                   per annum above the rate of interest payable by
                   KMS under its SLA with the Borrower.
            (ii)   exercise its rights under the Sub-loan
                   agreements in such manner as to protect the
                   interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
                   accomplish the purposes of the Project.
8.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the SLA between the
Borrower and PDAM shall, inter alia, include the following financial
covenants:
      "(a) (i)  Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
Page  19
      agree, PDAM shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after
      its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1994, funds from
      internal sources equivalent to not less than 20% of the annual
      average of PDAM's capital expenditures incurred, or expected
      to be incurred, for that year, the previous year, and the next
      following fiscal year.
      (ii)  Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, PDAM
      shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by PDAM and
      satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, review whether it
      would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) (i) in
      respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and
      shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a copy of such
      review upon its completion.
      (iii) If any such review shows that PDAM would not meet the
      requirements set forth in paragraph (a) (i) for PDAM's fiscal
      years covered by such review, PDAM and the Borrower shall
      promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such
      requirements.
      (iv)  For the purposes of this Section:
            (1)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, consumer deposits
                         and consumer contributions in aid of
                         construction, net non-operating income and
                         any reduction in working capital other
                         than cash; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations, including administration,
                         adequate maintenance and taxes and
                         payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                         provision for depreciation and other non-
                         cash operating charges), debt service
                         requirements, all cash dividends and other
                         cash distributions of surplus, increase in
                         working capital other than cash and other
                         cash outflows other than capital
                         expenditures.
            (2)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
            (3)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
                   the difference between current assets excluding
                   cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                   fiscal year.
            (4)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets other than cash which could in the
                   ordinary course of business be converted into
                   cash within twelve months, including accounts
                   receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                   and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                   operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
            (5)    The term "current liabilities" means all
                   liabilities which will become due and payable or
                   could under circumstances then existing be
                   called for payment within twelve months,
Page  20
                   including accounts payable, customer advances,
                   debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
                   lieu of taxes, and dividends.
            (6)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
            (7)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                   expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
                   related to operations.
            (8)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank."
      "(b) (i) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
      agree, PDAM shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable
      forecast of the revenues and expenditures of PDAM shows that
      the estimated net revenues of PDAM for each fiscal year during
      the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5
      times the estimated debt service requirements of PDAM in such
      year on all debt of PDAM including the debt to be incurred.
      (ii)  For the purposes of this Section:
            (1)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PDAM
                   maturing by its terms more than one year after
                   the date on which it is originally incurred.
            (2)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.
            (3)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations and net non-
                         operating income; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations including administration,
                         adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
                         in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                         for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                         charges and interest and other charges on
                         debt.
            (4)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
Page  21
            (5)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
            (6)    The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                   prepared by PDAM not earlier than twelve months
                   prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
                   which both the Bank and PDAM accept as
                   reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified
                   PDAM of its acceptability, provided that no
                   event has occurred since such notification which
                   has, or may reasonably be expected in the future
                   to have, a material adverse effect on the
                   financial condition or future operating results
                   of PDAM.
            (7)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank."
      "(c) (i) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
      agree, PDAM shall not make any distribution with respect to
      its net income, unless, after such distribution has been made,
      funds from internal sources are equivalent to not less than
      20% of the annual average of PDAM's capital expenditures
      incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the
      previous year, and the next following fiscal year.
      (ii)  For the purposes of this Section:
            (1)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, consumer deposits
                         and consumer contributions in aid of
                         construction, net non-operating income and
                         any reduction in working capital other
                         than cash; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                         operations, including administration,
                         adequate maintenance and taxes and
                         payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
                         provision for depreciation and other non-
                         cash operating charges), debt service
                         requirements, all cash dividends and other
                         cash distributions of surplus, increase in
                         working capital other than cash and other
                         cash outflows other than capital
                         expenditures.
            (2)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
            (3)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
Page  22
                   the difference between current assets excluding
                   cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                   fiscal year.
            (4)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets other than cash which could in the
                   ordinary course of business be converted into
                   cash within twelve months, including accounts
                   receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                   and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                   operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
            (5)    The term "current liabilities" means all
                   liabilities which will become due and payable or
                   could under circumstances then existing be
                   called for payment within twelve months,
                   including accounts payable, customer advances,
                   debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
                   lieu of taxes, and dividends.
            (6)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including
                   sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
                   and other charges on, debt.
            (7)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                   expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
                   related to operations.
            (8)    Whenever for the purposes of this section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3,
and 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
Page  23
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
Page  24
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
