Docmmct of                           1~~
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONl
Report No. P-6309--CD
MEMORANI)UIM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMET ASSOCIATION
TO TIE
EXCUTIVE DIRECTORS
on A
PROPOSED SUPPLEMEAL CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 6.8 MILION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
OCTOBER 7, 1994
MICROGRAPHICoS
Report No: P-   6309 CD
Type: MOP
This document has a restricted distibuon and may be used by repients only in the perfomance of
their official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout orld Bank authorton.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit   =     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US $1.00       =      CFAF 592 (January 31, 1994)
CFAF I million =      US$ 1,687 (January 31, 1994)
System of Weights and Measure
IMetric System
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIAT -)NS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
FAC           Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(French aid)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOC           Goverment of Chad
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
ITS           Institut Tropical Suisse
(Swiss Tropical Institute)
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
MSF           M6decins sans Frontieres
(Doctors without Borders)
NGO           Non-Governmental Organiztion
PADS          Progranmne d'Action de Developpement Social
(Social Development Action Program)
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
SECADEV    Secours Catholique de Developpement
(Catholic Development Assistance)
UNAD          Union Nationale des Associations DiocEsaines de Developpement
(National Union of Diocesan Development Associations)
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VITA          Volunteers in Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECI SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Chad
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
Credit Amount:     SDR 6.8 million (US$9.8 million equivalent). This Supplemental
Credit would increase IDA assistance to the initial Project (Cr. 2156-
CD) to a total of SDR 17.2 million (US$23.2 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms with the same repayment terms as the original Cr.
2156-CD
Onlending Terms:    Not applicable
Financina Plan:    Existing (Cr. 2156-CD)           Proposed           Total
Government:  US$ 0.6 million    US$0.0 million   US$0.6 million
Municipalities: US$ 0.7 million    US$0.0 million   US$0.7 million
IDT.         US$13.4 million    US$9.8 million   US$23.2 million
Cofinancing:  US$12.2 million    US$0.0 million   US$12.2 miUion
TOTAL        US$26.9 million    US$9.8 million   US$36.7 million
Economic               t
Rate of Retn:      Not applicable
Qiginal MOP:       Report No. P-5099-CD
Staff hopraisal Report: Report No. 7966-CD
Poverty Cateaory:    PTI - The project's benefits include (i) creating jobs by providing
assistance to micro and smaUl enterprises executing works through
labor-intensive technologies; (ii) reducing health hazards activities by
rehabilitatng the sanitation infrastructur; and (iii) expanding access to
low-cost essential drugs to more than 3 million inhabitants.
Tbis document has a sticted distrbution and may be usod by recpets ony in to perin     t
ofii duies Itst  may nro otewise be dilosed wihout Wold Bank sautoriaton.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT TO THE REPIJBLIC OF CHAD
FOR THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
supplemental credit to the Republic of Chad for SDR 6.8 million, the equivalent of US$9.8 million,
on standard terms, to complement the Social Action Development Project (Cr. 2156-CD). The
proposed supplemental credit would finance additional civil works, essential drugs and extend the
line of credit to micro and small entrepreneurs. It complements the Economic Recovery Credit (Cr.
2589-CD) that was approved by the Board on March 29, 1994.
2.    The main objective of the original project was to stimulate employment generation in
response to the serious levels of urban poverty and to improve the health and living conditions of
vulnerable groups. The devaluation of the CFA franc resulted in a substantial short-term increase in
urban poverty that can be expected to persist until the supply response to the devaluation materializes
(see para 10). Thus, there is an urgent need to create more short-term employment to alleviate the
transitional effects of the devaluation and to imnprove the health and living conditions of the
vulnerable groups. Fortunately, a set of labor-intensive sanitation subprojects had already been
identified in the context of the project. Similarly, a supplier of drugs had been selected following
international bidding and the procurement of additional drugs needed to keep the prices of drugs
unchanged for the 12 months following the devaluation could be done fairly quickly. However, due
to short-term budget constraints, the Government is unable to mobilize external financing from other
donors in a timely manner. Hence, it was decided to pursue the proposed supplemental crediL as the
most appropriate vehicle for the Bank to respond to the Government's request for assistance.
Background: the Sodal Action Development Project
3.    Project Objectives. The Social Action Development Project was approved on May 16, 1990
and became effective on April 17, 1991. Its objectives are: (a) £u stimulate employment generation
by increasing access to training facilities and productive activities for the poor and unemployed; (b)
to improve the health and living conditions of vulnerable groups; and (a) to reinforce the
Government's institutional capacity to design and monitor programs to improve social conditions.
4.    Project Description. The Project has four components focusing on: (a) stimulation of
employment generation by providing (i) credit assistance and management support for small and
micro-enterprises, (ii) technical assistance tailored to their needs, and (iii) assistance to laid-off
public employees; (b) improvement of primary health care and social services by (i) restructuring and
expanding the network of these services in N'Djamena, and (ii) strengthening the regional health
services in the prefecture of Tandjile in the cotton zone, (c) improvement of N'Djamena's sanitation
infrastructure; and (d) strengthening of social policy planning.
5.    Implmenation Experience.   Despite a very long start-up period, the Project's
implementation has been considered satisfactory since May 1993, and is now rated a "2". This is the
result of having restructured the project and reallocating funds to the project's more successful
components. The Borrower has shown its commitment to the Project by complying with all major



2
covenants, particularly with regard to counterpart funding and staffing requirements. Audits are on
thne and unqualified. The yearly reviews have confirned the validity of the Project's objectives.
About US$6 million (out of a total of US$10.4 million) has been disbursed and more than 80% of
the initial credit is now committed.
Ratdonale for IDA Involvement
6.    Ohanging Coewy Economic Background/Radonale for Project Expansion. During most of
the 1980s, the Chadian economy faced severe difficulties. These stemmed from a combination of
armed conflict, civil war, drought, political turmoil, and declining conpetitiveness. In addition since
1990, the terms of trade seriously worsened, because of the fall in cotton world prices. Despite
these serous problems, economic development efforts have made promising progress in some areas
during periods of stability. In particular, encouraging steps were taken during the 1987-90 period,
when some stability was temporarily restored.
7.    During 1987-90, there were three annual arrangements with the IMF under the Structural
Adjustment Facility, and IDA approved the Financial Rehabilitaton Credit.  The Adjustment
program focused on improving public resource management and efficiency in the Cotton Sector, and
also addressed efficiency issues in transport, livestock and trade. Substantial economic growth was
recorded in 1988-89, and this was accompanied by rising fiscal revenues which permitted investment
to double to the still modest level of 10% of GDP. The structural program generated major cost
savings in the cotton sector, restoring the cotton processing industry to profitability and increasing
returns to farmers. Moreover, cotton exports rose as a result, reducing the external current account
deficit by 6% of GDP. The combination of liberalization and improved road conditions reduced road
transport costs by about 30%. More modest, but still significant gains were mnade through a program
to liberalize livestock exports.
S.    The Govermuent of the Republic of Chad, after close consultation with the member countries
of the CFA zone, decided to change the fixed parity of the CFA francs from 50 to 100 CFAF per
French franc with effect from January 12, 1994. The Government has decided to use the
opportumties created by tis change in parity to launch a new economic and social program. The
aims of this program are to:
(a)   re-establish order in public finances through elimination of payment arrears and
restoration of tax collection systems;
(b)   correct macroeconomic unbalances, notably on the fiscal accounts, through improved
revenue collection and reduced expenditures and through monetary restraint;
(c)   improve economic incentives for the key agricultural sector, especilly cotton and
livestock;
(d)   restore public investment and create an environment conducive to private investment,
which, together with the agricultr-al incentives should re-start growth; and
(e)   accompany these adjustment measures with expanded poverty alleviation measures
and human resources development programs.



3
9.    In the wake of the CFA devaluation, Chad embarked on a stabilization program with IDA
and the IMF to restore equilibrium in public finances and implent the proposed macroeconomic
measures accompanying fte devaluation. Among them, the necessity to restore an operative
administration appears paramnount. The improvement in Chad's external competitiveness should give
economic growth, in particular in the agriculture sector, a renewed impetus. A specific set of
measures on prices of socially sensidve groups and increased public expenditures in social sectors
wid contribute to alleviate the adverse effects of the devaluation on the most vulnerable groups, in
particular the urban poor, and provide the basis for durable improvement in their standard of living.
10.   The supply response to the shift of relative prices will, however, take some time and the
associated benefits will be fully visible only in the medium term. Meanwhile, some of the immediate
visible impacts have been negative on the urban poor, as indicated by an inflation rate of 49% (as
compared to 2% to 3% in past years). Food prices in urban areas have been particularly affected:
rice has increased by 69%, sugar by 31%, cooking oil by 68%, salt by 98%, powdered milk by
92%, flour by 43%. In addition public transportation has gone up by 88%. These substantially
higher prices have further eroded the purchasing power of the poor, threatening their food security
situation and malnutriton levels. Therefore, the major challenge for IDA is to provide a quick and
visible response to the perceived negative social impacts of the reforms, without jeopardizing the
longer term objectives of effective and efficient use of scarce resources. A careful analysis of IDA's
policy insume   in Chad reveals that the proposed supplementl credit is one of the best tools to
ensure the two objectives of rapidity and visibility through the provision of credit assistance,
improvement of N'Djamena's sanitation infrasructure, -d making low-cost essential drugs
accessible to low-income communities.
11.   Cowmhy Assstnce &rategy. The current CAS statement was reviewed by the Board in May
1993 and an updated CAS is expected to the presented to the Board in March 1995. The proposed
supplemental credit is fully consistent with IDA's strategy which stresses the need to focus on
assisting the government in four areas:
(a)    adopting sound macroeconomic and sector policies;
(b)   restoring the Govenment's capacity to govern and adstration's capacity to
function;
(c)    mantining the emphasis on human resources development; and
(d)    encouraging the private sector to respond to the new conditions created by the
devaluation.
Description of the Proposed          Cred
12.   This supplemental credit is proposed as part of IDA's response to help the Government of
Chad (GOC) face the problems created by the CFA franc devaluation in early January 1994. After
50 years with a fixed exchange regime, external adjustment is expected to have major short term
effects on the standard of living. The proposed supplemental credit will: (a) provide a rapid and
effective response to the adverse effects of the devaluation; (b) support GOC's efforts to proceed



4
with external adjustments and to continue with past internal adjustment measures; and (c) serve as an
excellent tool to increase employment opportunities particularly in poor urban areas. No extension
of the closing date, currently set at June 30, 1996, will be needed and the supplement is expected to
be disbursed in 18 months.
13.    The supplemental credit will provide the additional funding needed: (a) to replenish stocks
of drugs whose prices are being held constant for a year following the devaluation; (b) to complete
the drainage system in two flood-prone areas with a high percentage of low-income families; and (c)
to extend the credit program managed by VITA (Volunteers in Technical Assistance) to meet the
demand of small and micro entrepreneurs for the next 12-18 months. More specifically, the
supplemental credit will:
a)    improve primary health care services by making low-cost essential drugs accessible
to low-income communities.  In communities where cost recovery is being
successfully introduced, an extra US$1.0 million would make it possible to cover the
deficit caused by keeping the prices of essential drugs ur changed for the 12 months
following the devaluation. Essential drugs would be distributed to these communities
through NGOs (MSF, UNAD, SECADEV, and ITS). and to the N'Djamena Central
Hospital through the FAC's technical assistance.  Several regions, including
N'Djamena, with a total population of 4.6 million inhabitants, would benefit from
this credit;
b)    improve N'Djamena's sanitation infrastructure of two flood-prone areas where about
85,000 persons live through: (i) completing the primary and secondary infrastructure
of the first area named "les jardiniers" (built under the project) by a tertiary network
of drainage ditches; (ii) building the primary, secondary and tertiary infrastructure of
the second area named "Am Rikibe"; and (iii) rehabili*-..ing and draining the
'Cholera' marketplace site. The implementation will use labor intensive techniques
to enable snall enterprises to participate in the execution of these works. The total
-amount is estimnated at US$ 7.8 million; and
c)    stimulate emplovment generaton by providing credit assistance and management
support for small and microenterprises, for an amount of US$1.0 million. A survey
of the Diredion des impfts has estimated that VITA meets only 11% of the informal
sector demand in N'Djamena. The demand for credit comes from small and micro
entrepreneurs who have no other source of financing. The credit program which
started in 1984 with USAID financing is currently in its third phase after receiving
support from IDA and the United Capital Development Fund. USAID will extend
financing of VITA's recurrent costs up to the end of 1995. The supplemental credit
would finance the capital funds for the same period.
In keeping with the Project's current financing arrangements, IDA will finance 100% of the
categories benefiting from the supplenw-ntal credit. The overall IDA contribution to the Chad
lending program would still remain under the 90% financing limit.
14.   Benefits. The proposed supplemental credit would (a) enhan;e job creation by providing
10,000 jobs through labor-intensive activities and assisting about 70) micro and small enterprises;



5
(b) reduce health hazards for 85,000 persons living in areas where the project will rehabilitate the
sanitation infrastructure; and (c) expand access to low-cost essential drugs to more than 3 million
inhabitants of Chari-Baguirmi (including N'Djamena), Mayo-Kebi, and Moyen-Chari.
15.   Program Objective Categories. The supplemental credit responds to the country's anti-
poverty and human resource development strategies. Because of its employment creation aspect, the
supplement will contribute to immediate and longer term employment creation.
16.   Environmental Aspects. (Original Project: Category B) The Project's ultimate objective is to
allow for sustained improvements of the living and working environment of Chad's main city. There
are no activities in the proposed supplement which might create significant adverse enviromnental
effects. All investments planned are a follow-up to on-going investment operations financed under
the Project. Finally, the supplement is expected to have a positive impact by rehabilitating part of
the drainage system.
17.   Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement. Lessons can be drawn essentially from the
implementation of the Social Action Development Project, scheduled to close June 30, 1996. While
the component aimed at providing credit and technical assistance to small and micro-enterprises has
been a success, the infrastructure and health components have experienced difficulties mainly in the
design of the civil works to be executed, lack of adequate supervision, and procurement delays. The
most important lesson learned regards the need to pay sufficient attention to the capacity of the
concerned Government agencies, including the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to carry out
ambitious projects, hence the need to simplify hilplementation mechanisms and to carry on more
frequent and systematic supervisions of the egreed-upon program. The proposed supplemental credit
proposes to finance only activities for which the PCU has already acquired the necessary experience
and know-how, thus ensuring rapid implementation.
18.   Risks. The main risk foreseen for the credit component is a change in the status of VITA
from that of an NGO; this would make liquidity and reserve requirements from VITA obligatory,
thereby increasing operating costs. This risk would be covered by the agreement with Government
that VITA would maintain its NGO status until the end of the supplementary credit (see para 19).
Implementation of the Supplemental Credit
19.   Institutional Arrangements. Arrangements for the implementation of the supplement make
use of existing institutions and technical staff. VITA would continue to be responsible for the
management of the line of credit and would use the same approach and criteria as defined in the
Project. The present sanitation infrastructure unit which is responsible for coordinating the
implementation of the infrastructure component would be responsible for prepanng the investments
financed by the supplemental credit and for their implementation. Similarly, the social-medical
coordinating unit would be responsible for the procurement of essential drugs. Both units have
benefited from the experience gained since the effectiveness of the initial credit, including adeqt e
training and regular use of standard IDA bidding procedures. The labor-intensive sanitation workb
would continue to be implemented in such a way as to promote local employment and training of
small-scale entrepreneurs. It would also continue to rely on the social mobilization teams and the
comites de quartiers created through PADS (Programme dAction de D#veloppemm Social). A
technical study for the implementation of the inftastructure component is ready. The procurement of



6
drugs would be done fairly quickly as a supplier has been selected following international bidding.
The contract which has already been signed could be smended to include procurement of additional
essential drugs. Detailed documents including the list of drugs and quantities have been prepared by
health committees witlh the help of NGOs.
20.   Agreed Actions/Changes in the DCA. The Govermnent has agreed to use IDA's standard
bidding documents and assurances have been obtained that VITA will maintain its NGO status until
the completion of the Supplementary Credit.
21.   Recommendaron. I am satisfied that the proposed supplemental credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 7, 1994



7
Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOQCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION POJ ECT
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ MILLION)
(Net of taxes and duties)
Estimated Costs:
COMPONENTS                    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL   %
FOREIGN
1. Civil Works (sanitary infastte)  1.17      6.63       7.80      85%
2. Essential Drugs                            1.00       1.00      100%
3. Employment Generation           1.00         _        1.00       0%
TOTAL Project Costs                2.17       7.63      - 9.80     78%
Ficin Pmn:
(US$Million)
.-    -               .. .,-
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL         % OF TOTAL
PROJECT COST
11DA                      2.17      7.63       9.80      100%
TOTAL PROJECT COST         2.17     7.63       9.80      100%



8
Schedule B
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$Million)
Procurement Method
Proiect Element         ______                      TOTAL
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ICB  LCB  Other
1. Civil Works                    1 8      6.0    _      .      7.8
2. Goods: Essential Drugs          1.0     .__                  1.0
3. Line of Credit                           .       1.0         1.0
TOTAL                             2.8 | 6.0         1.0         9.8
DISBURSEMENTS
CATEGORY              AMO UNT    PERCENTAGE
(US$M)      FINANCED
(1)(a) Civil Works                       7.8        100 % of expenditures
(3)(a) Essential Drugs                   1.0        100 % of expenditures
(7)   Line of Credit                     1.0        100 % of expenditures
TOTAL                                  9.8
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$M)
FY95         FY96
Total            7.0          2.8
Cumulative       7.0          9.8



9
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF: CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
Timetable of Key Proiect Processing Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare:               9 months
(b) Prepared by':                        Govenunent with IDA assistance
(c) Planned Date of Effectiveness        November 1994
'This supplemenal credit was prepared by Ms. Eva Jarawan, AF3PH. Processing assistance was
provided by Mrs. JoAnne Nickerson, AFSIN. The managing Division Chief is Mr. David Berk and the
Departnent Director is Mr. Francisco Aguinre-Sacasa.



10
to~~.t
Pag I of 2
(less Gancellat1ia)
oan of       i-sol                                                                                   UndS- Closi,"
Cedt M.         oY"r rowiee                           Surpoe                     Sank          =A    but.o         Date
credit.
22 cdSits (a) clesd                                                                         170.82
Clem-=       198H    lab                             t.A.  ran 8MA.4PIP"3                   12.0       1.59  06/3019649)
a01   -00    16e    awn                              U      0                              111.60      4.62  W3119
ClffeOM   1969   am                                  ss1CA2Z0                              21.79       1.24   /31/94
c2440-00    19   caID                                 TSRPORm Stcroa AW                    60.00       1.7 06/S30951()
C21140400    1990   CMD                              SOCIAL NlV MSO                        13.40       1.16  0630/96
C21840-0     1991   CO                               WGINSIRD                               11.00      s.n' 12V31/95
C251010-     1993   CM0                               ASc  SDUCAMN                         19.30      19.79  06130/99
C2520-nO    1993   CUM                               t9 10  SCr iS                         37.00      34.44   23l1/90
aiS6-G=) 1994   0A4D                                 IOhcSC RSEOWaT                        20.00       9.19  MU3M/
*  0     -Ow     1994    amAn                            EUSC MM  NO CAP                       17.40      11.97  0613e099
;  026260-       ts 1994   ce                            NUt 4 SAS  M1U                        16.50      1s.99  06/30/00
TOOL ner Credits -   11                                                                      249.79     1*9.75
I*M**                                                      428.61
of &Leh opeid                                                              12.75
TO. hold by Snk a IDA                                                        411.06
At  sold
of *fioh teaid
TOM   _dlsbugsod                                                                        129.75
Notes:
Skiat lotefetv
" Met SItgned
-: Total Apprvd. Repayments, on OutstanadLag balance erwoset both aetive and inactive tmns a  Cedits.
(A) Indicates formlly  evisod Clo"# fst .
(S) indicate.  SA    z, Loan VW Cedts.
lb, Met *nrved on Sook Sapelmsnto aR bhIterical value. all othes are mcrkt value.
th  Signin. Nffctv1w, an  Closing dates are bsed upon the tLes Departent offloal date ad are aot toke
fom the tak Sudgot f 1.
SASS    S
an tixes Q913/94 at 16.43.47
Status Of Sank ar  Operation  In ame
"nSA=  -  ist of Closed SAlm and lOCas
By Cownt"
- auwe
-oAn In 01* millimn
(less oanellotions3
Loon cc   Psoal                                                                                                               Umds-  Closig
Credt Y.  Tow   sorerllo BSak                                                                                          ID      bussd  0at.
CA0370-0D  1t8     aw                                          CAL RIBM  CR                                          1.97          .0e  06/30/1991()
CtS9SO-TO   1909   ce                                       tnAC    RIM  CR                                            .91        .00  ow3011mm
23.92        .00



II
Scedule D
Page 2 of 2
bnlem min 
1.     The political and economic situation is characterized by the transition period to democratic
elections currently scheduled for March 1995. The political situation remains fragile although it was
not effecting the Chadian investment portfolio performance (rated satisfactory) despite the weak
institutional capacity and the poor performance of the ongoing public finamce stabilization program.
In January 1994, Chad, in conjunction with other members of the CPA zone decided to devalue the
CPA franc from 50 to 100 per French franc; this has provided an opportunity to restore
competitiveness in cotton and livestock sectors although the macroeconomic envionment is not yet
improved.
2.     Portfolio performance: the overall implemetation of the Chad portfoflo improved in FY94
compared to FY93. During the FY93 review, Chad was singled out for having three problem
projects (30%) out of ten operations. During FY94, vigorous actions were taken to address this
issue. As a result the Chad investment portfolio is currently free from problem projects. The only
problem remains the implementation of the public fiance stabilization program which is slower than
anticipated. Disbursement performance has remained good and there is no late or unqualified audits
in FY94. Good progress has been also made in procurement processes and capacity.
3.     Weak portfolio nement: this is primarity due to weak insdtutional capacity and lack of
skills for some project direcors, particularly in relation with procurement procedur, accounting
systems and auditing. To improve the portfolio in these areas, a supervision unit is created witnin
the Ministry of Planning to monitor more carefully the timely availability of counterpart funds and
the standardization of accounting systems and procurement processes. The Bank's team has played
an inportant role in helping the Government design the needed corrective measures to improve the
implementation capacity.



