Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18536
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
AND SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT
(CREDIT 2156-CD AND 21561-CD)
October 30, 1998
Human Development 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(July 1998)
US$1 = CFAF 598.67
CFAF I = US$0.0016704
CFAF 1000 = US$1.6704
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP    - Agence d'ex&ution des travaux d'interet public (Senegal)
Executing Agency for Labor Intensive Works (Senegal)
A TETIP    - Agence tchadienne d'ex&ution des travaux d 'interet public
Executing Agency for Labor Intensive Works (Chad)
CA TMie    - Cellule d'assistance technique pour les microentreprises
Technical Assistance Cell for Microenterprises
CRA        - Centre de recherche appliqu&e (Applied Research Center)
CNAR       - Centre national d'appui a la recherche (National Research Support Center)
DSEED      - Direction de la statistique des etudes &onomiques et demographiques
(Department of Statistics, Economic Studies, and Demography)
ICR        - Implementation Completion Report
MPC        - Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
MTE        - Ministere du travail et de I 'emploi (Ministry of Labor and Employment)
MA TUH    - Ministere de I 'aminagement du territoire, de / 'urbanisme et de l 'habitat
(Ministry of Regional Urban Planning and Housing)
NGO        - Non-Governmental Organization
ONAMO    - Office national de la main-d'oeuvre (National Department of Labor)
ONAPE    - Office national pour la promotion de 1 'emploi
(National Office for Employment Promotion)
PADS       - Programme d'actions pour le d.veloppement social
(Social Development Action Project)
PSCU       - Unite de support et de coordination du Project
(Project Support and Coordination Unit)
SAF        - Structural Adjustment Facility
SDA        - Social Dimension of Adjustment
VITA       - Volunteers in Technical Assistance
UNCDF    - United Nations Capital Development Fund
Vice President        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director      Serge Michailof
Sector Manager        Nicholas Burnett



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................................                      ..                i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
A. Introduction.                                                              ii
B. Project Objectives .ii
C. Implementation Experience and Results.                                    iii
D. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned .iv
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                              .1
A. Project Objectives                            ..I
a. Stimulation of Employment Generation ..I
b. Improvement of Primary Health Care and Social Services      .2
c. Improvement of N'Djamena's Sanitation Infrastructure       .2
d. Strengthening of Social Policy Planning              .3
Implementation Arrangements                       ..3
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                     .4
Stimulation of Employment Generation                  ..4
- Provision of Credit                         .4
* Technical Assistance to Microenterprise               .5
= Reinsertion of Laid-off Cotton Workers               .5
Improvement of Primary Health Care and Social Services        .6
* Tandjile Health ..............7
Improvement of N'Djamena's Sanitation Infrastruciture        .7
* Drainage Works                             .7
* Other Urban Infrastructure and Services              .9
Strengthening of Social Policy Planning               .9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



C.  Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation ..........................................                                  10
Factors Subject to Government and Bank Control .                               .......................................... 10
*   Short-Term  Versus Long-Term  Objectives ..........................................                              10
*   Overall Management Structure of the Project ...........................                          ............... I I
*   Multi-Sectoral Interventions ...........................................11
*   Institutional Capacity ..........................................I I
*  Procurement Issues ..........................................                                                     11
*   Supply-Driven Nature of Project Initiatives ..........................................                           12
*   Role of Technical Assistance ..........................................                                          12
*   Lack of Effectiveness Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................................     12
Factors Not Subject to Government or Bank Control ..........................................                          12
*  Country Circumstance ..........................................                                                   12
*   Macroeconomic Events in the CFA  Zoiie ..........................................                                13
D. Project Sustainability ..........................................                                                        13
E. Bank Performance .........................................                                                               14
F.   Borrower Performance........................................................................................... 15
G. Assessment of Project Outcome ...........................                                                                16
H. Future Operation ...........................                                                                             16
1.  Key Lessons Learned ...........................                                                                         17
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:               Summary of Assessmnent
Table 2:               Related Bank Loans
Table 3:               Project Timetable
Table 4:               Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:               Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:               Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:               Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:              Project Costs
Table 8B:              Project Financing
Table 9:               Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:              Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:              Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:              Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:              Bank Resources: Missions



PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Development Action
Project in Chad, for which Credit No. 2156-CD in the amount of SDR 10.4 million (US$13.4
million equivalent) was approved on June 14, 1990, and made effective on April 14, 1991. A
supplemental credit (Credit No. 21561-CD) in the amount of S[R 6.8 million (US$9.8 million
equivalent) was approved on November 10, 1994, and made effective September 6, 1995.
Both Credits were closed on April 30, 1998, rather than on the original closing date of
June 30, 1996. The project is expected to fully disburse, and the last disbursement is expected to
take place by August 30, 1998. The Swiss Government, the United Nations Capital Development
Fund, and the United States Agency for International Development provided cofinancing for the
project.
The ICR was prepared by Julie Van Domelen of the Social Protection Family, Human
Development Network, and Dieneba Diarra-Kambou of the Human Development Sector of the
Africa Region and reviewed by Serge Michailof, Nicholas Burnett, Michele Lioy, Maria-Luisa
Ernst, and Michelle Keane. The borrower's own evaluation is included. There were no
comments from cofinanciers.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission of May 9-20, 1998. It is based on material in the project file as well as information
collected in the field from government officials, executing agency representatives, beneficiaries
and co-financiers. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by organizing participatory
workshops with beneficiaries and other key stakeholders during the mission, contributing views
reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction
1.    The Social Development Action Project (PADS - 'Progranmne d'actions pour le
developpement social') represented a transition in the country's recovery effort from emergency
relief aid to better structured poverty alleviation programs targeted at the most disadvantaged
groups. Chad had experienced a drastic downturn starting in the late 1970s. Decline in the world
price of cotton, severe drought and internal unrest destroyed much of country's infrastructure and
reduced food production by half.
2.     To rebuild the country's devastated infrastructure and restore the economy's productive
capacity, in 1986 the Government embarked on a series of economic reforms. An IMF Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF) program, and an IDA Financial Rehiabilitation Credit (Cr. 1945-CD)
approved in July 1988 supported the adjustment program.  To promote human resource
development, an Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1950-CD) was approved in August 1988.
A transport sector adjustment/investment operation to rehabilitate the road network and liberalize
the transport industry was approved in April 1989.
3.     The Social Development Action Project was identified in 1998 in response to concern for
meeting the needs of population groups either still at risk as a consequence of the prolonged
period of socioeconomic disruptions or those expected to be adversely affected by the transitional
effects of the adjustment process. To this end, the project was also part of an Africa Region
initiative to address the social costs of the adjustment processes being carried out throughout the
region in the 1980s, and supported within the Bank by the Social Dimension of Adjustment Unit.
B. Project Objectives
4.     The Social Deveiopment Action Project had three main objectives: (a) stimulating
employment generation; (b) improving health and living conditions of disadvantaged groups; and
(c) reinforcing the Government's capacity to design and moniitor programs to improve social
conditions. To achieve these objectives, the project comprised four main components:
* Stimulation of employment generation through three main avenues: (i) credit assistance
and management support for micro-enterprises to be channeled through an international NGO
-Volunteers in Technical Assistance (VITA) - who had several years experience in Chad; (ii)
technical assistance for micro-enterprise; and (iii) counseling and assistance for employees
losing their jobs as a result of the restructuring of the cotton sector.
* Improvement of primary health care and social services by: (i) restructuring and
expanding the network of services in N'Djamena including the rehabilitation of existing and
construction of new facilities, supply of essential drugs, and the training of health workers;
and (ii) the strengthening the regional health services in the rural prefecture of Tandjile in
southern Chad. In both regions, the project supported the creation of community health
committees to manage a new cost recovery system aimed at increasing the quality. utilization
and sustainability of primary health care services.
* Improvement of N'Djamena's sanitation infrastructure by (i) rehabilitating the drainage
system in two-flood-prone areas where a high percentage of low-income families lived; (ii)



- iii -
improving urban living conditions through selected investments in water supply, electricity
expansion, latrines and garbage collection in low-income neighborhoods.
Strengthening social policy planning by: (i) undertaking a series of household surveys to be
carried out by the Department of Statistics, Economic Studies and Demography of the
Ministry of Planning; (ii) assessing the living conditions of households and how they cope
with basic needs through a series of socioeconomic studies and (ii) assisting the Government
in social policy formulation and project identification.
5.     The project objectives were consistent with country assistance strategy and Government
priorities. There were no special loan covenants that were expected to promote the achievement
of project objectives.
C. Implementation Experience and Results
6.     A  complex  set of institutional arrangements was set up  to  oversee  project
implementation. An Interministerial Committee made up of representatives of eleven mniistries
was to guide overall project implementation, supported by a project coordination unit within the
Ministry of Planning and Coordination and separate autonomous executing units placed in the
relevant ministries. This cumbersome management structure and an unclear definition of roles
hampered effective implementation of the project.
7.     Stimulation to Employment Generation. Credit support for micro-enterprise surpassed
initial expectations for amounts lent. Although the project originally called for $USO.6 million in
seed capital to VITA for loans to small and micro-enterprise, due to its greater absorptive
capacity, reallocations were made to a total of US$2.05 million for credit assistance to over
19,000 microentrepreneurs by the end of the project.  However, despite the success in far
surpassing initial quantitative targets, the longer-tern perspective of creating a viable, permanent
credit mechanism  is far from  assured. To promote training of the informal sector and
microenterprise, the Technical Assistance Cell for Microenterprise (CATMie) was established
with international technical assistance. The unit trained almost 400 individual artisans in product
development, quality enhancements, marketing and business creation.  An additional 1,400
people benefited from training in groups. However, some of the interventions were not very
cost-effective and there was little follow-up to monitor the longer-term impacts of this training.
The program to provide counseling to laid-off public sector workers was never implemented due
to lack of institutional capacity.
8.    Improvement of primary health care and social services. This component got off to a
very slow start and was responsible for extension of the project's closing date. Nonetheless, the
project made a significant contribution in the installation of community-managed cost recovery
systems in health centers in both N'Djamena and Tandjile. Patient visits rose dramatically in the
health centers in both regions. Regarding the N'Djamena program, the infrastructure planned at
appraisal changed to include rehabilitation and supply of essential drugs to six existing health
centers, the rehabilitation of four social centers, and the construction and equipping of six new
health centers.  Instead of the three matemity centers planned, the project financed the
construction and equipping of two district hospitals. Delays in the design, construction and
equipping of the six new health centers and two hospitals resulted in the infrastructure remaining
empty during the last two years of the project. Installation of equipment will be finalized in the
months followiing project completion. The risk of deficiencies in appointment of adequate staff



- iv -
and training to effectively operate the new facilities puts into question the eventual impact of
these important investments.
9.     The program  in Tandjile was relatively successful, but again, procurement and
contracting delays limited effectiveness of activities. The hospitals at Lai and Kelo received
minor rehabilitation and a new prefectural drug warehouse was constructed. An initial stock of
essential medicines was supplied, along with training to staff and health committees on
management and operations of the cost recovery system. Technical assistance contributed to
greater understanding of the health situation in Tandjile. The IDA-financed Health and Safe
Motherhood Project (Cr. 2626-CD) has followed on in the Tandjile and will consolidate the gains
made under PADS.
10.    Sanitation in N'Djamena. The objective of improving drainage in the flood-prone areas
of N'Djamena was largely met, with a positive economic impact on the population. Additional
financing from the supplemental credit permitted an expansion of the secondary network beyond
what was initially planned. However, actual unit costs were far above the appraised cost due to a
combination of substantial design changes, implementation delays, inflation and cost overruns.
In addition, health problems have persisted due to the. introduction of stagnant water in the
secondary canals.  Use of canals as trash depositories by the population, lack of regular
maintenance and cleaning, as well as no continuity in the mosquito control efforts once project
financing ended calls into question the sustainability and potential future benefit of the
investments.
I.    With respect to the other urban investments, 14 neighborhood water kiosks were
constructed and run through concessions to private citizens, 10 fire hydrants were installed,
electricity was extended by 100 hectares including 136 streetlights, and more than 380 families
participated in the construction of latrines. Within garbage collection, the sub-component was
redesigned to support a pilot effort in neighborhood-level trash collection through NGOs and
neighborhood associations. The most positive effects are observed from the reliable supply of
water at public kiosks and some increased economic activity due to the availability of electricity.
In the program to rehabilitate a major urban market, beneficiatries were not in agreement with
proposed design changes and do not use the new infrastructure. The streetlights were never used
due to municipal debts with the electricity company and the lack of municipal servicing of trash
collection sites caused the neighborhood garbage collection system to eventually breakdown.
12.    Social Policy Planning. The social policy and planning component fell short of its
objectives. Of the five household surveys planned, only the N'Djamena survey was carried out,
with the analysis of survey results delayed for four years. The N'Djamena survey, even though it
gave important experience to the DSEED, had a negligible impact on the formulation of social
policies and projects. Only two of the five proposed studies were carried out and had minimal
impacts on social policies. Project resources were instrumental in the preparation of two related
IDA projects: the Health and Safe Motherhood Project (Cr, 2626-CD) and Public Works and
Capacity Building (Cr. 2614-CD) which helped speed up design. The project also financed the
analytical preparation and background reports for the 1993 Healtlh Round Table.
13.    Factors Affecting Implementation. The project was implemented over a seven year
period, including a two-year extension on the original closing date. Several key factors affected
the achievement of objectives. The project design suffered from a mix of short-term versus long-
term objectives, with many of the implementation arrangements more compatible with projects



v 
with a longer-time horizon of implementation. The multi-sectoral nature of project interventions
further taxed effective design, execution and supervision.  Weak project management,
particularly in the areas of procurement and financial administration exacerbated delays and
caused sequencing problems between inputs. To address the institutional capacity issue, the
project called for a significant -input of technical assistance, particularly from international
sources. However, this slowed project start-up, and performance problems negatively affected
several components. And finally, the project was designed and executed with little or no input
from the intended beneficiaries, which detracted from the appropriateness, potential impact and
sustainability of investments.
14.    Bank Performance.  The Bank's role in identification was catalytic.  PADS was
innovative in the incorporation of explicit social concerns and poverty-targeted intervention into
the investment program. The Bank was also instrumental in pushing for NGO inclusion in the
project. However, the project suffered from design and quality-at-entry problems which plagued
execution. Tlhe Bank devoted adequate staff resources to appraisal, including significant inputs
from sector specialists and the SDA team. However, the scope of the project and complexity of
implementation arrangements were far too demanding for the weak institutional environment in
Chad. During supervision task managers changed frequently, with eight different task managers
between appraisal and completion. Implementation problems were adequately identified, but the
high turnover in task managers cut against finding solutions and following up on
recommendations. Problems with procurement documentation and processes drained staff time
from more important aspects of implementation. Moreover, the multi-sectoral nature of the
project required significant coordination, technical inputs and resources from different divisions,
which was difficult to sustain throughout the life of the project.
15.    Borrower Performance.   Government performance during the preparation and
execution of PADS was mixed. At identification, the project was accorded a high priority as an
important complement to the adjustment process.  However, technical and institutional
weaknesses of executing agencies adversely affected the Government's ability to develop solid
technical andl implementation proposals.  In addition, the overall instability of Government
appointees and a lack of coordination robbed the project of important leadership which was to
function through the Interministerial Committee, but never did. Low salaries and a general lack
of motivation of seconded staff were problems that affected the efficiency of some of the
executing units.  And finally, as stated above, implementation was constrained by the
cumbersome public administrative and procurement requirements.  In general, project
management was weak and unable to respond to the challenges presented by the project's design.
To the Government's credit, key staff in the PSCU and executing agencies remained throughout
the execution period, lending important continuity.  Despite the poor fiscal environment,
counterpart funds were generally available.
16.   Project Outcome. The general objectives of the project were partially met, with a wide
variation in performance between components, making overall ranking difficult. However,
taking into consideration the diminished prospects for sustainability of major benefits, the
questionable cost-effectiveness of certain interventions and the general implementation
difficulties, the overall assessment of the project's outcome is marginally unsatisfactory.
Nonetheless, given the challenges of the Chadian context, several of the impacts of the project
were notable and should not be diminished by the overall assessment.



- vi -
D. Summary of Findings, Future Operations and ]Key Lessons Learned
17.    There is no explicit follow-on operation anticipated. Nonetheless, poverty alleviation
will remain a central theme of the Bank's country assistance strategy for Chad. A freestanding
poverty project is part of the Bank's future pipeline and will continue to address the needs of the
vulnerable populations in Chad. The gains made through PADS in improving health services
have been consolidated and extended through the Bank's health sector program, which consists
of the on-going Health and Safe Motherhood, the Population and AIDS Control Project, as well
as a new health project in the pipeline.
18.    Several key lessons emerge from the PADS project. In terms of the overall approach of
the project, targeted interventions are effective tools for reaching vulnerable populations. PADS
succeeded in reaching a hitherto neglected segment of society - the poor and vulnerable who had
often been missed by more traditional investment programs. The PADS project highlighted the
importance of a more proactive strategy as a complement to the longer-term gains expected to be
made in the overall macro-economic and sectoral reforms.  However, even with laudable
objectives, the success of a project rests on implementatiorn arrangements.  A non-viable
implementation structure is exceedingly difficult to correct in mid-stream, although the efforts
undertaken were not at the measure of problems to be addressed.
19.   In terms of sector-specific experience, the project confirmed that effective delivery
mechanisms can be designed and implemented that improve the productivity and living
conditions of informal sector microentrepreneurs, an important segment of the country's
vulnerable population. Creating services to support the informal sector and microenterprise
requires long-term  commitment to determining demand-responsive interventions, building
institutionial capacity, and creating a conducive regulatory and legal framework. Within the
health sector, cost recovery strategies at the primary and secondary level are a viable and
attractive option for improving the utilization of health centers and quality of service delivery, if
matchied with reliable supply of affordable essential drugs. Similar to findings in other countries,
large-scale urban infrastructure investments are best implemented within integrated urban
development programs, rather than as discreet 'social' investments due to their complex
technical, economic, environmental and institutional aspects. WAithin the area of social policy,
without a specific agency designated within the government for thie definition and coordination of
social policies, studies and other analytical work as well as planning of sector strategies and
programs is best carried out directly with the various ministries concerned rather than by
committee.
20.    In terms of country-specific experience, institutional capacity should be viewed as a
binding constraint over the short-term, rather than a potential project risk to be minimized.
Capacity building is a slow and incremental process. Designing projects with modest objectives,
phasing-in of activities, and allowing enough time and resources to adequately consolidate gains
is paramount in the Chadian context. Other necessary improvements in project management
include: (a) train in financial and procurement administration early on; (b) set-up management
information systems and realistic performance indicators prioir to project effectiveness; (c)
determine clear performance criteria for project management staff and recruit personnel
specialized in procurement; and (d) include extemal reviews, beneficiary assessments, impact
evaluations and other transparency enhancing mechanisms. And finally, projects that build in a
high degree of participation of beneficiaries are likely to have higher impacts, particularly in
small-scale investments with poverty alleviation objectives.



PART 1- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
I.    Beginning in the late 1970s. Chad experienced a series of external and natural events,
most notably a decline in the world price for cotton, severe drought and unrest. The 1979-82 war
destroyed most of the country's physical and administrative infrastruIcture, while the prolonged
drought decimated livestock herds, displacing a large portion of the rural population towards the
cities and reducing domestic food production by half. In 19836, the Government took the first
steps toward economic and social recovery through the implementation of an adjustment program
which centered on restructuring the cotton sector, reforming public finances, and rehabilitating
basic infrastructure and services.
2.    In response to the deterioration in living conditions, the Government initiated a Social
Development Action Program (PADS - Programmzne d'actions pour Ie ckveloppenment social),
which focused on priority actions to meet the basic needs of the poor and vulnerable population
groups. Actions planned under PADS could not be included within sectoral rehabilitation and
development programs because of the lack of definition in the latter. Hence PADS was seen as
an immediate response to critical identifiable needs, while developing the information, analysis
and institutional capacity necessary to launch major medium-term initiatives. Due to 10 years of
administrative disruptions and lack of updated information, the country's social situation was not
well known. The population in N'Djamena was identified as particularly vulnerable due to the
extent of the physical destruction of the city from the civil strife, the effects of adjustment
measures on the urban poor and the growing number of recent migrants to the city. NGOs were
identified as having relevant experience in addressing basic social problems.
3.     The PADS program  represented a transition in the country's recovery effort from
emergency relief aid to better structured social welfare and poverty alleviation programs targeted
at the most disadvantaged groups. The project was also part of an Africa Region initiative to
address the social costs of the adjustment processes being carried out throughout the region in the
1980s, and supported within the Bank by the Social Dimension of Adjustment Unit. The project
was designed with three main objectives: (a) stimulating employment generation among the poor
and/or unemployed people; (b) improving health and living conditions of disadvantaged groups;
and (c) reinforcing the Government's institutional capacity to design and monitor programs to
improve social conditions. The project comprised the four following components:
a. Stimulation of Employment Generation
4.     This component was targeted specifically to stimulating the productive capacity of small
and micro-enterprises, and in particular the informal sector, and providing employment assistance
to recently laid-off cotton workers. The first sub-component involved credit assistance and
management support for micro-enterprises to be channeled through an intemational NGO -VITA
- who had several years' experience in credit operations in Chad with USAID support. The
second sub-component consisted of technical assistance fo; micro-enterprise. An experimental
approach to supporting the needs of micro-entrepreneurs was envisioned which would provide
access to appropriate equipment, technologies, and improved information to micro-enterprises.
Practical courses and technology demonstrations were to be organized in workshop facilities
managed by either NGOs or public entities. The third sub-component comprised individual



counseling and assistance to explore job and alternative employment opportunities for laid-off
public sector employees. The project was to strengthen the capacity of the National Department
of Labor (ONAMO) to provide assistance for personnel affected by the restructuring of the
cotton sector.
b. Improvement of Primary Health Care and Social Services
5.     This component sought to improve basic social services in two geographical areas by: (a)
restructuring and expanding the network of primary health care and social services in N'Djamena
(population 540,000); and (b) strengthening the regional health services in Tandjile (population
360,000), in southern Chad and the only region in the country at that time not covered by donor
support in the health sector. This component represented IDA's entry into the health sector.
Regarding the N'Djamena component, there were four main activities planned. First, in order to
expand access and increase utilization rates, the rehabilitation and expansion of the primary
health care network entailed renovation of four existing health and/or social centers, and the
construction and equipping of three integrated health-social centers and three dispensaries.
Second, the project sought to improve the content and quality of basic services by redefinition of
a basic services package, more effective allocation of essential drugs, implementation of a cost
recovery programs, and an outreach approach encouraging participation by the population.
Third, the referral system was to be revamped to promote better communication and coordination
as well as to congest the overburdened Central Maternity through construction of three 16-bed
maternity centers. And fourth, improvement in overall urban health and social services was
sought by creating health districts in N'Djamena and instituting district level planning of services.
In Tandjile, activities were adapted from the approach developed in other regions through
European Development Fund support, and included: assistance to the regional Chief Physician in
planning, managing and monitoring health services, staff training, renovation and equipping of
health and pharmaceutical facilities, and establishment of an essential drug distribution system
with cost recovery.
c. Improvement of N'Djamena's sanitation infrastructure
6.     Two main components were to address the serious problem of drainage and sanitation in
N'Djamena. The first sub-component consisted of the rehabilitation of the city's drainage system
to prevent flooding during the rainy season in two vulnerable areas where about 85,000 low-
income residents were concentrated. Improvements to be carried out consisted of: (a) cleaning
and widening of two primary collectors; (b) rehabilitation/extension of 12,870 meters of the
secondary drainage network; and (c) rehabilitation of 55 kilometers of the tertiary network. The
second sub-component involved various actions to improve public hygiene in N'Djamena,
including: (a) rehabilitation of the "Cholera" marketplace; (b) extension of public fountains and
street lighting; (c) installation of private latrines; (d) control of mosquitoes through preventative
spraying; and (d) improved garbage collection. The social component to the infrastructure works
included technical assistance and training to small-scale contractors to permit their participation
in civil works and public awareness campaigns regarding hygiene and maintenance of sanitary
infrastructure. Because of potential health and vector control problems resulting from the
temporary use of two open collectors, the project included the use of insecticides in annual
mosquito clearing campaigns. In addition to the health and hygiene impact, the component was
expected to generate an important amount of temporary jobs for unskilled laborers through the
use of labor-intensive techniques in the secondary and tertiary networks.



d. Strengthening of Social Policy Planning
7.    In conjunction with the objectives of the Social Dimiensions of Adjustment national
program, this component sought to strengthen the Government's capability to define social
policies, analyze the impact of policy measures on vulnerable groups and to design appropriate
interventions. The project focused on three areas. First, a series of household surveys was
planned, including four priority surveys in the areas of N'Djamena, Abeche. Moundou. and in the
rural cotton growing area. Following these smaller surveys, an integrated national household
survey covering approximately 2,400 households was envisioned.  Second. a series of
socioeconomic studies would be carried out to assess living conditions of households and
determine how they cope with basic needs. The first set of studies identified at appraisal
included: (a) a food security study, (b) an analysis of small agricultural producers; (c) review of
public investment and expenditure in essential services (health, education, nutrition); (d) living
conditions of urban households; and (e) a study of micro-enterprises in the urban sector. A series
of seminars with governmental and non-governmental representatives was planned to disseminate
findings. The third sub-component consisted of support for the design of sectoral strategies and
policies and the development of a project pipeline for future assistance.
8.    Implementation Arrangements. Under the overall tutelage of the Ministry of Planning
and Cooperation (MPC), a complex set of institutional arrangements was set up to oversee
project implementation. An interministerial Committee made up of representatives of eleven
ministries was to guide overall project implementation, approve reports and annual actions plans
and make policy recommendations.  Four technical sub-committees comprised of relevant
ministries were designated for each component. A Project Coordination and Support Unit
(PCSU) was established in the Ministry of Planning to oversee the financial and procurement
aspects of project implementation and to assist the various executing agencies. Each component
was carried out by a different group of executing agencies. Within employment generation, the
micro-enterprise credit component was to be executed directly by an NGO, the technical
assistance for micro-enterprise was to be executed by a small unit under the Ministry of Labor
and Employment with support from international technical assistance, and the program for laid-
off workers was under ONAMO. Within the primary health care component, the N'Djamena
portion was to be implemented by a Health-Social Unit to be created under the supervision of the
Director General of the Ministry of Health with support from international technical assistance.
For Tandjile health activities, a consulting firm would provide long-term technical assistance to
the regional health authorities, under the supervision of the Ministry of Public Health. For the
sanitation component, an autonomous Sanitation and Infrastructure Unit was to be established
under technical supervision of the Ministry of Regional Urban Planning and Housing (MATUH),
with support from internationally recruited experts. And for the social policy component, the
Department of Statistics of the Ministry of Planning would execute the household surveys. The
Applied Research Center (CRA) of the Ministry of Higher Education would be responsible for
the implementation of the program of studies carried out by internationally recruited experts. The
Ministry of Planning's Directorates of Planning and Investment would be responsible for social
policy formulation. Each executing agency would prepare an annual work program and budget
for the coming year, to be reviewed by the supervising agency and aggregated by the PSCU for
approval by the Interministerial Committee and IDA. In additiion, executing agencies would
provide monthly performance indicators and the PSCU quarterly progress reports to inform the
Interministerial Committee.



-4-
9.     Project Cost and Timing. The total cost of the project was appraised at US$26.9
million equivalent. The employment generation component accounted for 18 percent of project
costs, health services 31 percent, N'Djamena sanitation 34 percent. the social policy component
11 percent and 4 percent for project coordination. In light of the urgent social needs of the
country, the project envisioned a quick implementation period of three years for the components
to stimulate employment generation, improve health and social services. and improve
N'Djamena's sanitation infrastructure. Implementation of the surveys and studies component
had a longer implementation horizon of five years. with project closing anticipated for June 1996.
10.    Risks Detected. The main risks identified during appraisal were the weak institutional
situation prevailing in Chad and the ability to effectively implement the project's diversified
activities.
I1.    Supplemental Credit. In response to the devaluationi of the CFA in January 1994, IDA
approved a supplemental credit (Credit No. 21561-CD) of US$9.8 million equivalent on
November 10, 1994. The credit was intenided to extend employment creation, supply of essential
medicines and other measures aimed at assisting the urbani poor during the transitional effects of
the devaluation. The credit was to finance the extension of activities already ongoing under
PADS. For purposes of the Implementationl Completion Report, the two credits will be treated as
one program, with distinctions made in termis of activities and disbursements where necessary.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
12.    Many of the main objectives of the project were achieved, albeit with significant delays,
higher costs., and less-than-hoped-for longer-tern  institutional impacts.  Implementation
performance varied widely by componenit and executing agency, with physical targets of
outcomes surpassed in the areas of credit assistance and increased visitation to health centers, but
significanit shortfalls in other areas. The original estimate of a three-year implementation period
for all components except the five-year social policy activities, resulted in a total execution
period of slightly over seven years, with the most significant delays experienced in the health
component. With the addition of US$9.8 million equivalent in the Supplemental Credit, and
given fluctuations in the SDR:US$ rate, the final total project cost was US$38 million equivalent,
not including an additional US$0.5 million in parallel contributions by WHO for the health round
table and US$0.1 million from the French Government in complementary sanitation investments,
neither foreseen at appraisal.
Stimulation of Employment Generation
(Original Base Cost: $4.0 million; Actual Total Cost: US$6.4 million)
13.    Provision of Credit. Although the project originally called for US$0.6 million in seed
capital to VITA for loans to small and micro-enterprise, due to its greater absorptive capacity,
reallocations were made to a total of US$2.05 million for credit assistance by the end of the
project. A branch office was established in Mondou which further extended the impact of VITA
activities. Total commitments of VITA to the informal sector were over ten times the amount
originally estimated in the Staff Appraisal Report. Overall, almost 19,000 loans were disbursed
over the seven-year period, of which 61 percent went to women. The bulk of loans, 87 percent,
went to the commercial sector, 7 percent to artisans, 4 percent to services and 2 percent to food
production. This financing created an estimated 12,203 jobs in the Chadian economy. In an



-5-
impact evaluation carried out which surveyed 51 beneficiaries of VITA loans in N'Djamena,
findings suggest a significant increase in revenues, hiring of additional employees and greater
expenditures on salaries. The technical assistance in management and business aspects for clients
had limited impact and was reduced to cut back on costs.
14.    Despite the success in reaching quantitative targets of loans disbursed, the longer-term
perspective of creating a viable, permanent credit mechanism  is far from assured. External
support for operating costs was terminated in 1997 following USAID's departure from Chad.
Regarding VITA's interest rate policy, as the economy was more fully liberalized, VITA's
interest rates have increased from 12 percent at the outset of the project to a current range of 24-
30 percent, depending on type of loan. However, this has not been enough to ensure financial
viability. According to VITA, the potential repayment rate on loans is 96 percent. However,
other evaluations put the actual recovery rate at between 50-60 percent, using a stricter and more
standard definition of what is recoverable. The general finding is that VITA is far from being
financially viable, and in the absence of improved loan repayment rates, a significant reduction in
administrative costs, operating subsidies from external support or an expansion in its lending
base, the erosion of its capital stock is inevitable.
15.    Technical assistance to micro-enterprise. An experimental approach was adopted in
the establishment of the Technical Assistance Cell for Micro-enterprise (CATMie). CATMie
initiated operations in 1991 with long-term international assistance and staff seconded from the
Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE). The initial emphasis was on innovations using
appropriate technologies. Training was intensive and oriented to hands-on applications in a
central workshop in N'Djamena. Certain products, such as hianid-powered mills and animal
traction carts, found niches in local markets.  The focus was subsequently expanded to
encompass management and commercialization as artisans with product ideas were facing
difficulties accessing markets. Training was also carried out in support of the construction
industry in response to the opening of opportunities for small contractors through ATETIP (see
para. 32). Over time, the CATMie incorporated training in group formation and business
management in order to assist artisans and groups of market women to access available sources
of micro-enterprise credit.
16.    Over the lifetime of the project, a total of 240 artisans received training in the
development of new products and 127 in improving the quality of production. To support the
creation of enterprises, 43 dossiers were prepared and II enterprises were established. About
1,403 people benefited from training in groups. No targets were set at the project outset in order
to judge the effectiveness of these results and there was little follow-up of beneficiaries after
training to chart impacts. Effectiveness of the program was constrained due to lack of access to
credit for new and/or productive enterprises, with most existing credit sources including the
PADS-supported VITA program concentrating on credit to existing business and more on the
commercial sector. The idea of a permanent center managed by an NGO and generating
revenues through fees for training did not materialize. While the program continued on a more
limited basis after the completion of the international technical assistance contract in 1994, no
technical information center was left to advise artisans. Under tutelage of the Department of
Professional Training, the focus has shifted to skill upgrading and less on product development
and marketing.
17.    Reinsertion of laid-off cotton workers.. The sub-component was intended to help
employees laid-off from the restructuring of the cotton sector through the provision of job



counseling. However, ONAMO was subsequently restructured and its successor, ONAPE, was
never able to present a viable proposal. including clear institutional objectives and service
strategy. In the intervening period, the employment situation had shifted and ex-cotton workers
had either found other activities or were considered a lower priority. PADS supported some
intemational technical assistance and study tours to determine possible strategies, but in the end
the sub-component was canceled and money reallocated to higher impact activities.
Improvement of Primary Health Care and Social Services
(Original Base Cost: US$6.9 million; Actual Total Cost: US$8.6 nmillion)
18.    The N'Djamena health activities suffered a significant delay in start-up as it took almost
two years to negotiate the international technical assistance which was to provide support to the
Health-Social Unit. Once in place in late 1991, the Health-Social Unit was instrumental in: (a)
structuring N'Djamena health services into districts; (b) defining policies, developing manuals
and training health professionals in the distribution and use of essential medicines; and (c)
setting-up health committees to institute cost recovery systems.  The infrastructure proposed
under the project changed with the new national health policy established il 1993. The project
financed the rehabilitation and supply of essential drugs to six existing health centers and the
construction and equipping of six new health centers. Instead of the three maternity centers
planned, the project financed the construction and equipping of two district hospitals.
19.    The project had a significant impact on the functioning of the health centers. Patient
visits at the health centers rose dramatically. from an average of 639 visits per center annually
prior to the project, to an estimated 36,000 visits each year. In a survey of people living in the
area of health centers, the sick visited centers ten times more often than other health services like
the central hospital, private doctors or traditional healers, suggesting some progress in achieving
the objective of decongesting the hospitals. Ninety-five percent of those surveyed were satisfied
with the service and treatment at centers. Although only under half of respondents reported
receiving family planning advice, there is some evidence from the impact study (1997) of greater
birth spacing. In addition, interlocutors see the establishment of health committees as a major
success of project. The health centers are co-managed by professional staff and community
health committees who manage the pharmacy and sell tickets for consultations. Cost recovery,
through sale of medicines and fees for consultations in the six health centers in N'Djamena,
ranges from 10 to 25 percent of the total revenues available at the centers, with the Govemment
financing accounting for between 75-90 percent, largely to cover staff salaries and utilities. In
general, total revenues are sufficient to meet current operating costs. However, this is in part due
to a large measure of volunteer effort on the part of health committee members.
20.    With regards to the social centers, the project financed the rehabilitation of four centers.
As the health policy shifted, the role of these centers became unclear. Only in the final year of
project execution was the issue addressed with the strategy of creating self-financing activities
aimed at promoting women. The experience of community self-development in one pilot center
is encouraging. Women's groups have been formed and are engaged in income generating and
adult education activities with the support of trainers and materials.
21.    The impact of the sub-component has been limited by a number of factors.  Most
importantly, delays in the design, construction and equipping of the six new health centers and
two hospitals resulted in the infrastructure remaining empty during the last two years of the
project. Installation of equipment is expected in the months following project completion. The



-7-
risk of deficiencies in follow-up, appointment of adequate staff. and training to effectively
operate the new facilities, especially the hospitals, puts into question the eventuial impact of these
investments. In addition, the ability of the project to supply essential drugs was limited by
procurement and storage difficulties. The emergency stock purchased in 1992 did not correspond
to the real needs of the centers and a portion of the stock expired. Subsequent purchases fell
short of expectations, due to procurement difficulties. resulting in a total disbursemiienit of US $0.4
million out of an allocation of US$1.9 million total for both credits.
22.    Tandjile Health. Delays in contracting the international technical assistance resulted in
the initiation of activities in Tandjile in 1994. the time by which activities were supposed to have
concluded. Contract disputes, poor communication, and mariagement weakniesses contributed to
this outcome. Over the next four years, the project providecl significant support to the districts,
and effectively revitalized health services in this long-neglected, rural zone. The hospitals at Lai
and Kelo received minor rehabilitation and a new drug warehouse was constructed. According to
local staff, equipment such as radios supplied to health centers, was effective in improving the
centers' ability to respond to health needs. Health committees were established in the health
centers and hospitals to institute the cost recovery system. An initial stock of essential medicines
was supplied, along with training to staff and health committees on management and operations
of the cost recovery system. Technical assistance contributed to greater understanding of the
health situation in Tandjile, including a study of mortality and morbidity, a survey of facilities,
and support to community outreach and training activities.
23.    Effective coverage of health services in Tandjile is up by 19 percent.  Vaccination
coverage has increased from 21 to 37 percent. The occupanicy rate at the hospital at Kelo has
increased dramatically to 50 percent. The cost recovery system has been quite effective at the
level of the health center, where only one of the centers in not able to recover fully its
expenditures on basic drugs. Health committees are functioning, yet still very fragile and in need
of continuous support and training. However, cost recovery at the hospitals has been far less
successful, which is consistent with experience elsewhere. In addition, delays in the construction
of the pharmacy reduced the potential effectiveness of the technical assistance and limited the
tine available for training and implementation of modern management systems in the new
warehouse.
Improvement of N'Djamena's Sanitation Infrastructure
(Original Base Cost: US$7.5 million; Actual Total Cost: USS16.9 million)
24.    Drainage works. The objective of improving draiinage in the flood-prone areas of
N'Djamena was largely met. Table I summarizes the major infrastructure works completed
under this sub-component. Development of a master plan for N'Djamena and subsequent
engineering studies changed the design of the primary drainage basins which more than
quadrupled the cost of rehabilitating the system. Additional financing from the supplemental
credit permitted an expansion of the secondary network beyond what was initially planned.
However, actual unit costs were far above the appraised cost due to a combination of opting for a
more expensive design than that appraised, implementation cdelays, inflation and cost overruns.
The shift in resources towards the primary network and more capital-intensive secondary network
design reduced the labor-intensity of the component.



Table 1: Appraised versus Executed Drainage Works
Base cost               Total Cost    Percent change
_Appraised  (CFAF '000)  Executed  (FCFA '000)   in Unit Cost
Primary basin     N/A        291,497      4,560 ml    1.378.592        372
Secondary       12.870 ml    910.049     15.768 ml    4,166.007        274
canals         _                                  I             I
Tertiary canals    55 kms     27,038       62 kms        13.049         -51
25.    To complement the civil works, an NGO was initially contracted to carry out public
awareness and information campaigns aimed at increasing community understanidinig of and
participation in general hygiene, including garbage collection, maintenance of tertiary canals,
care for public spaces, and use of latrines. Although this 'social monitorilig' was to be carried
out for three years, the contract was canceled after the first year due to performance problems.
Thereafter, direct work with beneficiaries was scaled back to latrines and garbage collection and
carried out by individuals contracted directly by the Infrastructure Unit. These aspects received
very little attention either from the Bank or the Government.
26.    In addition, the sub-component included training for small contractors to increase their
capacity to compete for and successfully execute civil works contracts under the project. This
was seen as particularly critical due to the lack of experience of local firms with bidding for and
executing urban infrastructure works.  The traininig was in general highly appreciated by
beneficiaries and considered effective in helping certain firms participate in PADS contracts.
However, the general procurement and contracting requirements combined with the capital-
intensity of the works made it exceedingly difficult for the smaller-sized contractors to
participate.
27.    The impact of the drainage sub-component was most effective in reducing seasonal flood
damage to the surrounding neighborhoods, with a positive economic impact on the population.
In a survey of beneficiaries carried out at project completion, 89 percent felt that the primary
network was functioning well, 69 percent responded favorably about the secondary network, but
only 22 percent felt the tertiary network was adequate. Property values have increased and home
repair costs have decreased. Despite the economic benefits, health problems have persisted due
to the introduction of stagnant water in the secondary canals. Three-quarters of beneficiaries
reported an increase in mosquitoes in the area due to the canals and incidence of malaria reported
by beneficiaries is up 49 percent. There has been no maintenance and cleaning of the canals and
the local population continues to use the canals as trash depositories.
28.    In general, the drainage system  entailed potential environmental effects, from  the
introduction of open canals in residential neighborhoods to the downstream effects of storm
water disposal, which were under-appreciated during design and execution. The appraisal report
did indicate the potential mosquito problem. Since no practical or affordable technical solution
was available, the project included financing for mosquito control. However, these actions have
not been continued. In addition, an estimated twenty squatter families were removed from the
primary basin to permit rehabilitation. Due to the weak legal framework and temporary nature of
their housing, no compensations were ever forthcoming by the municipality. No mention was
made of these squatters within appraisal or supervision documents. Consultations with Bank
advisors on resettlement and environmental matters concluded that while staff should have been



- 9 -
more attentive to these matters, the response was adequate given the scale and technical
circumstances of the problems. No formal Operational Directives were transgressed.
29.    Other urban infrastructure and services.  PADS financed the improvement of a
number of urban services, including water supply, electricity, latrines, garbage collection and
markets, though physical outputs fell somewhat short of initial targets due to cost increases. With
co-financing from the UNCDF, 14 neighborhood water kiosks were constructed and run through
concessions to private citizens, 10 fire hydrants were installed. electricity was extended by 100
hectares including 136 streetlights, and more than 380 families participated in the construction of
latrines. Within garbage collection, the project initially envis,ioned the purchase of trucks for the
municipality. Due to concerns over the high cost and limited prospects for sustainability, the sub-
component was redesigned to support neighborhood-level trash collection through NGOs and
neighborhood associations. PADS contracted with one experienced neighborhood group as a
pilot in labor-intensive, participatory organization of garbage collection.  The pilot, which
financed purchase of minor equipment and payment for out-haul of refuse from the neighborhood
was considered very successful, though never extended to other areas as intended. Lack of
municipal compliance with servicing trash collection sites; caused the system to eventually
breakdown, with discontinuity of the previous gains made. And finally, the results of the market
rehabilitation program were disappointing. The platform was resurfaced and drainage put in to
improve the hygienic conditions of the ex-Cholera Market, albeit at a 40 percent cost increase
over the initial appraisal. However, beneficiaries were not in agreement with the infrastructure
proposed. Expelled from the premises durinig construction, to date there are virtually no vendors
using the platform. This was a particuilarly unforttinate example of lack of beneficiary input,
poor coordination between local actors, goods displacement, and lack of effective preventive
actions by the Bank.
30.    The impact of the other urban services varies. In a survey of beneficiaries, three-quarters
were satisfied with the water fountains, which delivered reliable service despite some complaints
about the high price of water. Homeowners who were granted concessions to run the kiosks
perceived significant additional economic benefits. The electricity was less appreciated by the
majority of respondents since the public lighting never worked following disputes with the public
utility over accumulated debts of the municipality, and individual house connections were
perceived as beyond the investment capacity of poor households. Nonetheless, there is evidence
of increased economic activity (machine shops. artisan production) in the zone benefiting from
the availability of electricity. And finally, 67 percent of beneficiaries were not satisfied with the
latrines, with complaints regarding design and administration.
Strengthening of Social Policy Planning
(Original Base Cost: US$3.9 nmillion; Actual Total Cost: US$4.8 million)
31.    Compared with initial expectations, results of the social policy and planning component
were disappointing. The component got off to a good start, with several key activities such as the
launching of the N'Djamena household survey in 1990. Despite disruptions and loss of data
caused by the 1990 coup, the survey team fielded by the DSEED managed to finalize data
collection within a reasonable time frame and fairly good execution. However, problems arose
during the processing and analysis of the data that led to delays and significant cost overruns,
including an increase in six times the cost of technical assistance originally planned. These were
due to the weakness and inexperience of the DSEED in processing and analyzing household data
and the extremely poor performance of the international technical assistance contracted. In



- 10 -
addition to the delays, the technical assistance resulted in very little effective training of DSEED
staff. The final results of the 1991 household survey were not published until 1996. The survey
results did provide some useful information on social conditions in N'Djamena which was
included in the Bank's 1997 Poverty Assessment of Chad. However, in general there was a lack
of institutional capacity in Chad to translate survey results into policy recommendations and
social policy strategies. Given the experience with the N'Djamena survey and the more urgent
priority of fielding the national census in 1993. the additional surveys contemplated under the
component were canceled. However, even though the PADS project ended its support for further
household surveys, the DSEED did carry out subsequent surveys in secondary cities with UNDP
support. This benefited greatly from the previous experience in N'Djamena.
32.    Of the five studies envisioned at appraisal. two were carried out in 1992, both on aspects
related to food production and food security. These studies helped inforn the development of a
food security policy which has received ongoing donor support since the early 1990s. The
CNAR was in charge of organizing, supervising and arranging for the dissemination of the
proposed studies. CNAR never really assumed this role, and for lack of a viable institutional
arrangement, the additional studies were dropped.
33.    The third sub-component, support to the preparation of social policies and projects, was
relatively more successful. The project financed the analytical preparation and background
reports for the 1993 Health Round Table in conjuniction with the World Health Organization.
The project also supported the preparation of two IDA-financed projects: (a) the Health and Safe
Motherhood Project (Cr. 2626-CD). wlich provided further support to the initiatives in cost
recovery, essential drug distribution and health services in Tandjile started under PADS; and (b)
the Public Works and Capacity Buildinig (Cr. 2614-CD) to promote employment creation,
develop capacity in the small-scale contracting sector, and upgrade urban infrastructure and
services. The latter sought to replicate the model of AGETIP in Senegal through the creation of a
similar Chadian agency, ATETIP. PADS financed US$780,000 in pilot projects of urban civil
works to permit ATETIP to gain experience during its pilot phase.
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation
Factors Subject to Government and Bank Control
34.    Short-Term Versus Long-Term Objectives. The project design suffered from a mix of
short-term versus long-term objectives. Prepared and appraised in a very rapid process, the
project was basically designed as a quick-disbursing program to seek immediate action in
improving the basic needs of the vulnerable population. However, this conflicted with broader
institutional development objectives and activities, and a general design of procurement and
technical assistance arrangements more compatible with projects with a longer-time horizon of
implementation. In addition, the complexity of some of the short-term interventions, such as
alterations of primary drainage systems in the capital and an ambitious set of surveys and studies,
were not appropriate for a 'rapid response' type of program.  In the end, the seven-year
disbursement period for the project, while representing a delay of over two years, was consistent
with an average disbursement profile for the region at the time of appraisal. In addition, the
emphasis on a short-term project made it exceedingly difficult to build ownership and
sustainability condlitions.



- II -
35.    Overall Management Structure of the Project.  A  complex and cumbersome
management structure largely designed by the Bank, and an unclear definition of roles hampered
effective implementation of the project. Due to frequent changes in ministry officials, a lack of
cohesion in defining and implementing social policies, and the low priority accorded the project
by ministry officials, the Interministerial Committee and various sub-commilittees never
functioned as planned. Overall vision, responsibility and accountability for the project was
diffused by the structure. The configuration of a central PSCU under the Ministry of Planninig
and autonomous executing units created under the various sectoral ministries presented a series
of difficulties regarding the definitioni of responsibilities and roles.  The balance between
operational autonomy and insertion withinl the ministries for capacity buildling and sustainiability
purposes was difficult to achieve. Responsibilities for procurement and financial administration
were shared between the PSCU and the executing units, resulting in increased transaction costs
and difficulties in coordinating technical and administrative aspects of execution.  Such a
structure would have required very solid management systems and excellent communications
between the various executing units and the PSCU. However, proposals to streamline project
management were either insufficient, not followed upon, or thwarted.
36.    Multi-sectoral Interventions. The multi-sectoral nature of project interventions further
complicated design, execution and supervision. Multiple actors working on different objectives
and for different agencies, each with very different execution rhythms and operating procedures
put additional pressure on already weak capacity for project management. These strains were
mirrored inside the Bank, where the project required significant coordination, technical inputs
and supervision resources from different divisions, which was difficult to sustain throughout the
life of the project.
37.    Institutional Capacity.  The risks of weak institutional capacity for the activities
proposed in the project was identified as a major risk during preparation. Steps were taken to
address this, including the use of a PPF to advance project start-up, the establishment of
executing units in advance of effectiveness, participation by the PSCU in negotiations and a
three-month mission of a Bank consultant to Chad to train  the executing units.  During
implementation, there were several separate missions and consultancies in financial management,
procurement, and performance monitoring.  However, the structure of the project and the
capacities of the personnel responsible for implementing the various components were decisive in
the weak implementation record.
38.    Procurement Issues. A number of factors inherent in the procurement arrangements
and processes caused excessive delays and hindered project flexibility. The Government did not
grant PADS any exceptions to its cumbersome approval process which required multiple reviews
and clearances. In a review of public bidding in Chad carried out in 1996 by ATETIP, the
average length of the contracting process from the initial publication to commencement of the
contract was 14-17 months, with an average of seven months between bid opening and contract
signing. The general performance of PADS was consistent with this profile. Aggravating this
process was the weakness of the PSCU and executing units in organizing procurement needs in a
timely fashion and drafting acceptable bidding documents despite some training effects, and on
the Bank side in ensuring consistent and prompt replies. In addition, the requirement to group
like goods into packages for centralized bidding was inappropriate for a project with multiple
executing agencies working at different rhythms. In certain instances, smaller packages divided
by executing agency or distributed over time would have been more appropriate for absorptive



- 12 -
capacity and have provided much-needed flexibility as wouid have phasing in delivery of goods
for larger packages.
39.    Supply-Driven Nature of Project Initiatives. The project was designed and executed
with little or no input from the intended beneficiaries. This mitigated the potential impact of
investments.  Illustrations include the rejection of the urbani market by its potential users,
dissatisfaction of beneficiaries with latrines built, and the lack of public involvemenit in the
maintenance and proper use of drainage canals. The componients whiichi allowed for initiatives
and participation by beneficiaries, such as the micro-enterprise credit scheme and the formation
of community health committees, tended to be more easily implemented and had a greater
impact.
40.    Role of Technical Assistance. In light of the weak institutional capacity in Chad. the
project called for a significant input of technical assistance, particularly from  interinational
sources. At the outset, difficulties in contracting this technical assistance slowed project start-up,
with a full three-year delay on the Tandjile health component.  Moreover, as project
implementation was delayed and contracts were extended, expenditures on technical assistance
increased, ending up at over 200 percent above appraisal base cost estimates for the Tandjile
health component, 47 percent for the N'Djamena health component. 480 percent for the urball
sanitation program, and 93 percent for the micro-enterprise training activities. The effects of the
1994 devaluation contributed only in part to this outcome. The technical assistance was designed
not only to advise and provide training, but also had significant responsibility for implementation
in many cases. This was seen as a strategy to get results on the ground in an extremely weak
institutional environment. However, in most cases the technical assistance focused more on
execution than on building capacity, leaving very little installed capacity upon completion of their
contracts. Performance problems of technical assistance in the survey and urban infrastructure
community training components had negative consequences on outcomes.
41.    Lack of Effective Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project was very weak in
monitoring and evaluation, making it exceedingly difficult to learn from and correct deficiencies
during execution. The original design called for a series of annual and interim reports generated
by the executing agencies and complied by the PSCU. The PSCU was to develop and-track a
series of performance indicators. However, these were basically limited to physical targets and
were implemented and tracked in a sporadic fashion owing to overall weakness in project
management. There was no inclusion of a mid-term review, beneficiary assessments, external
evaluations of project performance or impact assessments. At the Bank's initiative, an impact
assessment was carried out in 1997, providing the first direct feedback from project beneficiaries.
The observations would have been more effective in reorienting project activities had this type of
evaluation been carried out in mid-stream.
Factors Not Subject to Government or Bank Control
42.    Country Circumstance. Chad has been a particularly difficult environment for project
implementation. During the same period, PADS was one of the few projects in the country
portfolio which received consistently satisfactory implementation ratings, in part reflecting
genuine advances in some components, and in part the obstacles due to implementation
difficulties in Chad.  Moreover, there was very little experience in reaching the intended
beneficiary population, including informal sector micro-entrepreneurs and artisans, the isolated
rural populations in Tandjile, and the urban poor in N'Djamena. For both the Bank and the



- 13 -
Government, this type of poverty alleviation approach was unprecedented in Chad. The situation
was further complicated by the 1990 coup which interrupted project start-up activities and caused
the destruction of some project property and materials.
43.    Macro-Economic Events in the CFA Zone. The C'FA devaluation increased the need
for immediate urban interventions and complicated contractual arrangements due to price
variations. While the supplemental credit permitted an influx of foreign exchange at a critical
period and allowed a successful expansion of VITA's activities, procurement difficulties
mitigated the use of the funds for purchase of medical supplies. Expansion of the secondary
network was perhaps less of a priority given the unresolved institutional and maintenance issues
in the urban sector.
D. Project Sustainability
44.    Prospects for the sustainability of project achievements are not encouraging. Within the
employment creation activities, the continued success of VITA in extending access to micro-
credit to the informal sector is at risk. At present. VITA is far from being financially viable.
Moreover, the legal framework to recognize VITA as a national NGO after the withdrawal of its
international partner, as well as a national legal framework for the micro-enterprise credit sector
as a whole, still needs to be instituted. In the meantime, VITA risks decapitalization or closure.
Since the project viewed the VITA program as a channel rather than an institutional objective in
and of itself, there was little attention placed on the long-run strengthening and sustainability of
the agency. Within the micro-enterprise training component, activities have been considerably
scaled back, although some training is still being done with technical assistance through the ILO.
The lack of national financing through the Department of Prof'essional Training puts into question
the continuity of the program without additional donor support.
45.    The greatest risk to sustainability in the health component lies in the need to fully equip
and staff the six new health centers and two new hospitals in N'Djamena. While the Government
has committed to making these centers operational upon installation of the equipment ordered,
the health system is currently experiencing acute shortages of medical personnel and skilled
hospital administrators. In addition, the greater use of the existing health centers has put pressure
on overstretched staff, increased the need for building maintenance, and has puts greater stress on
maintaining the hygiene and safety of the services offered. It is uncertain whether increased
budgetary resources will be forthcoming to address the increased demands on the system. The
continued success of the community-run health committees will depend on the Ministry's
capacity to fulfill the committees' requests for replenishment of stocks in a cost effective and
timely fashion. There is already evidence of ruptures in stocks and decapitalization of the system
due to the lack of cost recovery in hospitals. In addition, the health committees are fragile and
will require continued training and an effective arbitration sitructure to address disputes arising
between the committees and health center personnel. The ongoing Health and Safe Motherhood
Project as well as a follow-up project in preparation will help to mitigate these risks by
strengthening the drug distribution system, reinforcing services in Tandjile and addressing some
of the national health manpower issues.
46.    The urban sanitation investments in N'Djamena will require significant investments in
cleaning and maintenance to sustain the system. To date, these have not been forthcoming. In
theory, the municipal government is responsible for maintenance. However, there is little sense
of municipal ownership of the infrastructure since they were not responsible for the design or



- 14 -
execution of the works. Although a calculation of recurrent costs was made at appraisal and
deemed to be within the municipality's capacity to generate revenues, there was little
consideration given to the institutional development and municipal finance regulations needed to
effectively ensure compliance. Since completion of this component over three years ago, there
have been virtually no expenditures on maintenance, mosquito control or further social
mobilization and community training.
47.   In order the consolidate some of the gains made under the project. the Government
budgeted US$1.5 million in the 1998 budget to continue the PADS program. The funding has
permitted the continuation of the PSCU. In addition, based on agreements reached during the
final supervision mission, the funding will also support (a) improvements to the ex-Cholera
Market to respond to demands of the potential tisers; (b) maintenance and cleaning of secondary
drainage network; (c) equipment and training to community sanitation committees to improve
garbage collection; (d) extension of the pilot experience in women's development to other social
centers; and (e) training in community development for health staff in Tandjile and N'Djamena.
E. Bank Performance
48.    The project as identified was fully consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy
and Government priorities. Moreover, PADS was innovative and represented a clear departure
from past in the incorporation of explicit poverty-targeted interventions into the investment
program. This impetus came largely from the Bank. Given the social costs of the adjustment
program and the generally precarious living conditions of one of the world's poorest countries,
the objectives were laudable.  The project concept received significant support from the
Government and the Bank quickly mobilized to create a lending instrument around these
objectives. The Bank also brought to bear the regional experience and team from the Africa
Region Social Dimensions of Adjustment Program. This added resources and a region-wide
perspective to identification and preparation efforts.
49.    The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal was less successful and the project
suffered from desilgn and quality-at-entry problems which plagued execution. Most importantly,
the scope of the project and complexity of implementation arrangements were far too demanding
for the weak institutional environment in Chad. This is particularly true of the government-
executed components.  NGO-executed activities, particularly when they built on previous
experience, tended to fare better. The Bank was instrumental in pushing for NGO inclusion, a
positive development in Government/NGO cooperation.
50.   Regarding the appraisal process, the Bank devoted adequate staff resources to the task,
including significant inputs from sector specialists and the SDA team. However, the six-month
period between the IEPS and the appraisal mission proved insufficient to adequately prepare and
ensure Government ownership and understanding of such a complex, multi-sectoral investment
project.  The appraisal grossly underestimated the time that would be needed for project
implementation. This under-estimation had serious consequences for the quality and sequencing
of project activities as well as the reputation of the project within the country and the Bank. The
appraisal also lacked technical rigor in the areas of:  (a) cost-effectiveness of certain
interventions; (b) detailed engineering work in support of design choices for the urban drainage
system; (c) sustainability issues; and (d) monitoring and evaluation systems. Despite concems
over the complexity of implementation arrangements raised by the country team and the Regional
Vice-President's Office during internal reviews, no major modifications were made.



- 15 -
51.    The complex implementation arrangements of the project called for intensive, multi-
sectoral supervision during execution. A total of 166 staff-weeks were spent on supervision
during the seven-year implementation period. On an average annual basis, this is roughly equal
to the supervision plan put forth in the Staff Appraisal Report. However, time in the field was
less than projected, with a large portion of supervision resources spent on headquarters-based
activities. In terms of the type of supervision. skill mix was relatively adequate in spite of the
multiple sectors. Problems with procurement documentation and processes drained staff time
from supervising other aspects of implementation. Moreover, the need for coordinated, multi-
sectoral inputs from various divisions was difficult to sustain over time, particularly in terms of
input and attention from the non-managing divisions.
52.    One of the most significant drawbacks of Bank supervision was the frequent change in
task managers, with eight different task managers between appraisal and completion. In part this
was due to routine rotations and promotions within the Bank. However, in interviewing ex-Task
Managers, there was also significant evidence of frustration and desire to move off such a
difficult project to supervise.  The multi-sectoral nature of the project contributed to this.
Implementation problems were identified adequately, but the high turnover in task managers cut
against finding solutions for and following up on recommendations.
F. Borrower Performance
53.    Government performance during the preparation and execution of PADS was mixed. At
identification, the project was accorded a high priority as an important complement to the
adjustment process. Strong commitment to project objectives by leaders of the Government was
seen in the establishment of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment Committee and the priority
placed on project processing. However, technical and institutional weaknesses of executing
agencies adversely affected the Government's ability ito develop solid technical and
implementation proposals.
54.    The Government in office during the identification and preparation was ousted in 1990.
The new Government continued its support of project objectives. However, overall instability of
Government appointees and a lack of strategic objectives for poverty alleviation robbed the
project of important leadership which was to function through the Interministerial Committee.
Regarding execution, project management was weak and unable to respond to the challenges
which the project's design presented. To the Government's credit, key staff in the PSCU and
executing agencies remained throughout the full execution period, lending continuity and
institutional memory.  Despite the constrained fiscal environment, counterpart funds were
generally available. The bulk of the counterpart contribution came in the form of seconded
ministry personnel. The financial value of these staff inputs resulted in a substantial increase
over the appraisal estimates. However, low salaries and a general lack of motivation of seconded
staff was a problem that affected the efficiency of some of the executing units. In addition, as
stated above, implementation was constrained by the cumbersome administrative and
procurement requirements. The Government was unable to take effective action to address the
systemic problems which hampered implementation of all extermally-financed projects, and found
no alternative arrangements that would have allowed PADS to fulfill its quick-impact social
objectives.



- 16 -
G. Assessment of Project Outcome
55.    The general objectives of the project were partially met. with a wide variation in
performance between components, making overall ranking difficult. The creation of informal
sector jobs through micro-credit assistance was far in excess of initial expectations. The project
was instrumental in proving that micro-credit could function in the difficult conditions of Chad.
Training for artisans had less of an impact. although it set an important precedent for Government
support for the sector. Targeted assistance to laid-off public employees was never achieved.
56.    Within the health component, the PADS was highly successful in improving utilization
rates of both rural and urban health centers, largely due to the success of the cost recovery system
and the supply of essential medicines. Procurement delays in constructing and equipping the new
health facilities in N'Djamena considerably reduced the potential impact of the project and put
future operations of the facilities at risk.  And overall, there was relatively little lasting
institutional impact of the technical assistance provided.
57.    The N'Djamena  urban  sanitation  component made  significant investments  in
rehabilitating the drainage system, albeit with large cost increases. Seasonal flooding no longer
threatens the housing and hygiene of the over 100.000 low-income residents of the affected
zones. A small subset of these residents has benefited from electricity, water supply and latrines.
The lack of maintenance of the canals and the limited impact of public awareness campaigns on
changing citizen's behavior vis-a-vis garbage collection, use and maintenance of the drainage
system threatens the long-run functioninig and sustainability of the investments. In addition, the
overall lack of ownership and capacity on the part of the Municipality of N'Djamena puts future
operations of the urban infrastructure at risk.
58.    The social policy and planning component fell short of its objectives. The N'Djamena
survey, even though it gave important experience to the DSEED, had a negligible impact on the
formulation of social policies and projects. The other surveys and the studies activities were
either not carried out or had minimal impacts on social policies.  Project resources were
instrumental in tlhe preparation of two related IDA projects. This may have sped up the
preparation of these investments, but alternative financing vehicles would have been found, such
as PPFs. to this end.
59.    As such, the overall assessment of the project's outcome is marginally unsatisfactory.
This overall assessment balances the achievements of several components with the diminished
prospects for sustainability of major benefits, the questionable cost-effectiveness of certain
interventions and the general implementation difficulties. However, there were several notable
achievements, and the general performance should be characterized as uneven. Despite the
design drawbacks, the general complexity of the implementation arrangements, and weak
implementation performance, several of the impacts of the project were notable and should not be
diminished by the overall assessment.
H. Future Operation
60.    There is no explicit follow-on operation anticipated. Nonetheless, poverty alleviation
will remain a central theme of the Bank's country assistance strategy for Chad. A free-standing
poverty-oriented project is part of the Bank's future pipeline and will continue to identify and
address the needs of the vulnerable populations in Chad. The gains made through PADS in



- 17 -
improving health services have been consolidated and extended through the Bank's health sector
program, which consists of the ongoing Health and Safe Motherhood. the Population and AIDS
Control Project, as well as a new health project in the pipeline. It will be particularly important
that these investments include further strengthening to the communitv health committees and the
national drug distribution system to consolidate the gains made in improved service delivery
through cost recovery. To the extent possible. future IDA presence in the health sector should
see to the effective staffing and running of the two N'Djamena district hospitals built through
PADS.
I. Key Lessons Learned
61.   In terms of the overall approach of the project:
Targeted interventions are effective tools for reaching vulnerable populations. PADS
succeeded in reaching a hitherto neglected segment of society - the poor and vulilerable who
had often been missed by more traditional investment programs.  Without specific
interventions on their behalf, it is unlikely that living conditions will improve dramatically
over the medium term. Moreover, the PADS project highlighted the importance of a more
pro-active strategy as a complement to the longer-term gains expected to be made in the
overall macro-economic and sectoral reforms.
i To maximize impact, even investments which focus a,n delivery of immediate benefits
must take into consideration medium-term aspects related to sustainability. The PADS
design called for a series of interventions meant to improve living conditions in the short-
term. For example, resources for micro-enterprise credit were channeled through an NGO,
with little attention to the legal or institutional context of what would happen following the
project. Sanitation infrastructure was upgraded in N'Djamena, but little or no actions were
taken to ensure maintenance of these works either by the community or the municipality once
financing ended. These design flaws were not sufficiently addressed during implementation,
resulting in missed opportinities to have a more lasting impact.
* Even with laudable objectives, the success of a project rests on implementation
arrangements. A non-viable implementation structure is exceedingly difficult to correct
in mid-stream. This finding is consistent with accumulated Bank experience as well as the
findings of the SDA program in general. As quoted frorn a review of SDA, "experience to
date suggests that cumbersome government procedures are ill-suited for dealing with
emergency situations, and an autonomous social fund works better. If programs cannot
provide rapid support, sector interventions through sectoral projects have a better chance at
integration into the government strategies and mig,ht be easier to implement...The
institutional set-up of Social Action Programs and Social Funds and their delivery
mechanisms have a crucial impact on performance... The designers of Social Action
Programs have often underestimated the issues of procurement and disbursement during
preparation". I
62.   In terms of sector-specific experience:
'Marc, A., Graham, C., Schacter, M., and Schmidt, M. "Social Acti,n Programs and Social Funds: A
Review of Design and Implementation in Sub-Saharan Africa, " World Bank Discussion Paper # 274,
Africa Technical Department Series, 1995.



- 18 -
*  The informal sector is an extremely important part of the Chadian economy, especially
among the most vulnerable populations. The PADS has confirmed that effective
delivery mechanisms can be designed and implemented that improve their productivity
and living conditions. In particular, the success of the VITA program ill reachinig significant
numbers of informal sector workers attests to the vitality of the sector. As an employment
creation tool, the US$2 million in credit assistance generated over 12.000 jobs, compared for
instance with the over 18,000 temporary jobs estimated to have resulted from the sanitation
infrastructure at a cost of over US$13 million.
*  Creating services to support the informal sector and micro-enterprise will require a
long-term commitment to designing demand-responsive interventions, building
institutional capacity, and creating a conducive regulatory and legal framework. The
PADS project sought short-term impact and did not intervene in the longer-tern needs of the
sector. Future efforts need to focus Onl setting up appropriate legislation for micro-enterprise
financial institutions, promoting the diversification of institutions, and improving the
conditions within which micro-enterprise can prosper.
*  Within the health sector, cost recovery strategies at the primary and secondary level
are a viable and attractive option for improving the utilization of health centers and
quality of service delivery, if matched with reliable supply of affordable essential drugs.
Even among the very low-income populations in both the rural and urball areas of Chad,
people were willing to pay for health center services if adequate drugs and personnel were
available. The management of the system by commuLnity members heightens transparency
and credibility of the system. However, the overall system needs very effective management
to ensure consistency of supplies.
*  Large-scale urban infrastructure investments are best implemented within integrated
urban development programs, rather than as discreet 'social' investments. Major urban
infrastructure investments, like the N'Djamena sanitation component, have complex
technical, economic, environmental and institutional aspects. To maximize the investment,
they need to be accompanied by detailed system-wide studies and master plans, ongoing
dialogue and training with urban beneficiaries and community associations, and a municipal
finance framework that ensures sustainability. Freestanding urban projects are better-suited
to these needs.
*  Without a specific agency designated within the Government for the definition and
coordination of social policies, studies, analytical work and policy formulation is best
carried out directly with the various ministries concerned rather than by a central
committee. The conception of social policy as something centrally determined through a
coordinated effort of all partners is unrealistic.
63.   In terms of country-specific experience:
* Institutional capacity should be viewed as a binding constraint over the short-term, not
just a project risk to be minimized. Capacity-building is a slow and incremental process. It
is exceedingly difficult and expensive to attempt rapid increases in institutional capacity
either through training or the importation of technical assistance to fit overly ambitious



- 19 -
project objectives. Designing projects with modest objectives, phasing-in of activities, and
allowing enough time and resources to adequately consolidate gains is paramount in the
Chadian context. In addition, to the extent possible, reducing the demands on government
capacity by using non-governmental groups, community organizations and/or contracting
private sector execution should be encouraged.
Although  Chad  has  limited  human  resources  and  a  disappointing  project
implementation track record, there are indications of important factors in success.
Many projects in Chad have suffered from procurement problems, poor financial
administration, and lack of transparency. Some efforts can be made on a project level, such
as: (a) intensive training in financial and procurement administration; (b) implementation of
management information systems and realistic perforrnance indicators prior to project
effectiveness; (c) setting clear performance criteria for project management staff and
recruiting personnel specialized in procurement; and (d) more effective use of monitoring
and evaluation to include external reviews, beneficiary assessments, impact evaluations and
other transparency enhancing mechanisms. Since many of these deficiencies are systemic,
the country program as a whole should attempt to address the cumbersome national
procurement processes and difficulties with financial administration. The Resident Mission
can play an important role in providing sustained follow-up and reinforcement.
- Projects which build in a high degree of participation of beneficiaries are likely to have
higher impacts, particularly in small-scale investments w:ith poverty alleviation objectives.
The few initiatives which involved beneficiaries showed interesting results and potential
spill-over effects, from the community health committees and the micro-entrepreneurs to the
women's groups in the pilot social centers.



PART 2 - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial     Partial       Negligible       Not Applicable
Macro policies                      ( )             ( )           ( )              (1)
Sector policies                     ( )             (1)           ( )              ( )
Financial objectives                ( )             ( )           ( )              (/)
Institutional development           ( )             ( )           (/)              ( )
Physical objectives                 (1)             ( )           ( )              ( )
Poverty reduction                   ( )             (1)           ( )              ( )
Gender issues                       (1)
Other social objectives              ( )            (1)           ( )              ( )
Environmental objectives            ( )             (/ )          ( )              ( )
Public sector management            ( )             ( )           (1)              ( )
Private sector development          ( )             (/)           ( )              ( )
B. Project Sustainability           Likely          Unlikely      Uncertain
Microenterprise credit assistance   ( )             ( )           (1)
Microenterprise training            ( )             (I)           ( )
N'Djamena health                    ( )             ( )           (1)
Tandjile health                     (1)             ( )           (
N'Djamena sanitation                 ( )            (1)
Social policy planning              ( )             ())
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                      ( )             (1)           ( )
Preparation assistance              ( )             (1)           (
Appraisal                           ( )             ( )           (1)
Supervision                         ( )             ( )           (1)
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                         ()            (1)
Implementation                                      ()            (/)
Covenant compliance                                 (1)           ()
Highly                                        Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
( )            ( )           (1 )             ( )



- 21 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans ancl Credits
Loan Title      g                Purpose                    Year of         Status
I                                       | Approval
Preceding operations
Economic and           To strengthen the Government's overall  January.      Completed.
Financial Management  capacity to define and implement its      1988         ICR date: April.
(Cr. 1872-CD)          development program, to carrv out                     1997
effective economic and financial
management. to monitor economic
performance and to improve the collection
of revenues.
Education              To gradually develop and implement a    August,       Completed.
Rehabilitation         policy frameworXk aimed at increasing    1988         ICR date:
(Cr. 1950-CD)          sectoral resources and improving their cost           September, 1995
effectiveness, and avoiding the emergence
of sectoral distortions.
Following operations
Basic Education        To improve the access, quality and      May, 1993    Ongoing.
(Cr. 2501-CD)          efficiency of primary education, primarily
in rural areas and nationwide for girls
Economic Recovery      Support the post-devaluation reform     March, 1994  Completed.
(Cr. 2589-CD)          program by restoring order to public                  ICR date: May,
finances, laying the basis for growth and            1996
the alleviation of poverty and minimizing
the negative social impact of the
devaluation in the short term.
Public Works and       (a) to build local capacity; (b) to assist the    May, 1994    Ongoing.
Capacity Building      government in maintaining infrastructure
(Cr. 2614-CD)          assets, (c) to participate in reducing current
unemployment by creating temporary jobs
in the public works and construction sector;
and (d) to improve public procurement and
contract management
practices.
Health and Safe        Increase access of the population to quality  June, 1994    Ongoing.
Motherhood             basic health care focusing particularly on
(Cr. 2626-CD)          the most vulnerable groups - children ancl
women of child-bearing age.
Capacity Building      Reinforce progress made under the First  February,    Ongoing.
Project for Economic    Economic and Financial Management       1996
Management             Project and: I) reform the civil service; 2)
(Cr. 2818-CD)          restore the government's capacity to
provide essential public goods and services
3) improve public finance management; 4)
improve the quality and efficiency of
public expenditures, and 5) implement the
government's divestiture program.
Population and AIDS    Increase the use of modern methods of   March, 1995  Ongoing
Control (Cr. 2692-CD)  contraception, and slow the spread of HI'V
infection by promoting behavioral change.



- 22 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned'/            Actual Date/Latest Estimate
Identification (EPS)                                    Identification Mission February, 1988
IEPS issued August. 1988
Preparation                                             Pre-appraisal October 1988
Appraisal                                               January 1989
Post-Appraisal                                          November 1989
Negotiations                     April 1989             April 16-20, 1990
Board Presentation               November 1989          June 14, 1990
Signing                                                 July 6. 1990
Effectiveness                    February 1990          April 14. 1991
Project Completion               N/A                    N/A
Loan Closing                     June 30, 1996          April 30, 1998
Supplemental Credit Approval                           November 10, 1994
Supplemental Credit Signing      N/A                    March 7, 1995
Supplemental Credit Effectiveness   N/A                 September 6, 1995
Supplemental Credit Closing      June 30, 1996          April 30, 1998
'As of approval of PPF.



- 23 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY          1990  1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997             1998
Appraisal Estimate
Cr. 2156-CD'/         0.5   3.30   4.00   3.20    1.60   0.80
(in US$ million)                           _                ___
Actual                      1.96   1.66   2.68   2.63   3.82    2.13    0.00           0.03
Cr. 2156-CD2-/
(in US$ million)
Actual as percent of  0.0  52.00  46.00  57.00  71.00  95.00  111.00  111.00         111.00
Estimate3/
Supplemental                                              7.00    2.80
Cr. 21561-CD
(in US$ million)
Actual                                                            4.27    3.64         1.50
Cr. 21561-CD
(in US$ million)_                                               _
Actual as percent of                                        0   44.00   81.00         95.00
Estimate                                                           __
Date of Final                                                                   Fourth quarter for
Disbursement:                                                                   both Cr. 2156 and
Cr. 21561
Regional Sector       0.0   8.00  20.00  39.00  52.00  68.00   85.00   96.00         100.00
profile at appraisal
(in percentage)
Cr. 21560-CD          0.0  13.90  25.40  43.60  61.60  86.10   99.70   99.70         100.00
(in percentage)    |                                           _
Assumed credit effectiveness during first quarter of FY91.
2 Actual credit effectiveness during fourth quarter of FY92. Total disbursements equivalent to US$14.9
million versus appraisal estimate of US$ 13.4 million due to fluctuations in SDR rate.
Based on cumulative amounts. Disbursements in US$ over 100% due to variations in SDR:US$
exchange rate during execution.



- 24 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation                  Estimated at Appraisal               Modified           Actual
Indicators in SAR/MOP                                                                  (at project closing)
Stimulation of Employment Generation
a) credit and management      530 micro-enterprises (credit window # I)                 Total loans 18,662
assistance to micro-and       137 small enterprises                                     (61% to women)
small-scale enterprises       (credit window #2)
12 small-medium enterprises
(credit window #3)                                        Total credit
Gross credit commitments (including reflows)              commitments
US$1.6 million (463.200,000 CFA 1990)                     4.349,765,000 CFA
1,200 jobs created                                        (100x more than at
appraisal)
12,203 jobs created
b) technical assistance to    Number to be trained not specified                         1,798 received
micro-enterprise                                                                        training
240 in new products
127 in improvement
of product quality
II new enterprises
created
c) assistance to laid-off     3,000 people expected to benefit from job                 Component not
public sector employees       counseling program                                        implemented
Primary Health Care and Social Services
a) restructurjng and          Expansion of health care and social services              Rehabilitation of six
expansion of N'Djamena's    for more than 150,000 persons                               health centers, four
health and social services                                                              social centers and a
network                       Rehabilitation of 4 health and/or social centers          pharmaceutical
deposit; construction
Construction and equipping of 3 integrated                of the Medical-Social
health-social centers                                     Unit; construction of
six new health
Construction and equipping of 3 dispensaries              centers and two
district hospitals
Construction and equipping of 3 16-bed
maternity centers
Increase access for population in catchment
area from 45% in 1988 to 75% by end of                    Increased access not
project                                                   yet assured since new
infrastructure not yet
functioning
Double utilization rate in catchment area
Utilization rates in
existing centers
increased by six
Implement of cost recovery system                         times
Cost recovery system
_____ _____ _____ ____ ____   _____ ____ _____ _____ _____ ____ _____ _   ___ ___  im plem ented



- 25 -
Key Implementation                Estimated at Appraisal           Modified         Actual
Indicators in SAR/MOP                                                           (at project closing)
b) strengthening regional   Not specified
health services in Tandjile                                         _
Improvement of N'Djamena's sanitation infrastructure
a) Rehabilitation of       Primary network:                                      Primary basin
N'Djamena drainage         Bassin de Jardiniers - reconstruction to SO cm        rehabilitated and
below actual level to accelerate evacuation cf        capacity increased
rain water; Bassin d'Am Rikebe -Extension
of northern perimeter
Rehabilitation of secondary network:                 Secondary network:
12,870 meters                                        J5,768 meters
Tertiary network - upgrading along 55                 Tertiary network:
kilometers of canals                                  62 kilometers
15.000 persons employed through labor                over 18.000
intensive activities                                 temporary jobs
Promotion and training of PMEs not specified
Number trained not
reported
Reduction of malaria and other diseases
aamong 85.000 living in drainage areas                Evidence suggests
malaria increased
b) Improvement of public    Rehabilitation of Cholera market                      Ex-Cholera market
hygiene                                                                          rehabilitated
Number of public fountains and water supply           14 public fountains
and public lighting not specified                    constructed, 10 fire
hydrants, electricity
Construction of latrines - number not                extended to 100
specified                                            hectares
Mosquito control - coverage and frequency            384 latrines
not specified                                        constructed
3 mosquito control
campaigns financed
Strengthening of social policy planrning
Household surveys         4 priority surveys:                                   N'Djamena
N'Djamena                                            household survey
Moundou                                              carried out in 1991
Abeche
Rural cotton zone
I national integrated household survey             _



^ 26 -
Key Implementation                 Estimated at Appraisal            Modified          Actual
Indicators in SAR/MOP                                                              (at project closing)
Socio-economic studies     Study on food security and vulnerable groups           2 studies on food
security issues
Study on rural production                              completed in 1992
Study on expenditures on social services
Study on the living conditions of urban
households
Study of micro-enterprise in the urban area
Policy formulation and     Number of annual work-shops not specified               Preparation of 1993
project identification                                                              Health Round Table
Elaboration of food security policy and design         supported
of pilot program
2 IDA-financed
Budget allocation sufficient to provide                projects prepared
minimum social services
Definition of cost recovery policies for
essential services (basic medicines, water
supply, latrines, etc.)
Formulation of strategy to promote micro-
enterprise



- 27 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No indicators for project operations were defined in the SAR. Such indicators
were not required as standard procedure at the time of appraiisal. Description of
future operation is provided in Part I. Section H



- 28 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                    Purpose as defined at
AppraisaUredefined               Status              Impact of Study
Anticipated at Appraisal
I . Household surveys:       Generate data to identify vulnerable   Only 1991      Negligible -- Due to delay in
(a) income, production and   groups, trace social and economic    N'Djamena        analyzing results and limited
food security of rural       impacts of the adjustment process.   household survey   capacity to use such
households;                  determine overall household living    carried out     information, impact was
(b) household conditions in    conditions in specific regions                      negligible. Some data used to
Moundou;                                                                           inform 1997 Poverty
(c) household conditions in                                                        Assessment.
d'Abeche;
(d) household conditions in
N'Djamena;
2. Integrated household      Generate household level data to   Not executed
survey                       identify vulnerable groups,
determine access to social services.
and living conditions
3. Ways to help small cotton   Study the impact of the          Not executed
growers improve efficiency    restructuring of the cotton sector on
and living conditions        small-scale producers
4. Impact of public resource    Analyze health and education    Not executed
allocation on social services    expenditures to improve targeting,   within scope of
coverage and efficiency of         project
budgetary resources
5. Sectoral structure of the  Understand financial and          Not executed
informal sector and small    operational base of urban micro-
entrepreneur efficiency      enterprises and develop policies to
support them
6. Food Security Issues and    Identify the critical economic,  Two studies done:  Contributed to multiple and
vulnerable groups            demographic, environmental and     (a) rapid          on-going efforts to improve
technological factors threatening  evaluation of food  food security and famine early
food security in Chad and design  security; and (b)    warning systems
policies to heighten vulnerable    agricultural
population's access to basic       marketing and
foodstuff.                        food security
7. Analysis of urban         Analyze characteristics and needs of  Not executed
household budgets and        urban poor in order to design
identification of vulnerable  policies better targeted to improving
groups                       employment and production
Added During Execution
8. Preparatory analyses of   Revise national health policy      Completed          Substantial - National health
health sector and policies for                                                     policy framed and adopted
Health Round Table (1993)                                                          based on Round Table
recommendations
9. Impact evaluation of      Ascertain the number of            Completed          Partial - Although not
PADS                         beneficiaries reached by the project                  disseminated outside of project
and impact of PADS on living                          participants, represents one of
conditions                                            the first attempts at measuring
impacts of social projects in
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   :__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _C h ad .



- 29 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Component             Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)       Actual Estimate (US$ million)'/
Local  Foreign  Total  % of Base  Local  Foreign  Total  % of Actual
Costs             _                  Costs
Support to Employment
Creation
Credit assistance             1.38    1.23    2.60       I 2     N/A      N/A     4.35        12
Technical assistance center  0.35    0.75     1.11        5      N/A      N/A      1.99        5
Worker reinsertion           0.19    0.14    0.32         1      N/A      N/A     0.02         0
Improvement of Health and                                        N/A      N/A
Social Services
N'Djamena                    1.41    2.99    4.40        20      N/A      N/A      5.75       16
Tandjile                     0.67    1.80    2.47        11      N/A      N/A     2.89         8
Improvement of                                                   N/A      N/A
N'Djamena Sanitation
Infrastructure
Urban sanitation/drainage    2.22   4.64     6.86        31      N/A      N/A    16.30        44
Hygiene campaigns            0.20    0.47    0.67         3      N/A      N/A     0.61         2
Strengthening of Social                                          N/A      N/A
Policy
Surveys, studies, workshops  1.25    1.66    2.90                N/A      N/A     3.05         8
PCSU                         0.58    0.39    0.97         4      N/A      N/A      1.74        5
Total Base Costs   8.30    14.0   22.30      100                         _
Contingencies    1.40   3.30    4.60                ==
Total   9.70   17.20   26.90                Total Final      36.70      100
Costs (including
Supplemental
Credit)2/
Supplemental Credit:         1.00   0.00    1.00
AMicro-enterprise Credit
Supplemental Credit:         0.00    1.00     1.00
Essential Drut<gs                                  _
Supplemental Credit:         1. 17   6.63    7.80
SanitarY Infrastructure                                                  _        _
Total Project Including     11.87  24.83    36.70
Supplemental Credit                                                  _
' These are rough estimates based on FCFA expenditures converted at an average FCFA:US$ exchange
rate of 443: 1. Project accounting was not carried out on a US$ basis, and hence US$ figures should be
taken as approximate.
2 Does not include government and community contributions of an estimated US$1.3 million.



- 30 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source          Appraisal                       Actual/Latest
Estimate                         Estimate
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Local      Foreign   Total       Local       Foreign     Total
IDA Credit               3.7         9.7      13.4       N/A          N/A        14.93/
Co-Financing:
Swiss Government         1.4         0.9       6.7        N/A         N/A         7.1
USAID                    1.4         0.9       2.3         1.4        0.9         2.3
UNCDF                    1.1         2.1       3.2         1.0        2.0         3.0
Government               0.6         0.0       0.6         0.9         0.0         0.9i4J
Local communities        0.7         0.0       0.7        0.4         0.0       0.4 /2
Sub-Total               9.7         17.2     26.9        N/A         N/A         28.6
Supplemental IDA         2.2         7.6       9.8        N/A         N/A         9.4'/
Credit
Total                   11.9        24.8      36.7        N/A         N/A        38.0
3Actual disbursement value as of May 5, 1998 of SDR 17.0 million (out of original credit of SDR 10.4
million and supplemental credit of SDR 6.8 million). Average exchange rate over execution period of
1.55US$:1 SDR.
' Approximate estimates provided by Project Management Unit. Project accounting did not include
systematic estimates of the value of Government contribution (largely in seconded staff) or community
contributions.
5 Actual disbursement value as of May 5, 1998 of SDR 6.6 million (out of supplemental credit of SDR 6.8
million). Average exchange rate over execution period of 1.43US$: I SDR.



- 31 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal. Specific project benefits were expressed in termns
of increased access of the target population to basic health services, credit and technical assistance for
micro-enterprise development, employment opportunities and improved sanitation and hygiene.



- 32 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section   Covenant  Present   Original         Revised         Description of Covenant            Comments
Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date         Date
Credit Agreement
2.03           3         C       06/30/96     06/30/98      Credit Closing Date
3.01(a)        5         C       Continuous                 (b) the Borrower to execute the    Fulfilled
project through the Ministry of
Planning with diligence and
efficiency                      _
3.02          1 0        C       Continuous                 Procurement to be governed by    Fulfilled
the provision of schedule 3
3.03           3         C       1990         06/93         Proceeds of Category 7 to be     Fulfilled. Interest rate
made available to VITA through   eventually liberalized to
subsidiary agreement protecting   current level of 24-36%
interest of Borrower and IDA in
accordance with Schedule 4,
including increase of interest
______      _rate to 13% after 6/30/91
3.04           5         C       1990         10/90         Employ an expert to establish    These services have
technical support unit for micro-   ended.
_________    ___________                 enterprises.
3.05(a)        5         C       1990         1990          Maintain a health and social unit  Fulfilled throughout
with adequate staff.            project.
3.05(b)       12         PC      1993         01/01/95      Recovery of cost of services     Cost recovery system
provided in maternities          installed and
constructed under the project   functioning in health
and health centers supplied with   centers in N'Djamena
essential drugs.                and Tandjile. Cost
recovery at secondary
level in district
hospitals either not yet
functioning due to
delays in construction
and equipping or
functioning less
____________  ____________  ________________________________   successfully.
3.05(c)       11         NC                                 Increase in the health and social   Budget did not increase
services operating budgets in   by 10%. Annual rates
N'Djamena and Tandjile by 10%   were 1991: 2%; 1992:
from their 1990 base in 1991,   7%; 1993: -6%; 1994:
1992 and 1993.                  72%; 1995: -13%; and
1996: -8%, for an
annualized average of
6% for 1990-96
3.06           5         C       1990         02/90         Maintain a sanitation            Fulfilled throughout
infrastructure unit within      project.
________             _ MATUH with adequate staff.
3.07           5         CP      1991         1992          Full-time Director and           Post of Deputy Director
Accountant in the PCSU,          extended beyond three
Deputy Director for the first    year period.
_________   __________    _________   ___________  three  years, and  competent staff



- 33 -
Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant           Comments
Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
3.08                   CP    Annually                   Not later than November 1,     Not done systematically
review progress of each       through implementation
component with IDA and        period
promptly submit action plans for
the following year
3.09                   CP                  1992-93      Review with IDA the            Studies component
recommendations of each study   curtailed. Results of
and prepare action plans for their  completed studies
implementation satisfactory to    presented, no formal
IDA                           action plans developed.
4.01(a)                 C      Continuous               Maintain records and accounts    Fulfilled
of the project, departments or
agencies responsible for carrying
out the project,
4.01(b)                 C      Annually                (i) have records and accounts   Complied with though
audited each fiscal year; (ii)  several audit reports
furnish said audit within six  were qualified through
months of the end of each year.   1994.
4.01 (c)                C      Continuous               For expenditures based on      Fulfilled.
SOEs: (I) maintain records and
accounts, (ii) retain all records
for at least one year after IDA
reception of audit. (iii) enable
IDA's representatives to
examine such records; and (iv)
ensure that every six months
auditors furnish to IDA an
opinion as to whether SOE
procedures and controls support
related withdrawals.
Covenant types:
I  = Accounts/audits
2  = Financial performance/ revenue generation from beneficiaries
3  = Flow and utilization of project funds
4  = Counterpart funding
5  =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6  = Environmental covenants
7  = Involuntary resettlement
8  =  lndigenous People
9  = Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/ institutional action
13 = Other
Present status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
NC = Not complied with
CP = Complied with partially



- 34 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
|   There was general compliance with all pertinent Bank Operational Manual Statements throughout|
the project cycle. For details, see Part 1, B. Achievement of Project Objectives, paragraph 27.l



- 35 -
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle              Planned                    Revised                        Actual'/
Weeks   US$('000)          Weeks       US$('00)          Weeks         USS('000)
Preparation to appraisal         N/A          N/A           N/A            N/A              17.6           36.6
Appraisal                        N/A          N/A           N/A            N/A              69.7          154.5
Negotiations through
Board approval                   N/A          N/A           N/A            N/A              18.1           41.5
Supervision                      105-/        N/A           N/A            N/A             165.7          356.9
Completion                       11.0         23.9           11.0          23.9             13.8           25.7
Total                            N/A          N/A           N/A            N/A            284.9           615.2
Excludes travel costs. In addition. substantial contributions to preparation. appraisal and supervision provided by the Africa Region
Social Dimensions of Adjustment Unit not accounted for in the time recording system.
2Original supervision estimate based on expected implementation period of five years. Adding an additional two and one-half years
of supervision would have brought the original estimate to 174. very close to the actual staff-weeks spent.



- 36 -
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Ratings
Stage of Project  Month   No. of   Days in field       Specialized staff skills  Implementation   Development |         Types of Problems
Cycle        /Year   Persons       (total)            represented                Status         Objectives
Through appraisal
Identification      2/88      5          100        Country Economist, SDA Unit  N/A               N/A
Chief, economist, health
specialist, sociologist
Preparation         6/88      3           30        Demographer, 2 public health   N/A             N/A
specialists
Preappraisal       10/88       l          l l       TM - human resource
economist
Appraisal           1/89     12          240        TM - human resource
economist and specialists in
engineering, health, micro-
enterprises, NGOs,
socioeconomic studies,
surveys, technology transfer,
urban development and
project costing                                     .
Appraisal Through Effectiveness
Post-Appraisal     11/89       l          l l       TM- economist                N/A               N/A
1-3/90      1           90       TM - Project officer          N/A               N/A            Lack of experience in project
management, complexity of
implementation arrangements
5/90       l           2        Architect                    N/A               N/A             Auditing of PPF and review of
draft contracts
11/90      I           10       Project officer               2                 2              Unequal progress in starting up
components, lack of experience
in project management
12/91      5           60       TM - economist, SDA                  2                2         Inconsistent organizational set-
economist, engineer, Micro-                                    up; coordinating and executing
enterprise specialist                                         responsibilities ill-defined;
I__ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _weak financial management
2/92      1        .            Financial analyst                  N/A              N/A        Lack of acceptable financial
I__ _ _ _   _       I________      I___I_                          .                              administration



- 37 -
Performance Ratings
Stage of Project  Month   No. of   Days in field     Specialized staff skills  Implementation   Development         Types of Problems
Cycle       /Year  Persons        (total)           represented               Status        Objectives
Supervision
2/92      l           13       TM - economist                     2               2        Difficulties contracting
international TA in Tandjile
health component
6/92      2           14       TM - economist; engineer           2               2        Poor compliance with
procurement procedures, lack
of effectiveness in Micro-
enterprise training component
7/92      6            1       Survey specialist                 N/A             N/A       Delays in finalizing household
survey analysis
11/92      l           4       Survey specialist                  N/A             N/A       Delays in finalizing household
survey analysis
10/92     4           21       TM - economist, Micro-              2               2        Slow execution; changes in
enterprise development,                                     proposed urban infrastructure;
engineer, financial analyst                                 design problems in garbage
collection; no progress on
worker reinsertion program
1/93      I           2       Health specialist                  N/A             N/A       Revised health infrastructure
activities in line with new
Government policy
1/93     5           25       TM - economist, health              2               2        Poor financial management,
specialist, engineer, Micro-                                institutional arrangements
enterprise specialists                                      between PADS and new health
project, cost escalation in
sanitation
5/93      3          27       TM - health specialist,             2               2        None reported
economist, financial analyst
2/94      3          21        TM - health specialist,            2               2        Effects of CFA devaluation;
architect, pharmaceutical                                   some procurement difficulties
specialist                                                  in health component



- 38 -
Performance Ratings
Stage of Project  Month   No. of   Days in field      Specialized staff skills  Implementation   Development          Types of Problems
Cycle       /Year   Persons       (total)             represented               Status        Objectives
3/95      l           13       TM - operations officer       S                      S         High unit costs of micro-
enterprise training; need for
further liberalization of VITA's
interest rates; inadequate
maintenance of civil works
6/95      I            8       Engineer                             S               S         Delay in effectiveness of
supplemental credit
5/96      1            4       TM - architect                       S               S         Extension of closing date;
procurement weaknesses
2/97      I            9       TM- economist                        S               S         Extension of closing date;
sustainability;
4/97                                                                U               U         Downgraded due to
sustainability and quality
concerns, but no mission was
undertaken
8/97      I           15       TM- economist                        S               S         Sustainability
Completion         5/98      2            21       Two economists                     N/A              N/A       Sustainability



