Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE O~NLY
CfiZ  2/ 51;6 è-.'
Report No. 7966-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
MAY 2, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
*, , , I  *" I . . I-~ cl - -c , i I   not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =        CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00         CFAF 289.5 (February 1990)
CFAF 1 million = US$3,450
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
l m                      1.09 yd
1 km2            =       0.38 sq mi
1 m2             =        10.76 sq ft
1 ha             =       2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         -  African Development Bank
BTCD         -   Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de DepOts
COTONTCHAD   -   Societe Cotonni6re du Tchad
CRA          -   Centre de Recherches Appliquees
DSEED        -   Departement de la Statistique des Etudes Economiques et
Demographiques
EDF          -   European Development Fund
FAC          -   Fond d'Aide et Cooperation Fran,aise
FAO          -   Food and Agriculture Organization
FRC          -   Financial Rehabilitation Credit
TCB          -   In ernational Competitive Bidding
l,CB         -   Local Conmpetitive Bidding
MASPF        -  Minist6re des Affaires Sociales et de la Promotion Feminine
MATUH        -   Ministere de l'Amenagement, de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme
MCH          -   Maternal and Child Health
MCI          -  Ministere du Commerce et de l'Industrie
MEN          -  Minist6re de l'Education Nationale
MFI          -  Ministere des Finances
MI           -  Ministere de l'Interieur
MPC          -  Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation
MSA          -  Ministere de la Securite Alimentaire et des Populations Sinistrees
MSP          -  Ministere de la Sante Publique
MTE          -  Ministere du Travail et de l'Emploi
MTP          -  Ministere des Travaux Publics
NGO          -   Non-Governmental Organization
ONAMO        -   Office National de la Main-d'Oeuvre
ONDR         -  Office National du Developpement Rural
PADS         -   Programmes d'Actions pour le Developpement Social
PHC          -   Primary Fealth Care
PCSU         -   Project Coordination and Support Unit
PFP          -   Policy Framework Paper
PPF          -   Project Preparation Facility
SDA          -   Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SME          -   Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE          -   Statement of Expenditures
SSA          -   Sub-Saharan Africa
UNCDF        -   United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNICEF       -  United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID        -   United States Agency for International Development
WHO          -   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ............... .. .................    i - ii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................    ...................  iii - v
I.  INTRODUCTION .................   ...................                1
II.  THE ECONOMY AND THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS     .       .               1
A.  Socioeconomic Trends and the Adjustment Process   .......      1
b.  Poverty and Social Development Issues ....     .............   3
C.  The Financial Sector .....   ............ ................     7
D.  Ongoing Programs and Sectora. Issues ....   .......... ..      7
E.  The Bank Group's Role .................................        9
III. THE PROJECT ...............................................       10
A.  Project Objectives ....................................       10
B.  Summary of Project Composition .....      ...................  10
C.  Project Description ...................................       11
1.  Stimulation of Employment Generation ..............      11
2.  Improvement of Primary Health Care and                   13
Social Services ...................................
3.  Improvement of N'Djamena's Sanitation Infrastructure     15
4.  Strengthening of Social Policy Formulation .........    17
D.  Project Costs and Financing .....     .......................  20
IV.  PROJECT rIPLEMENTATION .....................................    21
A.  Status of Project Preparation and Readiness ....   ........    21
B.  Project Management and Coordination ....     ................  22
C.  Implementation of the Project Components ....    ...........  24
D.  Environmental Impact ...................................      28
E.  Specialist Services ....................................      28
F.  Procurement, Disbursements and Accounting ....    ..........    29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal missi.i to Chad in
January 1989 and a post-appraisal mission in November 1989. The appraisal
mission members included Rene Vaurs (mission leader), Amadou Cisse (public
works), Eugene Boostrom (health), Leslie Pean (small and micro-
enterprises), and Gabrielle Rooz (NGOs and project costing); the SDA team:
Alexandre Marc (coordinator). Jean-Luc Dubois and Antoine Simonpietri
(surveys), Andre Komenan (socioeconomic studies), Eileen Murray (NGOs and
programming); Taoufik Lahlou (urban development), and Jean-Claude Barneaud
(technology transfer), consultants. Katheryn Imboden, Antoine Degremont
(Swiss Development Cooperation), Dhuc Nguyen (UNCDF), and Bernard Wilder
(USAID) participated in the mission. This report was edited by Ms. Phyllis
Roos.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                         Pwe
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .................. ...............   32
A.  Benefits ...........    ....................................  32
B.  Risks .    ..................................................  33
VI.  AGRZEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................    34
ANNEXES
1   Selected Economic and Financial Indicators (1984-91)
2   Social Indicators of Development (1989)
3-1 Action Plan to Stimulate Employment Generation (in French)
3-2 Action Plan to Improve Health and Social Services (in French)
3-3 Action Plan to Improve N'Djamena's Sanitation Infrastructure (in French)
3-4 Action Plan to Strengthen Social Policy Formulation (i- French)
3-5 Project Costs and Financing Plan
3-6 Detailed Cost Structure 'y Year and Sub-Component (in CFAF million)
4-1 Project Management and Coordination (in French)
4-2 Implementation Schedule
4-3  Summary of Foreign and Local Specialist Services
4-4 Procurement Procedures
4-5 Bank Supervision Input Into Key Activities
4-6 Disbursements Profile
MAP: IBRD 21588



- i -
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
Documents In the Procect File
Ref.                                                                                Project File Code
No.               Document Title                                                    Bank Document No.
I.                Project Processing
1.    Annex, technique: Compossnto Infrastructure                             D88019
du PADS, Mission d'Evolustion du programme
des actions pour le d6veloppement social,
N'Djamena, du 9 au 28 jonvier 1989
2.    Annex. Technique: La Promotion do la                                    038020
Micro-entreprise, Mission d'Evoluation du
programm des actions pour le d6veloppement
social, N'Djam.ra, du 9 au 28 Janvier 1989
8.    Annexe technique: Programme d'Actions pour le                           038021
D6veloppement Social (PADS), Composante renforcement
des services de *ont6 et de 'Iaide au
d6veloppement communautaire A N'Djamena,
Rapport do lI Mission d'Evoluotion du 7
au 28 jonvier 1989 (1re version), avec l'annexe
technique d6crivant les activit6s dons
los centres m6dico-sociaux int6gr6s de N'Djamens
4.    Annexe Technique: Los Centres d'Appui                                   D38022
technique, Mitision d'Evaluation du
programme des actions pour lo
d6veloppement social, N'Djamena, du 9 au
28 janvier 1989
S.    Programme des Nations Unies pour le                                     D38023
d6veloppement Programme r6glonal pour
l'Afrique: Quotri4me phase. Evaluation
des Dimensions Sociales de 'Ajustement
Structural en Afrique au Sud du Sahara,
Document de Projet National, (Juin 1989),
UnIt6 de ProJets DSA, R6gion Afrique
II.               Sector Background
1.    Enqu&te L6g&re our le- conditions de vie                                033776
des m6nages I N'Djamens. Enqu&te r6alle6o
du 19 mars au 18 avril 1988, Direction
Statistiques des Etudes Economiques et
Dlmographiques, Ministere du Plan et de le
Cooplration
2.    Annuaire de Statistiques Sonitaires du                                  D33777
Tchad, Juillet 1987 - Juin 1988, Bureau de
Statistiques, Planifiction et Atudes, MSP
8.    Notes pour un programme urbain: La ville                                D33778
de N'Djamens et le quartier d'Ambassatna
OXFAM, Septembre 1987
4.    Etude de Faisabillt6 Projet de                                          D38779
06veloppem nt Social des Quartiers.
N'Djamans le 21 juin 1987, Action
Internationale contre Is Falm (AICF)



Ref.                                                                                Project Fil- Cod.
No.               Document Title                                                    Bank Dosum.nt No.
6.    Etude Pr6limlnairo des problimos sant6                                 D33780
au Tchad, MSP, Division des Statistiques et
de Is Planification, Projet do restauration
*t do Is plan;fication sanitalre.
6.    Rapport do mission our l'6valuation des                                D33781
b -oins d'aido on mati4ro de population.
Rapport NumCro 86, Fonds des Nations-Unies
pour l-s activi6s an mat;ire de population.
7.    Reconstruction do l'Habitat i N'Djamena.                               D33782
Couvernoment du Tchad, Minist.re des
Travaux Publics, des Mines *t du P6trole,
Direction du Cadastre, do l'Urbanisme
_.t do l'Habitat, Mal 1985
8.    Private Sector Development: An Assessment                              D33783
of potential and constraints, Africa
Region, Sahelian Department, Industry and
Energy Division
9.    Le Secteur Informel i N'Djamena par                                    D33784
Kamel Hamida et Chris Gerry Group, de
Recherche et d'Echnnges Technologiques (GRET)
10.   Master plan, feasibility and prelimiinary                              D33785
engineering study for storm drainage and
sanitary sewerage of the city of N'Djamens,
Chad. Final Report prepared for the African
Development Bank as erecuting agency for the
Government of Chad by Black / Veatch
International Consulting Engineers,
Kansas City, Missouri, United States of
America, 1975
11.   Le Minist6re des Affaires Sociales et de Is                            D33788
Promotion Flminine: Dfinitions, objectifs,
priorit6s, activites, organisation-m6thodolegle
12.   R6union de suivi de la Conference de Gen&ve                            D33787
1986. Prefecture du B.E.T. Rapport Final.
N'Djamens 14 - 16 Decembre 1988
13.   Projet de Reparation de R6habilitation *t                              D33788
d'Equipement de Centres Sanitaires,
Equipements mobilier et de Bureau,
Dossiers d'app,l d'offres.  Minist4re
du Plan et de la Reconstrucoion,
Banque Islamique de Developpement.
14.   Projet de Reparation de Rehabilitation                                 D33789
et d'Equipment de Centres Seniteires,
Equipmonts toh;us, Dossiers
d'appl d'offre   re et 2eme tranches.
Minister- du Plan et de ls Reconstruction,
Banque Islamique de D6veloppement.
16.   Projat do Reparation de Rhhabilitation                                 D33790
et d'Equipement do Centres Sanitaires,
Eipement  Uedicaux, Dossiers d'appel
doffr-s 1re e             tranches.
Ministere du Plan et de Ia
Reconstruction, Banque Islamique de
De6vloppement.
b:tablecha (GR1)



- lii -
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Chad
Beneficiaries:       Ministries of Higher Education, Labor and Employment,
Planning and Cooperation, Public Health, Regional
Urban Planning and Housing, and Social Affairs and
Women's Development.
Credit Amount:       SDR 10.4 million (US$13.4 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Objectives:          The project aims to (a) stimulate employment
generation by increasing access to training facilities
and productive assets for poor and/or unemployed
people; (b) improve health and living conditions of
disadvantaged groups; and (c) reinforce the
Government's capacity to design and monitor programs
to improve social conditions. These objectives
address the immediate needs of the population groups
(a) still at risk as a consequence of the
socioeconomic disruptions of the past decade, and (b)
expected to be adversely affected by the transitional
effects associated with the adjustment process
recently initiated; they also address the need to
alleviate poverty, strengthen the formulation of
sectoral strategies for meeting basic needs, and
develop human resources over the long term.
Project
Description:         The project comprises the following components:
(a)  Stimulation of employment generation by providing
(i) credit assistance and management support for small
and micro-enterprises, (ii) technical assistance
tailored to their needs, and (iii) assistance to laid-
off public employees.
(b)  Improvement of primary health care and social services
by (i) restructuring and expanding the network of
these services in N'Djamena, including the
construction and operation of three integrated health-
social centers, three dispensaries and three maternity
centers; and (ii) strengthening the regional health
services in the Prefecture of Tandjile in the cotton
zone.



- iv -
(c) Improvement of N'Djamena's sanitation infrastructure
by (i) rehabilitating the drainage system in two
flood-prone areas where a high percentage of low-
income families live, and (ii) Improving public
hygiene through increased community participation and
use of labor-intensive public works techniques.
(d) Strengthening of social policy planning by (i)
undertaking small sample household surveys in the
cotton zone and three cities, an integrated nationwide
household survey, and socioeconomic studies; and (ii)
assisting the Government in applying the findings of
these surveys and studies, together with experience
gained in implementing the other components, to define
future policies and actions targeted at vulnerable
population groups.
Summary of Project Costs and Financing
(net of taxes and duties)
Estimated Project Costs                         Local         Foreign    Total
----------(US$ million)-
1.  Employment generation                        1.9            2.1        4.0
2.  Improvement of primary health                2.1            4.8        6.9
care and social services
3.  Improvement of N'Djamena's                   2.4            5.1        7.5
sanitation infrastructure
4.  Strengthening of social                      1.3            1.6       2.9
policy formulation
5.  Project Coordination Unit                    0.6            0.3       1.0
Total base costs:                           8.3           14.0       22.3
Physical contingencies                       0.7            1.3       2.0
Price contingencies                         0.7            2.0        2.6
Total project costs:                        9.7           17.2       26.9
Financing Plan                                  Local     Foreign        Total
----------(US$ million)-----
IDA                                        3.7          9.7         13.4
USAID                                      1.4          0.9          2.3
Swiss Development Cooperation              2.2          4.5          6.7
UNCDF                                      1.1          2.1          3.2
Local communities                          0.7           -           0.7
Government                                 0.6           -           0.6
Totals                                     9.7         17.2         26.9
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



Estimated Credit Disbursements-
IDA Fiscal Year --------
1990    1991    1992    1993   1994   1995
---_---------(US$ million)------------
Annual                         0.5      3.3     4.0     3.2      1.6   0.8
Cumulative                     0.5      3.8     7.8    11.0    12.6  13.4
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not applicable.
Project
Benefits:      The project would (a) enhance job creation by providinr,
15,000 jobs through labor-intensive activities and
assisting about 700 micro and small enterprises; (b) etpand
access to higher-quality health care and social services
for about 150.000 residents of N'Djamena at the end of the
project, double the utilization of the health centers in
N'Djamena and Tandjile (540,000 and 360,000 inhabitants,
respectively), and reduce health hazards for 85,000 persons
living in areas where the project will rehabilitate the
sanitation infrastructure; (c) test the sustainability and
replicability of innovative approaches to addressing social
issues, and contribute to the effective design of long-
term strategies in the social sectors, through applied
socioeconomic research combined with lessons drawn from
implementing specific action plans; and (d) help the
Government to promote community and private initiatives and
to collaborate more effectively with NGOs.
Project
Risks:          The project's main risks are related to the need to
effectively implement its diversified activities while
respecting its objectives that address the urgent needs of
disadvantaged groups. Measures to mitigate these risks
include: (a) definition of detailed annual action plans
and identification of the particular target beneficiary
groups, as opposed to financing activities to be identified
during project implementation; (b) refinement and expansion
of the techniques already effectively applied in Chad by
NGOs or other organizations; (c) the setting up of a
Project Coordination and Support Unit with financial
-  autonomy and full-time staff; and (d) provision of
substantial training and technical assistance inputs to
enable existing public services to operate more
efficiently. The project's multisectoral activities
require close monitoring and regular consultations among
all parties concerned, including the cofinanciers.



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Chad has requested IDA financing to implement
a Social Development Action Project, prepared with IDA's assistance as an
integral part of a larger Government social action program referred to in
Chad as PADS ("Programme d'Actions pour le Developpement Social").
Comprising priority actions for meeting some of the basic needs of the
population groups still affected by the events that disrupted public
services and destroyed most of the country's physical and social
infrastructure over the past decade, this program aims not only to improve
the very low levels of basic services provided for those groups, but also
to stimulate employment generation and strengthen the Government's capacity
to design and monitor programs for ensuring a more efficient development of
the country's human resources. These actions are consistent with and
support the Government's development strategy geared to reconstruction and
the promotion of domestic production. They will also serve to mitigate the
transitional social impact of tLe adjustment process required to restore
the economic and financial viability of the cotton sector, improve the
country's public finances and economic management, and revamp sectoral
growth prospects in some key sectors   The PADS program marks the
transitional phase of the country'   :zovery effort from relief aid to
better-structured social welfare a- poverty alleviation programs targeted
at the most disadvantaged groups.
1.02      The PADS program is supported by a coordinated package of
external financial and technical assistance to the Government of Chad, and
is consistent with IDA's strategy to support the country's financial and
economic recovery and the development of its human resources and social
sectors. The basic economic and social data for Chad are set out in
Annexes 1 and 2.
II. THE ECONOMY AND THE ADJUSTMENT PROCESS
A. Socioeconomic Trends and the Adiustment Process
2.01      During the first 18 years following independence in 1960, Chad
experienced steady economic growth, largely as a result of incentives for
its main export crop, cotton, which in n.ost years generated two-thirds of
export earnings and was an important source of government revenues.
Favorable weather conditions sustained adequate levels of food production.
Aggregate production reached its peak level in 1977, raising GDP per capita
to US$157. A drastic downturn began in 1978 as the country struggled
through a series of external and natural events: decline of the world price



- 2 -
for cotton, severe drought, and unrest. The 1979-82 war destroyed most of
the country's physical and administrative infrastructure and reduced its
economic activities, while the prolonged drought decimated the livestock
herd, reduced food production by half in 1984, and displacrd a large
portion of the population--mainly from the northern and Saharan zones--to
the south and tc the capital city, N'Djamena, as well as to neighboring
countries. These developments, together with collapse of the world cotton
market in 1985, caused a severe contraction of the economy. Real GDP has
remained below the 1977 level, while the population is estimated to have
grown by about 2.22 p.a. during the past 10 years. The country's past
economic performance is analyzed in a Country Economic Memorandum (Report
No. 6785-CD), distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1987.
2.02      Adiustment measures.  With economic and social recovery the
country's paramount need, in 1986 the Government took the first steps
toward rebuilding the devastated physical infrastructure and restoring the
economy's productive capacity. Measures to stimulate domestic production
were supplemented by measures to improve resource allocation in the
economy. The stabilization and adjustment programs first focused on the
cottor. sector and public finances and then on the key sectors of livestock,
transport, and education. The adjustment programs are described in a
Policy Framework Paper (PFP 1989-91). They were supported by an IMF
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) program in 1987-88 and an IDA
Financial Rehabilitation Credit (FRC - Cr. 1945-CD) approved by the
Executive Directors in July 1988. A second PFP (1989-91) and a new IMF SAF
program for 1989 were approved in June 1989. A third PFP (1990-92) and a
third-year arrangement under the IMF SAF have been agreed with the
Government, and Board Presentation is expected before end of FY90.
2.03      Specifically, the adjustment programs involve:
(a) Restructuring of the cotton sector under a three-year program
(1988/89-1990/91) to improve the sector's economic and financial
viability by building on the achievements of an emergency
program (1986/87-1987/88) which reduced costs and losses within
the existing incentive system and institutional framework. The
three-year program has introduced fundamental reforms to improve
efficiency and reduce financial risks in the cotton industry.
Under the emergency program, one-half of COTONTCHAD's work force
(about 1,250 workers) has been laid off.
(b) Improvement of the country's public finances, which face a
number of constraints: e.g., though the parastatal sector is
small and the civil service is not over-sized, neither is well
managed; and the fiscal base, eroded by the cotton crisis, is
weak and heavily dependent on petroleur and other import taxes.
Chad's fiscal situation is also complicated by high security and
defense expenditures, as well as ay the need to reform the
public sector.
(c) Sectoral reforms, starting with (i) livestock and rural
development (strengthening of research and extensioin services,



cost-recovery for water charges), (ii) education (rehabilitation
of primary education, promotion of community participation,
teacher retraining), and (iii) transport (road repair and
maintenance, decentralization, private sector promotion).
2.04      Social Dimensions of Adjustment.  The adjustment programs are
genera.ly on target after the first three years of implementation.  GDP
fluctuated widely in 1987-89, due to variable weather conditions, with an
average growth of 5 p.a. in real terms. But with an estimated population
growth of 2.22 p.a. and an expected 3Z growth of GDP in real terms, per
capita income will increase only marginally over the next few years. In
addition, although the programs will also improve social services by
providing a modest increase in the current expenditures of the human
resources ministries, public resources for still largely unmet basic needs
will remain strained because of the Government's severe budgetary
constraints. The impact on various population groups of the adjustment
programs, supported by IDA, is difficult to estimate. A number of positive
effects on the incomes of cotton producers, herders and traders are
expected from measures to improve the cotton sector's efficiency, decrease
agricultural input costs, and remove monopolies and fixed tariffs in the
transport sector. The latter measure is also expected to affect the
privileged groups that benefitted from the now discontinued regulatory
practices in that sector. However, the reform measures would also
adversely affect small producers in the cotton zone living in areas of
marginal potential where production has been or may be discontinued, as
well as wage earners in the modern sector, who will continue to face the
effects of a contracting public enterprise sector over the next years. The
social consequences of the events of the past decade, compounded by the
limited prospects for rapid economic growth, thus make improvement of an
already precarious social situation even more elusive without external and
well-targeted assistance.
B. Poverty and Social Development Issues
2.05      Ia Chad, one cannot isolate the consequences of the external and
natural events from those more directly linked to the requirements of
financial stabilization and economic adjustment. What is clear, however,
is that the series of disasters the country experienced has had a
profoundly negative impact on all social groups, although some have
recovered, or are likely to recover, more quickly than others. In a
preliminary assessment of the varying social situation, one population
group--the numerous residents of N'Djamena--has been identified as being
especially at risk, not only because they suffered particularly from
extensive destruction in the capital city, but also because many of them
recently migrated to N'Djamena and are living under precarious conditions.
The remaining population groups -- part_.cularly those from the drought- and
strife-stricken regions, many of whom migrated, perhaps permanently, to
urban areas -- have likewise suffered, albeit to a lesser extent, fron a
temporary lack of productive activities and public services and from a lack
of transportation and infrastructure.



- 4 -
2.06      Since 1986, a number of macroeconomic and sectoral studies have
been undertaken, including a sample household survey in August 1988 of
living conditions in N'Djamena, a preliminary country assessment on poverty
issues, and a small pilot study in the Sahelian zone--all three financed by
the Bank's Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Regional Facility. These
studies provide partial but useful data on the social situation and on
inequalities in the coverage of basic needs. Their findings confirmed (a)
N'Djamena's precarious social situation; and (b) the need to undertake a
comprehensive data collection program before a more complete assessment of
the poverty profile in Chad can be obtained and further targeted programs
identified, especially in rural areas. The main available data are
summarized below, with emphasis on employment, income structure, social
services, and the housing situation.
2.07      Employment.  Chad's population was estimated at 5.5 million in
1989, with a total labor force of about at 1.8 million. The modern sector
(comprising the public sector and some industries) employs about 70,000, or
4Z of that total. Government employment was estimated at 24,800 in January
1989, which represents a rapid increase from the estimated 14,000 in 1977.
As of 1986, the six largest industries (cotton, sugar, textiles, beer,
cigarettes, and soft drinks) employed 6,000. About 100 small- and medium-
scale enterprises, providing some 5,000 jobs, were active before the war,
but it is not known how many have resumed operations. The level of
unemployment is difficult to estimate but is assumed to be high; for
example, in the 1988 household survey in N'Djamena an estimated 33Z of
males older than 15 were unemployed. In the working population, self-
employment among women is high: 83Z, compared to 46Z for men. With respect
to wage earners, 30Z are civil servants and 202 work for a public or
private enterprise; the remaining 502 are engaged in familial activities.
Chadian city dwellers, like those in other African cities, compensate for
limited opportunities for formal wage employment by expanding a wide range
of "informal" activities: i.e., those outside the official and financial
framework, such as small-scale construction, carpentry, metal work,
tailoring, rug and basket weaving, leather tanning, pottery, food
processing, and marketing. In light of the high level of open or disguised
unemployment in Chad, the Government recognizes the necessity to expand
informal activities through the promotion of micro-entrepreneurs.
2.08      Incuute structure.  During the period 1983-89, sectoral
allocation of income sources averaged 43Z of GDP for agriculture, including
livestock; 20Z for industry, including mining and energy; 33Z for trade,
transport and private services; and 4Z for public services. This is in
contrast with the low percentage of the labor force occupied in the modern
sector, but does not allow any confirmation of wide income disparities
between rural and urban families, especially in a still traditional society
where income transfers, estimated at 12.7Z of total expenditures in the
1988 household survey in N'Djamena, remain important. The same survey
indicates that 62Z of the active population (90Z for women) work in the
trade and service sectors; this confirms the importance of the private
tertiary sector, especially informal activities, for generating monetary
income. The findings, however, do not identify income differentials among
urban population groups. From the preliminary information available (para



- 5 -
2.06) and pending the results of further studies, such as those to be
undertaken in the proposed project, the qualitative impression is that
there are important groups at risk in N'Djamena, in particular because the
effect of food supply and price fluctuations is more pronounced on the
urban poor. The situation of the rural groups is not sufficiently
documented to identify which ones could be seriously at risk, but most of
the rural population is presumed to be not as immediately vulnerable as the
urban. With good rainy seasons, food production in the south increased
between 1985 and 1989, and herds are being reconstituted.
2.09      Population issues.  Indicators of Chad's high levels of maternal
and infant mortality call for the development of safe motherhood, child-
spacing and preventive programs (in particular vaccinations). A law dating
trom colonial times forbids the use, distribution or advertising of
contraceptives; but non-enforcement of the law has led to sales of
contraceptives, at high cost, in private pharmacies and to abortions
performed illegally. In light of the long-term impact of population-
related issues on socioeconomic development and the country's health
status, and despite their political sensitivity, the Government has
initiated programs to promote better public understanding of these issues,
analyze requirements for the legal provision of contraceptives and prepare
new regulations, provide training for health workers on family planning
methods, and assess the possibility of creating local associations to
promote family planning. A seminar on birth spacing and family planning
was held in N'Djamena in November 1988 to sensitize political and religious
leaders to the need for these programs and their importance in improving
maternal and child health. Recommendations were made during the seminar to
integrate family planning into national health and social programs.
2.10      Health.  The health status of Chad's nopulation is poor in
comparison with the averages for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), as evidenced by
health indicators given in the Long-term Perspective Study for Sub-Saharan
Africa (1989). Chad has an infant mortality rate of 134 per 1,000 live
births, versus 114 in SSA; a crude death rate of 20 per 1,000, versus 16;
and a life expectancy at birth of 46 years, versus 51 years, male and
female combined. Trauma, diarrheal diseases, respiratory infections, and
fever (usually caused by malaria) are the major reasons for consultations
in the health facilities. The health care system remains limited, with
services unevenly distributed; in some areas foreign assistance, mainly
from NGOs, has allowed a minimal level of services to be maintained.
Moreover, most public primary health care (PHC) facilities are under-
utilized because of a lack of medications and confidence in the services
they provide. Only about 24Z of people seeking medical assistance visit
these facilities, and this leads to overcrowding in the eight hospitals, as
is the case in N'Djamena, where the Central Hospital is the main source of
health care. Although AIDS is not yet a major problem in Chad, a medium-
term plan has been developed by the Government in collaboration with the
World Health Organization (WHO).
2.11      Nutrition.  The lack of a national information system precludes
a comprehensive assessment of nutrition in Chad. There is a famine early
warning system, supported by the European Development Fund (EDF), that



identifies groups at nutritional risk in N'Djamena and a few Sahelian
zones. Ad-hoc nutrition surveys, conducted since 1987, indicate that acute
malnutrition exists in most of the surveyed areas; in N'Djamena, for
example, the severity of the nutritional situation in 1984-85 is shown in
these findings: 10.32 of children 0-5 years old, weighing less than 80? of
the median group for their age, suf:.ered from malnutrition; 352 of
children's hospitalizations are for malnutrition and for dehydration
resulting from frequent bouts of diarrhea; and nearly 60Z of deaths among
children admitted to the Central Hospital's Pediatric Unit occurred within
the first two days of hospitalization, with many suffering from severe
malnutrition in addition to their diagnosed illness. Since 1983,
prevention-oriented nutrition services have been provided by Social Centers
under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Women's Development (MASPF).
These centers are primarily responsible for referring children to the
Pediatric Unit, but it has received less than 1Z of its patients from the
centers. An evaluation by the Ministry confirmed that the centers'
inability to perform their nutrition and referral tasks is mainly due to
shortages of trained staff, essential drugs, food, and growth-monitoring
equipment. The Government is preparing a food security strategy, with the
assistance of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the Bank.
2.12      Education and training.  The education and training sector
suffered severely during the events that left much of the country's public
infrastructure damaged or destroyed. With many school-s destroyed and most
equipment and teaching material lost, both access to and quality of
education have declined. At the initiative of parents' associations
determined to provide some education for their children, a spontaneous
school movemnent has emerged; however, the enrollment ratio in primary
education in Chad remains low (49Z in 1988/89). Rehabilitation programs
for primary schools are under way, some financed by IDA under the Education
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1950-CD, approved in July 1988). There is also
urgent need to rehabilitate/upgrade the vocational training institutions
and provide training assistance to both the public and private sectors,
including the informal sector (para 2.07), to help meet the country's
requirements for skillea personnel. Lack of an adequate and well-trained
labor force not only impairs the efficiency of any productive investment,
but also hampers the overall reconstruction and recovery effort.
2.13      Housing and sanitation.  For most of the urban population,
living conditions are extremely poor, as indicated by the 1988 household
survey (para 2.06). This is largely due to the widespread destruction and
deterioration of the cities' housing and sanitation infrastructure,
especially in N'Djamena, which sustained some of the worst war damage.
Before a housing rehabilitation program can be undertaken, a minimal level
of sanitation infrastructure must be achieved. Improving sanitation for
the capital city's half million residents, who presently have no system of
sanitation and garbage collection, is therefore an absolute priority.
Waste-water is inadequately drained, leading to contamination of
underground water sources that supply much of the city's drinking water.
In addition, storm and sewer drainage is a serious problem during the rainy
season, and the absence of storm drainage causes extensive flooding.
Health hazards resulting from this situation are enormous, but so far



little has been done to alleviate the sanitation and drainage problems
except for sporadic efforts by NGOs to mobilize communities to improve
their living conditions.
C. The Financial Sector
2.14      The Chadian financial sector is of limited size and has been
severely affected by the events of the past decade. There are now three
active financial institutions: the national office cf the central bank of
the Central African monetary zone, the Banque des Etats de l'Afrique
Centrale, and two commercial banks, the Banque Internationale pour
l'Afrique au Tchad and the Banque Tchadienne de Credit et de Depots. Three
other banks--a commercial bank, a development bank, and a savings bank--
have remained inactive since their closing in 1980. The active banking
sector is very shallow; it has a narrow clientele base, comprising mainly
government agencies, international aid agencies and major enterprises, and
its activities are practically confined to the provision of short-term
credit.
2.15      The 'rivate sector, consisting basically of small and medium
enterprises (SMEs), has barely access to formal credit through the
conventional financial system. The two active banks have not been able to
provide meaningful financing to SMEs out of the two lines of credit made
available to them in 1985 by the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) and the European Investment Bank (EIB), for three main
reasons. These banks are already saddled with a large number of defaulted
loans and therefore would not like to expand their exposure to a category
of borrowers considered as carrying high risks. Loan-qualifying criteria
(provision of audited financial statements, marketing analysis, collateral
and life insurance) are particularly strict in the Chadian context and
cannot be met by the vast majority of SME loan applicants. Financing
requirements in Chad for SMEs are relatively low, and lending to such
businesses would not be cost effective because of the intensive appraisal
and supervision work involved.
D. Ongoing Programs and Sectoral Issues
2.16      Until recently, most of the social services in Chad were
maintained by donor emergency programs and by NGOs and in some of the
regions by communities. The Government is strengthening and in some cases
rebuilding its administration. IDA in particular, under a Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 8270-CD), is providing support to the ministries
responsible for economic and financial planning. But the ministries
concerned with social issues are poorly staffed, lack sufficient trained
personnel following the decade of disruptions in government operat'ons, and
their newly recruited staff are inadequately supervised; hence, for some
time, this situation calls for strong external assistance and special
project implementation arrangements. NGO participation, for example, could
expand the presently limited absorptive capacity of private and
governmental institutions.



2.17      The NGO community has played a critical role in providing
support during the country's crisis period by expanding their activities so
as to serve as the main delivery channel between donors and the people.
Now that the Government has reasserted its role and the NGO community has
turned its focus from emergency relief operations to development-oriented
programs, there is need for the Government and the NGOs to coordinate their
actions and seek consistent objectives. NGO operations in CLad are
multiple, ranging from intervention in crop diversification, education,
health, and small-scale enterprise development to the training of local
extension agents, project managers and government counterpart agents and to
the promotion of community participation in development. Most concentrate
on integrated rural development in small rural zones; by contrast, few
assistance programs have been launched so far in N'Djamena. In the health
sector, NGOs have provided valuable support to the Ministry of Public
Health, in particulst by extending their activities at the regional level;
for example, Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF) has provided all health care
services in nine of Chad's 13 regions, while church-affiliated missions
have been active in the other four. In the industrial sector, NGOs have
been active in promoting small- and medium-scale enterprises; a USAID-
financed project, executed by VITA (Volunteers in Technical Assistance),
promotes access of these enterprises to short-term credit facilities,
together with managerial assistance, mostly in N'Djamena. The USAID-
financed program has played a significant role in filling the gap in
providing productive credit for SMEs. In the urban sector, NGOs have
undertaken sanitation projects and are actively involved in community
sensitization and participation; examples are OXFAM and the Association
Internationale contre la Faim (AICF), with recent activities concentrated
in some of N'Djamena's poorest neighborhoods.
2.18      The Government is committed to pursuing a comprehensive social
policy that aims to develop human resources, expand basic social services
and alleviate poverty, starting with urgently needed actions in spite of
the weakness of its administrative capacity. But before implementing
large-scale sectoral development operations there is immediate need to (a)
evaluate the numerous actions in progress in many regions of the country,
financed by external assistance which sometimes uses divergent methods; (b)
assess basic needs and the available resources for meeting them; and (c)
reach agreement on coherent, long-term objectives. After the priority
given to primary education (para 2.12) with the assistance of several
donors, studies are being undertaken to define a more global strategy for
the education/training sector. The Government also needs to define an
employment and private sector strategy as well as the institutional
responsibilities; at present, only an NGO-run promotion program for small
enterprises exists in N'Djamena (para 2.17). With respect to nutrition,
FAO has taken the lead in helping the Government prepare a food security
strategy. In the health sector, a sectoral study is underway with AfDB
financing. In the meantime, regional health management is being
strengthened with donor assistance; the success of these prefecture-level
programs is essential in developing a sound basic health care system. The
country is divided into 13 regions or prefectures, and three ongoing health
projects, financed by EDF, Italy and Belgium, now cover or will cover all
regions except Tandjile and the city of N'Djamena. But there is need to



- 9 -
clearly define the roles of the Ministries of Public Health (MSP) and
Social Affairs and Women's Development (MASPF) as well as to coordinate
their staff and field activities. Social services (nutrition programs,
community and family well-being, women's educatior.. infant protection) are
poorly defined (para 2.11) and field actions overlap those of the health
services. With respect to urban development, the Ministry of Regional
Urban Planning and Housing (MATUH) was created in May 1989, and N'Djamena's
municipal services are being strengthened with French assistance; a master
plan for rehabilitating N'Djamena's sanitation infrastructure is under
preparation with AfDB financing. The Government intends to organize a
donors' meeting on human resources development in 1990.
E. The Bank Group's Role
2.19      The Bank Group resumed its activities in Chad in mid-1985.
Since then, nine operations, totalling US$241.9 million equivalent, have
been approved as of April 1990. IDA's assistance aims at strengthening
economic management and aid coordination and supporting macroeconomic
policy reforms in close coordination with the IMF. IDA's development
strategy also aims at supporting the rehabilitation of, and promotion of
investments in, the infrastructure (i.e., roads, urban development) and
productive sectors (i.e., agriculture, livestock, energy, and the private
sector). A transport sector adjustment/investment project, based on
infrastructure rehabilitation and on liberalization of the transport
industry, was approved in April 1989 (Cr. 2007-CD). Emphasis in the
strategy is also given to human resources development, starting with the
Education Rehabilitation Project (para 2.12). A Bank Resident Mission,
opened in N'Djamena in January 1989, is strengthening the Bank Group's
dialogue with both the Government and the donor community.
2.20      Rationale for IDA's involvement.  Addressing the basic needs of
the disadvantaged population groups is a high priority in the Government's
development and reconstruction effort. In addition to helping the
Government improve economic efficiency, raise production in key sectors and
develop human resources, IDA could play a key role in (a) supporting the
Government's efforts in identifying and implementing programs targeted at
the population groups at risk, taking into account the short- and medium-
term budgetary and economic constraints; (b) helping to mobilize and
coordinate donor resources for these programs, especially since foreign aid
from which the country benefitted during its critical times has now shifted
from emergency intervention to a growing preference for traditional
investment projects, particularly in agriculture and physical
infrastructure; and (c) assisting the Government in preparing sectoral
strategies that address the long-term constraints to development of the
country's natural and human resources.
2.21      The proposed project would support IDA's objectives in Chad and
the Government's concern for meeting the needs of the population groups (a)
still at risk as a consequence of the prolonged period of socioeconomic
disruptions and for which it has identified priority actions with an
expected immediate impact; and (b) expected to be adversely affected by the
transitional effects of the adjustment process recently initiated, for



- 10 -
which assist#. e would be provided following Chad's requested participation
in the Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) Regional Program, cofinanced
by several donors and under execution by the Bank in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Three small actions have already been financed under the SDA Facility (para
2.06).
2.22      In light of the magnitude of unmet basic needs in Chad and the
Government's budgetary constraints, the project components were selected on
the basis of the following criteria: (a) labor-intensive techniques and/or
local micro-enterprises would be utilized; (b) the impact on government
budgetary expenditures should be minimal; (c) acceptable cost-recovery
schemes and community participation should be tested and promoted; and (d)
measures undertaken in the project should be sustainable after its
completion and be integrated into regular sectoral programs. The project
would serve as a basis for the formulation of broader sectoral actions to
be supported as part of planned lending and sectoral operations.
Furthermore, given the objective of quick implementation in spite of the
weakness of public administration, particularly the acute shortage of
skilled personnel, the project components were also selected with a view to
involving, when feasible, techniques tested by NGOs already active in the
country (para 2.17).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.01      The project has three main objectives: (a) stimulating
employment generation by increasing access to training facilities and
productive assets for poor and/or unemployed people; (b) improving health
and living conditions of disadvantaged groups; and (c) reinforcing the
Government's institutional capacity to design and monitor programs to
improve social conditions.
B. Summary of Project Composition
3.02      The project would be implemented over a five-year period and
comprises four main components:
(a) Stimulation of employment generation by providing (i) credit
assistance and management support for small and micro-
enterprises, (ii) technical assistance tailored to the needs of
micro-enterprises, and (iii) assistance to laid-off public
employees.
(b) Improvement of primary health care and social services by
(i) restructuring and expanding the network of these services in
N'Djamena, including the construction and operation of three new
integrated health-social centers, three dispensaries and three
maternity centers; and (ii) strengthening the regional health
services in Tandjile, a prefecture in the cotton zone.



- 11 -
(c) Improvement of N'Djamena's sanitation infrastructure by
(i) rehabilitating the drainage system in two flood-prone areas
where a high percentage of low-income families live, and (ii)
improving public hygiene through increased community
participation and use of labor-intensive public works
techniques.
(d) Strengthening of social policy planning by (i) undertaking small
sample household surveys in the cotton zone and three cities, an
integrated nationwide household survey, and socioeconomic
studies, focusing first on public resource allocation, basic
services coverage, cost recovery and food security issues; and
(ii) assisting the Government in applying the findings of these
surveys and studies, together with experience gained in
implementing the above-described components, to develop policies
and actions targeted at vulnerable population groups.
3.03      The components to stimulate employment generation, improve
health and social services, and improve N'Djamena's sanitatiGn
infrastructure have been designed to meet the project's objective of
responding as quickly as feasible to the social situation; they are
expected to be implemented over a three-year period. On the other hand,
implementation of an integrated household survey and related studies would
require at least five years, with completion expected by end of 1995.
C. Project Description
1. Stimulation of Employment Generation
3.04      This component comprises three main sub-components:  (a) credit
assistance and management support for micro-enterprises, mostly those in
the informal sector (i.e., with very small productive activities outside
the realm of official and financial institutions); (b) technical assistance
tailored to their immediate needs; and (c) assistance to personnel in the
cotton sector laid off as a result of the sector's restructuring and those
to be laid-off over the next years in public enterprises (para 2.03).
Promotion of small and micro-enterprises to create employment and generate
income (paras 2.07 and 2.08) is particularly important in the context of
the Chadian economy. However, the financial institutions are still
recovering from the events of the past decade, and for all practical
purposes are unable to engage in credit operations with small entrepreneurs
(paras 2.14-2.15). A study to identify ways to improve the performance of
the banking sector will be undertaken during 1990 as part of the measures
to be un ertaken in the PFP 1990-92. In the interim, the USAID-financed
ongoing program for small entrepreneurs (para 2.17) would be continued and
expanded under the project through the first sub-component. This and the
second sub-component would be mutually supportive in helping very small
entrepreneurs to select adequate equipment, improve efficiency and quality
control, and widen their activities such as by creating cooperatives for
group purchasing and production planning. Experience gained in this
component would support the development of a coherent and long-term



- 12 -
strategy that focuses on the promotion of micro-enterprises and delineation
of the role of the Government (para 2.18). This component is described
below and further detailed in Annex 3-1. Implementation arrangements are
set out in paras. 4.09-4.11.
3.05      Credit assistance and management support.  This sub-component
would (a) assist small and micro-enterprises in strengthening their
capabilities for preparing financially viable projects and in improving
their managerial and financial performance; and (b) through a credit
scheme, enable them to obtain small loans for expanding their operations
until they become eligible for standard bank credit. Credit eligibility
criteria for the USAID-financed ongoing program were compared with the
existing interest rate structure and normal banking costs. Fees for
banking assistance and credit request preparation have been added, and
lending terms were finalized during negotiations (para 4.09). The credit
scheme would offer three credit windows. The first credit window, newly
established under the proposed credit scheme, would provide c.edits not
exceeding US$1,000 equivalent, together with assistance to address the
enterprises' management and investment needs; these include assessing how
to improve efficieucy and product quality, conduct day-to-day business,
start up new ventures such as group purchasing and planning, and provide
mutual-type credit guarantees. As this credit and assistance program would
be an innovative one for Chad, implementation would be closely monitored.
The techniques to be applied and an outreach plan for attracting small
entrepreneurs would undergo three years of testing under the project. The
second credit window, already established under the current USAID-financed
program, would offer credits ranging from US$1,000 up to US$25,000
equivalent, and would expand credit assistance for small operations that
require more formal management techniques. The third credit window would
offer credits ranging from US$25,000 to US$50,000 equivalent to finance
larger operations with possible cofinancing by local banks; the Banque
Tchadienne de Credit et de Depots (BTCD) has already signed an agreement Lo
do so.  Gross credit commitments vould amount to US$1.6 million over three
years; and 530 micro-enterprises are expected to benefit from the first
credit window, 137 small enterprises from the second, and 12 from the
third, Total cost of this sub-component is estimated at US$2.9 million
equivalent, including US$0.6 million for the incremental credit
requirements.
3.06      Technical assistance for micro-enterprises.  For Chad, this sub-
component represents an experimental approach in the promotion of micro-
enterprises. With the vocational training institutions severely damaged,
disorganized and not yet rebuilt (para 2.12), it would fill an interim need
by providing the enterprises with access to appropriate equipment and
technologies. It would also develop additional areas of support for the
enterprises; e.g., helping them to improve their technical knowledge,
product design and quality control; share experience with other small
enterprises and develop joint projects: and set up cooperative information
systems for the transfer of micro-enterprise technology. This technical
assistance would focus on training with appropriate machinery,
demonstration of techniques, equipment and input supply, research and
development, and documentation. The training support would consist of



- 13 -
practical courses organized in workshop facilities managed by NGOs or
public entities; initially, it would concentrate on the metal work and
mechanical subsectors. It is expected that the instructor staff providing
the training could become the nucleus of an autonomous technical network to
continue technical assistance for the enterprises after project completion,
under an institutional arrangement to be decided at that time by the
Government. Total cost of this sub-component is estimated at US$1.4
million equivalent, including US$0.6 million for specialist services and
US$0.4 million for equipment and technology transfer.
3.07      Assistance to laid-off public sector employees.  This sub-
component would strengthen the capacity of the National Department of Labor
(ONAMO) to provide assistance for personnel affected by the reduction of
severe overstaffing in COTONTCHAD and the Office National de Developpement
Rural (ONDR) during the restructuring of the cotton sector (para 2.03).
Strengthening of ONAMO's capacity in this area is crucial in view of the
expected increased demand for its services arising from the adjustment
process. Although severance payments have been made to most of the laid-
off employees, they along with all other laid-off public employees would be
offered free, individual counselling and assistance to explore job and
alternative employment opportunities. About 3,000 people are expected to
benefit from the counselling program during the project period. In the
counselling sessions, the person's skill level and job potential would be
tested and job market opportunities, as well as the possibilities of
retraining or setting up a small business, explored (e.g., by making use of
the above-described credit and technical assistance programs). A permanent
inquiry/referral system on job availability in the formal and, if feasible,
the informal sector would be developed and tested, with a view to becoming
an integral part of ONAMO's activities. Total cost of this sub-component
is estimated at US$0.4 million equivalent.
2. Improvement of Primary Health Care and Social Services
3.08      This component comprises two sub-components: (a) restructuring
and expanding the network of primary health care (PHC) and social services
in N'Djamena and improving coordination of their activities (para 2.18);
and (b) strengthening the regional health services in Tandjile, in the
eastern part of the cotton zone. Staff training, essential drug supply
with cost recovery, and a restructuring program to improve the planning,
management and monitoring of PHC in these two areas are included in both
sub-components. Problems linked with community participation in improving
health conditions (or decreasing health hazards) would also be addressed in
the sanitation infrastructure component (para 3.11). Implementation of the
component to improve health and social services is expected to provide
valuable experience in dealing with PHC issues, particularly information on
who has access to basic services. This component, as in the case of the
one to stimulate employment generation, would not only help Chad to improve
sector development prospects, but also identify issues and provide the
experience needed to prepare better-targeted strategies and action
programs. The health sector study recently initiated with the assistance
of AfDB (para 2.18) will help develop a long-term national health strategy.



- 14 -
A free-standing health and population project is included in IDA's future
assistance program. Activities to be supported under this component are
described below and further detailed in Annex 3-2; implementation
arrangements are set out in paras 4.12-4.13.
3.09      Restructuring and expansion of N'Diamena's PHC and social
services network. This sub-component would be implemented through four
related actions. First, the PHC and social services network would be
rehabilitated and expanded to permit the urban population (estimated at
540,000) to have easier access to a well-functioning social and/or health
center. Addition of a first set of strategically placed facilities would
improve access for the population within the catchment area of each
facility, from 45Z in 1988 to an estimated 75Z by the end of the project;
but more important, their utilization rate is expected to about double
because of a more reliable delivery system. Four health andlor social
centers would be renovated and three integrated health-social centers and
three dispensaries built, equipped and staffed to provide basic health care
and social services. Training and supervision programs would be provided
for health and social personnel. A more efficient way to address health-
related and social issues through community development approaches would be
developed in the three integrated health-social centers by undertaking a
coordinated program of training, work planning and community work involving
the staff of both the Ministry of Public Health (MSP) and the Ministry of
Social Affairs and Women's Development (MASPF) at the service and
supervisory levels. Second, methods would be developed and tested to (a)
improve and better integrate the content and quality of basic services by
defining better conceived and targeted service packages (objectives,
performance standards, training, and reference and supervisory materials
for basic services) for nutrition education (using existing food
distribution programs), safe motherhood and birth spacing, maternal and
child health (MCH), and simple preventive and curative care; (b) allocate
and prescribe essential drugs more effectively; (c) implement a cost-
recovery program based on a system of fixed fees to be charged for each new
episode of illness, entitling the patient to health care services and
essential drugs; (d) develop a coordinated team approach for identifying
and addressing health-related problems faced by the target communities; and
(e) through an outreach program, promote their participation in the
improvement of their living environment. The proposed cost-recovery scheme
would be part of an overall effort by the Government to develop a
nationwide cost-recovery system, with support from EDF, UNICEF, IDA and
other donors. Third, the referral system would be reviewed and made more
efficiez.t, particularly through better communication (including
transportation) and coordination between peripheral facilities and the
Central Hospital services, particularly pediatrics, which are over-
burdened with trivial cases. Three 16-bed maternity centers would be built
to permit safer normal delivery; problem cases would be referred to the
Central Maternity, which should then become less crowded and more efficient
by focusing its efforts on complicated or high-risk deliveries. Fourth,
overall management of the urban health and social services would be
strengthened by dividing N'Djamena's urban areas into districts, with a
physician and a social worker in charge of regularly planning and
coordinating the action programs of all health and social centers within



- 15 -
each urban district. Total cost of this sub-component is estimated at
US$5.3 million equivalent, including US$1.2 million for essential drugs.
US$1.7 million for construction/rehabilitation of health facilities, and
US$1.1 million for specialist services.
3.10       Strengthening of regional health services in Tandlile.  This
sub-component to strengthen health services in the Prefecture of Tandjile
(360,000 est. population) would be undertaken in a geographic area
partially affected by the cotton sector adjustment arA not included in any
other health sector assistance program. It would adapt and extend to that
region the approach developed and being implemented under the EDF project
(para 2.18). The sub-component includes: assistance to the regional Chief
Physician in planning, managing and monitoring health services to improve
the delivery of primary health care; staff training (50 qualified and 70
untrained nurses); renovation and equipping of health facilities; and
establishment of an essential drug distribution system, with cost recovery.
The essential drug program for Tandjile would be similar to the one to be
tested in N'Djamena (para 3.09) and includes training in drug distribution
and prescription, and the refurbishing of provincial and sub-regional
pharmacies. The concept of being charged a fixed fee for health care
should be more readily accepted by users in that region because a similar
system exists in health centers operated by NGOs or church-affiliated
groups. Total cost of this sub-component is estimated at US$3.0 million
equivalent. of which US$1.1 million would be for essential drugs, US$0.3
million for rehabilitation and equipping of health facilities, and US$0.7
million for specialist services.
3. Tmprovement of N'Djamena's Sanitation Infrastructure
3.11       This component comprises two sub-components: (a) rehabilitation
of the ca-?ital city's drainage system to prevent flooding during the rainy
season i"i two vulnerable areas, where about 85,000 low-income residents are
couw'entrated; and (b) accompanying measures for improvement of public
hygiene based on low-cost sanitation programs involving labor-intensive
public works techniques and active community participation. In light of
the city's extremely poor living conditions and the serious health hazards
(para 2.13), plus the fact that over the last decade there have been
virtually no investments in urban !nirastructure by either government or
external agencies except limited N.~.O7 assistanco~ to alleviate the worst
conditions (para 2.17), this componenit is given high priority in
N'Djamena's reconstruction and reco,~ry effort. Pending completion of the
master plan for rehabilitating the sanitation infrastructure (para 2.18),
it is important that urgently needed improvements be started under the
project in the areas of the c-ity with the worst health hazards. Moreover,
the techniques for implementing these improvements and for involving
communities and local labor can be tested for replicability and
sustainability in larger programs, with a view to creating maximum
employment and practical training opportunities for the city's unemployed
%v4 unskilled labor. These improvement systems were designed to remain
compatible with those to be proposed under the master plan; hence the
project does not include large and structural rehabilitation of the primary



- 16 -
drainage network. Furthermore, the activities implemented under this
component would be complemented by the surveys and studies to be undertaken
in the component to strengthen social policy formulation. A free-standing
urban project is currcntly included in the Bank's lending program for FY92.
Specific activities are described below and further detailed in
Annex 3-3; implementation arrangements are set out in para 4.14.
3.12      Rehabilitation of che drainage system.  Under this sub-
component the drainage system would be rehabilitated in two areas of
N'Djamenr -Am Rikebe and Hill Leclerc--that experience severe flooding
during the rainy season. Primary infrastructure would be improved by the
temporary cleaning and widening of two collectors to permit water drained
from these areas to be evacuated through them. Secondary infrastructure
would be fully rehabilitated by building a network of drainage ditches,
using labor-intensive techniques to enable small enterprises to
participate. Tertiary infrastructure would be rehabilitated by building a
network of ground ditches around each block, using labor-intensive
techniques and unckilled labor hired daily by the municipal services. The
local residents would be sensitized to the need for keeping the ditches
cleaned out, especially before the start of the rainy season, and for
installing concrete culverts in front of their compounds. Reprofiling and
regrading of some of the streets are expected to improve the efficiency of
the newly rehabilitated drainage system.
3.13      Accompanying measures to improve public hygiene.  Related
measures have been identified with a view to enhancing the project's impact
on sanitation in N'Djamena. One marketplace named 'Cholera' would be
rehabilitated by draining its site, using tertiary ditches connected to the
secondary drainage infrastructure, and by covering it with a stable surface
to keep it clean. An improved and well-maintained marketplace would enable
the city to improve fee collection, thereby increasing its revenues. Other
measures include:  (a) improvement of water supply and pubAic lighting, as
well as the installation of private latrines, in the Hill Leclerc area;
(b) control of mosquitoes through preventive measures such as spraying with
environmentally approved insecticides and keeping water from stagnating in
ditches and in the two drainage collectors in the flood-prone areas; and
(c) improved garbage collection, using techniques already tested in similar
poor areas. These measures to improve public hygiene and living conditions
and reduce health hazards in N'Djamena would be strengthened by a community
participation program to sensitize the local residents to the need for
improving their living and work environment, and to actively involve them
in the sanitation and public hygiene measures.
3.14      In this component, the only direct cost-recovery scheme would be
a market tax for the sanitation services, which if recovered at 1002 of its
face value would pay for local recurrent costs. Beyond that, in order to
improve land tax collection the Government plans to introduce a city-wide
land registration system, with FAC-financed assistance.
3.15      The cost of this component is estimated at US$9.1 million, of
which US$6.1 million would be for civil works. This includes the cost of
jointly appraised activities that would be financed by the United Nations



- 17 -
Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), for an estimated US$3.2 million, and that
include part of the rehabilitation of the drainage system, all new public
utilities, and costs associated with a scheme to promote the installation
of private latrines.
4. Strengthening of Social Policy Planning
3.16      In this component, which would implemeit the SDA national
program prepared by the Government (para 2.21),  -ne Government's capability
to define social policies and programs would be strengthened. This
component would also enable the Government to analyze the impact of policy
measures on vulnerable population groups and to design appropriate
corrective measures, in particular for future adjustment programs. Due to
10 years of administrative disruptions and the lack of updated information,
the country's social situation is not well known; moreover, in addition to
its limited capability for policy formulation and design, the Government
continues to face conflicting priorities in the allocation of its meager
resources. Hence, in Chad the implementation of an SDA-type of program.
such as those underway in other Sub-Saharan countries, requires an approach
that combines external technical assistance with well-planned use of the
country's scarce qualified human resources. in light of all the
constraints, a preliminary set of studies and surveys has been identified
to start a database, complement lessons learned in implementing the other
project components, and determine how to design well-targeted future
adjustment and sectoral programs as well as policy reforms.
3.17      Training, equipment, and short-term technical assistance would
be provided under this component to carry out the socioeconomic studies and
household surveys needed to achieve a better understanding of living
condit-ions and the identification of disadvantaged groups. The action plan
focuses first on five areas: (a) living conditions in the rural, mostly
cotton-growing areas; (b) food security and identification of nutritionally
vulnerable groups; (c) living conditions of urban households and coverage
of essential needs; (d) household budget structures, public resource
allocation and financing of essential services; and (e) promotion of micro-
enterprises and employment generation. The main areas to be addressed are
described in detail in Annex 3-4; implementation arrangements are set out
in para 4.15. A synopsis of this component is shown in Table 3.1. Total
cost is estimated at US$3.6 million.
3.18      Policy formulation and project identification.  In this area,
the following work plan would be finalized in close coordination with other
sector work being undertaken with financing by IDA and other donors: (a)
support for better-designed projects targeted at vulnerable zones or groups
in rural areas; (b) improvement of food security strategy and design of
actions targeted at vulnerable zones or groups; (c) analysis of cost-
recovery issues in education and health, and related arrangements for
ensuring that the most vulnerable groups have access to those services; (d)
definition of a core social expenditure budget for the health and education
sectors: and (e) definition of an overall promotion strategy and
institutional set-up for micro and small enterprises. The findings of the
socioeconomic studies (para 3.19), together with the implementation



- 18 -
experience of the proposed project and that of other projects financed by
other donors or developed by NGOs, will provide the basis for designing
sectoral strategies and policies and developing a project pipeline for
future assistance in private sector promotion, health and nutrition, and
urban development. To be adequately carried out, some of the socioeconomic
studies will have to be preceded by household surveys. Total cost of this
sub-component is estimated at US$0.8 million.
3.19      Socioeconomic studies.  These would aim at assessing the living
conditions of households and hew they cope with meeting their basic needs.
The principal objectives would be to gain a better understanding of the
country's social situation and better analyze inequities in access to
social services. A first set of studies would cover the following topics:
(a) ways to help small growers improve their living conditions and their
efficiency in producing cotton and diversifying crops; (b) food security
and household budget structure to identify vulnerable zones and groups, and
based on their behavior, how to help them cope with food supply variations;
(c) public resources allocation (investment and recurrent expenditures) and
access to essential services and cost-recovery capacity (health, education,
nutrition); (d) living conditions of urban households to identify the most
vulnerable groups and measures for providing better employment
opportunities; and (e) micro-enterprises in the urban sector to assess
their efficiency and propose a better integration into an industrial
development strategy and private sector promotion. Total cost of this sub-
component is estimated at US$0.8 million.
3.20      Household surveys.  These would help the Government to set up a
database on household living conditions and on the general social
situation, to be used as inputs for socioeconomic studies. As the
Government is undertaking a census (1989-91), the first since 1964,
personnel and other resources available for these surveys will be limited.
Hence, only four small surveys would be undertaken during those first three
years, with the focal points being rural areas where cotton growing has
been important and three cities--Moundou, Abeche and N'Djamena--the latter
to establish a comparison with a similar survey in 1988 on the capital city
(para 2.06). Beginning in 1991, an integrated household survey on living
conditions would be undertaken, covering approximately 2,400 households.
The census should establish two important elements to enable this household
survey to be effective: cartography (the basis for any sampling technique)
and resources (trained personnel and physical resources for conducting
field inquiries). The methodology and type of questionnaire would follow
the pattern of similar methodologies being used in other African countries
where SDA-type projects are underway. At the end of the project, building
on the database and on the knowledge gained from the integrated household
survey, the Department of Statistics and Economic and Demographic Studies
(DSEED) shculd be able to continue to carry out a program of low-cost
surveys on household living conditions that would be within the
Government's budgetary capabilities. Total cost of this sub-component is
estimated at US$2.1 million.



- 19 -
TbIel 8.12      SIHWSIS OF PMOJECT 5_T011 TO
--_   E     SOCIAL POUCIES
r)c                     |UP P__T    FM                                          PlOCT                              OT h                  PO         CES
goesTcmdltIene(cettESneeds edcrep                                                                                                     OF OW progr As
~~~~~~~~~im                                           IESOJtECTIVtE P|M    ilff5O MPSE5                                 |          ccss|CTSSORMIATIONI
I) L 1  e ndilou            Il- _atl e_1  ir, | -          _                      - rural   -edl_  on
iI                                                                              I                         I - SD cr dit, to the
i          |                         |    t~~~~~~~~~~~ural nsector
11) Feed Seority ed          SM_1  sA_ple  wVye    - Idmtifican   of              - Scrit  tr g    d             tr tei   soial-I  - no Prograes
vuinerable  rwouo        Of household living       groupe  at risk for          pilet prorm taretel    health oter_ Is In
I  conditioee (Cotton         coverine nutritien           at vulsreble greup  I    1Jmsa                  I - Revise of Publ le
zon   d   citiee)                                                                                      I   Inveetest and
|  |  1169l                                       I                                                    I   Expenditure Program
i - Inrated   usbold  i                                                                                    i   Other nutritlon amn
Survy (192-94)        1                                                                                I    rurCl dvelopesat
t           |                           g           ~            ~~                        ~~~~~~~~~ I  I  projet
I                          i -          - -             -____,______ _-                           -            __ 
lIIS;t Livg conditions       - Small    l sra               a -   S   of public  i - Core xpenditure            Strestheing  cai-I  - "GO progrea
I    of II!     o_old I  of _I. -ld  lireev  Ullee                               I   ballo   for _l l =          1et  et r  In          IDcredit.ttI
an*d  -U* blo  wd           conditlon  ete            onw oelual oele_|cle  oDJn                                                        IDA er dito to the
I  e              I  z~~~~~~~on- *n      lt                                                                                       rural sector
ISnt  IritetdbiIlttng srnl  I
I-Analysis of urban       i                              totlon Infrxstruac-   I - Education
-I*t"ogr    iwnold  |   holdaI budget                                             tur- In i'DJ_m       I   R hobi IItxtlon
IrI ey (12-4)          end identIficatlon of                                                              ProJet (IDA Credit
I           I                          |  wI~~~~~~~~~~vlnrtrble gromps    
Food Satfty Iesses      i
end vuleraoble group    I
I _    eol -     _ __- _                    _I__ _                      _  ______ ___I_I                                                 _       _      _
I n) I            ubold    gsd   - Smal eplo surve    - lpect of publilc         I - Cout-racoery ac          - Strengte    oiel-l  - WOO prot~
structur   nd       I  of   aI d lving            resore allocation       I   for health *ad             health   er, In 
the filnanci   of    I  condition. (eotton    I  on social "Irvice        I   eduction eeor          I   NDJame                  - Roi_ d Pubic
mential services        son" and 8 eclti)    I                             I                         I                              InVe nt  nd
I  |   -9941-             11 - Publle utillitis -   I                                                     I   Expenditure
- Analyeis of urban       I   services teriffe 
- Interated household  I  houshold budget           I   l urban ro                         I               - P   eratlm  of
I  survey (1921-94)       I  en ~ta I_*fietl'.        I                         I                         I   Strct ral
I                 I  a~~~~~~~f velasreble grwoua    III Adjuatmt Program
I                   I                         |  d  w"1_1* I  I            I                         I                         I Ad _Fir
- ResucturWring of
T                           t                         T                         'T   public ontorprice
I                           I                         I                         I   Other ectlone In
________________  __________  I___________  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   h ealth   se to r
I -      ~         I                    ---                               I                         T
V)  Microeetarprle          Seatll sample surve       Anelyei of urban           G- lobal trate  for     - PrOting  mploymt    - HO  proprm
premtloe  *nd           d of _ouhold living      hosoehold budgs          I    wall enrprle_            throuh elcroer- -
_mplojenet          I     aconditions (cot    I  and identification        I   promotion                 pris credit nd           - Revie of Public
_lsaretion          IRoam end A citiesI )        tof vulnerab'o groups                               I   tchniel _uprt              Investment nd
1It  1  1                              I                 Expenditure Program
0Igreted  _ hoid     - Storal structure                                                               I - EnP riece of locel
I     (192-94)       I  of the Irnorml  eor                                 I e                            banks
and moll entrepreneurs                            I
IefficiencyI 
I  I                       I                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~_    _ _   _   _ _   _



- 20 -
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.21      Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated at US$26.9
million equivalent, net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange
component of US$17.2 million, or 64Z of the total project cost. Base cost
estimates, based on January 1989 prices, have been updated to reflect price
levels in February 1990. The table below summarizes project costs by
component. Project costs by component and expenditure category are shown
in Annex 3-5; detailed cost tables are set out in Annex 3-6.
Component                                                Cost
(US$ million)
1.  Employment generation                                    4.0
2.  Improvement of PHC and social services                   6.9
3.  Improvement of N'Djamena's sanitation infrastr.          7.5
4.  Strengthening of social policy planning                  2.9
5.  Project Coordination and Support Unit                    1.0
Total base costs:                                       22.3
Physical contingencies                                   2.0
Price contingencies                                      2.6
Total estimated project costs:                          26.9
3.22      Contingency allowances.  The physical contingency allowance of
US$2 J million equivalent, or 9Z of the estimated total base cost, includes
unfoieseen physical additions for civil works, furniture, equipment,
vehicles, training, and specialist services. Price contingencies of US$2.6
million equivalent, or 12Z of total base cost, were based on an estimated
local annual inflation rate of 3Z for local costs between 1990 and 1995 and
on forecasts of international inflation of 4.9Z for foreign-supplied goods
in the same period.
3.23      Incremental operating and recurrent costs.  The project would
finance incremental operating costs associated with (a) maintenance of
buildings, materials, equipment and vehicles; (b) expanded survey and
research programs; and (c) essential drug distribution. At the end of the
project, annual incremental recurrent costs generated by the project
(excluding the Project Coordination and Support Unit) would amount to: (a)
US$300,000 equivalent per year in wages and materials to continue the
programs defined in the employment-generation component (paras 3.05-3.07);
and (b) US$500,000 in non-wage expenditures (excluding essential drugs) to
continue the other programs. Funds needed for the purchase and
distribution of essential drugs in N'Djamena and Tandjile, estimated at
US$1.0 million at the end of the project, should be covered by the cost-
recovery scheme to be developed under the health component (paras 3.09 and
3.10). Proceeds from a market tax (para 3.14) should cover costs incurred
by the sanitation services.



- 21 -
3.24      Project financing.  The funding sources for the prcject have
been identified, and the financing arrangements were finalized during
negotiations. The proposed IDA credit of US$13.4 million would finance 50Z
of the total project cost. Local contributions total US$1.3 million
equivalent, or 52 of the project cost: the Government would finance 202 of
the project's incremental operating costs, equivalent to US$0.6 million,
and local communities would contribute US$0.7 million equivalent for their
participation in various project components. The following donors would
participate in the financing of specific project components in the form of
grants: Swiss Development Cooperation would cofinance the components to
improve PHC and social services and to strengthen social policy
formulation, for US$6.7 million equivalent; UNCDF would finance specific
activities under the component to improve N'Djamena's sanitation
infrastructure for approximately US$3.2 million (para 3.15). USAID would
finance on a parallel basis the credit assistance and management support
sub-component for approximately US$2.3 million, excluding US$0.6 million
for the incremental credit requirements (para 3.05) to be funded by IDA.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.01      Composition of the Social Development Action Project was agreed
between the Government and IDA in June 1988. IDA's assistance in preparing
this project was requested by the Government during preparation of the
Financial Rehabilitation Credit (para 2.02) and in connection with the
country's request for participation in the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
(SDA) Regional Program (para 2.21). Pre-appraisal of the project took
place in October 1988 and appraisal in January 1989. Representatives of
all donors participated in the appraisal mission in January 1989. A post-
appraisal mission visited Chad in November 1989. Under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), an amount of US$750,000 was approved in April
1989.
4.02      The three studies financed by the SDA Regional Facility (para
2.06) provided the basis for preparing the project and identifying seve-al
of its components. During appraisal, discussions were held with NGOs with
ongoing activities in Chad, similar to those to be undertaken in the
project, in order to benefit from their experience. The action plans for
each component were discussed, with the first year of the training program
defined. Final architectural designs for a rehabilitation and/or
construction civil works program for the health facilities and sanitation
infrastructure were approved by the Government and IDA. For N'Djamena's
health/social services network (para 4.12), nine sites have already been
acquired by the Ministry of Public Health and the Ministry of Social
Affairs and Women's Development. These sites were identified during
appraisal mission and found acceptable. Preparation of bidding documents
for the civil works to be undertaken during the first year of the project
are being financed under the PPF and will be completed by credit
effectiveness. PPF funds are also being used for setting up all executing
agencies and a Project Coordination and Support Unit, as well as for the



- 22 -
hiring of long-term technical assistance to prepare, together with local
staff, a detailed implementation plan for each component. All technical
assistance, with the exception of the specialists for the sub-component on
technical assistance for micro-enterprises (para 4.10) and for the
Sanitation Infrastructure Unit (para 4.14), has been contracted to two NGOs
and two consulting firms with ongoing activities in Chad. The recruitment
process for the remaining specialists has been initiated.
B. Project Management and Coordination
4.03      The project would be implemented under the overall supervision
of the Minister of Planning and Cooperation. An Interminister!al Committee
has been established under the chairmanship of the Minister of Planning to
guide implementation of the Government's social action programs and make
the necessary policy recommendations. Individual executing agencies would
be responsible for Lnplementing each sub-component under the technical
supervision of the relevant ministries, but a Project Coordination and
Support Unit (PCSU) has been set up in the Ministry of Planning to
supervise the financial and procurement aspects of project implementation
and provide support to the executing agencies in their relations with the
donors. The management and coordination arrangements of the project are
detailed in Annex 4-1.
4.04      Interministerial Committee.  The Interministerial Committee is
composed of the following Ministers (or their representatives): Interior
(MI), Finance (MFI), Food Security (MSA), Labor and Employment (MTE),
Public Health (MSP), National Education (MEN), Trade and Industry (MCI),
Public Works (MTP), Regional Urban Development and Housing (MATUH), and
Social Affairs and Women's Development (MASPF). The Interministerial
Committee would meet at least twice yearly to (a) review progress reports
from the executing agencies, (b) approve progress and annual reports on
project implementation and assess prospects for implementing the project's
annual action plans, and (c) review and finalize policy recommendations
based on the findings of the project studies and surveys. The Chairman of
the Interministerial Committee would be assisted in his functions by the
PCSU, the General Directorate, the Human Resources Department, and the
Permanent Secretariat of NGOs of the Ministry of Planning. Specifically,
the PCSU would prepare the Interministerial Committee's meetings, follow up
on its decisions, and ensure quality control of the documents to be
transmitted to the Committee, in particular the annual progress reports.
The documents would be drafted by the executing agencies and reviewed by
four technical sub-committees: for employment promotion, urban
infrastructure, health and community participation, and social dimensions
of adjustment. These sub-committees, which have already been established,
comprise representatives of the relevant Ministries and are chaired by the
Directors General of MCI, MTP, MASPF and MPC, respectively. They would
review and amend, as necessary, the draft annual progress reports and
discuss any relevant policy recommendations that may arise during project
implementation. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that
the Interministerial Committee and the four technical sub-committees will



- 23 -
be maintained throughout the project period, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
4.05      Project Coordinatioa and Support Unit.  As an autonomous entity
under the supervision of the Minister of Planning, the PCSU has been
established for the five-year project period to perform the following
functions: (a) consolidate the semiannual progress reports on project
execution and the annual reports on project implementation and
expenditures; (b) prepare annual budgetary programs aggregating the annual
action plans updated by each executing agency; (c) ensure that all bidding
documents and procurement and disbursement matters conform to the
procedures of the relevant donors and that required audits are carried out
in a timely fashion; (d) serve as a liaison between IDA/the other donors
and the executing agencies; and (e) review any contractual disputes that
may arise and refer them to the proper authot'ties. A Project Director and
a Deputy Director have beer. appointed. The PCSU also includes an
experienced accountant and four support staff. After the first three years
of project implementation and until project compi.etion, the PCSU staff
would be reduced to comprise only the Project Director, the accountant and
one support staff member. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that (a) the PCSU's work procedures and relations with the
executing agencies will be as agreed with IDA; (b) the PCSU will be staffed
for the entire project period with personnel occupying the full-time
positions of Project Director and accountant, and for the first three years
will also include a Deputy Director; and (c) these positions will be filled
at all times with personnel whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA.
4.06      Executing agencies.  The individual executing agencies that
would implement the project sub-components would be relevant administrative
unics of the technical ministries concerned, except for the credit and
assistance sub-component that would be implemented by an NGO (para 4.09).
The administrative units would be assisted by additional NGOs and
consulting firms to strengthen their implementation capacity. All NGOs and
consulting firms would be under contract with the Government specifying
(i) the tasks to be performed and their time frame, with the first year's
action plan fully specified, (ii) the accounting, auditing and reporting
procedures to be followed, (iii) the staff profile, and (iv) any conditions
deemed necessary by the Government and IDA in view of the particular tasks
and/or characteristics of the executing agency. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that the organization, functions, staffing and
responsibilities of the Health-Social Unit and the Sanitation
Infrastructure Unit will be satisfactory to IDA.
4.07      Monitoring, reporting and evaluation.  The procedures for
project supervision and administration are described in detail in
Annex 4-1, and a supervision plan, agreed during negotiations, is at
Annex 4-5. Monitoring of project activities would take place at several
levelst from the executing agencies that implement the project sub-
components to the PCSU as a coordinating entity, with the Interministerial
Committee responsible for the overall monitoring function. Each executing
agency would be responsible for monitoring implementation of its sub-



- 24 -
component, on the basis of detailed indicators included in the annual
action plans related to its sub-component, by (a) each month assessing
performance on the basis of the specified indicators, (b) preparing the
semiannual progress reports, and 'c) updating the annual action plans
related to its sub-component on the basis of performance achieved during
the year under review. The PCSU would (a) consolidate the semiannual
progress reports, and (b) prepare annual progress and financial reports, as
well as annual budgetary programs aggregating the annual action plans, for
annual project reviews to be undertaken with the Government, IDA and the
other donors. A final project evaluation would be carried out during the
last year of the project to analyze lessons drawn from implementing
specific action plans. These lessons would be discussed in workshops and
seminars to be organized at the end of the project and would be reflected
in recommendations for defining future social policies (para 3.18). The
procedures, including the monitoring indicators, have been agreed with the
Government. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
will (a) submit to IDA for review annual reports on project implementation
and expenditures, the first report by September 30, 1991; (b) with IDA and
the other donors, undertake annual reviews of the progress of
implementation, starting not later than November 1, 1991, and by November 1
every year thereafter; (c) agree with IDA, not later than December 31 of
each year, on the next annual budgetary program aggregating the annual
action plans for each component and each executing agency; and (d) submit a
project completion report to IDA within six months of the credit closing
date.
4.08      Implementation schedule.  Most of the project's planned
activities, comprising the first three components, is expected to be
implemented over a three-year period. The component for strengthening
social policy formulation is expected to take five years, due to
implementation requirements of the integrated household survey. The
project is expected to be completed by December 1995. The project
implementation schedule is shown in Annex 4-2.
C. Implementation of the Project Components
1. Stimulation of Employment Generation
4.09      Credit assistance and management support.  The technical sub-
committee for employment promotion, chaired by the Director General of MCI,
would be responsible for the supervision of this sub-component, which would
be implemented by the NGO in charge of executing the USAID program (para
2.17). The NGO's performance was reviewed jointly by IDA and USAID staff
to assess the feasibility of its participation in the execution of the sub-
component. Its performance was found to be satisfactory, and USAID will
continue to utilize this NGO as the executing agency. Specifically, the
NGO would be responsible for training local staff to develop their capacity
to operate the credit assistance scheme. In addition, the local staff
would participate in training seminars in Chad and abroad, which the NGO
would organize. The NGO would provide long- and short-term technical
assistance for promotion of an outreach micro-credit program and general



- 25 -
marketing. With regard to management of the line of credit to be funded by
IDA, the NGO would be under contract with MPC; lending terms and
conditions, technical assistance, and credit-processing arrangements for
the three credit windows (para 3.05) were finalized during negotiations.
The NGO would a1so prepare progress reports for the Interministerial
Committee every six months. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that (a) the interest rate under the credit scheme will be 12Z
until June 30, 1991, and increased to 131 thereafter, with an added front-
end service fee of 22 in both cases; (b) the interest rate will be adjusted
not later than December 31, 1991, on the basis of the findings of a banking
sector review study and pursuant to the financial performance of the credit
scheme and the prevailing commercial interest rates; and (c) the contract
with the NGO for management of the line of credit will be as agreed with
IDA. Conditions of credit disbursement on this sub-component are that (a)
the USAID grant has become effective, and (b) the contract with the NGO lor
management of the line of credit has been signed.
4.10      Technical assistance for micro-enterprises.  A small unit, to be
established within the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE) for the first
three years of the project, would implement this sub-component, with
technical supervision being provided by the techmical sub-committee for
employment promotion. A Coordinator would be recruited internationally for
18 months to help establish the unit. He would train a national specialist
(36 man-months) to take over his coordination functions at the end of his
contract. Both would organize and supervise program implementation,
prepare outreach and demonstration techniques, promote technology transfer
and purchase of adapted equipment, and prepare semiannual progress reports
for the Interministerial Committee. The unit would also be staffed with a
local team of three instructors and support staff. Three specialists would
be hired through the Association Francaise des Volontaires du Progres
(AFVP) (72 man-months) to train the three instructors. Dissemination
seminars would be organized for the instructors and managers of workshop
facilities (para 3.06). A condition of credit effectiveness is that the
Coordinator has taken up his duties.
4.11      Counselling for laid-off public employees.  MTE's National Labor
Department (ONAMO) would be responsible for implementing this sub-component
in N'Djamena and Moundou in the cotton zone. An economist would be
recruited locally for 36 months to assist the Moundou branch, as well as
support staff. Ad-hoc consultancy assistance would be contracted for 20
man-weeks to (a) help define, adjust and internalize counselling methods,
as needed; (b) undertake an analysis of the labor market in the N'Djamena
and Moundou regions; and (c) give in-service training to staff.
2. Improvement of Primary Health Care and Social Services
4.12      Restructuring and expansion of N'Djamena's PHC and social
services network. This sub-component would be implemented by a Health-
Social Unit, which has been established under the supervision of the
Director General of the Ministry of Public Health (MSP) in consultation
with the Director General of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Women's



- 26 -
Development (MASPF). Its work would be coordinated by a full-time Senior
Physician from MSP's Hospital and Urban Medicine Department, assisted by a
full-time social worker from MASPF's Department of Social Affairs; both
have been transferred to the Health-Social Unit and have taken up their
duties. The Unit would also be staffed with an Administrator and support
staff. Specifically, the Health-Social Unit would (a) consolidate
essential drug orders from the health centers, purchase essential drugs
through international competitive bidding by using the Central PharmAcy's
infrastructure, and monitor the prescription and distribution of drugs and
the cost recovery scheme; (b) supervise on a regular basis the functioning
of all health facilities to be restructured under the project, particularly
the new integrated health-social centers; and (c) monitor the action
programs for each urban district. These programs would be closely linked
to those to be undertaken in the rural zones of the Chari-Baguirmi medical
region, to which the urban districts are administratively attached.
The Public Building Department of the Ministry of Public Works (MTP) would
be responsible for the technical supervision of the constructLcn and/or
rehabilitation of health and social centers. To achieve this sub-
component's objectives, in particular its emphasis on testing the essential
drug scheme and integrating the activities of health and social personnel,
the Health-Social Unit would be assisted by a full-time public health
specialist and a full-time social worker/nurse (36 man-months each), with
44 man-months of short-term assistance, to be provided by a consulting
firm. The consulting firm would orgarize retraining seminars for health
center managers and health and social personnel. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that (a) the three integrated health-social
centers, three maternity centers and three dispensaries to be built in
N'Djamena will be staffed as agreed with IDA and located on the sites
already found acceptable; (b) a cost recovery scheme based on a system of
fixed fees per new episode of illness will be introduced for the services
provided by the three maternities constructed under the project and in the
health centers supplied with essential drugs under the project, and will at
all times be satisfactory to IDA; and (c) the Health-Social Unit will be
staffed at all times with personnel whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA. It also gave assurances that the Government's
operating budgets for N'Djamena's PHC and social services network will be
increased, starting from their 1990 base, by at least 1OZ each year in
1991, 1992 and 1993, a rate in line with the budgetary provisions under the
third PFP 1990-92. Signing of a contract with the consulting firm,
satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.13      Strengthening of regional health services in Tandiile.  This
sub-component would be implemented using the same institutional and
management framework as the one for an, ongoing EDF-financed health project,
which is satisfactory to IDA (para 3.10). Supervision would be provided by
MSP's Director General of Health, with assistance from the consulting firm
responsible for implementing the EDF project, who would be under contract
with MSP. Specifically, this firm would provide long-term technical
assistance to the regional Chief Physician through a Deputy Chief Physician
and a specialist in public health management, each for 36 man-months. The
specialist in public health management would help implement the essential
drug and cost-recovery programs and would train a national counterpart (24



- 27 -
man-months). The firm would also twice yearly organize in N'Djamena and
Tandjile training seminars for health personnel, as well as field
supervision visits. During negotiations the Government gave assurances
that the Government's operating budgets for Tandjile's health services will
be increased, starting from their 1990 base, by at least 10X each year in
1991, 1992 and 1993, a rate in line with the budgetary provisions under the
third PFP 1990-92. Signing of a contract with the corsulting firm,
satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
3. Improvement of N'Diamena's Sanitation Infrastructure
4.14      To implement this component, an autonomous Sanitation
Infrastructure Unit has been established under the technical supervision of
the Ministry of Regionial Urban Planning and Housing (MATUR). Its staffing
is provided by the Governmer.t and comprise a Director, two engineers, two
head foremen, and a specialist in public hygiene; support staff would be
financed under the project. The technical personnel have been transferred
to the Unit and have taken up their duties. In addition, an engineer and a
head foreman, with confirmed experience, would be internationally recruited
to strengthen the Unit (60 man-months). The engineer would define with the
technical staff of the Unit an in-service training program tailored to
their needs. The Unit would (a) handle contracts for architectural and
engineering services from preparation and review of bidding documents, call
for tenders and bid opening to supervision of civil iorks; (b) provide
technical assistance to small contractors participating in civil works;
(c) help improve garbage collection by municipal services; and (d) set up
an analytical accounting system to improve the management of equipment,
tools and spare parts of the force account brigade. The Unit would verify
construction progress and certify payment requests, as well as carry out
maintenance activities of the tertiary drainage network. Personnel both
transferred to or involved in the project would, at the end of the project,
be used to constitute a strong public sanitation and public hygiene
department. The Unit would also supervise implementation of the community
participation program (para. 3.13), for which an NGO with ongoing
activities in Chad would be contracted. The NGO would provide 55 man-
months to organize and implement the program, with co-mmunity development
agents' assis Lance. During negotiations the Government gave assurances
that the qualifications and experience of the technical personnel of the
Sanitation-Infrastructure Unit and the arrangements with the municipal
services will at all times be satisfactory to IDA. Conditions of credit
effectiveness are that (a) the engineer and head foreman recruited for the
Sanitation Infrastructure Unit have taken up their duties, and (b) a
contract with the NGO responsible for the' community participation program,
satisfactory to IDA, has been signed.
4. Strengthening of Social Policy Planning
4.15      The technical sub-committee for the social dimensions of
adjustment would supervise the implementation of this component. The
Applied Research Center (CRA) of the Ministry of Higher Education would be



- 28 -
responsible for implementing the program of studies, which would be carried
out by a team of internationally recruited (30 man-months) and local (37
man-months) specialists. The Department of Statistics (DSEED) of the
Ministry of Planning would undertake the household surveys, with support
from a team of internationally recruited (11 man-months) and local (250
man-months) specialists. The Ministry of Planning's Directorates of
Planning and of Investment would be responsible for preparing policy
papers, which would take into account the findings of the studies and
surveys and lessons from implementing specific action plans, in order to
recommend policy reforms and replicable and sustainable investment
projects. These findings would be submitted to the Interministerial
Committee, through the SDA technical sub-committee, following annual
seminars and/or workshops gathering all parties concerned (including NGOs)
to discuss issues and conclusions and make recommendations. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that, before undertaking the
socioeconomic studies and household surveys, it will submit for I)A's
approval the annual programs, including terms of reference, schedule, and
arrangements for their dissemination and implementation. It also gave
assurances that it will review with IDA the recommendations of the policy
studies and agree on action plans for their implementation.
D. Environmental Impact
4.16      The project's environmental impact would become progressively
beneficial through the emphasis placed on making the living environment of
disadvantaged groups more healthful and sensitizing them to the need for
cooperative efforts among households and communities in maintaining the
sanitary and public hygiene improvements provided under the project. In
particular, the risk of malaria would be reduced for the 85,000 inhabitants
of the areas covered by the component to improve N'Djamena's sanitation
infrastructure. In that component, the temporary use of two open
collectors for drainage in the two flood-prone areas pending completion of
the overall drainage system's infrastructure (para 3.12) could be a
breeding ground for mosquitoes and other vectors of disease. Since no
other practical and affordable solution could be found, these collectors
would be used as safely as possible, and the controlled use of insecticides
and other control measures would be financed under the project. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that the use of insecticides
under the project's sanitation component will follow the Bank's guidelines
on the use of pesticides in public health projects.
E. Specialist Services
4.17      Technical assistance.  Consultants would be selected under the
Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA, to provide various forms of technical
assistance in a number of areas: specialized management, technology
transfer and promotion of small local enterprises, public health, and
engineering. The total technical assistance required would be about 578
man-months, of which 264 would be recruited locally. A list of the
specialist services, agreed during negotiations, is at Annex 4-3.



- 29 -
4.18      Surveys and studies.  Local and international consultants (total
of 328 man-months), with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA,
would be selected under the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants to
provide technical assistance for the design of socioeconomic studies,
surveys, and policy analysis for the component to strengthen social policy
formulation.
4.19      Non-governmental organizations.  This type of specialist
services would be equivalent to 338 man-months.
F. Procurement, Disbursements and Accounting
4.20      The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.  A
detailed description of the procurement procedures is given in Annex 4-4.
4.21      IDA financing of contracts for civil works (limited to
sanitation infrastructure for the primary and secondary drainage) totalling
US$2.6 million equivalent, and goods (including furniture, computers,
equipment, vehicles and drugs) totalling about US$2.2 million equivalent,
representing about 87Z of the total IDA financing of contracts for civil
works and goods, would be grouped into a maximum of six major packages.
These items, suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB), would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1985). Where ICB procedures are used, a
preferential margin of 15Z or the existing customs duty, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. prices of goods imports would be given to domestic
manufacturers in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. For works pcocured
on the basis of ICB, a preferential margin of 7.5% would be given to
bomestic contractors, also in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. For
the remaining of the total value of civil works and goods, LCB procurement
would be followed for small value contracts spaced in time and spread
geographically and estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent each,
which in the aggregate would not exceed US$0.7 million and comprise (a)
construction and/or rehabilitation of health centers and services, and (b)
furniture and equipment. These items, which are not expected to interest
foreign suppliers because of the small size and the variety of each
contract, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, provided that
(a) a copy of the draft standard bidding documents is submitted to and
found acceptable by IDA prior to approval of the first contract by IDA; (b)
eligible foreign cirms are not precluded from participating and are not
required to be incorporated in Chad in order to participate in the bidding;
(c) bids are opened in public; (d) evaluation criteria is specified with
sufficient clarity; and (e) award is made to the lowest evaluated bidder.
Items not exceeding US$15,000 and aggregating a maximum of US$200,000
equivalent could be purchased through local and international shopping on
the basis of Frice quotations obtained from at least three reliable
suppliers to ensure competitive prices. Specialist services and training
financed by IDA would be contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines on
the use of consultants. For civil works and goods estimated at more than



- 30 -
US$100,000 equivalent each, invitations to bid and proposed award of
contracts would be reviewed by IDA prior to final award decisions. It is
estimated that this review would cover about 85Z of the value of these
contracts. For civil works and goods estimated at less than US$100,000
equivalent each, representing about 13Z of the value of these contracts,
all procurement decisions would be subject to IDA's selective post-award
review. Procurement of contracts to be financed by the Swiss Development
Cooperation, totalling US$6.7 million equivalent, would be administered by
IDA. Procurement of contracts to be financed by the other donors on a
parallel basis, totalling US$6.8 million equivalent, would be carried out
in accordance with their own procurement procedures.
Table 3.2: Procurement Method by Category of Expenditure
(US$ million)
krocureme1Lt Method
Category of Expenditure              1Us      LCB    Other         / Ja    Total Cost
^------------- (US$ million) ------
1.  Civil Works                             r.8 /b  2.5 /c                            8.3
(2.6)   (0.6)                             (3.2)
2.  Goods
(a)  Furniture, Materials,             2.2      0.2    0.02                       2.4
Equipment, Vehicles              (1.3)   (0.1)   (0.03)                     (1.4)
(b)  Essential Drugs                   2.3 /c                                     2.3
(0.9)                                     (0.9)
3.  Technical Assistance                                     4.5                      4.5
(3.3)                    (3.3)
4.  Surveys and Studies                                      1.8                      1.8
(0.9)                    (0.9)
5.  Non-governmental Organizations                                   3.0 /d           3.0
(0.7)            (0.7)
6.  Training                                                 0.7                      0.7
;0.3)                    (0.3)
7.  Credit Line                                                      0.6              0.6
(0.6)            (0.6)
8.  Incremental Operating Costs                                      3.3              3.3
(2.1)            (2.1)
TuTAL                               1±U.       z-7      ;..9                    Z.9
(4.8)   (0.7)   (4.5)   (3.4)            (13.4)
/a N.A: not applicable.
lb Includes amounts for items financed by UNCDF and
procured under its own procedures.
/c Includes amounts for items financed by Swiss Development Corporation.
Id Includes amounts for items financed by USAID and
procured under its own procedures.
Notes: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
the Association. Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 31 -
4.22      Disbursements.  The regioual disbursement profile is eight
years; however, because of special implementation arrangements and
trchnical essistance provided under the project with a view to speeding up
execution, most of the IDA-financed activities are scheduled to be
committed during the first three years of the five-year project period; the
IDA credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of six years, on the
basis of the categories shown in the table below. Disbursements against
contracts exceeding US$30,000 equivalent would be fully documented. Swiss
Development Cooperation has asked that IDA administer their contribution.
The disbursements profile, shown in Annex 4-6, reflects the impact of the
above-mentioned special implementation arrangements.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Category of                     Proposed IDA       2 of Expenditure
Expenditure                      Allocation         Financed by IDA
(US$ million)
1.  Civil works                               2.7                 100X
2.  Furniture and equipment                   1.2                 100Z
3.  Essential drugs                           0.9                 100%
4.  TA and studies                            3.4                 100X
S.  Non-governmental organizations            0.7                 1002
6.  Training                                  0.3                 1002
7.  Line of credit                            0.6                 1002
8.  Incremental operating costs               1.7                  80Z
9.  PPF                                       0.8
10.  Unallocated                               1.1
TOTAL:                        13.4
4.23      Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation,
US$700,000 equivalent, denominated in CFA francs, would be advanced from
the IDA credit and deposited in a Special Account opened by the Government
in a local commercial bank. The amount is estimated to cover three months
of expenditures. Replenishment applications would be aggregated into
packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent. Reimbursements against
contracts below US$30,000 would be made against Certified Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), for which documentation would be retained at the PCSU
for semi-annual audits and for random review by IDA staff during
supervision missions. Reimbursement applications would also include a
statement of account movements since the last application, with the balance



- 32 -
certified by the bank holding the account, and a reconciliation showing
that the balance represents the original amount less payments awaiting
reimbursement of small working advances. Given the availability of the
Special Account, the minimum application form for direct payment would
normally be for the equivalent of US$20,000. The Government would submit
replenishment requests to the Special Account on a monthly basis.
4.24      Accounting and auditing.  The PCSU would maintain the Special
Account, which would be subdivided into expenditures incurred for each
project component. The PCSU is setting up an accounting system, which an
independent auditor, to be recruited for the audit reports, will help
operate. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that (a) all
project accounts will be audited annually, with the exception of all
disbursements against SOEs financed under the Special Account, which will
be audited twice yearly, and an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA,
will be recruited for those purposes; (b) the annual audit reports will be
submitted to IDA for review not later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year, beginning in 1992; (c) the audit reports for SOEs will be
submitted to IDA for review by June 30 and December 31 of each year,
beginning in 1990; and (d) the audit reports will certify that the funds
were used for the purposes for which they were provided and confirm that
summary SOEs submitted as justification for disbursement correctly reflect
the detailed records maintained by the PCSU.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      The proposed project would be the first comprehensive attempt in
Chad to target benefits to the population groups most affected by the
disruptions of the past decade or those expected to be vulnerable to the
financial and economic adjustment programs recently initiated. In this
context, the project would make a significant contribution to improving
living conditions, creating new employment opportunities, and assisting the
Government in its efforts towards economic and financial adjustment and the
reconstruction of a sound economy. Following the country's prolonged
period of disruptions, during which the population demonstrated a
remarkable resilience, the enhanced prospect of economic recovery combined
with improved social conditions would have a highly motivational and
morale-building effect, bolstering public support for the adjustment
process and encouraging people and their communities to work together and
fully participate in the national reconstruction effort.
5.02      The project would contribute to the enhancement of job creation,
especially in urban areas where economic activities are sluggish and
rapidly deteriorating living conditions put the population most at risk.
Jobs would be created through (a) the labor-intensive activities financed
under the project (about 15,000 persons would be employed under the various
schemes over the life of the project); and (b) the credit assistance scheme
and the technical and training support for micro-enterprises (150 small
entrepreneurs and 530 micro-entrepreneurs, creating about 1,200 jobs). The



- 33 -
project would also expand accessibility to higher-quality health care and
social services for more than 150,000 persons in N'Djamena by the end of
the project. The provision of equipment, supplies, medications, and better
trained personnel is expected to more than double the utilization of health
centers in N'Djamena and Tandjile (540,000 and 360,000 inhabitants,
respectively), and improved peripheral care should reduce the bypassing of
these centers to overcrowded central or district hospitals. Reduction of
malaria and other diseases associated with poor sanitation is expected to
improve the health of 85,000 people living in the areas where the drainage
system will be restructured.   The project's techniques and innovative
approach for addressing social issues would be further assessed to ensure
sustainability and replicability wlien upscaled in nationwide programs, by
combining the findings of socioeconomic research studieq with lessons drawn
from implementing specific action plans. Moreover, the annual seminars and
workshops to be conducted under the project would allow all parties
concerned (including interested NGOs) to discuss and be informed on the
progress of implementation of the project actions, thereby ensuring their
integration into the country's development policies. The institution
building and personnel training impact of the project should also lead to a
more efficient delivery of social services in N'Djamena and Tandjile. The
project would also help the Government to promote community and private
initiatives and to collaborate more effectively with NGOs.
B. Risks
5.03      The project's main risks are related to the need to effectively
implement its diversified activities while respecting its objectives--
particularly those that address the urgent needs of disadvantaged groups--
and ensuring that these activities are compatible with the Government's
longer-term macroeconomic and sectoral objectives. All project risks are
compounded by the weak institutional situation still prevailing in Chad.
The Government is, however, strongly committed to the project, and the high
degree of mobilization by the Chadian institutions during project
preparation augurs well for the fucure.
5.04      These implementation risks are expected to be mitigated by the
following measures: (a) definition of detailed annual action plans and
careful identification of the particular target beneficiary groups, as
opposed to financing activities to be identified during project
implementation; (b) refinement and expansion of techniques already applied
effectively by NGOs or other organizations familiar with the Chadian social
environment at the "grassroots' level, to increase the chances of reaching
disadvantaged groups; (c) the setting up of a Project Coordination and
Support Unit with financial autonomy and full-time staff to ensure quick
processing and efficient handling of procurement and disbursements and to
assist the executing agencies in their relations with the donors; and (d)
provision of substantial training and technical assistance inputs to enable
existing public services to operate more efficiently. The project's
multisectoral activities require close monitoring and regular consultations
among all parties concerned, including the cofinanciers.



- 34 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the Government gave the following
assurances:
(a)  The Interministerial Committee and the four tet;hnical sub-
committees will be maintained throughout the project period,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.04);
(b)  The Project Coordination and Support Unit's work procedures and
relations with the executing agencies will be as agreed with
IDA; the PCSU will be staffed for the entire project period with
personnel occupying the full-time positions of Project Director
and accountant, and for the first three years will also include
a Deputy Director; and these positions will be filled at all
times with personnel whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.05);
(c)  The organization, functions, staffing and responsibilities of
the Health-Social Unit and the Sanitation Infrastructure Unit
will be satisfactory to IDA (para 4.06);
(d)  The Goverunent will (i) submit to IDA for review annual reports
on project implementation and expenditures, the first report by
September 30, 1991: (ii) undertake with IDA and the other donors
annual reviews of the progress of implementation, starting not
later than November 1, 1991, and every year thereafter; (iii)
agree with IDA, not later than December 31 of each year, on the
next annual budgetary program aggregating the annual action
plans for each component and each executing agency; and (iv)
submit a project completion report within six months of the
credit closing date (para 4.07);
.e)  The interest rate under the credit scheme will be 12? until June
30, 1991, and increased to 132 thereafter, with an added front-
end service fee of 2Z in both cases; the interest rate will be
adjusted not later than December 31, 1991, on the basis of the
findings of a banking sector review study and pursuant to the
financial performance of the credit scheme and the prevailing
commercial interest rates; and the contract with the NGO for
management of the line of credit will be as agreed with IDA
(para 4.09);
(f)  The three integrated health-social centers, three maternity
centers and three dispensaries to be built in N'Djamena will be
staffed as agreed with IDA and located on the sites already
found acceptable; a cost recovery scheme based on a system of
fixed fees per new episode of illness will be introduced for the
services provided by the three maternities constructed under the
project, and in the health centers supplied with essential drugs
under the project, and will at all times be satisfactory to IDA;
and the Health-Social Unit will be staffed at al.l times with



- 35 -
personnel whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.12);
(g) The Government's operating budgets for N'Djamena's PHC and
social services network and for Tandjile's regional health
services will be increased, starting from their 1990 base, by at
least 102 each year in 1991, 1992 and 1993, a rate in line with
the budgetary provisions under the third PFP 1990-92 (paras 4.12
and 4.13);
(h)  The qualifications and experience of the technical personnel of
the Sanitation Infrastructure Unit and the arrangements with the
municipal services will at all times be satisfactory to IDA
(para 4.14);
(i) Before undertaking the socioeconomic studies and household
surveys, the Government will submit for IDA's approval the
annual programs, including terms of reference, schedule, and
arrangements for their dissemination and implementation (para
4.15);
(j) The Government will review with IDA the recommendations of the
policy studies and agree on action plans for their
implementation (para 4.15);
(k) The use of insecticides under the project's sanitation component
will follow the Bank's guidelines on the use of pesticides in
public health projects (para 4.16); and
(1) All project accounts will be audited annually, with the
exception of all disbursements against SOEs financed under the
Special Account, which will be audited twice yearly, and an
independent auditor, acceptable to IDA. will be recruited for
those purposes; the annual audit reports will be submitted to
IDA for review not later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year, beginning in 1992; the audit reports for SOEs will
be submitted to IDA for review not later than six months after
end of fiscal year, beginning in 1992; the audit reports for
SOEs will be submitted to IDA for review by June 30 and December
31 of each year, beginning in 1990; and the audit reports will
certify that the funds were used for the purposes for which they
were provided and confirm that summary SOEs submitted as
justification for disbursement correctly reflect the detailed
records maintained by the PCSU (para 4.24).
6.02      The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Contracts with the two consulting firms involved in the sub-
components to improve N'Djamena's PHC and social services
network (para 4.12), and to strengthen regional health services
in Tandjile (para 4.13), and with the NGO responsible for the



- 36 -
community participation program (para 4.14) are satisfactory to
IDA and have been signed; and
(b) The Coordinator recruited under the sub-component on technical
assistance for micro-enterprises (para 4.10) and the engineer
and the head foreman recruited for the Sanitation Infrastructure
Unit (para 4.14) have taken up their duties.
6.03      Conditions of disbursement on the credit assistance and
management support sub-component are that (a) the USAID grant has become
effective; and (b) the contract with the NGO for management of the line of
credit has been signed (para 4.09).
6.04      Recommendation.  Subject to the above terms and conditions, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.4 million
equivalent to the Republic of Chad on standard IDA terms, with 40 years'
maturity.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
CHAD. SELECTED ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1984-91
1984         1986         1986          1987          1988         1990          1991
EST. PROJECTION   PROJECTION
-------------------------------------------------------__--------------------__-------------------------------------------------
(Annual percentag, change, unless otherwise specified)
Gross dometic product and prices
CDP at current prices                       28.2          31.3        -28.0          20.6         28.0           8.2          8.2
COP at constant prices                       6.1          26.9         -2.6          -S.2         11.9           8.0          3.0
CDP deflator                                36.0           4.2        -26.0         -13.3         14.8           6.0          5.0
CPI                                         20.3           6.1        -13.0          -2.8         12.8           ...
Consumption per capito                       ...          33.7        -29.1         -26.7         16.8           6.7          4.8
Central governasnt finance 1/
Revenue                                    116.0          16.9        -16.8           9.7         27.2          10.8         10.8
Total Expenditure                           71.6          86.6         41.6          16.1         11.4           7.6          7.7
Of shich:  current expenditure           (83.8)         (6.4)        (0.2)        (10.8)       (11.8)         (6.8)        (6.7)
Money and credit
Doms tic credit                             31.6          19.6         21.2          -4.9         -8.3           ...          ...
Covernment                                 0.4        -76.6         166.0         -46.0       -141.2
Private Sector                            41.6         41.4          16.5          -1.1         -1.7           ...          ...
Money and quasI-money                       69.9          6.1           1.1          3.7          -8.6           ...          ...
Interest rate 2/                             9.0          9.0           8.6          8.0           9.1           ...          ...
External sector
Exports$ f.o.b. (in SDRs)                   31.0        -32.6          -2.7          0.7          30.0           7.8          8.2
Of which:  cotton                        (71.4)       (-63.7)      (-17.3)       (-12.1)       (67.0)         (8.0)       (10.0)
Imports, f.o.b. (in SDRo)                   19.8         26.1          10.4         -3.4          -4.4          6.0           6.6
Export volume                               14.6        -19.7          12.8          4.2          19.1          -1.0         -1.6
Import volume                                8.3         21.1          20.4         -3.4          -9.4          1.8           2.4
Terms of trade                               4.4        -16.3          -6.6          -3.4          4.0           4.6         10.7
Real offective exchange rate                 9.3           1.8        -13.8          -6.6          7.6           ...          ...
(In percent of COP 3/, unless otherwise specified)
Central government finance
Revenue                                      6.2          6.9           6.2           7.7          9.6          10.0         10.2
Total expenditure                           12.7          16.4         26.1         82.7          36.1         34.4          34.2
Current deficit (-) 4/                      -1.8         -1.2          -2.6         -3.8          -2.4         -2.2          -1.8
Overall deficit (-) 4/
(coi_itment basis)                        -6.6         -9.6         -18.9        -24.9         -26.6        -24.4         -24.0
Domestic financing                         0.6         -0.3           0.6          0.8          -0.6           ...
External financing                         4.7          8.2          16.9         24.6          26.6         24.1          28.9
Change in arreare (decrese -)              0.2          0.2           0.3          0.2          -0.4         -1.2          -1.4
Additional financing requirments           ...           ...          ...           ...          ...           I.6          1.6
Overall deficit (-) 4/ (cash basis)         -6.8         -9.2         -18.6        -24.7         -26.0         26.7         -26.4
Exports (CNFS)                                24.7          17.9         17.4         21.5          24.6         22.1          22.0
Imports (GNFS)                                33.0         47.1          46.9         60.6          49.8          46.1         46.3
External current account balance
Including official transfers                 1.9         -9.6          -7.2         -3.0          -4.1          -9.6         -9.6
Excluding official transfers               -10.7        -29.0         -30.2        -31.6         -25.8         -28.8        -26.8
External debt outstanding 6/                  27.2          24.6         27.0          34.1         36.9          61.8         69.2
Debt Service                                   1.3           1.2          1.2           1.3          1.6           1.8          1.4
Debt service rntio 8/
Including the Fund                           7.6          8.9           0.8         10.4           8.2          7.4           6.3
Excluding the Fund                           6.0           6.2          7.0           9.2          7.8           6.8          8.0
Cross fixed investment                         3.6           6.4          8.6          10.6         11.1          12.9         12.9
Private                                      0.2          0.4           0.4          0.6           0.6           0.7          0.7
Government                                   3.3           6.0          8.2          10.1         10.6          12.2         12.2
Cross dometic savings                        -13.1         -22.4        -18.6         -12.3         -7.4          -9.8         -9.1
Private                                    -11.7        -21.8         -16.6        -10.1          -6.8          -8.7         -8.4
Government                                  -1.4          -0.6         -2.0         -2.2          -0.6          -1.1         -0.7
(In millions of SDRx, unless otherwise specifiod)



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
SOCIAL INDICATORS OF DEVELOPMENT
Chad
m St Seim  /  com gop    Nw
Most                              Nx
25-30      15-20       recent      Sub-                  hsghvr
Una of         yar         ysars     estIe    Sa  ran         Low-       tncocm
Htaswr           ago         ago       (w)            c       icow        group
HUMOANRESOURCES
Sie, growth, sucwre ofpopadUt
TowR popuawn (mm = 1988)                    millatms           3.33       4.03        5.40        466       2881         629
l4an under                                % of pop.          40.8        41.7       42.8        46.8      25.4         38.3
15.64                                                        55.5        54.7       53.9        50.4       60.2        57.4
Age dependaicy ratio                        unut             0.80        0.83       0.86        0.98       0.66        0-74
Percenagemnurbaeas                        %ofpop.             9.2        15.2       30.2        31.7       34.2        56.1
Females per 100 maes
Urban                                      number              ..          ..         ..
Rural
P,ulahon growdt rte                        amal4                1.7        2.0         2.5        3.1         2.0         2.2
Urban                                                         6.6         7.2        7.8         6.1        3.7         3.5
LUrbuVmnal giowth diffemuuil               differnce            5.4        6.0         7.6        4.1         22          2.5
Projcted popuanon: 2000                     milluus                                   7.39        673       3.625        805
SUDanUay popqson".                                                                   25.95
Datsrmlnant, of popoattlo. growth
Fetiliuy
Crudebtzth mte                         p1thou.pop.           45.3        44.3       44.3        47.2        30.4       31.5
Total fenlity mte                     bInhs per woman        6.03        5.93       5.89        6.56       3.89        4.08
Con*_acquve peevalmae                 % of w     15-49         ..          ..         ..          ..        57.4
Child (04) / woman (1549) mos
Utban                                   per 100 women          ..          ..         ..
Rural
MonAlty
Cnidedeabt  te                          pertho. pop          27.6        23.8       !9.6        15.8        10.0        8.6
antaemoruttyate                       prhaulive busb        183.0       158.8      132.0       113.6       72.6        59.1
Under 5motatyate                                               ..          ..      223.0       173.4       174.8       96.5
Life ectcy a buth: oveal                    rsl              36.4        40.2       45.5        50.6       61.4        63.8
female                                   38.0       41.8        46.7       523         62.3        66.1
Totl lbor fome                              milions            1.28        1.50       1.90        189       1,343        232
Agncukure                             I. dlaborfrce         92.2       367           ..
mndusUy                                                      2.8        4.0
Females p                                                    23.2        22.7       21.3        38.0        360        31.2
Females per 100mae
Uwban                                      nrmer                ..         ..         ..
Rural
PartcuAnion ree: overal                    oflaborcfr          38.4       37.1        35.1       41.6        49.2        39.0
feMale                                          17.5       166         14.8       30.8        34.9       23.5
Edeadnal aalamam  of labor fam
Sdtool yea c mnpsad: overall                  e                  ..         ..          ..MM
male
NATURAL RESOURCES
m  dunsq. km       1284       1.284       1,24      22.242      36,997      17,083
DMnsty                                        k.mn               3           3          4          20         76          36
Agncul bndm .                             'dl=                 37.3       37.4        37.5       32.7        361        383
Ag lmml densaty                           p .persq.km            7           8         11          62        211          94
F  eus and woodland                       9oo . Km             149         139        131       6,634       9,154      5.449
Defoussanon rate (net)                      umua %             .0.7       -0.7        -06         .0.5       43          -0.7
A ccito aet tar                              odpop.              ..       26.0          ..       36.5
Urban                                                           .        43.0         ..        75.5       73.4        76.7
R.M.                                                                     23 4                   24.2         ..        46.3
Populdbnm growtb                             Infant mortaity                        PrMmay scboo enrollment
S                                          23                                          1  U||   
4U
3~~~~~~~~~1
_   t_
o 0



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
SOCIAL INDICATORS OF DEVELOPMENT
Cbad
Mon    Sam rtegia  incme group   N&t
25-30      15-20       recent      Sub,                   higher
Unit of         ysn        years      esuruet   Saharan       Low-        afcoml
measUrw          ago         age        (are)      *ica       icoe         group
INCOME AND POVERTY
IncoeneZ7
GNpapip (mt = 1988)                          USS                80         150         160        320         310       1,270
Totl bousehold mcuane
Sha to top 10% of households             % of income            .
Shae to top 20% of households
Sham to boom 40% of h..seholds
Shae to bmom 20% of households
Povet
Absolme povety income: urban             USS per pen. 
rural                                       ..         ..           .
Pop.mn absolute povey uib                  % .                               ..         ... .
ru.a                                                    ..          .. . ..
Prvalence of malnuuuias (umder5)         % of agreup             ..         ..        35.0.
EXPENDrrURE
Food                                       %ofGDP                ..         ..          ..
St..*CS                                                         .           ..
fish. mlk. cheeae,egga                thou. metrc uu3                      10         71       8.2        27.738      36,712
Cerealunpons                                                        15       3786~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  i   7 122  7 851
F PA)&                                   197941=100           116.6       97.3       100.9       I4.4        fl6A        h.o
Sbaredepicuhrnic.rDP                       % of GDP            41.8       43.1        46.9       35.1        33.0        16.0
Daily Calci uWI                        calres perPena        2.399       1,817       1,717      2,05        2.392       2,767
Daily plo:eJul suy                      V Sper Person           s0          58         55          52          57          70
Hong                                      *of GDP                ..         ..          ..
Avemage household size                p    s                     5
Fixed investment: housing                  % of GDP
Fud and power                              % of GDP
1c       p        rc                   kg of oil oqvulaut     11.9        19.6        17.7      103.7       323.7       8863
=oUtDldstVU   l9
Urban                                 %ofs.                                ..ds        .. GDP
Tanor and cem wnear                        I of OlDP             ..         ..          ..          .           ..
Po    mp er putalsasger ar                 venus             1.010        667           ..         ..          ..         27
Wiedlvestment tranqro"Wte uqma          %of GDP                ..
Total  Alength                               Iml                 .           .     31,300
PvUIatD per telephOI                       PeSs                  -          *-       1.004          *-         *          16
AVUmT IN HUMAN CAPrAL
Medkd care                                % of GDP              ..          ..         ..          ..                   1..
~Pa1.PbY31CAMphyrsina                                     72.478                 38.3458                  1.547
numQjODPCr.PD                     I"7123.,608               8,014       31395                    746
hosps..bad                                                      .           ..         ..        256
'sied (Under 12 monluths): nsat e of   P2 ..                                     1           5.         43.4        624 
DP                ofe's".                                    12.0       45.7        41.3        64.7
01Rebydtr I oMteapy(mider5)              %cifasa               ..es                  2.3        18,4        21.6       28.2
EdAcua                                    % of GDP               ..         ..         ..
Gross    mmtio
Ptimz y: total                      S ofashol-agegsns        34.0       35.0        43.0       7.0         99.3       106.8
female                                                13.0       I8o         24.0       67.6        87.8       1013
Secooda,7 oy                                                  1.0        3.0         6.0        22.0       33.4        52.0
?Uim jmgle                                                    0∞2        32∞O                   12.3       261         51.8
t/iw, 'den ga&ci.6             % of eiay bau              ..       13.7       11.9
P*1 ;:rPatw i LA                                                83         80          71         40          10          28
dUXy                                            29          35         37          35          19          1 8
Pads  gpcbm   re4                         Sofeeot.                           ..                     ..                   81.0
rS a:p 4f""Ill_                                     ..       36.7        328.0
xc:ovatCl m Q'~ofpq(ore151+                                   94.4          ..       74.7        53.4        43.3        262
fatal.e                   Sdfioc  (age 15+)          ..          ..       89.1        64.0        S65         32.5
.,eWqqWd:W,xi                            peri.. P pop.         04          0.4         03         5.2        2Q4         79.3



- 40 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 1 sur 19
TCHAD
PROJET D'ACTIONS POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT SOCIAL
PLAN D'ACTION POUR STIMULER LA CREATION D'EMPLOI
1.        Obiectifs.  Cette composante vise A la mise en place de mesures
qui doivent contribuer, dans le cadre de la preparation d'une strategie
globale de creation d'emploi, a la realisation des objectifs specifiques
immediats suivants:
(a)  Promouvoir l'acces des petits entrepreneurs a un systeme de
credit-assistance & des taux d'interet et frais bancaires du
marche (sans subventions), a l'information-formation
(technologie et savoir-faire), et aux marches-debouches
(equipement, approvisionnement et demandes interieure et
exterieure);
(b) Realiser une meilleure articulation entre la promotion des
micro-entreprises (MiE) et le processus de developpement global
de l'economie (creation d'emploi, diversification des activites,
valorisation des ressources locales);                I
(c) Ameliorer la reinsertion et l'insertion dans le march4 de
l'emploi et l'adequation entre offre et demande par
qualification.
2.   Pour faciliter la realisation de ces objectifs, le Plan d'action de
cette composante slarticule autour de trois programmes qui s'executeront
sur une periode d'environ trois ans, et des etudes et recherches etalees
sur cinq ans pour aider a la preparation de mesures promotionnelles pour
faciliter la creation d'emploi; ces actions seront analysees & l'annexe 3-
4 dans le cadre des etudes visant a renforcer la formulation des politiques
sociales. Ces trois programmes devraient en particulier permettre, a la
fin du projet, d'aborder sur des bases plus solides, la conception et mise
en place d'une politique coherente de promotion de la micro-entreprise et
le renforcement de l'Office de la main d'oeuvre, consideres comme deux
elements-clef d'une strategie de creation d'emploi coherente et efficace.
Ces trois programmes concernent:
(I) La promotion du credit-assistance aux MiE (qui
poursuivrait et diversifierait le Projet Entreprises
Privees -PEP-).
(II) La mise en place d'un systeme-reseau d'appui technique couvrant
progressivement l'ensemble du Tchad.
(III) Une action specifique de conseils pour aider les employes du



- 41 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 2 sur 19
secteur public licencies (pour cause de programme d'ajustement)
a se reinserer dans la vie active.
3.        Cette composante du projet a ete evaluOe & 1.4 millierds de
FCFA, incluant les provisions pour risques et inflation, equivalant & 4.7
millions de dollars E.U. L'Annexe 3-6 donne tous les details sur la
structure des coats: (a) pour le premier programme, le coat total s'4lbve a
880 millions de FCFA, dont 410 pour l'assistance technique, 130 de coat
local (y compris le personnel), et 160 millions pour la provision reserv4e
aux prOts; (b) pour le deuxieme programme, le coat total de 410 millions de
FCFA se decompose en 110 millions pour le transfert de technologie et ;90
millions pour l'assistance technique; et (c) pour le troisieme programme,
le coat total de 120 millions comprend 50 millions d'assistance et 50
millions de coet local. Le reste de la contribution locale se limite a
fourtiir des fonds sans interets pour mettre en place une ligne de cr6dit
renouvelable pour les microentreprises, mais qui prend en charge les
risques de default ou de non-remboursement.
LA PROMOTION DU CREDIT-ASSISTANCE AUX HICRO-ENTREPRISES.
4.        Les objectifs specifiques Pt le contenu de ce programme de
promotion du credit-assistance aux MiE sont decrits dans le document
technique intitule La promotion de la micro-entreprise, prepare pour ce
Rapport d'evaluation. Neanmuins, ce rapport decrit un programme beaucoup
plus large que celui retenu dans le projet et qui tient compte des
financements disponibles. Les objectifs sp6cifiques qui ont ete retenus
comme prioritaires pour le projet sont donc les suivants:
(a) developper l'accbs au credit-assistance des petits e.atrepreneurs
(MiE) en mettant en application une methodologie d'approche
adaptee a leurs problemes et leurs capacites afin de faire face
progressivement & l'acces au credit bancaire normal; et
diversifier l'origine des emprunteurs geographiquement et
sectoriellement.
(b)  ameliorer les performances de l'equipe en charge du programme
PEP; et developper ainsi une capacite locale de gestion d'un
programme de promotion du cr6dit-assistance aux MiE qui soit
viable au bout de trois ans d'actions du projet.
(c)  coordonner l'assistance prevue, notamment A la gestion, avec
celle plus technique qui sera fournie par le systeme technique
d'appui (par. 10); et intensifier les contacts (et actions
concertees) avec les autres actions concernees par la promotion
des MiE, notamment celles des ONG.
(d)  developper l'intervention des banques commerciales et de
developpement vers la promotion des MiE; et aider
l'Administration a mieux percevoir les problemes des MiE et
preparer une strategie de promotion plus ciblee.



- 42 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 3 sur 19
4.        Pour ce faire, le projet PEP, actuellement confie a une ONG -
VITA localisee aux USA -, sera ajuste afin d'etre en mesure de realiser les
taches prioritaires suivantes, la mise en place du programme etant resumee
dans le chronogramme ci-joint:
(a)  Mise en place d'une methodologie d'approche adaptee aux profils
d'un micro-entrepreneur. Cette methodologie est decrite dans un
document technique prepare par l'ONG responsable du programme.
Elle tire les le;ons de quatre annees d'exp4rience a developper
I'accas au crddit pour les entreprises petites et moyennes (PME)
lans le cadre du projet PEP et les etudes faites sur ce secteur,
notamment par l'ONG britannique OXFAM en ce qui concerne les
specificites du secteur informel. L'ONG responsable du
programme financd par le projet aura & former I cette methode
l'equipe locale chargee du programme et notamment les charges de
prets affectes ou recrutes a N'Djamena et & Moundou (ob une
antenne devrait Otre ouverte sur financement PNUD) pour se
concentrer au credit-assistance aux MiE. Cette methode mettra
l'accent sur l'approche des problames en groupe sachant que le
pret a un micro-entrepreneur exigera la constitution d*un groupe
d'environ cinq co-responsables (garantie collective pour obtenir
le credit, possibilites d'achats et de travaux en commun), la
sensibilisation par les medias, les visites sur le lieu .e
travail, et la coordination avec le systeme d'appui technique
(par. 10).
(b)  Diversification par type. secteur, et localisation.  Le
programme developpera des operations visant a assister une large
variete d'entreprises afin de les aider dans leurs besoins
immediats, de renforcer le tissu d'unit4s productives a tous les
niveaux de technologie (passant de la MiE & la PME), et donc de
diversifier les types d'emplois et de produits qui pourraient
Otre promus. Le programme continuera donc les operations d'un
montant relativement eleve (plus de 25.000 dollars EU) et
eligible au credit bancaire standard, qui seront co-financees
avec une banque commerciale locale (comme le prevoit l'accord
deja signe par VITA avec la BTCD). L'antenne prevue a Moundou
permettra d'atteindre les MiE nombreuses dans les regions du Sud
et renforcer ainsi l'effet du programme et contrebalancer celui
de la restructuration de la filiere coton. De toute fagon, on
pourrait utiliser des ONG deja installees pour selectionner des
candidats potentiels et les aider a preparer leurs dossiers; un
membre de l'equipe centrale pourrait se rendre regulierement
dans d'autres villes eventuellement, pour recueillir ces
dossiers.
5.   Le Gouvernement s'est engage a donner tout son appui au developpe-
ment de ce programme. Celui qui est en cours -PEP- a rencontre des
problemes resultant de la confusion qui slest repandue parmi les



- 43 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 4 sur 19
beneficiaires potentiels entre le role d'une ONG pergue comme devant
apporter une assistance benevole et celui du credit bancaire qui exige des
paiements de fra_.s et d'int6rfts.  Afin de donner toutes ses chances au
prograanme finance par le projet, des campagnes d'information et de
sensibilisation a tous niveaux, sous la tutelle de la Direction de
l'industrie et les Chambres de commerce, d'industrie et d'artisanat, seront
entreprises das le debut du projet; elles seront basees sur les themes
suivants. Pour que le credit A toutes les entreprises -grandes, moyennes,
petites et micros- puisse a l'avenir se developper au Tchad dans des
conditions rapides mais satisfaisantes, c'est-a-dire avec un credit sans
subventions par rapport aux cotts de mobilisation de l'4pargne, tous les
entrepreneurs, quels que soient leur statut, doivent accepter de payer des
interets et frais bancaires normaux sur tous les credits qu'ils
contractent. I1 est donc essentiel de distinguer, dans ce programme,
l'aspect credit pur soumis & la legislation normale bancaire et aux frais
normaux de gestion et de suivi des dossiers d'avec l'aspect assistance
octroyee aux petits et micro entrepreneurs pour ameliorer les performances
de leurs entreprises. Le programme offre donc deux types d'appui: le
premier vise a ce que les tout petits projets financierement rentables
aient acces a du credit & un taux qui se rapprochr progressivement du taux
bancaire normal et non au credit informel a des taux d'int4rOt usuraire, et
le second vise a fournir une assistance massive mais gratuite a la gestion
pour amener ces projets & des conditions normales de fonctionnement et de
rentabilite financibre. Compte tenu des caracteristiques des
microentreprises informelles; il est en outre necessaire d'experimenter
avec des methodes d'approche basees sur celles habituellement utilisees par
les ONG; de plus, VITA est la seule institution capable de demarrer une
telle experimention au Tchad immediatement.  C'est donc pour des raisons
contingentes et donc temporaires dues A la situation propre du Tchad que le
programme est enti6rement mais temporairement gere par une ONG Otrang6re.
6.        Le Plan d'action pour cette composante (voir tableau 3.4 ci-
joint) implique la mise en place de deux elements importants:
(a)  Restructuration de l'atuipe chargee du PEP.  Le personnel
expat-:e de VITA qui assurent la gestion du projet PEP, co-
finance par l'USAID et le Gouvernement, sera charge de mettre en
place cette restructuration. Il est prevu qu'il devra quitter
ses fonctions a plein temps sur place apr4s environ deux ans
pour poursuivre eventuellement une assistance par visites
ponctuelles. L'equipe actuelle de N'Djamena de 28 membres sera
restructuree; le personnel present qui a d4j& ete teste par le
projet PEP sera soit realloue aux nouvelles positions definies
dans le projet, soit remercie si leurs qualifications ne sont
plus conformes au nouvel organigramme.  I1 sera cre4 une equipe
d'environ 21 membres (dont 2 cadres et 9 charges ou
gestionnaires de prOts) residant a N'Djamena. Les autres
pourront Oventuellement faire partie de l'equipe A installer A
Moundou sur financement PNUD. Les frais de fonctionnement
continueront d'etre finances sur un don de l'USAID.



- 44 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 5 sur 19
(b)  Modification des conditions d'octroi des prets.   I1 sera etabli
une ligne de credit sur financement IDA pour l'octroi de prOts
aux microentreprises dans le cadre du projet; elle completera
les transactions sur les prets en cours resultant du projet PEP.
Cette ligne recevra toutes les transactions financieres
concernant les prAts - principe de la ligne de credit
renouvelable. Les termes des prOts octroyes par le projet
seront bases sur un taux d'int4ret unique de 122 jusqu'au 30
juin 1991 et de 13% aprea, et des annuites de remboursement
fonction du type de projet. Neanmoins, les conditions d'octroi
du credit devraient etre reexaminees au plus tard le 31 decembre
1991 lorsque seront disponibles les conclusions de 1'6tude sur
le secteur bancaire, prevue dans le cadre des accords avec le
FMI et la Banque mondiale et les premi'res performances de cette
ligne de cr6dit. Des cotts de gestion et de suivi des dossiers
seront percus et varieront suivant la taille du pret. Ces
conditions sont decrites dans le document technique et resumees
dans le tableau 3.1 ci-dessous. Les conditions de garantie
seront ajustees pour pouvoir etre adaptees au contexte d'un
micro-entrepreneur (promotion de la garantie collective).
Tableau 3.1: Bareme d'etablissement des prestations de services
(en FCFA)
Categories        Frais de montage       Frais de suivi
de prAts             de dossiers           Assistance                Total
Moins de
300.000                 750                   750                   1.500
Entre 300,000
et 999.999         1.5Z du principal    1.52 du principal    3.02 du principal
De 1.000.000
a 7.500.000        2.0  du principal    2.02 du principal    4.0Z du principal
Cofinance avec
BTCD               2.0  du principal    4.0% du principal    6.0Z du principal
7.        L'execution de cette composante est donc confiee a VITA ayant
des activites en cours dans ce domaine et qui signera pour administrer la
ligne de credit aux microentreprises un contrat avec le gouvernement,
acceptable pour l'Association; le plan d'action avec les criteres de
performances correspondants et la modalite de la tutelle technique y seront
joints. Cet accord specifiera les conditions d'octroi et de gestion des
prets et les criteres de selection des beneficiaires au programme de
promotion du credit-assistance. Les demandes de prgts seront evaluees par
l'agence d'ex6cution, et les prgts accordes par un comite du credit interne
a celle-ci. L'ONG est donc responsable de la gestion de la ligne de
credit, sous le contrOle de la Cellule de Coordination et de Soutien du



- 45-                      ANNEXE 3-1
Page 6 sur 19
projet qui reapprovisionnera le compte dans lequel est deposee la ligne de
credit renouvelable sur presentation des justificatifs. Tous les trois
mois, elle transmettra & un comitd de surveillance ad-hoc un rapport
resumant les interventions realisees; les resultats seront mesures par
rapport aux criteres de performance d6cidds chaque annee lors de l'adoption
du programme annuel d'action. Parmi ces criteres, les plus importants
seront bien s(r le nombre de micro-entreprises qui ont beneficie de credits
et le taux de remboursement. I1 a 6te evalue que sur trois ans, le PADS
pourrait accorder 530 prets dans la premiere categorie (tableau 3-1), dont
370 a N'Djamena, 137 pour la deuxieme categorie , dont 112 A N'Djamena, et
12 en cofinancement avec la BTCD. Tous les semestres, le Comite
Interministeriel responsable de la supervision et du suivi des actions des
programmes d'actions sociales (denommes PADS) recevra, par l'intermediaire
du Sous-Comite charge de la promotion de l'emploi un compte-rendu sur les
prets accordes et les autres performances de l'agence. En fin d'annee,
avec les situations des decaissements de ce programme fournies par la
Cellule de Coordination du projet, le Sous-Comite Emploi et le Comite
Interministeriel recevront une evaluation de l'execution de cette
composante et des performances atteintes. Les engagements sur la ligne de
credit seront soumis a des audits semestriels (voir Annexe 4-1 pour details
sur la gestion du projet).
8.        La description des postes est similaire a celle qui a ete
definie dans le contrat  recedent - Projet PEP - qui ete confie & VITA par
l'USAID. La modification principale proviendra de la creation de postes de
charg4s de prets recrutes localement pour la promotion des micro-
entreprises. Les autres modifications concernent (a) les relations avec le
programme d'appui technique (para. 10); (b) les relations avec les autres
ONG ou associations qui sont impliquees dans la promotion des petits
entrepreneurs; et (c) les relations avec le comitd de surveillance ad-hoc
et le Sous-Comite Emploi (par. 23) pour suivre les activites de promotion
du credit. La formation sur place ou par des seminaires locaux ou a
l'etranger a une importance cruciale pour la poursuite de cette operation.
9.        Plus generalement, le suivi de l'execution de ce programme est
essentiel pour en tirer les legons permettant pour rectifier la methodolo-
gie utilisee et preparer la poursuite du credit-assistance aux MiE apres le
projet. Un premier examen de la structure des coats de cette forme de
credit sera effectue avant le 31 decembre 1991, afin d'ajuster ces cotts
sur des bases objectives. Plus generalement et pour preparer la definition
d'une strategie coherente de la micro-entreprise, le suivi de ce programme
est confiC a un Sous-Comite pour la promotion de l'emploi preside par le
Directeur general de l'industrie. Ce suivi est en outre important car
l'equipe du projet PEP maintenant en charge du projet va etre restructur4e
pour ameliorer sensiblement ses performance3. Des criteres precis d'octroi
de prets (voir tableau 3.2, p.7) et de performances ont donc ete retenus;
ces derniers sont decrits dans le document annexe intitule "La promotion de
la micro-entreprise". Vers la fin du projet, et base sur le diagnostic
d'un expert exterieur et en coherence avec le contenu d'une eventuelle
strategie de promotion de la micro-entreprise (par. 22), definissant le



- 46 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 7 sur 19
r6le du nouveau oi;ganisme public ou prive charge du credit-assistance a la
MiE, il faudra donc decider de comment continuer les actions de l'equipe
locale en place dans le cadre de ces nouvelles institutions et methodes de
promotion. On notera que quelle que soit la solution retenue, le problme
du financement du programme credit-assistance se posera; d'oii l'importance
attachee dans ce projet au respect du crit6re de performance relatif aux
coats du credit; c'est-&-dire que les frais bancaires normaux de Restion
des seuls prets (a l'exclusion de l'assistance directe A l'entrepreneur)
6valuds & 30Z environ des cotts locaux du proiet doivent Otre couverts par
les frais d'initiation et suivi du dossier et paiements d'interets percus
sur l'ensemble des operations de prOts. en admettant un taux de d6faut de
95% apres trois ans sur l'ensemble des prets (tableau 3.3, ci-dessous).
MISE EN PLACE D'UN SYSTEME D'APPUI TECHNIQUE
10.       Les objectifs specifiques et le contenu detaille du programme
sont decrits dans le document technique prepard par la mission d'evaluation
et intitule "Centres d'appui technique (CAT)". Ce document decrit un
programme beaucoup plus vaste que celui retenu dans le projet (assistance a
de multiples secteurs et creation de quatre centres techniques d'appui avec
leurs propres infrastructures). Les objectifs specifiques qui ont donc ete
retenus comme prioritaires pour le proiet sont les suivants:
Tableau 3.3: Revenus et Coats Bancaires
(en US$)
Coats des
services bancaires          lbre annee    2eme annee    3eme annee         Total
Personnel                    106.000         126.000        130.000       362.000
Loyer                          26.000         26.000         26.000        78.000
Operation et maintien         44.532          44.532         44.532       133.596
Assurances et charges          39.000          39.000        39.000       177.000
Communications                  2.300           2.300         2.300         6.900
Sous-Total            217.832         237.832        241.832      697.496
30% des services bancaires   65.350           71.350         72.550       209.249
Total des revenus             34.131          49.591         74.625       158.347
Revenus/services bancaires       0,52          0,70           1,03
(a)  apporter une solution a court terme aux problemes de promotion de MiE
qui devienne techniquement et financierement valable par la mise en
place de services adaptes; au debut du projet, on se concentrera sur
les MiE du secteur metallique et mecanique.
(b) aider les MiE a Atre eligible a un credit-assistance du projet PEP ou
tout autre forme de credit disponible.



- 47 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 8 sur 19
(c) mettre en place un systeme capitalisant l'information technologique
pour les MiE et d6velopper une cooperation (Sud-Sud et Nord-Sud) pour
le transfert de technologie appropriee aux MiE du Tchad, et du secteur
metallique et mecanique en particulier.
(d)  creer les conditions de sustainabilite d'un programme national de
promotion technique et commerciale adaptee aux MiE et renfor,ant les
actions de credit-assistance a la gestion financiere promues en
parallble.
11.       Pour ce faire, un systeme d'appui technique sera "evelopp4, et les
taches a programmer dans le plan d'action de ce projet sont les suivantes:
(a) appui-demonstration. I1 s'agira de trouver avec l'entrepreneur les
solutions techniques qui lui permettent de developper une unite
capable de vendre des produits satisfaisant la demande locale et
Oventuellement 4trangbre tout en demeurant viable financibrement
(justifiant sa requete pour un credit-assistance, par.6); et de se
structurer (groupements, associations, cooperatives) afin de
promouvoir les equipements a technologie appropriee et la conqugte de
nouveaux marches.
(b) formation-animation. I1 faudra identifier les besoins de formation en
commencant par le secteur metallique-mecanique ee preparer des modules
de formation groupant plusieurs entrepreneurs; ces modules seront
finalisds en cooperation avec les autres programmes de formation
prives ou publics et utiliseront les ateliers deja existants pour
leurs demonstrations.



ANNEXE 3-1
- 48 -                     Page 9 sur 19
Tableau 3.2: Conditions d'octroi des prets
Criteres            Premier casier       Deuxieme casier        Troisibme casier
Taille des prgts         $100 - 1.000        $1.000 - 24.399      $25.000 - 50.000
Garantie                  non a/                   oui                     oui b/
(achat d'Equip.)
Utilisation           matiares premieres  immobilisation           immobilisation
et fonds de          et fonds de             et fonds de
roulement            roulement               roulement
Amortissement          4 mois a 1 an         1 an & 3 ans                5 ans
Taux d'interet
- jusqu'au 30 juin 1991    12?                   12?                     122
- apres le 30 juin 1991    132                   132                     132
Periode de grace         0-1 mois              2-4 mois               6-9 mois
Frais d'assistance c/      oui                   oui                     oui
Cofinancement           non                   non                    oui
Secteurs             commerce et           services,              agro-industriel
artisanat            fabrication et
agro-industriel
Groupe-cible         entreprises           entreprises            entreprises
nouvelles            nouvelles              existantes
et existantes        et existantes
Rentablite           302                   40?                    502
financiere
Comptabilite         cours volontaire    cours obligatoire        systeme formel de
pour les             pour emprunteurs.       comptabilite
emprunteurs.         utilisation de la
comptabilite
elementaire
Statut des           les emprunteurs       lea emprunteurs        les emprunteurs
emprunteurs          doivent Otre des    doivent Otre des         doivent Otre des
entrepreneurs A      entrepreneurs a         entrepreneurs a
plein temps et       plein temps et          plein temps et
ne peuvent pas       ne peuvent pas          ne peuvent pas
etre des employes   etre des employes        Otre des employes
de la fonction       de la fonc- !on         de la fonction
publique             publique                publique
Fonds propres        non                   102                    202
al Des formes de garantde collective seront experimentes.
b/ Une garantie ferme doit ßtre fournie sous forme soit d'actifs existants,
soit de nouveaux actifs qui seront acquis avec le montant du prot.
c/ Voir tableau 3.1



- 49 -                     ANNEXE 3-1
Page 10 sur 19
(c)  approvisionnement.  La priorite sera donnee & aider les
entrepreneurs A identifier les sources pour l'equipement et les
matieres premibres qui leur sont recommandes; et utiliser les
achats groupes et de gestion collective des stocks.
(d)  recherche-developpement.  On se concentrera a identifier les
sources potentielles de transferts de technologie, commengant
par le secteur metallique-mecanique; et ameliorer, en liaison
avec certaines MiE, les techniques, machines et produits
utilises localement.
(e)  information-documentation.  II s'agira de syst0matiser la
collecte des renseignements, brochures de materiel, et fiches
techniques en vue de creer une banque de donnees.
12.       Le systbme d'appui technique sera teste et developpe
progressivement selon le chronogramme ci-joint (tableau 3.5), et sera gere
de fa,on autonome. Pour renforcer la cohesion avec les programmes de
credit decrits ci-dessus, ce programme d'appui technique devrait etre suivi
par le Sous-Comite technique institue pour cette composante (par. 9); la
tutelle financibre sera assuree par la Cellule de coordination et de
soutien du projet. La gestion du syst&me sera preparee par un
Coordonnateur ayant une experience internationale dans la promotion et
diffusion de techniques et assistance approprides a la MiE. Au bout d'une
dur4e de 18 mois, il sera remplace par son homologue tchadien qui aura ete
forme pendant cette periode tandis qu'une assistance technique ad-hoc sera
procuree & la demande. Ce Coordonnateur preparera dans un premier temps
(sejour finance sur fonds d'avance PPF) un programme de fonctionnement
detaille du systbme qui elaborera le contenu des taches presentees ci-
dessus et la programmation de leur mise en place en specifiant les taches
de la premibre annee conformement aux principes d'administration du projet
(voir Annexe 4-1). Ses propositions seront soumises pour adoption au Sous-
Comite et a 1'IDA avant de demarrer l'operation.
13.       Le Plan d'action est basd sur l'installation d'une Cellule de
promotion rattachee. pour la duree du projet, au Ministbre du travail et de
l'emploi, sous la tutelle de la Division de la formation professionnelle.
Cette Cellule, geree d'abord par le Coordonnateur selectionne pour mettre
en oeuvre le syst&me d'appui technique puis par son homologue, comprendra
du personnel recrute localement (3 techniciens et 2 auxiliaires sur contrat
annuel renouvelable). Le plan d'embauche de ce personnel devrait se
repartir ainsi: (a) un technicien-formateur en metallique-mecanique, et
deux auxiliaires la premibre annie; et (b) deux techniciens, avec un des
profils axe sur la gestion-organisation-marketing. Un premier volontaire-
cooperant avec un profil Arts et Metiers sera charge d'assister le
personnel de la Cellule et de preparer les autres volontaires (deux autres
sont prevus dans le cadre du projet pour une periode de deux ans) qui, avec
leurs homologues-techniciens, iront former des formateurs auprbs
d'institutions publiques, privdes et type ONG, interessees en particulier
parce qu'elles disposent d'ateliers dans lesquels les demonstrations de



- 50 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 11 sur 19
nouvelles techniques pourront atre faites. La Cellule gerera un fonds
d'equipement permettant de financer sur le plan national et regional des
operations de transfert de technologie et de formation; ces operations
etant sous-traitees aux institutions interessees.
14.       Le fonctionnement du systame d'appui sera detaille par le
Coordonnateur selectionne au cours des deux premiers mois de son sejour.
Cette mission precisera en particulier les descriptions de poste de chacun
des membres de l'equipe en charge de cette composante qui figurent au
document prepare par la mission d'evaluation, et intitule - Centres d'appui
technique. Apras leur familiarisation avec le milieu, l'equipe finalisera
son premier programme d'appui-demonstration. Leurs premibres taches seront
de faire connaltre les objectifs de la Cellule de promotion, coordonner
avec les autres operations de promotion des MiE, identifier le (ou les)
groupes d'entrepreneurs du secteur mdtallique et mecanique interesses,
commander les equipements completant ceux existant sur place et preparer
les premiers modules de formation. On attachera une grande importance & la
formation du personnel de cette Cellule, soit sous forme de recyclage en
cours de formations avec appui des volontaires du progres francais, soit
avec des seminaires locaux (en y associant les responsables des ateliers oti
auront lieu les demonstrations) et a l'6tranger en cooperation avec le BIT.
15.       Il est difficile de definir avec precision les critbres de
performance A retenir pour le systbme d'appui technique. Ces critbres de
performance seront finalises dans chaque programme annuel qui devra etre
approuve par l'Association. Le premier de ces programmes annuels devra
etre prepare par le Coordonnateur en meme temps qu'il definira le
fonctionnement du systime d'appui comme cela a ete mentionne ci-dessus. De
plus, comme les autres agences d'execution, la Cellule de promotion
fournira, chaque semestre, des rapports d'execution physique du programme
au Comite Interministeriel (A travers le Sous-Comite Emploi, voir Annexe 4-
1), tandis que les rapports comptables seront prepares pour la meme p6riode
par la Cellule de coordination et de soutien du projet.
16.       Vers la fin de la troisibme annee, le rapport annuel sera elargi
pour couvrir l'ensemble de la periode du projet afin de faire un bilan et
une evaluation des resultats et preparer des recommandations pour la
poursuite du programme d'appui technique aux MiE. On devra sans doute
envisager une restructuration du systbme deploye par le projet en tenant
compte des performances du programme, du depart de ltassistance exterieure
(objectif de sustainabilite), et des perspectives de l'integrer aux
institutions prevues par la politique de promotion des MiE qui serait
definie apres trois ans (comme ddj& evoque au par. 9). Cette
restructuration devrait promouvoir une gestion autonome financibre et
technique du systame d'appui sous une tutelle mixte (administration-
secteur prive-ONG). Son financement devrait alors Otre mobilise entre des
sources locales et etrangares, publiques et privees. Un systeme de
recouvrement des cotCts pourrait demander a l'entrepreneur qui sollicite un
prgt, en particulier au programmme du type credit-assistance finance par le
projet, de payer une somme forfaitaire chaque fois qu'il sollicitera l'aide



- 51 -                    ANNEXE 3-1
Page 12 sur 19
specifique de l'equipe d'appui.  Plus tard, il serait utile d'envisager des
systames plus complets de recouvrement des coats, incluant le paiement des
seances de formation, un systame d'achat-revente dtequipements appropries
apres leur diffusion auprNs des entrepreneurs, et le paiement pour
utilisation d'equipements relativement lourds et donc qu'une MiE ne peut
pas se procurer.
PROGRAMME D'ASSISTANCE AUX LICENCIES DU SECTEUR PUBLIC POUR LEUR
REINSERTION
17.       Le programme sera ouvert en priorite aux personnes licencies
depuis 1986 dans le cadre du programme de restructuration de la filibre
coton (environ 1,700 agents de la COTONTCHAD et de l'ONDR), aux personnes
qui pourraient etre licenci4es dans le cadre des programmes de
restructuration en cours ou en preparation, et finalement a toute personne
cherchant 'n emploi.  Un service capable de fournir une assistance a ceux
qui le souhaitent pour leur reinsertion dans la vie active sera donc
developpe dans le cadre du projet au sein de l'Office national de la main
d'oeuvre (ONAMO). Le programme oriente vers le renforcement institutionnel
permettra donc de creer une capacit4 d'accueil et d'orientation
operationnelle et permanente pour l'insertion et la reinsertion des
chercheurs dtemploi. Les objectifs specifiques suivants ont ete retenus
poui le programme d'assistance aux licencies:
(a) accueillir en priorite les employes du secteur public ayant
perdu ou qui perdront leur emploi a cause des programmes
d'ajustement decidts ou induits par le gouvernement et qui sont
a la recherche d'un emploi.
(b) orienter les chercheurs d'emploi selon leurs capacites vers des
projets bancables de creation d'emploi ou vers des postes de
travail disponibles.
(c)  ddvelopper une capacite locale pour identifier les besoins
immddiats du marche du travail et a ameliorer l1'adquation a
court terme entre offre et demande d'emploi par qualification.
On notera que l'assistance aux licencies du secteur public se limitera a
une action specifique de conseil, car ces licencies auront a leur
disposition les indemnites obtenues dans le cadre des obligations legales
des entreprises publiques.
18.       Pour ce faire, un systame d'accueil et d'orientation mis en
place au sein de 1'ONAMO renforcera les bureaux a N'Djamena et Moundou, ce
dernier rayonnant sur Sarh et couvrant ainsi les zones a vocation
cotonniere les plus touchges par les licenciements. Les taches
prioritaires a realiser sont (voir chronogramme ci-joint, tableau 3.6):
- maintenir a jour la liste des licencids.



- 52 -                        ANNEXE 3-1
Page 13 sur 19
- etablir un systeme d'interviews et de tests.
- suivre l'volution du marche de l'emploi.
- repertorier les projets existants de formation et de creation
d'emploi.
- se coordonner avec les programmes de credit-assistance et
d'appui technique (par. 3 et 10).
- etablir et actualiser les grilles d'orientation par
qualification.
-  mettre en place un systeme de suivi-evaluation.
19.       L'ONAMO recevra une assistance ponctuelle etalee sur trois ans,
de specialistes ayant une experience des bureaux de main d'oeuvre et de la
reinsertion des ch6meurs; le BIT a ete contacte pour aider a la selection
du premier specialiste qui devra aider le Directeur de 1'ONAMO a finaliser
son programme de travail. Le projet renforcera, en outre, le bureau de
lMoundou avec un economiste et deux auxiliaires, tous nationaux et les deux
bureaux avec de l'equipment. Les aspects methodologiques (voir
chronogramme ci-joint) seront prepares au debut par un expert en placement
de chercheurs d'emploi. Le programme de travail sur la duree de trois du
projet sera approuve par le Sous-Comite technique sur l'emploi et
l'Association. Un autre specialiste aidera a mettre en place une enquete
permanente sur les disponibilites d'emploi (evolution du marche). Le
personnel affecte dans chaque bureau se concentrera sur la methodologie
d'interview, de fichage et d'orientation. Comme les autres agences
d'execution, il transmettra les resultats de ces activites soit comptables
a la Cellule de coordination et de soutien du projet, soit techniques au
Sous-Comite sur l'emploi; ces resultats reprendront les criteres de
performance etablis lors de l'adoption du programme d'action annuel. Enfin
chaque annee, une evaluation du programme sera effectuee, avec l'assistance
eventuelle du BIT.
20.       Le Directeur de l'ONAMO est responsable de la gestion technique
de ce programme sous la tutelle financi6re de la Cellule de coordination du
projet. Comme les autres agences d'execution, l'ONAMO soumettra chaque
semestre des rapports techniques au Conseil Interministbriel a travers son
organisme de tutelle et le Sous-Comite charge de la promotion de l'emploi.
Les principaux critbres de performance seront evidemment le nombre de
licencies interviewes, le nombre ayant suivi une orientation-formation, et
le nombre ayant ete reinsere dans la vie active. Vers le milieu de la
periode de trois ans, un premier seminaire fera le point sur l'experience a
tirer de ce programme. Un autre seminaire et le dernier rapport semestriel
devra aprbs les trois ans du projet proposer un fonctionnement plus
efficace de l'ONAMO pour int4grer les techniques d'accueil et d'orientation
developpees par le projet (et bien sQr les equipes formees a ces
techniques).
ETUDES ET RECHERCHES SUR LA CREATION D'EMPLOI ET LE SECTEUR INFORMEL.
21.       Ce programme se concentre surtout sur la promotion des MiE
consideree comme l'un des outils les plus efficaces a court terme pour



- 53 -
ANNEXE 3-1
Page 14 sur 19
stimuler cette creation d'emploi; il aborde en outre le renforcement des
moyens d'appui aux chercheurs d'emploi. Une etude a ete inscrite dans la
composante - Assistance pour renforcer la politique sociale- (voir Annexe
3-4). Elle concerne les micro-activites du secteur privd dans les zones
urbaines et est decrite dans le document de Projet national sur la
Dimension sociale de l'ajustement annexe a ce Rapport. Cette etude
pourrait demarrer dee la r-.emiere annee, et durer environ un an.   Elle
sera preparee en liaison a;*.c les autres etudes qui s'interessent aussi au
secteur informel (projet finance par le FAC) ou sur des sujets voisins
(comme la formation professionnelle discutee a un seminaire en novembre
1989). Elle sera executee, comme les autres etudes financ6es par le
projet, sous la responsabilite operationnelle du Centre de recherches
appliqu6es (CRA). Le Sous-Comit6 DSA et l'Association approuveront la
liste des enquetes et etudes a entreprendre (par. 23); leurs termes de
reference etant finalises par la Directeur general du plan.
22.       Les resultats prevus pour la fin de la deuxieme annee seront
integres aux legons a tirer du projet dans le cadre du dernier Rapport
annuel. Comme d@jk mentionn6, ces resultats seront utilises pour analyser
et reviser la structure des coats du credit aux micro-entrepreneurs.
L'etude sur les micro-activites sera divis6e en deux parties. La premi6re
comprendra des monographies sur un certain nombre d'activites clefs pour la
micro-entreprise; on commencera bien sQr par les activites du secteur
metallique et mecanique (secteur prioritaire pour les systemes d'appui
technique, par. 10); une source d'information proviendra des enquetes
ldg6res sur les menages (voir Annexe 3-4) dont les questionnaires seront
ajustes en consequence. La deuxieme partie constituera une synthese a
partir de ces monographies et autres documents disponibles sur le secteur
informel, pour identifier les caracteristiques des MiE au Tchad, fournir
les bases a des ajustements des programmes de promotion promus par le
projet (voir ci-dessus) et surtout, aider a la definition d'une strategie
de promotion globale a moyen terme. Des reunions ad-hoc ouvertes a tous
ceux concernes par la promotion des MiE sous l'impulsion du Comite
Interministeriel pourraient regulierement faire le point sur l'execution
des programmes et en tirer les lecons pour la strategie de lemploi et meme
les programmes d'ajustement structurel. Un appui special sera fourni pour
preparer le seminaire qui A la fin du projet conclura l'experience du
projet et discutera une proposition de rapport sur la promotion des MiE
pour aider a definir une strategie globale a l'echelon national.   Bien
sar, la priorite dans ce contexte a ete donnde a la promotion des MiE comme
outil a court terme de stimulation de l'emploi, et a la definition de types
d'intervention qui soient generalisables a grande echelle, reproductibles
et financables avec les moyens disponibles au Tchad. En plus, le programme
de conseil aux licenci6s servira a experimenter des methodes adaptees au
contexte tchadien pour ame.iorer l'ajustement entre les offres et demandes
d'emploi par qualification; cet ajustement constitue un element delicat
mais essentiel de toute strategie de creation d'emploi.



- 54 -                      ANNEXE 3-1
Page 15 sur 19
ADMINISTRATION. COORDINATION ET SUIVI DE LA COMPOSANTE
23.       Les regles A suivre et les tAches a effectuer sont detaillees &
l'Annexe 4-1 qui explicite l'ensemble des procedures retenues et des
institutions impliquees dans l'administration du projet. Le tableau 3.7
ci-joint schematise la gestion de cette composante. Dans cette composante
sur la promotion de l'emploi, pour en effectuer les taches, dont la plupart
sont executees en liaison avec des ONG, et preparer une strategie, le
Comit4 Interministeriel sera aide, d'une part, par la cellule de
coordination du projet et d'autro part, par un Sous-Comite technique charR6
de la promotion de l'emploi, pr4sidO par le Directeur g4n4ral de
l'industrie, od seront pris en compte les interets specifiques que
devraient porter I ce projet les Departements er. charge de l'industrie, du
travail et de l'emploi, de l'enseignement technique et aussi du commerce et
du credit. Ce Sous-Comite suivra l'execution technique des quatre
programmes definis ci-dessus tout en assurant la tutelle technique directe
du premier programme sur le credit aux microentreprises. I1 devra donc
collationner tous les rapports techniques emanant des diverses agences
d'execution impliquees; rappelons que ces agences -Cellule d'appui
technique, ONG en charge du programme de credit et 1'ONAMO- ont la
responsabilit6 de mettre en oeuvre les programmes sous la tutelle
financibre de la Cellule de coordination et de soutien du projet. Elles
soumettront chaque mois le rapport de mise en oeuvre (critdres de
performance), chaque semestre un rapport d'execution de ces programmes et
chaque ann4e un programme annuel de travail qui sera transmis pour
information et approbation a l'Association (Annexe 4-1).
24.       Le premier rapport annuel et le premier seminaire se
concentreront sur le demarrage du programme et les problemes Eventuels
rencontrEs. La premiEre annee, on utilisera les resultats de l'enqu@te sur
le secteur informel prive urbain pour faire une premiere analyse de la
problematique de la promotion des MiE. Apres trois ans d'execution, le
dernier rapport et le dernier seminaire prepareront des recommandations
pour la mise en place d'une strategie de promotion de la micro-entreprise
et de renforcement de l'Office national de la main d'oeuvre et un programme
d'actions generalisables A grande echelle.
(b:annex3_l.grl)



Table 3.4:  BLOYYMBT OERATION COMPONENT
CALBOAR OF ACTIVITIES
Calendar Year:                 PPF         I                 First Year                    I    Second Year   I    Third Year    I Fourth I  Fifth   I
QTR:     I    1           2     I     1          2           3          4      1  12        3  4   1  1 2         3                  I           I
ASTIONS
I) CEIT-ASSISTANCEAND                I A                    I           I           I          I           I                     I                    I           I          I
A WSl      RPC S                  I          I           I           I R                    I           I                     I                    I           I          i
_ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _    _     III                  I                      I                       IIII1
I          I          I            I          I                       I                    I                     I          t          I
Imthodoloey                    I          I              -        I          I          I                                 I                     I          I          I
Restructuring tho unit         I          I          I            I          I          I            I                    I                     I          I          I
Technical asitance          I           I          I           I           I          I            I                    I                     I          I                                I
Coordinateur       ___                                                                                                             I           I          I
Assistant                                                                                                                                                 IL
on    roI                                I             I   I               I                                                       I           I          II
local staff                 I                                                                                                                I
Asi-tanco toe  oundou  UNPI                                                                                               I
Aaaiatance to other citis -l              I                                                                                    - I  -           ___________________________ 
I          I          I            I          I          I            I                    I                     i          I          I
Supervision                    I          I          I            I          I          I            I                    I                     I          i          I
Annual Program              I           Ix       PI                                         P      I                 PI                      I           I
Progras Report              I           I          I                   R              I   R       I      R          R I       R           RI                             cm
.Seminars                     I           I          I           I           I          I         S I                 S  I                 S               I          I  
Evaluation                  I           I          I           I           I          I         EI                      I             E      I I  
,No  institution              I           I          I           I           I I                    I                     I                   I            I                C
B:Table S_4.wkl (QUR)                                                                                                                                                              -



Table 3.5:  EMPLOVMENr CEATION COMPNE
CALENDAR OF ACTIVITlEr
CaIl.Jar Y*ar:                 PPF                           First Year                         Second Year   I    Third Your    I  Fourth I Fifth
URT:     I                      I     1          2          a           4      1     2      3  4   1  1 2        3  4
II) TEtNICAL SPW tT CETERS    I                  I          I           I           I          I           I                     I                    I          I           |
I          I          I            I          I          I            t                    I                    I           I          I
Preparatory .ia.ian
Coord;nation Unit              I          I          I            I          I          I            I                    I                    I           I          I
Technical asistaenc         I          I           I           I          I           I           I                    I                     I          I           I
CoordinetAur    I             I          I _                                                                  I                               I
on rwquat         I           I          I --------ÖÖÖ                              Ö          ÖÖ-- - - -     - - I-------- I-------
local staff                 I          I           I _                                                                                       I                      I
offices                                              -     - I Ö I - - -                                                I                    I           I
Technology transfer         I           I          I           I   .                  I           I                    I                                            I
Assi.tanco to workshop-    i
Superviseon                    I          I          I            I          I          I           I                     I                    I                      I
AnnuaI Program              I           I          I        P              I          I     P    I                  P                        I          I           I
Progrem   Report            I           I          t           I       RI                   I R                     R R  R    R            '            I           I      fD  I
Seminars                    I           I                      g           I          I         SI                  SI                   S              I           I
Evaluation                  I           I          I           I           I          I        E                       I             E       I          I           I
New Instigtutions           I           I          I           I           I          I           I                     I            I       I          I                  C
B_bl         i-k (R                      I          I    I
Ei:Table 3_5..kl  (OR1) 



-4                                                                    . .4..[    
1       ~ ~                             I    w                                          .
-  -                -    -U---  -  f- ----u 
i         _ I _ _
-       - -  -           - -  -            - --.                   - -   -  -
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - ~ ~ ~ ~ -   -
I                                                    aC
..m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                               0   
-  -    -  --  -    -  --  -      -  LS ----
rn  x -9                                               4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
m  m  - ~     ~       ~       ~             --             --b         
-   -   -   -   -     -   -   -   -  
-   -   -   -   -   -   ~-    -     - -   ---( 
61 ins ol aSea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I-C XHNNV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~  I            ~~~                                           -'L



ANNEXE 3-1
- 58 -                          Page 19 sur 19
Tableau 3.7: GESTION DE LA COMPOSANTE
PROMOTION DE L'EMPLOI
MINISTERE DU PLAN
COMITE INTERMINISTERIEL DES PADS          r
CELLULE DE COORDIN. DU PROJET
Sous-Comite de la promotion de
l'emploi
APPUI AUX LICENCIES                     PROGRAMME CENTRES D'APPUI
Office National de la Main d'oeuvre          UnitE de promotion
.1 Coordinateur (AT)
.1 Homoloque
Bureau N'Diamena et a Moundou                   .3 Volontaires du progrAs
.3 Homologues
1 Economiste                                 .2 Auxilliaires
2 Auxillaires                                .Assistance A la demande
.Assistance a la demande
Appui a la politique sectorielle
. Etude sur les micro-entreprises
privees urbaines et leur promotion
. Renforcement du service de la main
d'oeuvre
Information a partir des enquetes sur
les menages
PROGRAMME DE CREDIT-ASSISTANCE
Compte Special Credit
Unite Gestion credit
.Assistance ONG: 1 Conseiller Principal
1 Conseiller Adjoint
.Bureau N'Diamena 1 Chef
1 Adjoint
6 Charges de prOts
3 Gestionnaires
10 Auxilliaires
.Bureau Moundou   1 Chef
(PNUD)        3 Charges de prgts
B:PROMO (GR1)



- 59 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 1 sur 16
TCHAD
PROJET D'ACTIONS POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT SOCIAL
PLAN D'ACTION POUR RENFORCER LES SERVICES SANITAIRES ET SOCIAUX
DESCRIPTION GENERALE DU SYSTEME
1.        Objectifs.  Cette composante vise a la mise en place de mesures
qui doivent, dans le cadre de la preparation d'une strategie de
developpement des services de sante et du developpement social, contribuer
a realiser les objectifs specifiques suivants:
i)   Mettre en place une organisation sanitaire et de developpement
communautaire qui permette aux populations de se prendre
progressivement en t:harge;
ii)  Rer.forcer les services sociaux et de sante de base
dans une approche integree de toutes les actions
visant a ameliorer le bien-atre familial;
iii) Developper un systeme de services de sante qui
permettent de donner la priorite a la sante de la mere
et de l'enfant et reduire les inegalites regionales et
sociales dans la couverture sanitaire;
iv) Ameliorer a tous les niveaux la gestion des ressources
humaines, materielles et financieres allouees aux
services sociaux et de sante.
2.        Pour permettre la realisation de ces objectifs, le projet a
selectionne pour cette composante un plan d'action qui tient compte (a) des
zones ayant le besoin le plus pressant de renforcement des soins de sante
et dtveloppement communautaire de base, et qui n'etaient pas incluses dans
d'autres programmes sur financement exterieur, et (b) des actions qui
permettront de renforcer la maitrise des problemes socio-sanitaires du
Tchad et d'aborder sur de bonnes bases, apres trois ans de projet, la
conception d'une politique de developpement social et de sante, et la
preparation et mise en place d'un eventuel projet de sante-population a
plus long terme qui pourrait aussi etre co-finance par l'IDA. Les deux
programmes suivants ont donc ete selectionnes:
I)   Renforcement a N'Djamena des services de sante et d'aide au
developpement social et communautaire.
IT)  Renforcement au Tandjile de la gestion de la prefecture
medicale et de la qualite des services publics de sante.



- 60 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 2 sur 16
Des etudes et recherches pour fournir les bases de definition d'une
politique plus coherente de sante et developpement communautaire ont ete
prevues dans la composante axee sur la formulation des politiques sociales.
Ces etudes et recherches constitueront donc en fait un troisieme programme
qui completera les deux precedents (Annexe 3-4).
3.        La presente composante a ete evaluee a 2.4 milliards de FCFA,
incluant les provisions pour risques et inflation et equivalent a 8.5
millions de dollars EU; le troisieme programme etant pris en charge par le
budget de la composante sur la foL-mulation des politiques sociales (Annexe
3-4). L'Annexe 3-6 donne tous les details sur la structure des couts.
Pour le premier programme, le coat total se monte a 1.6 milliards de FCFA,
dont 340 millions pour l'assistance technique, 100 millions de FCFA pour le
fonctionnement local (le personnel qualifie etant finance sur budget des
Ministeres de la sante publique, MSP, et des affaires sociales, MASPF), et
380 millions en medicaments essentiels (dont 30% seront recuperes par
l'Etat a partir des recouvrements de coats). De meme, le coat total de 930
millions de FCFA du deuxieme programme se decompose en 210 millions de FCFA
en assistance technique, 210 millions de FCFA en fonctionnement local sans
personnel, et 330 millions de FCFA en medicaments essentiels (dont 30%
seront recouverts a partir des versements des malades). La contribution du
Gouvernement est importante dans cette composante; d'abord, il s'est engage
a fournir tout le personnel de sante et social necessaire. Il s'est engage
.galement a fournir les terrains sur lesquels seront batis les
infrastructures medico-sociales prevues dans le projet et les batiments a
rehabiliter pour loger certaines activites de ce programme; ces dernieres
contributions n'ont pas ete evaluees en equivalent monetaire.
RENFORCEMENT DES SERVICES DE SANTE ET DE L'AIDE AU DEVELOPPEMENT
COMMUNAUTAIRE A N'DJAMENA.
4.        Les objectifs et le contenu detaille de ce programme sont
decrits dans les document technique prepare par la mission d'evaluation et
intitule -Composante sur le Renforcement des services de sante et de l'aide
au developpement communautaire a N'Djamena- (par le Docteur Antoine
Degremont, consultant et Directeur de l'Institut tropical suisse). Les
objectifs qui ont ete retenus comme prioritaires pour le projet sont les
suivants:
- etendre et ameliorer les infrastructures des r-rvices de sante et de
developpement communautaire et generaliser l'utilisation du medicament
essentiel pour augmenter l'accessibilite, l'acceptabilite, et la couverture
des prestations des services de base sur la ville de N'Djamena.
- ameliorer les capacites de planification, de gestion, d'execution, de
supervision et d'evaluation du personnel des centres sociaux et medicaux de
N'Djamena.
- ameliorer la qualite et l'efficience des prestations des services de
sante et de developpement communautaire, avec notamment une priorite donnee



- 61 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 3 sur 16
a la sante maternelle et infantile et a l'education pour la sante
familiale, par une collaboration permanente des structures sanitaires et
sociales et la mise en place d'un processus de sante communautaire.
Ces objectifs ne pourront evidemment etre atteints qu'apres une periode
plus longue que celle du projet qui ne constitue qu'une phase pilote
prealable a l'evaluation de programmes sectoriels.
5.        Pour ameliorer la qualite des services de sante de base, une
action clef du projet sera l'experimentation et diffusion d'un systeme de
distribution des medicamaents essentiels et de recouvrement des coats 1/.
Ce systeme (par. 6) sera progressivement mis en place dans les maternites
et les centres de sante construits ou renoves par le projet a N'Djamena; il
demarrera des qu'un district medico-social d'arrondissement fonctionnera
sous la responsabilite de la Cellule d'execution du programme medico-
social (voir par. 11). Chaque centre (maternite ou dispensaire) renove
disposera d'une liste des wrdicaments essentiels autorises et d'un guide
(ou manuel) therapeutique donnant les conditions d'utilisation de ces
medicaments. Chaque mois, sur la base des statistiques de soins du mois
precedent (frequence des maladies diagnostiquees), l'infirmier(e)
responsable du centre avaiuera et commandera les besoins mensuels en
medicaments essentiels a la Cellule medico-sociale (collationnes par le
district medico-social, voir par.10). Cette Cellule sera chargee, dans le
cadre du projet, de gerer les commandes et la distribution des medicaments
essentiels necessaires aux centres de sante, dispensaires et maternites de
quartier de N'Djamena; le stockage et conditionnement etant assure par la
Pharmacie centrale d'approvisionnement -PASP- (moyennant un amenagement des
locaux prevu par le projet). La Cellule medico-sociale utilisera les
appels d'offres internationaux en DCI (denomination commune internation-
ale) excluant tout monopole d'approvisionnement; en l'absence d'une
politique nationale du medicament essentiel, que le projet pourra aider a
definir et mettre en oeuvre, elle utilisera les procedures d'achats que le
Gouvernement a definies avec le Projet Sante du VIeme FED. Pour eviter de
se trouver sai,s medicaments au debut du projet, une procedure de
consultations rapides par telex aupres de quelques fournisseurs agrees par
1'IDA est suggeree pour une premiere commande equivalent aux besoins
grossierement estimes sur un an.
6.        De meme, en l'absence d'une politique nationale de recouvrement
des couts (voir renvoi 1/), on utilisera la methode prevue a l'arrete
conjoint du Ministre de la sante et de celui des finances qui autorise un
systeme interimaire de recouvrement pour certains projets, dont le PADS.
Pour chaque episode de maladie, le malade aura a se procurer pour avoir
acces aux services medicaux (visite et medicaments essentiels) un ticket
(que l'on pouurait fixer a 200 FCFA a titre indicatif) par episode medical
1/ Bien entendu, si pendant la rariode de mise en oeuvre du projet, le
Gouvernement se decide sur une m;thode nationale de recouvrement des coats,
cette methode sera immediatement appliquee dans les centres rehabilites par
le projet et meme testee si le Gouvernement le souhaite.



- 62 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 4 sur 16
et valable dans un centre renove; a la maternite, ce ticket pourrait etre
fix; a 800 FCFA pour une femme enceinte, y compris les soins prenataux et
les frais d'accouchement. Ce ticket lui sera fourni par l'infirmier(e)
responsable qui se sera procure un carnet a souches aupres du Bureau
(guichet) de la tresorerie du quartier. L'assistant(e) social dil centre
(s'il est du type integri ou du centre social designe du quartier) decidera
si un malade est indigent et lui fournira un ticket special pour des soins
gratuits. Les criteres d'identification des indigents pourraient etre
fixis periodiquement entre le Service social de la Mairie de N'Djamena, les
responsables du quartier, les representants des communautes et le personnel
des services sociaux. La Direction de la Trisorerie devra proceder a
l'impression de carnets a souche specifiques aux centres renovis par le
projet. Le Gouvernement s'est engage a reverser les recettes de ce systeme
interimaire aux services du MSP (sante de base) pour leur permettre de
faire face aux augmentations necessaires de leur fonctionnement, avec
utilisation prioritaire pour le renouvellement du stock de medicaments
essentiels. I1 est bien entendu essentiel que le processus et modalitis de
mise en place soient prepares en coordination avec les autres projets qui
eux aussi mettent en place un systime de recouvrement des coats.
7.        Pour ameliorer les infrastructures socio-medicales de base, on a
dae plus prevu les actions d'investissement suivantes:
- construire trois maternitis de 16 lits chacune (Farcha, Hilli-Leclerc, et
Paris-Congo).
- construire trois centres medico-sociaux integres (Hilli-Leclerc, Paris-
Congo, et Ragouta-Djemaal).
- construire trois dispensaires de quartier (Ndjari, Diguel-Est, et Diguel-
Nord).
- completer la rinovation en cours de quatre centres sociaux et d'un
dispensaire et la cloture de quatre dispensaires .
- fournir et completer les iquipements necessaires (mobilier, materiel
medico-sanitaire, materiel iducatif) des centres sociaux et niidicaux i
partir d'une liste-type de dotation.
- amenager et ranover des locaux administratifs pour stocker a la PASP les
medicaments essentiels pour les centres de N'Djamena et pour accueillir la
Cellule d'execution de la composante medico-sociale de N'Djamena.
On trouvera la localisation de ces centres sur la carte en appendice.
8.        Pour amiliorer les capacitis professionnelles du personnel des
centres medico-sociaux, des dispensaires et des trois maternites de
quartier, on a privu les actions suivantes:
- definir de facon precise et coherente les roles, taches, et
responsabilitis de chacun des membres des equipes medicales et sociales.



- 63 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 5 sur 16
- diffuser une methode de travail basee sur une identification des
objectifs et critares de performance pour toutes les activites assignees au
centre, une estimation des charges de travail, des normes budgatairen,
d'equipement et personnel et une programmation hebdomadaire des activites a
realiser.
- recycler et former en continu le personnel et les encadreurs a ces
methodes et a la maniere d'executer chaque tache assignee.
- developper une approche par equipe dans chaque centre, avec auto-
evaluation et discussion en groupe des problemes et des suggestions.
- renforcer les supports logistiques aux centres; notamment au niveau de la
formation-recyclage, du systeme de rfeirence en gynicologie obstetrique et
en pidiatrie, de l'utilisation du medicament essentiel (guide therapeuti-
que), de la gestion des approvisionnements (recouvrement des coats) et du
personnel.
- promouvoir des programmes ciblis sur le bien-etre familial et l'iducation
sanitaire de base (avec priorite a la nutrition et maternite sans risque)
et les contacts avec la (ou les) communaute(s) (visites i domicile).
- identifier le rythme de generalisation progressive des activitis
spicifiques i diffuser apris familiarisation du personnel; il est crucial
de limiter au debut le nombre d'activitis et de programmes nouveaux; une
provision dans le projet permettra la mise en place ulterieure de
programmes qui se reveleront nicessaires. Mais surtout on pourra intigrer
progressivement des activites financies par d'autres bailleurs de fonds.
9.        Compte tenu du caractere innovatif et experimental de certaines
approches diveloppies dans les centres renoves du projet, un systeme
spicial de priparation et suivi-ivaluation a ete mis en place; il est base
sur la proerammation fonctionnel'e des taches et des taux de couverture qui
ont ite adoptas pour difinir la structure des installations et du personnel
des centres (voir les documents cechniques joints pour le ditail sur la
programmation de ces activitis de base). De plus, la Cellule medico-
sociale pourra proposer des actions de recherche opirationnelle en fonction
des problemes rencontris durant la mise en oeuvre des activites
prioritaires. En particulier, on suivra comment cette approche
intersectorielle de developpement de la sante communautaire est percue par
le personnel des deux ministeres (MSP et MASPF) et par la population. On
evaluera 1'adiquation des critires de performance et des programmations
hebdomadaires, la pertinence des indicateurs et des statistiques, le role
expirimental de coordination des actions midico-sociales donne aux
districts, voir ci-dessous). Plus giniralement, on ivaluera apres trois
ans de projet les rapports cout-efficaciti des taches assignees, notamment
suivi des personnes a risque, rehabilitation nutritionnelle, et actions de
sante communautaire.



- 64 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 6 sur 16
10.       La programmation de la mise en place de cette sous-composante
est en cours de finalisation (sur fonds d'avance PPF, voir le tableau 3.8
ci-joint); elle est preparee par la Cellule medico-sociale, et sera mise en
place des la fin de 1990 et en cooperation avec une assistance exterieure.
Elle est basee sur les principes suivants:
- fixation du role possible de districts medico-sociaux (la terminologie
restant a fixer pour un decoupage de N'Djamena en unites de programmation-
coordination). Dans le cadre des actions du projet, on identifiera trois
districts experimentaux autour d'une maternite de quartier et d'un centre
medico-social integre. Ils seront mis en place progressivement sur trois
ans (en commen9ant si possible par la zone Paris-Congo et Ragouta-Djamel).
Leur institutionnalisation sera evaluee a la fin du projet.
- designation d'une unite de programmation, coordination et supervision par
district.  Elle regroupera un medecin et un(e) assistante sociale en
fonction dans la zone et qui se reuniront au moins une fois par semaine
(programmation hebdomadaire des activites avec revue periodique avec la
Cellule medico-sociale); le projet leur accordera un petit appui
logistique.
- programmation de la realisation physique des constructions,
rshabilitations et dotations en equipements et des affectations officielles
de personnel.
- organisation d'une equipe au niveau du centre medico-social integre.
Elle sera basee sur quatre activites: sante maternelle et sante infantile
coordonnees par une sage-femme, soins curatifs aux plus de cinq ans coor-
donnes par un(e) infirm'er(ere) d'Etat, sante communautaire coordonnee par
un(e) assistant social, et gestion administrative confie a un membre
competent (ou eventuellement recycle) de l'equipe.
- initiation et definition de la programmation fonctionnelle des taches
(d'apres le module general developpe pour N'Djamena et figurant dans les
documents techniques joints) et mise en oeuvre les programmes de formation
pour chaque unite.
- mise en place du systeme d'utilisation du medicament essentiel (guide
therapeutique et seances de formation) et de recouvrement des coats
(carnets a souche, bons de gratuite aux indigents, et livres comptables).
11.       Le Ministere de la sante est en train d'etudier une
restructuration de la prefecture medicale de Chari Baguirmi dont dependent
administrativement les centres de sante de N'Djamena, et donc des relations
entre les services de sante urbains, pari-urbains et ruraux. Cette
restructuration devrait etre basee sur un dacoupage en districts
sanitaires, decoupage qui devra harmonisa et rendu coharent avec celui
teste dans les actions du PADS. Lorsque le systeme institutionnel sera
adopte et le projet PADS en phase finale, on devra alors decider de 18
place de la Cellule medico-sociale dans le systeme administratif et
redefinir les relations entre les niveaux. On notera que par l'Arrete qui



- 65 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 7 sur 16
la cree cette Cellule est autonome car elle combine les actions de deux
ministeres -sante et affaires sociales- et est responsable de l'execution
des actions du projet. Aussi pendant ce projet, elle devra s'assurer de la
coherence entre ses actions avec celles qui pourraient atre eventuellement
dtveloppees dans les zones rurales avoisinantes. Pour ce faire, la Cellule
devra delimiter les districts medico-sociaux et finaliser ses programmes
d'action annuels en accord avec la Prefecture medicale de Chari-Baguirmi,
et devra transmettre tous les rapports requis dans le cadre du projet au
Medecin-chef de cette prefecture.
12.       La mise en oeuvre technique de ce programme est confiee a une
Cellule d'execution du programme medico-social, qui est composee d'un
medecin-chef responsable assiste d'un assistant social-chef detaches de
leurs services au MSP et MASPF et affectes a temps plein au projet; deux
auxiliaires seront fournis par le projet avec le support logistique. Cette
Cellule sera assistee techniquemaent sous la forme (a) d'appui multiforme a
la demande (notamment pour aider a realiser le plan de formation et
recyclage, soit du personnel de la Cellule, soit de celui sur le terrain en
distinguant les gestionnaires du systeme de sante des techniciens des
services sociaux et medicaux), et (b) d'assistance technique directe par
l'affectation de deux specialistes recrutes internationalement pour une
periode de trois ans; le premier d'un profil medecin qualifie en sante
publique aidera aux aspects programmation et evaluation des activites et
utilisation du medicamerit essentiel; l'autre d'un profil assistant social
qualifie en formation et dynamique de groupe se concentrera sur la
motivation et l'efftcacite du personnel et de son encadrement par le
developpement communautaire. L'assistance technique participera
directement a l'klaboration de tous les programmes d'action et a sa mise en
place (notamment pour le systeme de distribution des medicaments essentiels
a laquelle elle sera associee directement); elle aura a analyser les
resultats, notamment a travers les criteres de performance qui seront
transmis mensuellement par la Cellule a celle de coordination et d'appui du
projet. En tout etat de cause, elle aura la possibilite de transmettre
toutes observations qu'elle souhaite faire sur l'execution de cette
composante aux deux Directeurs generaux du MSP et du MASPF, avec copie a la
Cooperation suisse et & l'Association.
13.       Les centres de sante (et maternites et dispensaires) recevront
des appuis techniques et logistiques de nombreux autres organismes
travaillant sur les problemes sante-developpement social a N'Djamena.  Ces
appuis se developperont au fur et a mesure que ces centres se mettront en
place et les equipes seront plus familiarisees avec leurs mithodes de
conseils, soins et d'approche. En plus de la cooperation de la PASP pour
la distribution du medicament essentiel, il est prevu d'utiliser les
services charges au sein des deux ministeres (MSP et MASPF) de la formation
et du recyclage et de systematiser les contacts avec les services de
l'Hopital Central (maternite et pediatrie). Plusieurs missions
d'assistance etrangere suivent cette experience et souhaitent s'y integrer
pour des activites qui les interessent; on peut citer, entre autres,
1'USAID pour le programme de survie des enfants et le FNUAP pour la
planification familiale; rappelons que le projet inclut une provision pour



- 66 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 8 sur 16
financer des programmes specifiques a definir en cours d'execution et qui
seront axes notamment sur les problemes de bien-etre familial.
14.       La Cellule d'execution de la composante medico-sociale aura,
comme les autres agences du projet (voir Annexe 4-1), i fournir des
rapports d'execution technique chaque semestre au Sous-Comite de la sante
et du developpement communautaire qui transmettra au Comite
Interministeriel charge de la supervision et du suivi des actions des PADS.
Dans ces rapports, la Cellule medico-sociale devra faire le point de la
mise en oeuvre des objectifs assignes a sa composante. En particulier dans
l'avant-dernier Rapport apres deux ans de projet, elle examinera le bien-
fonde de l'approche developpee dans les centres medico-sociaux integres, en
vue d'une generalisation ou adaptation possible a toute la ville de
N'Djamena et eventuellement aux autres zones urbaines. Elle sera sous le
tutelle technique du Directeur general du MSP assiste de celui du MASPF
avec liaison avec le Medecin-chef de Chari-Baguirmi et sous la tutelle
financiere directe de la Cellule de coordination et de soutien du projet
qui sera chargee de controler toutes les procedures et transactions finan-
cieres et comptables. Elle aura a fournir des programmes annuels
actualises pour approbation par l'Association (Annexe 4-1).
RENFORCEMENT DE LA PREFECTURE MEDICALE DU TANDJILE.
15.       Les objectifs specifiques et le contenu detaille du programme
sont quasiment identiques a ceux decrits dans le document technique attache
au projet sante cofinance par le VIeme FED et execute avec l'assistance du
bureau-conseil; la seule exception concerne la distribution de medicaments
essentiels (par. 18). Les objectifs specifiques qui ont ete retenus comme
prioritaires pour ce projet sont les suivants:
- accroire les moyens a la disposition du Medecin-chef de prefecture pour
remplir son role de responsable des services de sante de la prefecture du
Tandjile.
- ameliorer 18 qualite des prestations fournies par les services de sante
de la prefecture.
- developper l'utilisation du medicament essentiel et le recouvrement des
couts.
Cette prefecture m;dicale du Tandjile est la seule de toutes les
circonscriptions tchadiennes qui ne soit pas couverte par un programme de
renforcement finance par des bailleurs de fonds etrangers. Le projet
completera donc le programme en cours dans toutes les autres prefectures et
reproduira au Tandjila les types d'actions qui y sont developpas. Pour
plus de facilites, il adoptera le systeme de gestion et le plan d'action
mis en place par le projet cofinance par le VIeme FED. Les autres
bailleurs de fonds qui participent a cette couverture sont l'Italie et la
Belgique (par MSF, une ONG franco-belge). Les activites a entreprendre



- 67 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 9 sur 16
dans le cadre du programme du Tandjila sont presentees succinctement au
tableau 3.9 ci-joint.
16.       Pour permettre au Medecin-chef de mieux remplir sa tache, il est
prevu de le faire assister pendant trois ans d'un madecin-adjoint recrute a
1'etranger. Cet adjoint lui permettra de faire face plus aisement aux
actions prevues dans le projet, a savoir: (a) pouvoir participer aux
seminaires nationaux bi-annuels organises par le projet FED, (b) mettre en
place le systeme de medicament essentiel-recouvrement des co'uts, (c)
programmer les activites des centres publics de sante et le recyclage et la
supervision de leur personnel, et (d) renforcer la coordination entre
toutes les institutions locales (ONG et secteur prive) et etrangeres
s'occupant de sante au Tandjil;. De plus, un specialiste en gestion de
sante publique sera recrute (36 mois) pour (a) renforcer les methodes de
gestion du personnel et budgetaire; (b) aider a installer les procedures de
commande des medicaments essentielse et (c) aider au developpement d'un
systeme de recouvrement des coats, d'abord dans les deux villes principales
-Lai et Kelo- et puis progressivement dans les centre secondaires; il
praparera un homologue a le remplacer a la fin de son sejour. Le programme
a prevu d'accroltre les moyens disponibles (equipement madical et de
gestion-communication, logistique, materiel de bureau) du Medecin-chef et
de certains services departementaux et de rehabiliter les locaux pour
conserver les medicaments et les logements des deux medecins de Lai et de
celui de Kelo.
17.       Pour amiliorer la qualite des services de sante de la prefecture
il est, en particulier, prevu de la doter de moyens radio et de documenta-
tion, d'equiper les postes de sante et dispensaires d'equipement de base (a
partir d'une liste-type), et de rehabiliter les installations les plus
delabraes. Une assistance sera fournie par le Bureau d'etudes qui a la
responsabilite de l'Unite centrale du projet VIeme FED localisee a
N'Djamena pour la tenue des seances de formation continue et de recyclage
pour le personnel de sante, soit a N'Djamena, soit sur place.
18.       Pour mettre en place l'utilisation du medicament essentiel, un
systeme identique a celui decrit pour la composante medico-sociale de
N'Djamena sera developpe (voir par.5). Tous les deux mois, le Medecin-
chef rassemblera les requates de toutes les formations sanitaires publiques
du Tandjil afin de preparer des distributions regulieres fonction des
condiyions d'acheminement. Des capacites de stockage seront amenagees a la
PASP et au chef-lieu (et dans des centres secondaires). Le rythme
d'allocation de la dotation en medicaments a chacune des formations
sanitaires (et de la localisation du stockage) variera en fonction des
risques de ruptures de stocks qui sont beaucoup plus frequents qu'a
N'Djamena, notamment en saisons des pluies. Comme pour N'Djamena, une
premiere commande pour les besoins approximatifs de la premiara annee sera
preparee das le debut du projet pour etre commandee rapidement. Le systeme
interimaire de recouvrement des coats sera semblable a celui de N'Djamena
avec les mames tickets par episode medical dans les centres renoves et
disposant de medicaments essentiels (par.6). Ce systeme exigera donc la
formation des infirmiers (guide therapeutique et carnets a souche speciaux



- 68 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 10 sur 16
pour les centres approvisionnes) et la mise en place d'un systeme fiable de
distribution des medicaments. Ce sera sans doute le Prefet du Tandjila ou
un Sous-prefet qui decidera de ceux que l'on peut considerer comma
indigents selon des criteres a etablir entre les deux administrations.
Neanmoins, compte tenu du fait que cette prefecture ne dispose pas d'un
reseau de collecte de fonds financiers, le systeme sera initie dans les
deux villes principales tandis qu'une liste reduite de medicaments sera
distribuee gratuitement dans les centres ruraux ou eloignes. Apres une
premiere experimentation en milieu urbain, on abordera le probleme du
recouvrement en milieu rural.
19.       Le programme d'action (avec criteres de performance) sera
prepare chaque annee par le Medecin-chef, assiste de son adjoint, et
transmis pour approbation par l'Association. Le premier programme sera
prepare des que l'adjoint aura rejoint son poste (finance eventuellement
sur fonds d'avar.ce PPF). Des rapports mensuels seront transmis a la
Cellule de coordination et d'appui du projet pour rendre compte des
resultats obtenus par rapport aux criteres de performance qui ont ete
definis dans le programme d'action.  Des rapports d'execution semestriels
seront a transmettre au Sous-Comite sur la sante et le Comite
Interministeriel du PADS par l'intermediaire du Directeur general du MSP.
Les criteres de performances seront prepares en utilisant l'experience
acquise par l'Unite centrale de gestion du pro4et VIame FED; mis a part le
respect de l'installation physique des actions prevues, il sera crucial
d'examiner avec beaucoup de soins comment se diffusent l'utilisation du
medicament essentiel et les nouvelles pratiques sanitaires aux deux niveaux
du personnel de sante et des communautes des patients. Compte tenu de la
charge de travail au niveua central, il est prevu d'embaucher un
administrateur-comptable a temps plein pour trois ans. Il assurera le lien
entre les services centraux et la prefecture medicale du Tandjile
(notamment pour commander les medicaments essentiels). Le personnel de
l'Unite du Projet Sante VIeme FED apportera son aide pour les sessions de
recyclage destinees au personnel local, le developpement du programme des
medicaments essentiels (liaison avec la sous-composante medico-sociale a
N'Djamena, par.5), et la finalisation des rapports annuels. Toutes les
procedures et transactions financieres et comptables seront, comme pour les
autres composantes du projet, effectuees et/ou controlees par la Cellule de
coordination et de soutien du projet (voir Annexe 4-1).
ETUDES ET RECHERCHES EN MATIERE DE SANTE ET DEVELOPPEMENT COMMUNAUTAIRE.
20.       La quatrieme composante du projet -Assistance pour renforcer la
formulation des politiques sociales- (Annexe 3-4) a inclus, dans son
programme d'enquetes, etudes et recherche, des projets qui permettent de
mieux connaltre la position de l'Etat et des menages vis-a-vis de l'acces
aux services de sant, de base et au financement des soins de sante. I1
faudra attendre la mise en place de l'enquete integree sur les conditions
de vie des menages pour etre en mesure de collecter des informations
repondant a des problemes plus precis sur le developpement de la sante
publique et socio-communautaire. En premier lieu, on identifiera des



- 69 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page ! . vr 16
groupes-cible qui n'ont pas acces aux services de sante de base et les
raisons de ce manque; ou qui ne peuvent pas absorber les coats d'acces aux
centres sociaux dans leur budget.  Plus generalement, on examinera les
groupes qui ne s'integrent pas dans le systeme des services charges de les
assister et satisfaire leurs besoins essentiels. Comme explique a l'Annexe
3-4, cette enquete integree ne seia operationnelle qu'en 1993-94, un a deux
apres la fin des programmes decrits plus haut. Neanmoins, les enquates
prevues sur la premiere periode de trois ans devraient fournir des premiers
elements concernant il'ixportance des depenses de sante pour les menages de
la zone cotonniere et de trois villes - Moundou, Abeche et N'Djamena -.
21.       Ces informations sur le financement de la sante par les manages
seront completees par une etude socio-economique programmee par le projet
et qui concerne les conditions de vie des manages urbains en matiere de
couverture des besoins essentiels. Cette etude pourrait permettre une
identification partielle de groupes-cible demunis de soins sanitaires de
base.  Afin de renforcer les capacites des services tchadiens a definir une
strategie de developpement des services socio-sanitaires, le projet
fournira un 'Dpui specifique pour definir des actions a inclure dans les
programmes pub'4cs afin d'y incorporer la dimension socio-sanitaire de
l'ajustement. Cet appui devra bien sar completer les autres analyses
sectorielles en cours, en particulier celles beaucoup plus completes
financeas par la BAD. Dans le cadre du projet, il est prevu plus
specifiquement de faire des analyses de la structure des depense publiques
courantes ou d'investissement pour en evaluer l'impact sur la couverture
des soins socio-sanitaires de base. Ces analyses devront completer les
enseignements tires des enquates et etudes sur les menages decrits ci-
dessus mais aussi ceux tires des actions du projet en matiare de
recouvrement des couts (programmes de N'Djamena et du Tandjila).
ADMINISTRATION, COORDINATION ET SUIVI DE LA COMPOSANTE
22.       Les regles a suivre et les taches a effectuer sont detaillees a
l'Annexe 4-1, qui explicite l'ensemble des procedures retenues et des
institutions impliquees. Le tqbleau 3.10 ci-joint schematise la gestion de
cette composante. Les taches seront sous la tutelle technique des
Ministeres de la sante publique -MSP- et des affaires sociales -MASPF- par
l'intermediaire de la Cellule d'execution medico-sociale pour le programme
de N'Djamena (par. 11) et celle du MSP assiste par le Projet VIeme FED pour
le programme de Tandjile, tandis que la Cellule de coordination et de
soutien du projet assurera les transactions financiares et comptables
(Annexe 4-1). Cette derniere Cellule recevra les rapports mensuels sur les
criteres de performance. Le Directeur general du MSP, en cooperation avec
celui du MASPF, varifieront les rapports semestriels prepares par ces
cellules avant de les transmettre au Sous-Cor ite de la sante et au Comite
Interministeriel (Annexe 4-1).
23.       Le Comite Interministeriel doit donc analyser avec soin le
resultat de tous ces efforts pour en tirer le maximum de profit dans ses
recommandations en matiere de politique de sante, recommandations qu'il
devra adresser au Gouvernement dans le rapport annuel sur le projet.  Pour
l'aider dans cette tache et comme pour les autres composantes, le Comite,



- 70 -
ANNEXE 3-2
Page 12 sur 16
par l'intermediaire des Directeurs generaux du MSP et du MASPF, devra
prevoir des seminaires (tablAs rondes ou ateliers) ouverts a toutes les
parties interessees par le developpement socio-sanitaire. Une
programmation indicative de ces appuis possibles du projet a la formulation
de politiques socio-sanitaires mieux ciblees se presente ainsi:
Premiere Ann;e
Les enquetes et itudes sur les menages seront mis en place sous la tutelle
de la Direction de la Statistique et du CRA (Annexe 3-4). I1 est donc
important de verifier les termes de reference et le contenu des
questionnaires pour slassurer de leur adequation a repondre a la
problematique des secteurs socio-sanitaires.
Deuxiime Ann;e
Trois themes sont a prevoir pour les seminaires. Le premier pourrait faire
le point sur les programmes medicament essentiel-recouvrement des coats; il
reunira, en plus des personnes executant les deux Programmes concernes du
projet, toutes les institutions, ONG et autres projets qui diffusent aussi
du medicament essentiel; en particulier l'UNICEti, MSF, et le programme du
VIime FED devront jouer un role clef sur cette question. Le deuxieme theme
pourrait concerner l'acces aux services sociaux de base et le troisieme, le
financement des secteurs socio-sanitaires. Pour tous ces thames on fera la
synthese des resultats des enquates legeres des menages urbains, de la
structure des depenses budgetaires de l'Etat et d'autres sources
d'information sur l'impact des projets sur financements exterieurs; l'etude
sur le secteur sante financee par la BAD devrait aussi etre disponible.
Troisieme Annie
I1 s'agira de faire une synthese des enseignements obtenus a travers les
programmes du projet. On a .nvisage les themes suivants:
- la diffusion du medicament essentiel et le role des communautes (mise en
oeuvre de l'Initiative de Bamako).
- la generalisation des services de sante de base, la capacite de paiement
en matiere de sante et l'identification des groupes-cible a assister, et le
role de l'tat (allocation budgetaire).
- la cooperation entre les programmes de sante publique et ceux de
developpement social et communautaire (generalisation des centres medico-
sociaux integres).
- les interrelations des niveaux du systeme pyramidal de prestations de
services (du poste de sante en passant par la prefecture medicale jusqu'aux
directions centrales).
- la definition de types d'actions medico-sociales qui, beneficiant des
experiences du PADS, pourront atre generalisees a l'ensemble du pays,
reproductibles et compatibles avec les ressources disponibles au Tchad.



Table 3.8S SThEN1H0NI0 OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL SE1ICES CtMPONEW
CALENAR OF ACMITIEvti
Calendar Year:                   PPF                           First Yea! r                      Second              Third        I Fourth  I Fifth
QTR:    I                    1     1          2         S          4      1  1 2          4  1 1 2    S   4 
ACTIONS                  I                    i                                            I                   I                   I          I          t
S) SOC1AL EALTHC84TES                  |          I          I           I         I          I           IIN
N'DJAMEA                     I          I         |           |          I         I                                                                         |
Technical aeistanee               I          I          I           I         I          I          I
.Public health specialist        I         I__
.Social apecialist               I         I             _                                                                                  I         I
.On requat                                               - I  ----------1 -                                                                                      1
.EaeutionthiI                                  I          I          I          I          I                    I                    I              I          I              I
.Office. (rehabilitation)       I         I          _                     I          I           I                   I                   I          I
.Staff transfer 1/              I         I                                I                                                                         1          1
.Center-2/
.Doc  ent                 I          I _         I          I         I          I                                                   I
.Conetruction             I          I          I _                   I          I           L                       I               I          I
.Rehabilitation           I          I          I                                            I                   I                   I          I         i
Eeasntial drutgs                  I          I          I          I          I          I          I 
*torag  efacilities
mthodology (coet-recovery)I
procur nbt (proctdue)    I             I          I           I                    I           I                   I                   I           
.implementation                I         I          I           I         I                                                              I          I          I
Training                          !                                             - I    Ö ÖÖ   Ö      ÖÖ                        ------     -1 -                    1
Special programs                                                               - -  - - iÖ          ÖÖ----- -------------------Ö-- ------------- - -
I         I          I           I         I          I           I                   ,I                             II            P 
Supervision                       I          I          I          I          I          fI         I                    I                   I
Annual Program               I                  P l           I          I         I     P                      P1                     I          I              CD
Progrem  report              I         I          I           I       R            I    R    I        R        R          R         R             I                 W
Workshops                    I          I         I           i          I         I    W    I                                      wI            I          I   t)
Evaluation                   |          I         |           I          I         IE          I              E                 E      I          I          I'i
---~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~II
1/  From Ministriea of Public Health and Social Development  2/  One center, one diapenary and one maternity unit each year.
b:Tnble3_3.wkl (GR1)



Table 3.9:  STR1Cl`HNL4D  OF HEALTH ADt SOCIAL SEVICES COMPQNT
CALBR  OF ACTIITIES
Calendar Year:                  PPF                            First Year                         Second       I      Third         I Fourth  I Fifth
IPR:   I                     I      1         2          8          4      1  1 2    3   4   1         2    3   4
ACTrIW                   ;                     i                                             I                   I                    I          I          I
II) REIONAL MANAGEENT IN                          I                                            I           I                                         
TANJILE                     ;
Tecnical *cmistance               I          I          I           I         I          I           I                    i                    i         I          I
eOputy-Physician              ;           I         I _                                         _
Public Health Mbnager         ;          I          I _                                                                                                          I
Officon (rehabilitation)       I          I         I _                                           I                    I                   I                     I
Cantors(    '            )    I          I          I                                                                  I                   I          I          I
I          I         I           I          I          I           I                    I                   I          I          I                   -
Equipment                         I          I         I                                                                 I                    I          I          I                   "
i          I         I           I          I          I           I                    I                   I          III
Esant;ul drugs                               I         ;           I          I          I           I                    i                              I          I
Storage (preparation)        ;          I          I           I          I          I           I                    I                   I          I          i
Methodology (Cot-recovery)I             I
Procure.nt (proceduree)   ;
Impleaentetion
Training aminare                  I          I         ;           ;          I          ;           I                    I                   I          I
Regional Health Officer    I            I   X    I             I     X I             IX          I     X         XI        X        X    I           I          I
Other personnel                         I                                  ---------------------------------------------------------i 
Supervliion                       I          I         I           I          I          I           I                    I                   I          I
Annual Program                          I                                                  P                      P1 p                                
Progress Reports             i          I          I           I       R             I     R               R R    R         R       R    ;
Workehops                    I          I                                                                                                                          - I    .  It  W  w U  I 
Evaluation                   I          I          I           I          I          IE          I     w          El        w    E        I          I          I
I T                  I           I9WKI                             I                    I                   I          I          t .I
Ei:TableS_9 WK (CR1)



ANNEXE 3-2
- 73 -                          Page 15 sur 16
Tableau 3.10: GESTION DE LA COMPOSANTE RENFORCEMENT DES
SERVICES SOCIO-SANITAIRES
COMITE INTERMINISTERIEL DES PADS
--MINISTERE DU PLAN
Sous-Comite charge des
programmes m4dico-sociaux
.          .                 ~~~~~~~~CELLULE DE
Tutelle technique MSP           Tutelle technique        COORDINATION
MSP et MASPF               DU PROJET
PROGRAHME DE RENFORCEMENT      PROGRAMME DE RENFORCEMENT
DU TANDJILE                    A N'DJAMENA
Appui Central                  Cellule d'execution
(medico- soc iale)
* 1 Comptable
* 1 Auxilliaire                . 2 conseillers (AT)
. 1 medecin-chef
Appui a la circonscription    . 1 assistant social en chef
medicale du Tandiile           . 3 auxilliaires
* 1 medecin-adjoint au         . Assistance technique a la demande
medecin-chef (AT)            . 1 medecin
* 1 gestionnaire de sante      . 1 assistante sociale
* 1 homologue
* Assistance technique a
la demande
APPUI A LA POLITIQUE SECTORIELLE
. Enquetes legeres sur les conditions
de vie des menages et acces aux
services de base
. Etude sur les coats de sante et
education pour les m6nages urbains
. Allocation des ressources budgetaires
pour santd et developpement social
b:renfor (grl)



EAISTANTS               PROJETES
hopitai                  malternite
Lh   polydinique          m   centre medico social0                                                  _
aI   dispensaire         0    dispensaire
O     centre social
o     centre social a rehlabiliter                 P L A                DE
LIdispensoire a reobiliter                     P ADESITUATION



- 75 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 1 sur 22
TCHAD
PROJET D'ACTIONS POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT SOCIAL
PLAN D'ACTION POUR AMELIORER LA SALUBRITE DE N'DJAMENA
1.        Obiectifs.  Cette composante repr4sente une premiere serie
d'actions qui doivent contribuer a realiser les objectifs suivants:
(a)  Amdliorer l'hygiene publique et lt sonditions de vie
quotidienne dans des quartiers par'iculibrement desherites de
N'Djamena, en rehabilitant les infrastructures physiques et
6quipements collectifs-.
(b)  Contribuer, au travers des travaux A realiser, & la creation
d'emplois (travaux & haute intensitd de main-d'oeuvre) et
l'incitation au developpement des entreprises -PHE- locales
(ouvrages A technicite simple).
(c)  Sensibiliser les populations & l'am6lioration de la salubrite de
leurs quartiers assainis, par des operations de d6veloppement
communautaire et d'assistance avec l'appui d'ONG, comme le
respect des canaux de drainage, la collecte des ordures,
l'utilisation de latrines, et l'entretien .es caniveaux.
2.        Pour faciliter la realisation de ces objectifs, un perimetre
urbain d'environ 400 hectares particulibrement vulnerable a ete
selectionne; il fait partie des deux bassins versants naturels atitour des
collecteurs des Jardiniers et d'Am-Rikebe et se limite a la zone qui peut
Otre rehabilitee tout en restant en coherence av,ec le Plan directeur
d'assainissement de la ville de N'Djamena en cours de preparation ,voir
carte en appendice). Pour le bonne conduite des multiples actions de cette
composante, une "Cellule infrastructure-assainissement" sera creee dans le
cadre du projet (par.20). Sur ce perimetre, !es actions financees par le
projet sont articulees autour des programmes suivants:
(I)  Rehabilitation du rAseau d'infrastructures secondaire et
tertiaire d'4vacuation des saux pluviales.
(II) Renforcement de l'impact social du programme de rxhabilitation
par des actions sp4cifiques pour amdliorer la creation d'emplois
locaux, et le suivi social et communautaire axe sur la salubrite
des quartiers.
Dans la composante destinee & la formulation des politiquee sociales
(Annexe 3-A), il e3t prevu un programme d'enquetes et d'etudes qui pourra
servir a completer les experiences tirdes des ces deux programmes par un



- 76 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 2 sur 22
troisibme programme d'etudes pour aider a identifier des actions ciblees
sur les groupes vulnerables pour ameliorer leurs conditions de vie.
3.        Les actions qui pourraient etre entreprises dans le cadre de
cette composante du projet ont ete evaluees a 3.3 milliards de FCFA,
equivalant a 10.7 millions de dollars EU, incluant la rehabilitation de
l'infrastructure sur l'ensemblo des 400 ha du p4rim&tre (deux bassins
versants naturels) a assainir pour 2.845 millions de FCFA et le suivi
social des communautes qui y resident (evalues a 70.000 habitants) pour 455
millions. Cependant, compte tenu des financements disponibles, le projet
se limitera a un programme de 2.8 milliards de FCFA (ou 9,4 millions de
dollars EU) reduisant le programme d'infrastructure a 1.9 milliards de FCFA
ou 300 hectares et le suivi social a une operation de 250 millions. Cela
inclut la contribution du FENU qui a coordonne avec les actions du projet
IDA celles de son projet, qui se situe sur le mEme p4rimbtre et sera
execute par la Cellule infrastructure-salubrite (par. 20); le FENU
financerait pour 3.3 millions de dollars EU. La participation de l'Etat
tchadien au financement de cette composante portera essentiellement sur la
prise en charge des depenses du personnel de l'administration centrale mis
A la disposition de la Cellule infrastructure-salubrite ou des services
municipaux A qui seront sous-contractes certainq travaux finances par le
projet; le coat en est actuellement chiffre a 100 millions de FCFA environ.
La municipalite s'est en outre engagee a assurer les frais d'entretien des
reseaux secondaire et tertiaire rehabilit4s, a partir de 1993 quand les
actions du projet seront terminees.
4.        Afin de mobiliser les ressources budgetaires necessaires pour
pouvoir assurer aprbs le projet la continuation des actions entreprises,
notamment collecte des ordures et nettoyage des canaux de drainage, la
fiscalite urbaine devra etre renforcee par les services municipaux de
N'Djamena. Apr6s la decision de ne pas proceder a la perception de taxes
de collecte ou de nettoyage, deux mesures devront etre mises en place en
parallele avec les actions de rehabilitation du reseau: (a) la perception
renforcee de taxes sur le marches renove par le projet, et (b) la creation
d'un syst6me de taxes sur la propriete b&tie ou non batie dans les zones
assainies, et cooperation avec un projet d'assistance aux services
municipaux et au Cadastre finance par le FAC (voir par. 21).
REHABILITATION DES INFRASTRUCTURES DE DRAINAGE
5.        La programmation des travaux (voir tableau 3.11 et la carte ci-
joints) est decrite dans le document redige par des consultants et intitule
"L'Annexe technique sur la composante Infrastructure du PADS", ce document
etant joint & cc Rapport d'evaluation, ainsi que le Rapport d'evaluation
prepare par le FENU pour sa composante. Les estimations decoulant du
phasage des travaux de rehabilitation de l'infrastru cture de drainage se
repartissent comme suit (en million dollars):



- 77 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 3 sur 22
ESTIMATIONS
Coat total                         Annee 1       Annee 2       Annee 3
Intervention du projet               1,7            3,6            1,7
Intervention sur 400 ha              1,7            4,6            3,7
Sur ces bases, les principes qui ont conduit A l'6tablissement du programme
joint en appendice (tableau 3.15) et qui permettront de fixer les criteres
de performance sont les suivants:
(a) repartition par annee compatible avec les possibilites de
supervision des entreprises locales;
(b) priorite A la mise en place de la "Cellule" (locaux mobilier,
vehicules, assistance);
(c) realisation des travaux primaires avant ceux des secondaires et
avant ceux des tertiaires;
(d) equilibrage dans le temps entre les travaux effectues au Nord et
au Sud de la zone du projet et celle idextifte par le FENU; et
(e) realisation, en rAgle generale, du primaire et des tertiaires
dans les mois precedant la saison des pluies, les fossos en
terre risquant en effet de se degrader s'ils sont effectuds trop
longtemps a l'avance, traitement du problbme des ordures
m6nag&res (voir par.13) de chaque quartier parallelement A la
realisation des reseaux secondaires.
Reseau primaire
6.        Bassin des Jardinievs - Ce marigot, oti aboutiront les reseaux
secondaires et tertiaires dont la rehabilitation est projetee devra etre
recalibre sur la totalite de sa longueur afin de pouvoir:
(a) collecter les eaux et les evacuer vers le Chari, lorsque
l'4coulement gravitaire est possible (jusqu'en septembre),
(b) stocker les precipitations des mois durant lesquels le niveau du
fleuve est plus haut que celui de l'exutoire du bassin
(essentiellement les averses du mois de septembre).
Des actions ponctuelles seront par ailleurs menees telles que:
(c) la reconstruction a 50 cm en dessous de son niveau actuel de
l'exutoire au Chari afin d'accelerer le debit d'evacuation des
eaux pluviales,



- 78 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 4 sur 22
(d)  la construction d'une tete de buse sur la rive Sud de l'ouvrage
de l'Avenue Mobutu.
(e)  l'amenagement des abords du marigot pour eviter la pollution
(actions de suivi social, par.16) et campagnes de d6sinfection
(par.15).
Vu les volumes de matdriaux a mettre en oeuvre (32.000 m3) et les
contraintes de delais de realisation, le recalibrage du marigot proprement
dit se fera & l'entreprise. Par contre, le surcreusement du canal de
sortie s'effectuera en regie par des techniques a haute intensite de main
d'oeuvre en regie. De plus, sur les bas-fonds du bassin, la population
pourra amenager des jardins a la dgcrue pour cultiver et mime
commercialiser des legumes (cette pratique actuelle sera regularisee dans
le cadre du suivi social, par. 16).
7.        Bassin d'Am Rikebe - Les travaux prdvus sur ce marigot ne visent
pas le mOme but que ceux du bassin precedent. En effet n'ayant pas d'exu-
toire naturel, ce collecteur doit Otre a mgme de stocker les precipitations
de l'ensemble d'une saison des pluies. Cette capacite ne pouvant Otre
trouvee dans la zone du perimetre du projet, il convient de prevoir un
etalement des eaux vers le Nord, au del& de la voie de contournement (hors
zone du projet). En consequence, les actions projetees visent simplement a
limiter la stagnation des eaux en redonnant une pente plus rdguliere au
Bassin. Ces travaux (9.000 m3 de terrassement) pourront faire appel a une
plus forte proportion d'interventions manuelles que sur le secteur des
Jardiniers.
Reseau secondaire
8.        Les techniques de realisation retenues sont un compromJs entre
les exigences de durabilite de ce reseau et la recherche d'une utilisation
des materiaux locaux (briques en particulier). Les briques produites de
maniere artisanale sont en effet de mauvaise qualite et posent le probleme
du combustible (bois). En consequence: (a) les caniveaux de plus de 80 cm
de large ont 4td prevus en b6ton arme; et (b) les caniveaux de moins de 80
cm de large seront construits avec un cadre Rb4ton arme' et parement brique
enduit. Des contraintes de credits ont empgch4 que l'on puisse couvrir
l'ensemble de ces ouvrages. Seuls ceux d'une largeur de plus de 0,90 m
recevront des dalles de couvertures ajourees.
9.        La longueur du reseau a construire se decompose ainsi:
(en metre lineaire)
proAet          evalue
-    Bassin versant des jardiniers
* Secondaire 1 (beton)               1,775         2,135
* Secondaire 2 (baton - brique)   1,560            2,550
-    Bassin versant d'Am Rikdbe



- 79 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 5 sur 22
* Secondaire 1 (b6ton)              3,180         6,620
*  Secondaire 2 (beton - brique)   6,355          8,745
Soit un total de 12,870 mbtres lineaires sur un total evalue de 20,300.
Resea.u tertiaire
1O.       Le reseau tertiaire est constitue de foss4s en terre realises
manuellement en regie. Sa longueur est de 55 km. Divers equipements
accompagnent ce reseau:
(a) buses de traversees de chaussees, mises en place par le
personnel en regie;
(b) tetes de buses en beton constru4tes par des PME;
(c) ouvrages d'acces aux proprietes riveraines pris en charge par
les proprietaires et poses aprbs demande d'autorisation au
Service de voirie.
I1 s'agira essentiellement de buses fabriquees par des ateliers de
quartiers experimentes A partir de l'annee 2. Ces ateliers pourraient etre
constitues avec l'assistance d'une ONG et eventuellement des programmes de
promotion de la micro-entreprise pr6vus dans le projet (voir Annexe 3-1).
ACTIONS D'ACCOMPAGNEMENT POUR AMELIORER L'IMPACT SOCIAL
11.       Contenu des actions a engager.  En ce qui concerne
l'amelioration de l'impact du programme de rehabilitation des
infrastructures de drainage sur la salubrite, l'amelioration de l'hygiene
publique, et le renforcement des retombees socio-economiques sur les
populations des quartiers consideres, les actions suivantes ont ete prevues
(voir tableau 3.12 ci-joint)s
(a) prevoir des programmes sp6cifiques pour faire beneficier en
priorite les travailleurs tchadiens des retombees economiques du
projet;
(b)  r6habilitation d'un marche (Chol6ra) du reseau d'Ovacuation des
eaux pluviales (drainage) avec une mise hors d'eau qui comprend
un niveau secondaire et tertiaire;
(c) mise en place d'un systeme de ramassage des ordures mOnageres
associant la population et les services municipaux;
(d)  realisation sur une partie des quartiers d'Am Rikebe et Hille-
Leclerc de travaux d'alimentation en eau potable et d'oclairage
public (Projet FEiIU);



- 80 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 6 sur 22
(e) promotion de l'usage des latrines par sensibilisation des
familles, assistance technique et financiere (projet FENU) et
perfectionnement des techniques de construction;
(f)  campagnes de demoustication afin de limiter les risques de
pollution que pourraient creer les eaux mal drainees et
stagnantes, en particulier dans les deux collecteurs de r6seau
primaire (les produits utilis6s devant respecter les normes de
protection de l'environnement); et
(g)  programmes specifiques de sensibilisation des populations aux
problames de salubrite et a leur participation pour ameliorer
leur environnement.
Pour renforcer d'une part la durabilite des investissements
d'infrastructure realises et d'autre part la replicabilite de ces actions
sur d'autres quartiers de la ville de N'Djamena, le projet se propose de
mettre en oeuvre un suivi social sur le terrain (encadre par une ONG), et
des actions vis&.t a associer des petites entreprises tchadiennes aux
travaux de drainage et faire beneficier au maximum les travailleurs locaux
des retombees de cette composante.
12.       Promotion de l'emploi local.  L'importance des travaux compar6e
aux capacites limitees de la plupart des PME tchadiennes ont conduit a
prevoir des procedures particulieres pour la realisation des reseaux afin
d'assurer une execution de travaux delicats et de faciliter leur
surveillance et controle. I1 faudra donc rechercher chaque fois que cela
est faisable: (a) des techniques de realisation I haute intensite de main-
d'oeuvre (voir le reseau primaire, par. 5); et (b) prevo'r des techniques
sp4cifiques et des clauses particulieres dans l'etablissement des dossiers
d'appels d'offre pour tenir compte des comp6tences et moyens financiers des
differents types de PME locales et promouvoir la sous-traitance. La
Cellule infrastructure-assainissement aura un rOle clef & jouer pour
s'assurer que cette promotion s'effectue avec le maximum de vigueur et
effectuer Iencedrement rapproche de ces entreprises.
13.       Mise hors d'eau du march6 de Cholera consistant a un drainage
des plateformes par des caniveaux couverts et une action du type
communautaire pour sensibiliser les commer,ants et les clients en general
sur la necessite de conserver la propretd du site, et notamment de nettoyer
les caniveaux. Ce programme a ete estime & 228 millions de FCFA.
14.       Collecte des ordures menageres.  Le systgme retenu consiste en
la mise en place d'une quarantaine de conteneurs repartis sur des zones-
pilote ainsi que sur la rive "Est" des marigots afin de preserver les
collecteurs primaires des dechets des populations. Une action soutenue de
sensibilisation des habitants des quartiers sera Egalement menee par une
ONG (dans le cadre du programme de suivi social et participation
communautaire, par.17) afin qu'ils s'astreignent I deverser leurs ordures
dans les conteneurs prevus & cet effet. La collecte sera assuree par 3



- 81 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 7 sur 22
camions multi-bennes qui seront acquis dans le cadre du projet; ils seront
utilises par les services de la Mairie suivant un cahier de charges a
negocier avec la Cellule infrastructure-assainissement. L'Oquipement
necessaire a ete evalue a 66 millions de FCFA. Un budget de fonctionnement
de ces camions chiffre a 10 millions de FCFA par an est reserve dans le
cadre du projet; il sera repris dans le budget de la Mairie en fin de
projet.
15.       Eau potable - Eclairage public.  Sur les quartiers Am Rikebe et
Hille Leclerc, une action de mise en place de bornes fontaines d'eau
potable et d'Xclairage public et de bouches a incendie sera menee dans le
cadre du Projet FENU pour un montant de 603 millions de FCFA.
L'installation de ces infrastructures sera contractees a la societe
nationale STEE; ce contrat exige la re-utilisation, pour developper des
installations semblables, de la partie du coat de ces installations qui est
recouve.te par la STEE. La gestion des bornes fontaines sera contractee a
des fontainiers qui vendront l'eau a un prix fix4; cette experience
poursuivra des experiences semblables conduites a N'Djamena sous
financement FAC.
16.       Promotion des latrines.  La situation actuelle est tres
prtoccupante pour l'hygiene publique en raison de risques de contamination
externe et de la nappe phreatique crees par les negligences des
communautes. I1 est donc important de diffuser des m6thodes de
construction de latrines privees qui soient satisfaisantes sur le plan
sanitaire et d'eduquer les gens a leur utilisation. Pour faciliter cette
promotion, le projet sur financement FENU avec un encadrement fourni par
l'ONG fournira aux menages A faibles moyens les materiaux a titre gratuit
et l'assistance pour la construction. Le menage selectionne slengagera a
fournir le complement en nature correspondant a la main d'oeuvre. Une
latrine cofterait en moyenne 100,000 FCFA (ou 33 dollars US equivalent); la
partie serait egale a 202 du coftt total du projet.
17.       Demoustication.  La retention des eaux dans les Bassins des
Jardiniers (septembre a decembre) et d'Am Rikebe (juillet a janvier) est de
nature a favoriser la pollution et particulierement, la proliferation des
moustiques. Une action de traitement des eaux stagnantes est donc prevue
dans le projet pour une somme de 13 millions de FCFA. Elle sera executde
par le service d'hygiene de la Mairie. De plus dans le cadre du suivi
social, on aura un programme cible sur le maintien de la salubrite des deux
marigots (respect des collecteurs d'ordures, plantation d'arbres, aires de
jeux pour enfants, et amenagement de jardins potagers dans les bas-fonds).
Les produits utilises devront atre conformes aux normes requises par l'IDA
ou 1'OMS en matibre de protection de l'environnement.
18.       Suivi sociul et participatioa communautaire.  Pour appuyer les
equipes des services d'hygiene et de travaux communautaires de quartiers
deja existantes bien qu'encore embryonnaires, une ONG ayant une tras bonne
connaissance de ce type d'approche sociale devra travailler pendant les 3
annEes du projet en liaison avec la population et la "Cellule



- 82 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 8 sur 22
infrastructure-assainissement' nouvellement crdee; elle devra aussi
collaboree avec l'INSH -Institut national de sciences humaines- recemment
renforce par un programme d'assistance de la Suisse et qui sera associ4e
aux 6tudes sur le terrain. L'ONG retenue en raison de son experience des
travaux s.milaires, si le contrat est satisfaisant pour le Gouvernement et
l'IDA, mbnera en parallle des niveaux d'interventions en support direct
avec les actions d'amelioration des conditions de salubrite et d'hygibne
publique qui sont menees par le projet et deja decrites ci-dessus, en
particulier:
respect des dep8ts d'ordures,
appui aux services d'hygi&ne (am6lioration et
construction de latrines privees et respect des
latrines publiques).
rehabilitation et respect d'espaces publics (latrines
publiques, reamenagement des marches, plantations
d'a-bres).
creation, dans les quartiers, d'ateliers de
fabrication et de vente de buses d'entr6es de
concession,
entretien des canaux de drainage tertiaire,
*    amelioration de la salubrite de l'habitat
Le suivi social avec participation communautaire devrait se derouler durant
les trois premieres annees du projet.  La programmation se fera sur une
base annuelle en fonction de l'evolution des besoins et de leur
identification et bien str des financements disponibles. Les experiences
tir6es de ce suivi social seront utilisees pour ameliorer la prdparation
des programmes cibies sur les grcupes urbains vulnerables, a commencer par
ceux de N'Djamena.
PROGRAMME DE RECHERCHE SUR LES GROUPES VULNERABLES EN MILIEU URBAIN
19.       La quatribme composante sur les politiques sociales (voir Annexe
3-4) inclut des actions qui sont directement utiles pour mieux cibler les
futurs programmes sur les groupes vulnerables. Ces derniers devraient atre
identifies grAce aux enquOtes legeres en milieu urbain, les etudes socio-
economiques sur la capacite des menages a payer pour la couverture de leurs
besoins essentiels, et l'analyse de politique sur l'allocation des
ressources publiques pour les services de base.   Pour les conditions de
vie urbaines, notamment la satisfaction des besoins essentiels, en plus des
frais pour la sante mentionnes en Annexe 3-2, les etudes se concentreront a
partir des enquetes sur les conditions de vie des menages (a) sur l'acc6s
aux infrastructures urbaines dont l'eau potable en etudiant simultanement



- 83 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 9 sur 22
l'impact des tarifications sur les besoins des familles (cette tarification
va &tre revisee avec la restructuration du secteur public et avec
l'exp6rimentation des bornes fontaines, para.15); et (b) sur les conditions
d'habitat urbain (pour ies categories a revenu modeste) afin de definir des
strategies d'amelioration qui tiennent compte des disponibilites
financibres des menages bien sar.
20.       Comme pour les autres composantes du projet, le Sous-Comite
charge des infrastructures urbaines et de la salubrite et le Comite
Interministeriel charge de superviser les programmes PADS devront dans un
rapport annuel sur le projet tirer les le,ons de l'execution de cette
composante sur le drainage et la salubrite, combinees aux resultats des
programmes d'etudes et rccherches. Au bout des trois ans de projet, ils
pourront definir un programme d'actions pour prendre la suite de ceux du
projet et viser les plus vulnerables. Un element important dans la
definition de ce programme sera de tirer les lecons des experiences du PADS
pour definir un type d'intervention qui soit replicable et pouvant atre
financ4 et generalise avec les moyens disponibles au Tchad. Pour preparer
ces recommandations annuelles, le Comite sous l'impulsion du Ministere de
l'am6nagement du territoire, habitat et urbanisme -MATUH- et avec le
concours de la Mairie de N'Djamena, organisera des seminaires et groupes de
travail ad-hoc pour discuter des resultats des interventions du projet et
des autres actions menees en milieu urbain par les services publics, les
ONG, ou tout autre organisation concernee.
ADMINISTRATION, COORDINATION ET SUIVI DE LA COMPOSANTE
21.       Suivant le schema des autres composantes (voir Annexe 4-1) et
pour exscuter les travaux de cette composante, il sera cree dans le cadre
du projet, une cellule d'exdcution dite Cellule infrastructure -
assainissement (voir table 3.14 ci-joint), plac4e sous la tutelle technique
des services competents du MATUH et celle financiere et comptable de la
Cellule de coordination et de soutien du projet. La Cellule
infrastructure-assainissement sera d'une facon gendrale le maitre d'oeuvre
de l'enspmble des actions prevues dans cette composante du projet et par le
projet finance par le FENU.  Elle sera responsable par delegalion partielle
de certains des pouvoirs en matiere de procedures detenus par les
Ministeres techniques comme celui des travaux publics et de l'am6nagement
du territoire:
(a)  de l'ex6cution des programmes d'equipement finances par le FENU;
(b) de la pr4paration des dossiers d'appel d'offres, de
l'evaluation des offres, de la liaison avec les
services responsables des marches, de la passation des
marches et du suivi du circuit d'approbation;
(c)  du contrOle de l'execution des marches et de la conformitd des
depenses engagees;



- 84 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 10 sur 22
(d)  de l'etablissement et de la certiF1cation des etats de depenses
et du suivi de la liquidatior;
(e) de la coordination de son programme avec celui execute par l'ONG
en charge du suivi social (par. 17);
(f) de la promotion, encadrement et suivi des travaux
effectues par les petits entrepreneurs des T.P.
locaux;
(g) de gerer les cahiers de charge negocies avec les
services municipaux et des autres contrats, notamment
pour les adductions d'eau et d'electricite.
(h) d'etablir des normes annuelles d'execution des travaux
permettant un concr6le mensuel de leur avancement et
de mieux preparer les programmes d'action annuels a
transmettre au Comite Interministeriel.
L'ONG, dont le plan d'execution est resume au tableau 3.12, suivra les
procedures et regles de gestion et de programmation des agences d'execution
explicit4es a l'Annexe 4.1.
21.       Cela implique les actions suivantes;
- Au Plar. Technique
Verification technique des dossiers d'appel d'offre
(D.A.O.) prisent4s par le consultant,
Analyse technique des offres, selon les procedures
applicables aux investissements finances par le
projet,
Coordination technique avec les bailleurs de fonds et
les departements de tutelle,
Surveillance et prise en attachement des travaux
(dra:nage-eau potable et eclairage public (projet
FENU)) confies aux entreprises, pour un montant de 1
milliard de FCFA environ sur 3 ans,
Conduite des travaux ex4cut4s en regie ou surveillance
des travaux en regie executes par un autre service
public (Voirie Municipale par exemple),
Verification de la supervision technique des petites
entreprises adjudicataires des marches,



- 85 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 11 sur 22
Suivi des actions pour promouvoir la creation
d'emplois locaux,
Surveillance de la collecte des ordures menageres et
gestion du materiel (camions et conteneurs) mis &
disposition et effectuee par les services municipaux
competents.
Suivi de la mise en place du programme de traitement
des eaux stagnantes (programme anti-moustique) par les
services de l'hygiene publique,
Siivi du programme de sensibilisation des populations
aux problOmes d'hygiene (notamment l'utilisation des
conteneurs a ordures et a nettoyer les caniveaux) qui
sera pris en charge par une ONG; on y ajoutera des
conseils techniques aux populations pour les
constructions de latrines.
Supervision du contrat avec la STEE pour la promotion
des bornes fontaines gerees par des contractuels et
extension du reseau d'eclairage public.
- Au plan administratif et financier
*    Etablissement un systeme de comptabilite compatible
avec celui de la Cellule de coordination et de soutien
du projet et des rapports d'activite de cette 'compo-
sante",
Actualisation des programmes d'actions annuels avec criteres de
performance pour approbation par la Direction de tutelle
(Cadastre), le Sous-Comite des infrastructures et de la
salubrite et l'Association,
Gestion des marches et etablissement des decomptes.
La mise en oeuvre du projet necessiterait la passation
de 20 a 30 contrats sur la duree du projet,
Embauche et paiement du personnel paye en regie (650
hommes mois/an),
Supervision et gestion des contrats avec les services
municipaux,
Gestion du paiement du personnel en rdgie,
Mise en place d'une comptabilitd generale de la
composante,



- 86 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 12 sur 22
Mise en place d'une comptabilite analytique de la
composante,
Suivi des actions de promotior. (projet FENU) en faveur
des latrines et des bornes fontaLnes.
22.       Pour permettre la Cellule infrastructure-assainissement de
fonctionner convenablement, differentes actions doivent Otre entrepr.ises:
(a)  Rehabilitation de locaux - Cela implique que le siege de cette
Cellule soit precise, un bAtiment public a rehabiliter choisi, un
architecte choisi pour la preparation du dossier technique de
rehabilitation des locaux, et un appol d'offre pr4pard pour la
consultation des entreprises. Compte tenu de l'urgence des travaux
de rehabilitation de ces bAtiments, ce volet du programme a 4t4 lance
sur fonds d'avance (PPF);
(b) Equipement - L'equipement des locaux en mobilier, machines a ecrire,
ordinateur, telephone et fournitures diverses devra etre en place
lors du demarrage de la Cellule. De mOme les moyens de deplacement
du personnel (2 voitures et 4 motos) devront avoir ete commandes et
livres sur fonds d'avance;
(c) Personnel - La structure est indique dans l'organigramme ci-joint.
Il est articule autour de cinq fonctions: travaux a l'entreprise,
travaux en regie, salubrite, topographie, et affaires administratives
et financieres. Tandis que tout le personnel local a ete transfere
des services actuels, l'assistance technique sera constituee d'un
ingenieur principal pour assister le Directeur de la Cellule et d'un
chef des travaux experimente pour le suivi des petits chantiers.
23.       Comme pou_: les autres composantes, la Cellule infrastructure-
assainissement devra preparer des rapports techniques semestriels a
transmettre au Sous-Comite et au Conseil Interministeriel selon les
procedures decrites & l'Annexe 4-1. Les rapports mensuels sur la
realisation des criteres de performance retenus dans le programme annuel
seront transmis a la Cellule de coordination et de soutien du projet. Les
rapports semestriels seront transmis par l'intermediaire du Directeur du
cadastre au MXATUH; ils integreront toutes les activites, y compris celles
executees par l'ONG et donneront le degre de realisation des travaux par
rapport aux criteres de performance fixes l'annee precedente. Ces rapports
seront examines par le Sous-Comite technique ad-hoc, ce dernier se
concentrant surtout pour les rapports en fin d'annee, sur les conditions de
mise en place des programmes afin d'en deduire des recommandations pour le
Comite Interministeriel qui doit en outre discuter les recommandations
possibles pour les strategies d'amelioration des conditions de vie urbaine.
Dans ce contexte, ii organisera des groupes de travail (dans le cadre des
actions de soutien aux politiques sociales, voir annexe 3-4) reunissant
toutes les personaes interessees, y compris les ONG, afin de comparer leurs



- 87 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 13 sur 22
experiences avec celles du projet. qui comprend non seulement les actions
sur le terrain mais les resultats des enquetes et recherches. Cette
reunion sera importante apres trois ans de projet pour discuter la suite A
donner aux actions poursuivies et definir des acrions reproductibles et
financables a grande echelle.   Les themes que l'on peut proposer a ce
stade recouvrent:
(a)  la premiere annee, le ramassage des ordures et la
sensibilisation des communautes A la salubrite de leur quartier;
(b)  la deuxieme annee, l'entretien des canaux de drainage, l'usage
des latrines et la consommation d'eau potable (en liaison avec
l'etude sur l'eau;
(c)  la troisieme annee, l'organisation collective pour assurer la
proprete des lieux communs, et la promotion de la construction
(PME locale et financement de l'habitat, suite au rapport sur ce
theme).
24.       Recouvrement des cotts.  Un des buts du projet est de mettre en
oeuvre des programmes qui soient reproductibles sans creer des charges
inacceptables pour les ressources publiques. Pour des raisons de
praticabilit4 immediates, on a renonce a developper un systeme de
recouvrements des coats par imposition de taxes municipales specifiques A
part celles prelevees sur les marches. Neanmoins, un systeme de releves
cadastraux pour faciliter la perception des taxes foncieres sur la
propriete bktie et non-batie va Otre developpe avec l'assistance technique
du FAC. Les services municipaux ont estime que les recettes fiscales qui
pouvaient Otre percues sur la zone du projet pourraient s'elever & 115
millions de FCFA (en francs 1989) pour la taxe sur les marches (on preleve
12Z de ce montant actuellement) et 210 millions environ & partir de l'imp6t
foncier. Les coats recurrents crees par le projet -euvent Otre
grossierement estimes A partir des depenses de fonctionnement du projet, en
excluant les salaires de l'assistance technique etrangere. En combinant
les frais occasionnes par la Cellule Infrastructure (environ 50 millions de
FCFA par an), la collecte des ordures (50 millions), la demoustication (5
millions), et le suivi social (15 millions), on aboutit a un budget
recurrent de 120 million^ de FCFA qui devrait pouvoir Otre largement
couvert par les taxes locales si elles sont percues avec un minimum de
discipline.
COMPOSITION DE LA CELLULE INFRASTRUCTURE-ASSAINISSEMENT -
DESCRIPTION DE POSTE
25.       Pour faire face a cette mission, l'organisation illustree par
l'organigramme joint (tabieaux 3.13 et 3.14) a ete prevue. La description
sommaire gi-dessous ont servi de canevas a la pr;paration des termes de
reference detailles, plans de travail (notamment pour la premibre annee) et
contrats de;j finalises.



- 88 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 14 sur 22
Direction : 1 Directeur
avec pour fonctions:
-    d'assurer pendant la duree du projet la direction technique de
toutes les actions entreprises sur le volet "Infrastructure", et
-    de rendre compte periodiquement A la Cellule de coordination et
de soutien du projet et au Departement de Tutelle de l'etat
d'avancement du projet, de programmer les travaux et de veiller
a leur bonne execution, en conformite avec le plan global
approuve aux negociations du projet et les criteres de
performance adoptes chaque annee avec le budget
et pour qualifications;
-    Otre un ingenieur de conception (5 ans d'experience minimum),
-    avec une experience dans la gestion des marches, la comptabilite
publique et les techniques de travaux genie civil en general, et
-    Otre dote d'une bonne connaissance du fonctionnement d'une
Administration Publique, et une connaissance en informatique
serait souhaitable.
Services Travaux: 2 Ingenieurs
2 Conducteurs
ayant pour fonctions:
-    d'assurer la surveillance et le ccntr8Vl  des travaux de
dra; tage, eau potable, eclairage public (Projet FENU) confies a
l'entreprise et la Direction technique des travaux en r6gie.
et pour qualifications:
-    d'@tre des ing6nieurs de travaux ayant une bonne experience de
la surveillance des travaux & l'entreprise, une bonne
connaissance des marches et une competence en "Genie Civil"
confirmee, et d'etre capables d'organiser et d'encadrer des
equipes de travailleurs pour des travaux de terrassement.
-    d'@tre des conducteurb de travaux possedant de bonnes
connaissances des ouvrages de genie civil, sachant
effectuer des m6tres et avec des connaissances en
topographie souhaitees, et aussi diriger des equipes
de terrassement manuels.
Service Topographigue - 1 Geometre
1 Aide
Le Geometre aura pour fonctions:
-    d'implanter des travaux a executer en r6gie (tertiaire) et
d'assister les PME pour l'implantation et la bonne execution des
travaux sur les reseaux secondaires,



- 89 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 15 sur 22
et pour qualificatlons:
-    etre experimente sachant effectuer tous leves et reports
topographiques (nivellement - planimetrie) et avec des qualites
pedagogiques confirmees.
Services Administratif et Financier - 1 Administrateur Civil Adjoint
1 Commis Comptable
1 SecrEtaire
avec pour fonctions:
-    le mandatement des travaux a l'entreprise,
2    l'exploitation de la comptabilite generale et analytique du
volet nInfrastructure",
-    la gestion du personnel,
-    les negociations et la redaction de petits contrats (ex:
fournitures de bureaux, mobilier),
-    la liquidation des paiements.
et pour qualifications:
-    3tre un administrateur civil adjoint avec de bonnes
connaissances des marchOs et de la comptabilite
publique, de la formation a la geseion de personnel et
une connaissance ou des predispositions & 1'
informatique souhaitees.
-    Atre un commis comptable, age-t d'exdcution ayant d4j&
des comnaik.ances des comptabilitds publiques et des
predispositions ou connaissances de travail sur micro-
ordinateur, et de bonnes connaissances en
dactylogrephie.
-    etre une secretaire avec une bonne pratique de la
dactylographie, une connaissance ou predisposition au
traitement de texte, et une expErience du classement.
Assistance Technique - 1 Ingenieur Principal
- 1 Chef des Travaux
L'Ingenieur Principal devra assurer (a) la gestion des marches (depuis le
lancement des consultations, evaluation technique des offres, mises au
point des marches, reception des travaux, jusqu'& l'etablissement du
decompte definitif), (b) la mise sur pied d'une comptabilite et de
procedures de mandatement, (c) le suivi des ONG, (d) maintenir le contact
avec la Cellule de Coordination et de Soutien du projet et assurer la
preparation des rapports d'activitE, et (e) la formation des ingenieurs et
agents tchadiens. Pour cette derniere tAche, il definira avec chacun des
membres de la Cellule un plan in"2.viduel de recyclage en cours de formation
lui permettant d'acquerir les capacites professionnelles qui lui font
defaut pour participer aux activites du PADS avec le maximum d'efficacite.



- 90 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 16 sur 22
Les qualifications de cet ingenieur seront celles d'un Ing4nieur Municipal
ou des travaux publics, avec 10 ans d'experience en matiere de travaux de
genie civil, et une exp6rience confirmee en marches publics, en
comptabilite publique des travaux de genie civil et en gestion municipale,
des connaissances informatiques (traitement de texte et tabulation)
indispensables.
Le Chef des Travaux aura a assurer le conseil et l'aide aux ingEnieurs des
travaux loca4x pour:
-    la surveillance et la prise en at.._achement des travaux
-    les travaux topographiques
-    l'encadrement du personnel en regie
-    la promotion des PME et leur encadrement
-    la formation du personnel.
Ses qualifications seront celles d'un Chef de travaux confirme dans la
surveillance des travaux du genie civil (10 ans) notamment de petites
entr3prises de T.P.avec des connaissances topographiques qui sont
essentielles.
25.     En ce qui concerne les services a fournir par la Mairie de
N'Djamena pour assurer l'exscution de la composante du ramassage des
ordures, le personnel qui devra etre contracte sera le suivant:
Services de Salubrite - 1 Ingenieur
1 Technicien d'Assainissement
1 Surveillant
2 & 4 Chauffeurs camions
3 & 9 Eboueurs
avec pour fonctions:
-    d'aider au nettoyage des quartiers et plus generalement a la
salubrite des quartiers,
-    d'aider les populations pour la construction de latrines par le
PENU, et
-    de suivre l'action des ONG dans les quartiers et de la
coordonner avec les travaux effectues par la Cellule.
et pour qualifications:
-    Otre un ingenieur connaissant la gestion, ayant le sens de
l'organisation et du service public, avec des connaicsances
generales des problemes dthygi&ne.
-    Otre un technicien d'assainissement connaissant les
techniques d'assainissement individuel et la lutte
anti-larvaire.
-    Otre un surveillant-chef d'Xquipe charge de la
surveillance des chauffeurs et eboueurs de la collecte
des ordures.



- 91 -
ANNEXE 3-3
Page 17 sur 22
26.       En ce qui concerne le nettoyage periodique des caniveaux & la
fois secondaires et tertiaires, le- rervices seront contractes aux services
de la voirie de la Municipalitd qri seront responsables du recrutement des
journaliers responsables du nettoyage. Des proc6dures (travaux en r4gie)
satisfaisantes pour 1'Association ser,nt mises en place par la Cellule
Infrastucture-assainissement. Cette derni6re en collaboration avec la
voirie et l'ONG expdrimentera des methodes de participation volontaire des
communautes A la salubrite de ces caniveaux, en particulier a la vbeille de
la saison des pluies.
b:annes3 3 (grl)



Table 3.11:  VCWOM    T TO DIPROVE SANITATION IN N'DJAe4A
CALeFOM OF ACTIVrTiEs
Calendar Year:              Pm           I               Firt Year                   I       Second6             Third          Fourth  I Fifth
4TR:                                          2                     4         1   2    3   4 2    1   2    3   4
ACTIONSI                                        
_    .1XI                                                                                          I                                     I                     I
I) REABIL-TATINO 11RASTRJCTWI
Preparatory mionen
I         I          I           I         I          I           I                   I                   I          iI
.xacuting Unit                         I          I |
Technical assistanc  */  I           |                                                                                               l    I           I             I
Local ataff                I         I                                                                                               I          i
Officae s                            I          I _                              I           I                   I                   I          I          I
Civil works ( on attached)             I l                    I         I          I           I                   I                   l          I          I
.pri.ry                     I          I          I                     I          I          I                    I                   I          I
.aeadary                   I         I          I           I         I          I                              _                    l
tertiary                  I          I          I          I          I             _                                                      i               I
mrket altosl                                    ll                    l          l                       
Assi-taneo to s*11
.nterpriote                                         - - - ___________________I__________________________ -_   __ ____-
I         I          I           I         I          I           I                   I                   I          I          I
Programs Report                                   I   I   R  I          I          I  R        I    R          R   I              R
Semins n                                          I           I         I          I           I |                 I              S    I          IO
Evaluation                                        I I  I      I         I          I  E        I              El             E                    I
1 I
a/ One engineer and oan head foreemn.
B.Tabl-311.wkl (arl)



-         -     -
-      -   -   -   -   -   -   - ? -   -   -   -   -   -! -      
-- -- -- -- --  -- r- -- - 
U  u;1.         I- - -     -.          - I          
r~~~ ~ ~                                               t.*:  F
-     - -     - -     - -2   --
-    -          -  -  -               -.g-      -  
------I---I  ---
__  __  ____
I~ ~ ~~~~I               '
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-~~~~~~ -6  -



- 94 -                  ANNEXE 3-3
Page 20 sur 22
Tableau 3.13s GESTION DE LA COMPOSANTE
AMELIORATION DE LA SALUBRITE A N'DJAMENA
COMITE INTERMINISTERIEL                     MINISTERE DU PLAN
Sous-Comite pour les infra-
structures d'assainissement
CELLULE DE
_   -                       ~~~~~~~~COdRDINATION
DU PRO JET
|Tutelle Technique|
MATUH
SUIVI SOCIAL                          E D'EXECUTION
INFRASTRUCTURE -
Assistance d'une ONG                     (VOIR TABLEAU JOINT
* 1 Technicien (AT)
* 2 Agents Sociaux
. 3-6 Animateurs de terrain
. Assistance & la demande
. Appui de 1'INSH
.Services de            PROJET
la Mairie              FENU
Accord  contrac-         I
tuel pour le ra-    Repres.-Resid.
massage des            du PNUD
ordures
APPUI A LA POLITIQUE URBAINE       . Contrats pour les
travaux en regie
. Enquetes legares sur la
condition de vie des
menages
. Etude sur l'acc&s aux
services sociaux de base
. Etude sur les tarifs et
cofts de recouvrement et
les menages urbains
bssalub (grl)



Tableau 3.14: ORGANIGRAMME DE LA CELLULE DE SUIVI TECHNIQUE DU PROJET: CELLULE INFRASTRUCTURE
M IINISTRE DU PLAN
Tejcelqe            IILLLUE DE GESTION Dll P.A.D.S.|
.~~ ~ ~ ~~                           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            C   
Assistance Technique 1                                               D     teu                       Assistance Technique
1           I~I -                                    Lg 1Cellule Infrastructure   3    _
1 Ingenieur Prinoipal                                                                                 1 Ingenieur Travaux
Service Administratif
et Financier
1 Administrateur Civil i
1 Adjoint
1 Commis
Secretaire
- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _               I                             -  ._ _ _ _ _
Servtice de Salubrit4            Service Travaux              Service Topographique            Service  Travaux
(a soUs contracter)                 1'entreprise                                                    en re'ie
1 Ing6nieur
I Ing6nieur                     I G0orn:ere                    1 Inernieur
1 Technicien                     Genie Civil                                                      TeIi:e Civ,il
-d'Assainiissement1   ie
1 Conducteur                         Aie                       1 Conducteur
1 Surveillant                     de Travaux                                                     de Trav7aux   o z
2a4 Chauffeurs                                                                                                  z21
3  9 Eboueurs         ._ __ ___
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



EClltIIE
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hu2 PADS .1I r. Urbamres
go  bm.ie EBs. Vers .                                                                                               Plon de phos age
.    o5usB.-V.                                                                                                   des rrjvc>Ux
l          ~~~~~~Rue des3Om. B'e30/-lom BiO85/Hille Leclerc    Ridino Nord- Ridino 5ud      RogouMo Diemol  |Sobongali  |
1loch D1  g    Wuc                                                                W                  S
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
ItI AH i ...............,'i.i,. HI. An......................................d
ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,rW



- 97 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 1 sur 12
TCHAD
PROJET D'ACTIONS POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT SOCIAL
PLAN D'ACTION POUR LE SOUTIEN A LA FORMULATION DES POLITIQUES SOCIALES
1.        Obiectifs.  Cette composante regroupe l'ensemble des mesures
reparties sur cinq ans pour commencer de mettre en oeuvre le Projet
national sur les dimensions sociales de l'ajustement (Projet national DSA).
Ce Projet vise a assister le gouvernement tchadien a developper des
capacites locales d'analyse et de conception pour ameliorer (a)
l'information sociale de base, (b) la preparation de politiques plus
coherentes dans les secteurs sociaux et de developpement des ressources
humaines, et (c) l'identification et le ciblage de mesures
d'accompagnement visant a faire face, dans l'immediat, aux besoins urgents
dus aux r6cents evenements et a la dimension sociale des programmes
d'ajustement et de restructuration et, a plus long terme, a une plus grande
participation des groupes vulnerables aux fruits de la croissance, a une
meilleure couverture des besoins essentiels et a la lutte contre les
phenomenes de pauvrete.
2.        Les objectifs specifiques retenus dans le cadre de ce projet
sont les suivants:
(a) Identifier les besoins immediats en matiere de services sociaux
d4truits ou abandonnes au cours des dvenements recents, et qui
ne peuvent Otre pris en compte dans des projets sectoriels de
rehabilitation en cours ou deja prevus;
(b) Aider le gouvernement a attenuer les impacts negatifs possibles
des programmes d'ajustement en cours et futurs concernant, dans
l'immediat, la restructuratlon des depenses budgetaires
courantes, du secteur public et de la filiere coton;
(c)  Completer les actions concretes entreprises cans le projet par
un programme d'enquetes, etudes et recherches cible pour
permettre de mieux identifier les groupes vulnerables et
preparer des strat6gies coherentes & long terme.
3.        Pour faciliter la realisation -5e cep  ^hiectifs, le Plan d'action
de cette composante, qui est decrit dans le document de Projet national DSA
joint a ce Rapport d'evaluation, s'articule autour de trois programmes; ces
derniers ne pourront s'executer que sur une periode d'environ cinq ans au
lieu des trois ans prevus pour les autres composantes et ce a cause du
programme -EnquOte intdgr#e des menages- qui ne d6marrera que deux a trois
ans aprbs le debut du pro'et et exigera trois ans minimum avant de devenir
pleinement operationnel. Ces trois programmes sont les suivants:
(a) Programme d'appui a la formulation de mesures de politique
sociale.



- 98 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 2 sur 12
(b) Programme d'etudes socio-economiques afin de fournir une base
d'analyse pour l'elaboratioa et la mise en oeuvre de la
politique sociale.
(c)  Programme d'enquetes, dans un premier temps ldg6res sur les
conditions de vie des menages en zones rurales (region de
culture du coton) et en zones urbaines (pour trois villes -
Moundou, Abeche et N'Djamena -) et dans un deuxieme temps par la
mise en place de l'enqu@te integree sur les conditions de vie
des menages.
4.        Les montants financiers requis par cette composante ont ete
evalues a 1.1 milliards de FCFA, y compris les provisions pour risques et
inflation, equivalant a 3.7 millions de dollars EU courants. De ce total,
on comptc 130 millions de FCFA pour les enquOtes l6gbres, 480 millions de
FCFA pour les enquetes integrees, 250 millions de FCFA pour les etudes
socio-economiques, et 220 millions de PCFA pour l'appui aux analyses de
politique. La ceatribution locale se compose du personnel des services
participant, en temps partiel, aux enquetes et etudes economiques et les
locaux & rdam4nager en bureaux; la valeur financibre de cet apport n'a pas
4te evaluee.
5.        Pour la periode du projet, on a suggere d'orienter le programme
de soutien a la formulation de politiques et d'actions de support selon
cinq themes principaux:
(a) Securite alimentaire. L'objectif est d'identifier, aux niveaux des
zones & risque de ruptures d'approvisionnement et ensuite des menages
A faible revenu (urbains, petits fermiers et eleveurs) et donc
vulnerables pour satisfaire les besoins nutritionnels, les variations
saisonnieres et anvuelles, et les structures de consommation en
fonction du type de ressources et du statut des membres (notammer.t
les femmes enceintes et les nourissons), afin de definir des
programmes pouvant ameliorer les capacites d'assurer un
approvisionnement plus stable et au moindre coat.
(b) Conditions de vie en zones rurales, notamment productrices de coton.
L'objectif est (a) d'analyser les structures des revenus, en
particulier pour les petits producteurs dans les zones A productivite
marginale, l'impact de la restructuration de la filibre coton; et (b)
de mieux comprendre le comportement des menages et leurs structures
de consommation.  On devra d6boucher sur des recommandations
d'actions visant a ameliorer les conditions de vie des populations
rurales les plus marginalisees.
(c) Conditions de vie des m6nages en zone urbaine. L'objectif est
d'identifier et d'analyser les caracteristiques et comportements des
populations a bas revenus (groupes vulnerables) dans les zones
urbaines. L'etude se penchera en particulier sur les conditions de
vie de ces groupes en accordant une attention particulibre aux



- 99 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 3 sur 12
handicappes physiques, femmes chefs de famille et jeunes
descolarises, sans-emploi et %ns-abri. L'etude identifiera les
groupes-cibles atteignables par des actions a court terme qui
pourraient ameliorer leur situation, notamment pour l'emploi et les
activites generatrices de revenus.
(d) Revenus des menages et utilisation des services sociaux. L'objectif
est d'aider A la definition d'une politique de recouvrement des coats
qui prenne en compte la necessite d'assurer aux groupes a faibles
revenus un acces A un certain nombre de services sociaux de base. Ce
th&me couvrira plus particulibrement la sante (soins de base,
medicaments essentiels), 1l'ducation primaire et la formation
professionnelle, l'acces & l'eau potable et les problames lies aux
conditions de logement.
(e) D4veloppement de ressources A partir de micro-activites productives.
La definition d'un strategie de soutien aux micro-activites du
secteur prive devrait atre inclure les aspects legaux d'encadrement
et de promotion des petites entreprises, les secteurs porteurs et les
moyens d'y interesser les entrepreneurs prives, et les problemes
rencontrds par les tout petits entrepreneurs actuels pour developper
leurs activites tout en assurant les besrins de leurs familles.
Enguetes idg6res sur les menages ruraux et %.rbains
6.        Quatre enqu#tes ont ete selectionnees pour les trois premibres
annees du projet. Elles utiliseront la methodologie mise au point pour
l'enquOte legere des menages de N'Djamena r6alisee en avril 1988 et publiAe
en ao0t 1989 (jointe au rapport); il est A noter que cette m6thodologie
sera ajustee pour tenir compte des problames qu'a pose son application sur
N'Djamena en ce qui concerne le tirage de l'echantillon des menages (voir
l'annexe au document de Projet national DSA ci-joint). Ces enquOtes seront
la responsabilite de la Direction des statistiques (DSEED), sous la tutelle
financiere de la Cellule de coordination et de soutien du projet. Le Sous-
Comite charge de superviser cette composante (Sous-Comite DSA) decidera de
la liste annuelle des enquOtes a ex4cuter, et confirmera leurs termes de
reference dans le cadre du plan annuel adopte par le Comite
Interministeriel et en accord avec l'Association; le Directeur general du
plan finalisera les termes de reference avec le concours eventuel de la
Cellule de coordination du prajet. Le Sous-Comite DSA sera egalement
responsable de l'utilisation des resultats des enqugtes.
7.        La premi6re enqu6te retenue par le projet concerne les
conditions de vie des menages dans les zones rurales. Elle doit mesurer
les liens entre revenus et structures de production et les possibilitos
d'amdliorer l'efficacite a produire du coton (restructuration de la filibre
coton) et A diversifier les cultures. On mettra l'accent sur les problemes
affectant les petits producteurs et leurs ramilles, y compris la securitO
alimentaire, les impacts sociaux en termes de revenus et de disponibiliteb
pour couvrir les besoins essentiels. Ces impacts restent mal connus et



- 100 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 4 sur 12
peuvent en outre varie.- enormement par sous-zones de productivite
differentielle, taille et categorie d'exploitation. Compte tenu des
travaux en cours sur cette zone et r6alis6s par la DSEED et le Bureau des
statistiques agricoles (BSA), cette enqugte pourrait Otre preparee par ces
deux m6mes organismes et demarree sur le terrain d6s la premiere annee.
Ses r6sultats seront disponibles aprtts un an; ils seront analyses dans un
groupe de traveil. Pour la preparation de recommandations de politiques et
d'actions, le projet a inclus son appui sous forme d'une etude socio-
economique (par. 11) et d'une assistance pour definir des actions
ponctuelles visant les plus vulnerables des menages concernes (par. 15).
8.        Les trois autres enqugtes concernent les conditions de vie des
menages de Moundou, d'Abeche, et N'Diamena. Ces enquetes seront realisees
en fonction du programme de travail de la DSEED qui sera occupee avec les
travaux sur le terrain du Recensement de la population prevus sur la
periode 1990-91. Neanmoins, il sera possible, utilisant la logistique mise
en place pour le Recensement, d'effectuer les releves aupres des menages
pour Moundou (compl4tant ainsi l'impact sur la zone urbaine de la
restructuration de la filiere coton), pour Abeche et N'Djamena ot il
permettra de comparer l'evolution des conditions de vie par rapport a la
premiere enquete offrant ainsi la possibilite d'evaluer l'amelioration dans
les inega'ites de revenus ou d'acces aux services sociaux. L'ensemble de
ces enquetes seront utilisees pour nourrir, entre autres, des enquetes
socio-economiques financees par le projet (voir par. 11). Les
questionnaires seront adaptes pour mieux saisir les problemes de securit6
alimentaire et acces aux services sociaux de base au niveau des menages
urbains.
Enqu#te intdgr4e sur les conditions de vie des mAnages
9.        Cette enquete permettra au Tchad de disposer d'un outil
performant de collecte de donnees de toute nature sur les menages, en
particulier pour identifier les groupes-cible ou vulnerables (c'est-a-dire
les plus affectes par leas  ctions de politique et des Avcr.ements externes
ou naturels) en fonction des problemes d'ordre socio-economique que l'on
voudra r.soudrpt elle fournira en outre la base statistique necessaire pour
completer les autres etudes et recherches definies dans ce programme DSA.
Cette enquete utilisera les methodes et procedures deja testees dans de
nombreux pays, notamment africains par la Banque mondirle. Sa description
figure dans le document de Projet national DSA.
10.       L'enqugte integree utilisera les premiers resultats du
Recensement general de la population dont le denombrement est prevu en
avril 1991, notamment la liste des villages prevue pour juillet 1990. La
DSEED pourra aussi profiter de la logistique rassemblee pour le Recensement
(le gouvernement s'enga.geant a transferer des ordinateurs et des vehicules
pour cette enquete permanente) et de l'experience acquise par son
personnel. Comme il faudra une periode minimale de trois ans pour que
cette Enquete soit pleinement operationnelle, periode qui excede de deux
ans celle prevue pour les autres composantes du projet, il a ete decide



- 101 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 5 sur 12
pour des raisons d'efficacit6 d'inclure dann le projet le coCt complet de
l'Enquete integree et donc de prolonger la duree effective de deboursement
de deux ans.  Ceci permet donc de gararitir que seLa fe:uietLeiiL tabliie apres
le projet l'Enquete int6gr6e qui est le fondement de toute l'operation de
renforcement des capacites d'identification et preparation de politiques et
actions dans les secteurs sociaux. A la fin du projet, la DSEED aura a
definir un programme d'enquttes lgeres et peu coOteuses (vu les faibles
ressources budgetaires disponib,es) afin de continuer de suivre les
conditions de vie des menages et, donc, de permettre de poursuivre les
travaux demarres par le projet.
Programme d'etudes socio-economigues
11.       Setpt etudes ont ete suggerees pendant le deroulement du projet;
neanmoins, elles sont d'importance variable et la definition precIse de
leurs termes de reference resultera (a) de la perception des priorites a
etudier pour maltriser les dimensions sociales de l'ajustement, (b) des
rdsultats pertinents des enquAtes pr6c6dentes, et (c) des besoins d'analyse
pour completer les le,ons tirees des actions sur le terrain executees dans
le cadre du projet ou par d'autres actions en cours. Ces etudes seront le
plus souvent A caractbre monographique et, en toute etat de cause, le sujet
de ces etudes sera d6cid6 sur une base annuelle par le Sous-Comite DSA et
le Comite Interministeriel et leurs termes de r6f6rence seront finalises
par le Directeur general du plar.. apres accord de l'Association. I1 a
commenc6 de discuter de zelles A financer des la premiere annee:
utilisation des enquetes legeres, etude succinte des zones od la securite
alimentaire est un probleme urgent, etudes de filieres pour les
microentreprises.
12.       Le document joint du Projet national DSA decrit les
articulations recommandees entre enquetes, etudes et/ou monographies, et
analyses de mesures et/ou reformes de politique sociale et de developpement
des ressources humaines (par. 16).
(a)  Etude sur la securite alimentaire et les groupes vulnerables.
Differentes monographies viseront A mieux connaitre les comportements
des menages par rapport A la vente, au itockage et A l'utilisation
des productions alimentaires, a identifitir les zones sensibles (une
etude est prevue en 1990 pour completer les donnees des services
d'alerte existants) et les groupes vulnerables. Elles porteront
egalement sur le rBle de chacun des membres du m6nage, dont les
femmes, dans la production, la consommation et la commercialisation
des produits alimentaires. Chacune des monographies devrait porter
sur des zones differentes sur le plan des structures socio-
economiques et des modes de production. Une etude des
caracteristiques des groupes vulnerables sur le plan nutritionnel
dans les zones urbaines et des besoins d'assistance rapide sera
4galement menee sur la base des r6sultats des enquetes urbaines et
des autres analyses (CNNTA, AEDES) r6alisOes dans ce domaine.



- 102 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 6 sur 12
(b) Etude sur les structures des revenus en zones rurales. Son
thhme sera base sur la realisation de plusieurs petites
monographies ayant pour but (a) d'identifier les changements
occasionnes pour ameliorer la productivite de la production du
coton et celle de l'exploitation et l'impact sur les revenus
nets familiaux et les conditions de vie, et (b) les impacts
previsibles de nouvelles structures de production & promouvoir,
notamment dans le but de renforcer la securite alimentaire.
(c) Etude sur les dEpenses des menages et l'utilisation des services
sociaux. A partir des resultats des enquetes et de la structure
de ces depenses, on analysera les capacites des menages a
participer au financement des services de base en particulier
sante et education; on pourra faire des comparaisons avec les
coaits observes de ces services.
(d) Etude sur les conditions de vie des menages, a partir des enquetes
legeres et autres sources d'information pour identifier les
conditions de couverture des besoins essentiels (nutrition,
education, sante, eau potable, habitat), les groupes qui sont
particulierement vulnerables, et l'impact des interventions de l'Etat
(dEpenses d'investissement et courantes) pour couvrir ces besoins
essentiels.
(e) Etude sur la structures des microactivites en milieu urbain.
Elle sera divisee en deux parties: (a) une serie de monographies
sur un certain nombre de petites activites dont la liste est
fournie dans le document de Projet national DSA; et (b) une
synth&se faisant ressortir les principales caracteristiques des
petites activites et entrepreneurs du secteur prive en reliant
les revenus tires de ces activites I ceux du groupe familial.
13.       Le contenu d'autres etudes et/ou monographies possibles et
concernant les coaditions de vie des menages vulnErables ruraux et urbains
sera precise au cours des annees grAce a un appui prevu dans le projet. Le
but de toutes ces etudes est d'aider a identifier des actions ou & elaborer
des politiques. On rappelle que ces actions devront etre definies a partir
des lecons d'experience du PADS afin d'Otre gEneralisables et
reproductibles a grande echelle et compatibles avec les ressources du
Tchad. Le resultats des etudes seront discutes dans le cadre de seminaires
avec les responsables tchadiens et toutes les parties concernees. y compris
les ONG; les conclusions de ces discrssions seront presentees au Comite
Interministeriel.
Appui a la formulation de mesures de politique sociale.
14.       Ce programme doit Otre concu comme support au gouvernement pour
l'aider a mieux cerner les dimensions sociales des programmes qu'il pr&pare
que ce soit dans le domaine macro-economique (ajustement structurel) ou
dans les secteurs (voir a l'Annexe 1 la programmation des actions negociees
avec le FMI et la Banque Mondiale). I1 faudra definir de quelle maniere il



- 103 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 7 sur 12
pourrait intervenir en matiere de politique sociale dans les domaines
pergus comme prioritaires ou identifies, au cours du projet, comme
necessitant une meilleure perception du type d'actions & mener.   La
structure de ce programe sera donc definie au fur et a mesure de
l'avancement de lVex4cution du projet. Lee responsables des politiques
sociales et d'ajustement. notamment I la Presidence et au Ministere du plan
joueront un rOle important pour proposer au Comit# Interministeriel le
contenu possible d'actions d'appui dans ce domaine de l'analyse et de la
conception des politiques sociales. Dane le cadre de ce projet, on a donc
pr4vu des analyses qui decoulent directement du contenu du premier
programme de restructuration financibre (voir la Partie II du texte
principal) portant une attention particuliere sur les groupes vulnerables
ruraux (petits planteurs de coton et petits eleveurs) et urbains (jeunes
migrants. jeunes sans-emploi. femmes chefs de famille. handicapes. et sans-
abri).
15.       'element d'appui du projet sera constitue par des provisiorne
budgetaires pour:
(a) pour organiser des ateliers de travail ou de reflexion sur les divers
problemes de politique souleves par les programmes du projet (dEcrits
aux annexes 3-2. 3-3, 3-4) et analyses avec les enseignements a tirer
de programmes similaires. Ce budget, gere sous la tutelle du Sous-
Comite DSA sera donc utilise pour les seminaires annuels qui feront
le point des realisations dans chacune des composantes du projet -
promotion de l'emploi, renforcement des services socio-sanitaires,
amelioration des infrastructures de salubrite & N'Djamena- et pour
des ateliers sur les autres problimes lies a la dimension sociale de
l'ajustement structurel ou de strategies macro-economiques ou
sectorielles; en particuleir, les ONG y seront etroitement associees;
et
(b) financer des experts sur des sujets ponctuels qui necessitent des
consultations soit a cause de leur technicitE, soit de leur
experience a r4soudre ces mAmes probldmes dans d'autres pays. Ces
deux provisions seront, comme lea autres composantes du projet, liees
a des programmes annuels adoptes par le ComitE Interministeriel,
apres accord de l'Association.
16.       Le document de Projet national DSA indique le type de
programmation que le Gouvernement devra finaliser chaque annee apres
approbation par l'Association. Cependant, cette programmation des enquetes
et Etudes sur une base annuelle pour des raisons de pratique operationnelle
ne doit pas emp*cher le Sous-Comite de considerer les objectifs & moyen
terme de la politique sociale afin de bien programmer les enquftes et les
etudes qui nourriront lea analyses de politique. I1 a donc Ete recommande
de commencer par se concentrer sur les cinq themes suivants:
(a) complement a la definition d'une politique et eventuellement d'un
programme pilote en matiere de securite alimentaire. Une
contribution a l'execution d'une strategie de securite alimentaire en



- 104 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 8 sur 12
cours de definition sera de mieux -arner les aspects de la strategie
vis-P-vis des groupes vulnerables et eventuellement de definir un
programme pilote A partir des 4tudes, enqu#tes et projets mends dans
le projet et des travaux realises sous d'autres auspices, FAO, AEDES,
etc. en visant plus particulierement certains de ces groupes
vulnerables (urbains, petits fermiers et eleveurs) qui ont et6
identifies.
(b) projets mieux definis en milieu rural. Si aucune action directe
immediate n'a pu Otre definie pour les debuts du projet dans la zone
cotonniere, c'est faute de bien connaltre les problemes que posent
les capacites des familles a y faire face sans deterioration de leurs
conditions de vie a la restructuration de la filiere coton et des
productions agricoles en general. I1 est donc essentiel d'aider a
bien identifier ces probl6mes et l'approche & adopter pour les
resoudre, en utilisant les resultats de l'enquete specialement prevue
pour soutenir ces analyses.
(c) programmation budg4taire minimale en mati&re de services sociaux de
base. Afin avoir etudie l'acces des groupes vulnerables aux services
sociaux de base, on utilisera, entre autres sources d' information,
les rdsultats des actions au niveau des centres sociaux (Annexe 3-2)
et du suivi social sur l'hygiene publique (Annexe 3-3), tous deux A
N'Djamena, pour examiner les engagements minimaux que le gouvernement
doit prendre en matiere de depenses d'investissements et recurrentes
afin notamment de faire face aux causes de non-accessibilite aux
services de sante et d'education primaire.
(d)  definition de systAmes de recouvrement des co1ts en matifre de
services essentiels, en se concentrant sur le lien avec les
disponibilites budg6taires et la structure des coits permettant de
developper ces servic- s sociaux essentiels en commen,ant par la sante
(medicaments essentiels) et le developpement communautaire (voir
Annexe 3-2), mais aussi l'education-formation, l'eau potable et
l'habitat; on utilisera, en particulier, les experiences menees dans
la composante sur l'infrastructure d'assainissement (Annex 3-3) dans
les domaines des bornes-fontaines payantes et la promotion des
latrines. Combine avec les autres enseignements tires des actions
finances par le projet (sante A l'Annexe 3-2), ceux des enquOtes des
menages et des etudes monographiques decrites ci-dessus, on essaiera
de definir des systemes de recouvrement avec les mesures de
protection necessaires (notamment pour les groupes urbains
vulnerables).
(e) definition d'une politique globale de promotion des micro-activitAs
du secteur prive urbain, liee directement a l'objectif de stimuler la
cr6ation d'emploi (voir Annexe 4 et l'annexe 8 du document de Projet
national DSA). On examinera les resultats des actions de promotion
en faveur des tout petits (ou micro) entrepreneurs (Annexe 3-1), les
questionnaires des enqu8tes en milieu urbain (par. 7) et le contenu
de l'etude incluse au par.12, ainsi que de toutes les autres etudes



- 105 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 9 sur 12
et informations disponibles sur le secteur informel, notamment les
rapports deja publi4s (voir la bibliographie en support de ce rapport
d'evaluation). Ceci permettra de definir une politique coherente de
promotion des micro-entreprises sur des bases plus solides, en y
incluant tous les aspects (credit, taxation, reglementation.
formation, recherche, institutions). I1 est, en effet necessaire en
fin de projet, de decider des formes institutionnelles permettant de
poursuivre les programmes de promotion qui y seront testes.
Administration, coordination et suivi de la composante.
17.       Les propositions et recommandations emanant des travaux prevus
dans le Projet national DSA seront synthetisees dans le rapport annuel sur
le projet que le Sous-Comite DSA transmettra au Comite Interministeriel; ce
rapport specifiera dans le programme annuel qu'il suggere pour l'annee
suivante, les appuis specifiques qui devront etre fournis apras accord de
l'Association. C'est compte tenu de l'ampleur des travaux preparatoires de
synth&se et de coordination que ce rapport annuel et ses recommandations
vont exiger, qu'a ete institue un Sous-Comite technique potir la Dimension
Sociale de l'Aiustement qui est l'organe de travail du Comite
Interminist6riel (voir tableau 3.16 joint, Annexe 4-1 et le document de
projet national DSA pour details).
18.       Pour garantir que ces programmes d'enquetes, etudes et
monographies, recherches et analyse de politique seront bien diffuses et
surtout bien utilises comme sources d'information pour preparer des mesures
concretes d'intervention et des strat4gies ciblees a plus long terme, le
Sous-Comit4 (voir annexe 4-1) sera charge de preparer le rapport annuel
pour le Comite Interministeriel avec une analyse des enseignements qui
peuvent Otre tires de chacun de ces programmes et des propositions de
mesures correctives possibles. Il sera Cgalement charge de finaliser les
programmes annuels actualises a soumettre a l'approbation de l'Association.
19.       Pour la mise en oeuvre technique de cette composante, la DSEED
(Direction de la statistique et des etudes economiques et demographiques)
sera responsable de la gestion des enquOtes et notamment de l'enquete
permanente, qui exigera une restructuration de son organigramme, le projet
fournissant un appui a la gestion; un de ces cadres a etW designe pour etre
responsable a temps plein des enquetes financees par le projet. Le CRA
(Centre de Recherches Appliquee), place maintenant sous la tutelle du
Ministere de l'enseignement superieur, sera lui responsable de la gestion
des etudes et des seminaires (et groupes de travail); le projet lui
apportera un appui en moyens (personnel et fonctionnement) afin de ne pas
penaliser le programme d'activites qui a et0 defini pour le CRA avec la
Cooperation francaise. Une requete sera en outre presentee au PNUD pour
qu'il fournisse au CRA une assistance technique pour le renforcer dans son
role de coordonnateur-promoteur en matiere d'etudes et de recherches
sociales. La DSEED et le CRA devront, comme les autres agences d'ex4cution
(Annexe 4-1), rendre compte de leurs activites (a) sur une base mensuelle a
la Cellule de coordination et de soutien du projet sur les criteres de



- 106 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 10 sur 12
performance (inscrits dans les programmes d'action annuels), et (b) sur
base semestrielle par un rapport d'activites qui sera tranamis au Comitd
Interminist6riel et aux bailleurs de fonds a travers le Sous-Comit# DSA.
Aprbs la fin des actions prevues pour lea trois premieres annOes, la
Cellule de coordination du projet continuera a g4rer le financement pour
des actions incluses au Projet national DSA seul. La mise en oeuvre de
cette composante eso rdsumee au tableau 3.17 joint.
btannex3 4 (grl)



------------------------------------------------------  
-----    --- "------------------------------------- 
------   ------------------------------ ----------I---  
----||                                           T,       I  I                      L
------ ---  -----------------
_ _  _  _  ___  _ _ _  _ . ._  _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _  __  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  __ . . _ _  _  _ _  _  _  __ . . _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- I.1                                                  41
- .a-     - -     - -     -     - -     - -     - -   - -     - -     - -     -     - -     - -    --  -   -   -   -
II                             '111b a
--  -  -  --  - -  -  --  - -  -  --  - -  --    I- - ---,-



- 108 -
ANNEXE 3-4
Page 12 sur 12
Tableau 3.17: GESTION DE LA COMPOSANTE
SOUTIEN A LA CONCEPTION DE POLITIQUES SOCIALES
COMITE INTERMINISTERIEL
DES PADS
Sous-Comite DSA           |MINISTE1  DU PLAN
FCELLULE DE COORDIN. DU PROJ.
F-~~~~._                                   _
SECRETARIAT     DIRECTION DE LA    CENTRE DE         DIRECTION DE LA
PERMANENT       PLANI FICAT ION     RECHERCHE S      STAT ISTIQUE ET
DES ONG                            %PPLIQUEES       ETUDES
Appui au                            ECONOHIQUES ET
Secretariat du     lCoordonnateur  DEMOGRAPHIQ'UES
Comite             lAuxilliaire
----------                1  Comptable
ONG                    INSTITUTS DE RECHERCHE      Consultants locaux
et internationaux
.Avec contrats         .Instituts concernes
par le projet
.Concernes par le
Projet                .Consultants locaux et
internationaux
.Groupes de travail et
seminaires
(b:soutll.grl)



I CHAD
PROJtl D ACIIONS POUR I( DEVFLOPPEMENI SOCIAt
PROJtCI COSI SUOMARY
IFCIA MilIIonl                                    1USS MlIlon)
I lolal                                      z Iotal
1 foreign  Base                              I Fo-ogn   Base
local   Foreign    lotal   E.change   Costs   local toreign local f.change   Costs
A PROMOIION FMPIOls
1  PROGRAMNE POUR REIN  RIION DES tlClNCIfS                                            53 93      39 26    93 19           42         1   0 19    0 14  0 32             42         1
2  PROGRAiMMf POUR It OEVFIOPPEMfNI DtS UICRO   tNIREPRISIS
tlGNi Ot CRfDII DE PROMOIION                                                       398 69   354 84   753 S3             47        12   1 '8      ' 23  2 60          47        12
CEilRE 0 APPUI IICHNIQof                                                           102 30   218 37   320 67             68         S   0 35    0 7S   "'              b68       S
Sub fotal PROGRAMME POUR tt DtVEIOPPftENI  DfS MICRO   tNIREPRISfS                    SOO 99   573 22 1.074 2t             53        17    1 73     i 98  3 71           S3        17
Sub-lotal PROMOIIDN IMPIDIS                                                              554 92   612 48 1 167 40              52        18    1 92    2 12  4 03           52        18
A  RfEFORCEMENjI OES INFRASIRUCIURES SANIIAIRtS tl  OCIAIIS
I  a NDJAMENA                                                                         409 49   86iS 19 1 274 67            b8        20    1 41     2 99  4 40           68       20
2  A IANODJIIf                                                                        194 45   520 92    71S 38             73       11   0 b7      1 80  2 47           73        it
Sub Iotal RENIORCtMIIti  DES INIRASIRUCIUtRIS SANIIAIRLS El SOCIALtS                      b03 94 1.386 11 1.990 OS             70       31   2 09    4 79  6 87              70       JI
C  AMEIIORAIION ASSAINISSEt ENI A FOJAMitD    A
I  SAIIIRIIE LIRBAINf                                                                b42 18 1 34A 70 1 985 88             68        31   2 22    4 64  6 86             68       31
2  SUIVI SOCIAl SUR IF ItRRAIN                                                          7 00    13S 94    192 94            10        3   0 20    0 47  0 67             70         J
Sub lolal AEtilDRAIION ASSAINISSENI  A NDJAMitNA                                          E9' 17 1.479 b4 2.178 81             68       34   2 42    5 11  7 53              bb       34
D  PROGRAMMF  RINFtRCEMENI DES POillIQUES SOCIAl'S                                       lbO 6b   479 63   840 30              S7        13    1 2S     I b6   2 90         57        13
t  CEIlUlt  Di COCODINAIION 0U PROJtl                                                     169 00    112 60   281 60            40        4   0 58    0 39  0 97              40        4                                 1
Total BASE IINE COSI0                                                                    2 381 70 4 070 46 6.458 17              63       100   8 2S    14 06 22 31            b3      100                                0
Physical Conl)nguncies                                                                   194 29   366 83   S66  12            65        9   0 19       1 27   1 96         bS         i                               NO
Price Contngencies                                                                       193 13   5bS 91   759 04             75       12   0 67       1 95  2 b2          7S        12
lotal PROJICI COSIS                                                                      2 780 71 S.003 21 7 783 32              b'i     '21   9 bO    17 28 26 89             64      121
April 27. 1990  17 .8
(D 
C: VI
el



of II 0661 *SC I-4
8C8  Ci  69 IC IC 58   09 6   868     09          66~~~~C  6856  IC to00s  81 0866t                                        3IC8303 1`06d 81808
C1       It          CISC  Is8 I     LS0    cl         S 65         o006t   866S96      E  C686                                         I.*I           ".~SA
6        68          1684  IC8 I        9       0       6           895t6gs    o  o 6999  G                                          186.d.8I383A
681      to          It a  68pi   St 8   681                       to ISOs 91 6,60      £1966                                   1138391113 98661391  8880
In   ~~~~       C~        81          160  0C 0       It0    C          99          6S60*i   810         68  EC                                       o  o  6-1MI01J
ull    M1     I        ~~96        SC 0  08 0       It 0   8         g6          60L CS     C  00     66 IC                                       ieW898*83 183lS88&8
I   to          1*       9            l      0I       68I C            9            086        COt CI86'                                                      03 1909398  8808l
6        IL          g0 C  go I    09 0   6            LI         O0I 80    C  6CC  0    65*C                 993889*98  It 19198911*3t0,04  588 8ia          
58503 L9886(318 11
90*      69          69 CZ et 681   CZ 9   908         69          6t0909   6 C 6100 O otIfo  C                                5183909111103 S11980111393  *880i
'I       96          96 C  IL        Ss6  0   08       96          ic 669   0f S660      668e:s tWJldl*I.103 031,d
9    99          IL 8  t8 I    96 0   9            19          to 0160   It  C       6  9                                       9   8e0%lf '. 888 3 8$rSM
eV       00g         09 68 96 Cl   08   II 09           9          IL 669 6t IC 80  C II 660- C                                        $803 191188089N8  8980
C              ~~~~            ~~960  96 0   C               99 091                19 098                                          181093 10 80991  0
It       89          66. C  96       66 0    It        19          69 966    60 860  s09Z SIC             019N9180819A18D W0O 0908 885191088  fw*l'8
0   cc          66 0  SoC 0    6  0   C           CE          60It      IC9 0 IC "      cot                   89998990*8390    I ol 11       98105199NSB]
6  96          69 8  66~~ II 9                    S          6   5 I       lI     6  60                             1 190881819   $8ISI013888d
it  99  9  91 0    lti         tzit   n99           IS lot31893818300090  ,08101800 
Lb6             09 0  9et0    6E 0   C            60p         CC, I68    St 09     s 60 Cl                                        90*9980   89808  CPS
8              06~~~~~~E0       060    *                     8699o                 16 9                                                       118301
I    6          of O  CO        coO 0             06          IS9t6     t  of0    086S                                                 9009988119
-                             ~~       ~~~         ~~~~~~~~9 E6  zip I  95 0    99 0   9  It6     66 O*0   6.9 SItCc 466  6                                  1018   3309881
C              90~~~~~o0        90 0    C                     60068E              6St6                                                      8903896I IT
8                            ~    ~ ~~~           ~~~~~ ~~~0 66  95 0  96 0    OC 0   0  66      06 956    SS fit   CPI 66                                               I VW II VW   I 91
LI       IL           6 6  69 C    90 I   LI           II          it c908  10 996n   co tit                         Sl11S1938    00 5033683$  Ivil-Ws~8
6              86~~~~~l0        9C60    C                     IL Oil                  oil*                                                09908899
68       65          966C  69C    06 0    68           66          6686      90966 go,99 Co tog01991
$ls(118839*8         S10938A81$  3
SI       69          to 6  96E 6    6  0   68          0           00 6088  CCd COG   66 098               1913d189 8  11811            8911190     13 I01.'"
9        69          69 8  69        61 0   9          so          98 066   96 660     096                                       11U015818301
6        09          608 I  t0       OCQ    6          09          60CZti    06 966     e 616                                                 10391181301
*        60          68 0  to 0    90 0    8           so          WE 60    90 IC    IC CC                                                      80111809
8   69          PI 0  6El0      co 0    8         St          Et 80     66 96      66E0                                                301808    j0i9
ft1             69 0  660        LOC   I          fig         60 69*    0  9618  6ES oi                                                    01113118880
*998 98   13181819   88*818u09 
86       el,         80o  8g0 C    666        t        es 86       61606c 68 08t I 0live 9                                    A1313 1139  0963988I ,0101iW
0        66          60 0   co0      to00   0          E6          00O56     189        9906c                                      31*018 916969A8I
it       66          10 9  90 0    99 C i 86            s6         I C, 806c 56 tit I E6 Lee                              10981610s 5898890    81808.98$
9        86         o6  a  690       08 0   9          96          el pip   IC. 006      068 OIL                                          818818118818
St       66          VP 6  cc 6    96 C6  66           5           05 9968i 00666    66 669                                             nalI38Illim9
0968193 $109890 InAI 
S8003 8N91S8A109     I
IL 103   9CI''u   *880* go           18304 1 w  Sim0    OftI988381 *880       8oi9.*08    88301
"go9  8108@01 IL                             One9  8eI0I*      I
19801 IL                                      88011 I
luorIllO ISOl                         881NOS I088 UNION 839
11130$  91911 8011 01C0IAI  I8 Ia10d $901838 a 118'
09931



PIOJIT I ACTIONS POUR8 Li OIEVILOPOI5IS SOCIAL
ftinantr, Plan By OSlawamnl Ca6epWy
I516*1105811E 8                                                              COLL6IIIVI16S
K(VILOPPEU8IE         05810         COOPCATII  SUJISSE         91811          LocaLIs      LIS1 101*0168         Total
Anoml      I       kr&m6    I          ANICKM       I     baun       I      hou       I     hwbm6    I       *mwtnt      I     for. Each.       leg"
A. AP9E1S STIMES 181(UllSaIzN I I68 I
I. CIAITS 66*688116
coIIs?8IIcliI                                                   1.348.97  29.91            -     -         6.08    0. 13  2,962. 73 65.70   191. 84  4.25      0.00  0.00   4. 90961  16 ??       2.9Walt        1.54
KEN8iLiI*1l08                                                    1. 2461,65  96.5 SO-                     45.21    3.49           -                                      -   1.293 67   4. 51       81t729          47
Sub-total 60O1687S G6NEBAUI                                        2.507.8)3  44. 76          -              St5 2?    0 88  2,962 73 SI 05   191.694  3.31       0. 00  0.00   5.803 4?  21 59    3 18  14          2.02
2. 5*7E51Et IT E01J1P856NT
ViIIICIIIES                                                       502.72  67.01       23.87  3.16       223.6?   29.81            -                      -     0 00  0 00      750 27   2 79        613 29 
I810U*110131                                                      110 32  63.93       11.19  6 49        51.06   295 St-                                       0 00  0.00      M7  56   0 64        155 02           I
AIIIRIS 60111P6568S                                               68287  53.11        16.42  1. 26      567.33   44.12       19. IS  1. 49                     0 00  0 00    1.26S 7?   4 76    1.023 72          .76
NEOI1CA5EN1S EISSEWIELS                                           654 46  37.18                  -       94.31   42.62            -     -   459.6920 00        0 00  0 00   2.296 46   6 55    2.061 19             23
Sub1-Tota  NA1ERI61  ET E01UIPEN6NT                                2.150 26  4? 71       51.49  1 14    1.6$26. )?   40. 52      19 IS  0. 42   459.60 10 20      0 00  0 00   4.507 08  16 76    3. 919 23            589
St8b-Total APPE(S OFFRES INIEIUATIOKAUX I ICB8 I                       4,748.00o  46 05     51. 49  0 50     16 77.604   18. 21  2. 961.6* 28.97   651 54  6 32       0 00  0. 00  10.310 55  36 35    7.700 97         2.60
B. APPELS P116t IS t01A8E15N6 I 1CB I
1. C05TRtATS 0691ER11X
COIISIa6'C1101                                                     162 27  10 16                       1.445 85   60.51    167 63  9.31-                       0 00  0 00   1,600175   670          841 01         95
66E1ABILII81TIO                                                   380070  51 20                          .0~ 69   48 80 .            ..                         .743 59   2??7                      20686           36
Suk;-TotlI C13TkA1S GE5ER6)11                                        563 9?  22 17            -1.812 74   71.25    16? 63  6. 59                            -     0 00  0. 00   2,544.34   9 46    1.203 89          1. 34
2  N5061116    -                                                      12528  17701        15.61  869g        24.77   14 10                                  -     0 00  0 00       175 66   05 6sgo70                   a
Sub)-7otal APPELS 1418t.ES 10CALE5ENT I LCM  I                           699 25  25 71       15. 61  0. 57    CM 63  5?   6? 56    16? 63  6. 16         -     -      0 00  0 00   2.720 00  10 12    1.290 59          1.42
C  IIUIRES 5ET60065 PASSAT 105 DE PARCHES I 0THE6 I
1. SERVICES 06 SPECIA6ISIES
1811561105IOi1U                                                 2.911 SI  71.79                       1. 146 30   28 25                                        0 00  0 00   4.056 Il  IS 09    3.238 96            SI                     _
6811068111                                                        455. 06 100.00                                                            -                                   455 08   1. 69                      45
St-Total SERV.CES BE SPICIAIIST1S                                  3.366587  14060                        1.1430   25 40                                          0 00  0 00   4.513 17  16179    3.236 96           1.27
2. ENOUEIES E1 EIIOIES
INIERNA6IO0l1&                                                   604.51  50 00                  .      6045      50so00                .0 00  0 00   1.209 02   4 50                               967.66         24
5511056111                                                        286 38  50.00                         286636   50 00                  .-                     0 00  0 00      572 76   2 13                       57
SuII-oata  15N1f9 ES IT ElIIOES                                      890 89  s0 00                          850.89   so 00                                  -     0.00  0 00   1.781 76   6.63         967 66i        81
3. f085*110N
ALt E16RA1061                                                     1909  50.00                            191.09   50 00                                        0.00  0 00      3812.16   1 42       360.?3           2
601:816                                                           135050  36 70                         214.82   6130..359 42   1 30                                                                      -         5
Sub,-ToteI F081TION                                                   326 69  44 59                         405 9I   55 41                                        0.00  0 00       732.60   2 72        360 73         37
4. fRaiS DE FO1 l0101NEE
SALAIRES P05S0N5Et 10CA1                                          4919.60  75 34                 .        34.22    5 16                 .                    129 41 19 SI      66' 43   2 47              -66
16A15 01 f0OCll05565I5T l  E1 15REIIEN                          1.631 74  63 42                         448 94   1? 45                                  -   492.06 19.13   2,572 75   9.5?    1.665 14             70
Sub~-Total FRAIS DE FO0ICTU0INEMENT                                2. 131 54  65 87                         483.16   14 93                                      621 47 19 20   3.236 it  12. 04    1.855 14          1. 37
Sub~-Total AUFR1S 5619001ES PASSATOI 6 DE MARCHES1 I OTHER            6. ?15 99  65 43                      2.926 26   28651                  .621 47  6 06  10.263 72  36 18    6.432 49                              3.63
0 MM8 APPLIC:881E I IIA I
I  800                                                               572 95  225S2  2.213 09 .4.06               .92 39  3 09                                     9 96  0 33   2.966.42  11 12    1.658 20          1.13
2  1165E DL CRIOII                                                   'SS5 03 100 00                 .            .             .          ...555.03   2.06                                                             55
3. 58AlN0 OEUVIE 10:8t1                                                30 99  65 00                 .16.69 35 00                                                  0 00  0.00        47 68   0 18                        4          .
S.*-lotal O0N 6P0 16*61  I oh 1                                        1.258928  35. 06  2.213.09 61 63              .              16.69  0.46    92.39  2 57       9 98  0.28   3.1181 13  13. 6       I'ass 20       1.73          S
ToWa  Svgbwsoannl                                                       13.422 22  489 2   i. 2*0. IS  S. 48    6,641. 41   24.10  3,1IRA20 1 1.18   143. 92  2 7?   631 45  2.25  28.35 40 160.00   11.262 24            8.6
1tIpI  27. 1990  17: 38



PROJ.IE 0 ACITONS POUR t1 0IVEIOPPEMENT SOCIAL
Projeci Components by Year
lotls I~ nclucling Conhingencies                   lotals Inckid.ng Contingencies
(FCdA Mill toni                                     (US$ mil Ion)
1991      199?       1993     1994    1995    Iota)    1991  1992  Iq93  1994   1995  loltl
A PROMOITON EMPLOIS
I  PROGRAMME P0U14 REINSERTION DES  tC[ICTNTS                                          52 23    29 17    30 28                        III 88   0 18  0 10  0 TO                    0 39
2  PROGRAMM&  POUJR t1 DIVEIOPPEMENI 0ES MICRO   EINREPRISES
LIGRC Di CREDI1 Of PROMOT1ION                                                     766 ST    293392   287 I.                       847 54   092   I 0?  099                      2 93
CENIRE 0 APPIJI IECNIINQUE                                                         149 45    119 54    121 43                     390 42    052  0 41  042                      1 35
Sub lotal PROGRAMME POUR tf DEVEtOPPEMIENT  DES MIC~RO   ENETRCPRISES                 415 96   413 4b   408 54                      1.237 96   I 44   I 431 41                     4 28
Sub-Total PROMOTION EMPLOIS                                                              468 19   442 63   438 82                      1.349 64    I 5?   1 53  I 5?                   4 866
B RENFORCEMENT DES INFRASTRUCIURES SANIFTAIRES IT S3CIALES
I  A NDJAMEIEA                                                                        584 94   458 3?    4A7 04                    1.530 30   202 158  168                      -529
2  A YANDJILE                                                                         333 18   247.688   293 74                       874 58    I 15  0 86  I 0?                    3 0?
Sub-Total RENFORCEM(NT DES INFRASTRUCTURfS SANEIA14iS El SOCIALES                        918 I?   705 98   180 78                      2.404 AA    317  2 44  2 70                     8 31
C. AMEIIORAIEOM A!SAINISSEMENT A NDJAMENA
I  SALUBRITf 0P88IN1                                                                  892 09   898 28    604 40                    2.394 75   308   3 10  2 09                     8 27
2  SUIVE SOCIAI SUR LE tERRAIN                                                         77 25      77 93     79 87                     235 05    027  0 27  028                     08Si
Sub-lolal AMEH ORAl1ION ASSAIMISSEMETN  A NEIJAMENA                                      469 34   976 19   884 27                      2 629 80   .933   .3 37  2 36                   9 08
0  PROGRAMME RENF(RCEMEN4I DES POlITIQUES SOCIAIES                                        209 60   2886 31   219 tO 197 73 162 30 1.055 05i   0 32  0 9?  0 76  o 68  D 56  3 84
6  CEtLULE BlE C0OI~DliEIIlON DU PROJET                                                   ItI 90    86 16    84 86  29 96  IT 07   343 95   0 39  0 30       211  0 10, 0 IT   1 19
totlA  PRO.JECI COSTS                                                                    2.87?  IS 2. 477 28 2. 207 82 227 69 193 387.183 32   9 25  8 56  7o3  0 79  08572689g
April 27. 1990 17 .i8



15980
PROJE! 0 ACTIONS POUR Li 0EVELOPPEN8NT SOCIAt
lable I  ligne de credit de promotion    nd)amena
Detailed Cost Table
IFCFA '000I
Quantity                                                    Base Costs
Unit           19191  1992 1993  1994 1995 Total  Unit Cost           1991        1992        1993     1994 1995  lotal
IINVESINENT COSIS
A. EQUIPENENT
I  NOBILIOR BUJREAU                                                                   .     .92695    1.2972    1.4825                                                    3.706 2
2 MATERIEL INEORHArIQUE
ORDINAI8UE                                        vnite               I                               1    2.138?2    2.131 2                                      - 2.138 2
IMPRIANINE/IOGICIEIS                                                  I                              I       810 9        610 9                                          610 9
Sub-Total NIATURIEI INFORAAIIQUF                                                                                            2.749 1                                       2.749 I
3  PTIOTOCOPI14USE/SIENCIt                                                1                              I    I. 1IB I    1. 16  1                                         T. 116 1
4  EQUIPENRNT SECR81AR1A1                      DOTAIION GIOBALE                       .     .2,917 5                                                                      2.917 5
S VENICUIfS
4EI4ICULC lif VILLE                               ,mnite              I                               I    4.405 6    4.405 6                                          4.405 6
No8y1tl8t!                                         nite,              1    2                          3       416 1        416 1      832 2                            1.248 2
BicycLETTIS                                       UNITEl              I            I                 2         81 3         8) 3                   81 3                   162 5
Subklotal VEIlICUIlS                                                                                                       4,9029        832 2        01 3      -    -   5.816 3
Sub-lotal EQUIIPANENT                                                                                                         12. 612 I   2.129 3   1.563 7                  16.305 2
8 ASSISIANC8 IFCNINIQUE
I  ASSISIANCI  IFCHINIOJE A LUNG IERNE                                                                                                                                                                                   I
DIRECIEUR DU] P80.1E1                         hoa,ie nDis            12   12       6                30        3.130    37.559 S  37.559 5  ?8.779 8                   93 898 A
ASSISTANT  DIRECITUR                          hoele  mits            12                              12    2.390 8   28. 6895                                         28.609 5
Sib-Toial ASSIS18ANCE IECIINIQUJE A LONG TERM[                                                                            86.249 0  37.559 5  18.779 8                  122.588 3
2 APPUIS PO1IC1UELS 0E SPECIAIISI8Z
SPICIAliS.f NICRDENIRIPRISES                  600mm  jour           104   26    TOO                230        187 i   19.458 I   4.864 5  18.709 7                    43.032 4
SPECIAIISIE INfORIIATIIQIL                    hoe,j jour             26   20                        52       225 B    5. 871 0   5.871 0                              11.742 0
SPECIALISIE COMMRECIAtISATION                  .,e rJ.,o             26                             28          220    5.719 2                                         S.719 2
EvMAIION(Y Du PROGRAIIR                       hoi,rietimis           1    1       I    .3    3.072 2    3.072 2   3.072 2   3.072 2                                   9.216 6
SUPERVISION 0U PROGRANIIL                     hoeir,eineis            8    6       6                 is    7.588 3   415. 530 I  43. 530 1  45.530 I                 136.5902
Sub~ loWe  APPUIm  IiONCIULLS 88 SPECIALISIAS                                                                             79.65 fi 6  b9.337 8  67.312 0                206.300 3
Sub bloat ASSIS1ANCE  IOCIINIOU8                                                                                             145. 899 6  96.897 3  86.091 8                 328.MO87
C  VOTAGESI OBSERVAT IONS
1. AVIONS iNtERNAIIONIAUO                       alli.-/relour            2    2       1                 5        890 9      1.781 9    1.781 9       890 9                4.454 7
2  OEPLACEMEIIfS SOIUS REGION                    &IlIC/retour            to   10    TO                  30       196 9      1.969 4    1.989 4    1.969 4                 5.908  1
3  PER DIEN                                                             74   74    67                  215        48 I    3.410 I   3.410 1   3.087 6                     9.907 9
Sub-liOtia  VOTAGIS I OBSERVATIONS                                                                                             7.161 4   7.161 4   5.947 9                   20. 270 6
O FORNAIION POI.R PERSONNEL NAFIONAL
I  FORNATIOII A t IRANGER0   /a                                                                                                                                                           OQ z
SERIIIAIRI                                      SININAIRI             2    2       2                 6        153 6       307 2       307 2       307 2                  921 7
fRAIS OE CEPtACENENI                         At(~P/REIOUR             2    2       2                 8       829 5      1.659 0    1.859 0    1 859 0                  4 977 0              u
PfR 0ICN                                          JOUR               60   60    640                ISO         46 1     2. 765 0   2. 765 0   2. 7650                  829560 
Sub-lotji.1  0114811014A1L E88A401   Ia                                                                                     4.731 2    4. 731 2   4. 731 2               14. 1936         '
2  (ORNAiON LOCAlE                                 S11INAIRt             2    2       2                  6       147 7        295 4       295 4      295 4                   886 2 
.0
SihIlotal IORNA'ION POUR PIRSONNEI NAIIONAI                                                                                    5.028 6   5.026 8   5.026 6                   15.079 8
8 CARPAGNE PROJOTIONNEWL
I  ACIIVITLS PROMOIIONNOItLS                   OOTAi0INAkNNiE                                                               1.277 2      880 7       MBO 7                3.038 5
2  REIUNIUNS                                        II UNION             5    5                         Is1         136       679 8       679 8      679 8                2.039 4
3  CAIIPAGNES 0 INIIORIIAIIONt                     51 1114818           I2   12    12                   36        81 8        741 8       741 6      741 6                Z. 224 8



4  actIvites pubhicttatres                      DOIAII04l/ANEE                                                                643 8      3245        216 3                1 184 5
Sub total CAMPAGNE PROMOIIONNEIIE                                                                                              3.342 4   2 626 5    2.518 4                   8.487 2
f  IIG4f DE CREDI1                                                                                                                       80.340 0  80.340 0                 160 680 0
lotal 114RtS14Ett CGSIS                                                                                                         174.042 0 194.181 I 181.488 3                 549 7t1  4
11 RECURREMt COSIS
..........   ...........:
A  PERSONNfEt IC8t
I  PERSOttHE  D &NCADRIENI NAIIO4NA
DlRECIEttR DU PROJEI / ASS                   htraum   MtOIs               12    12                 24         515                 6. 160 0   6. 180 0               12. 36  0
AVAINISIRAIEUR                               hoarm  mois            t2   12    12                  36       283 3    3 399 0   3.399 0   3. 399 0                    10. 197 0
Sub ToalI PERSONiEl D f4CAJORIM6tNI 4A81NA81                                                                              3. 399 0   9.579 0   9.579 0                  22.557 0
2  ASSISIANrE  TECHNIQUE NAtIOEAlfE
CHARGES El PREIS PRfINCIPAI                  hW.ae MOIs             t2   12    12                  36       257 5    3.090 0   3. 090 0   3.090 0                    9.270 0
CHARGES Cl PREIS                             hr.me mots            36   36    36                  108       216 3    7.786 8   7.786 8   7 786 8                    23 360 4
CHARGES r[  MICRO Pllt 1S                    hormie nois           24   24      24                 72       185 4    4 449 6   4. 449 6   4.449 6                    13.348 8
AGENI DE RECOUVRtEt11.1                      hor.we mos             12   12    12                  36          206    2 472 0   2.472 0   2.472 0                     7 416 0
CONPItBlf                                    horEne MOsE           12   12    12                   36       221 5    2.657 4   2.657 4   2657 4                      7.972 2
SUIVI JUIIDIOUE DES DOSSIERS                 honeneannee             I    I       1                 3       365 2        385 2       385 2      385 2                 1 155 7
Sub lotal AOSSIStNCE  IECHNIQUE NA411048N                                                                                20 841 0  20.841 0  20.841 0                   62 523 1
3  PERSONNEI APPUI
SECRE1AIFE GE OflRfCIIOtt                    h,e mois               12   t2    12                  36       185 4    2 224 8   2.224 8   2.224 8                     6.674 4
SECREIAIItS                                  :, ,ne mols           24   24    24                   77        113 3    2.7192    2 .719 2   2.719 2                   8. 157 6
P14tIANt                                     ho,ne mo.    I         t2   12    12                  36        Si5         bl8 C       b18 0      618 0                 1. 854 0
CHAUIfJEUdS                                   ",ne mots            36   36    3b                  108        61 8    2 224 8   2 224 8   2.224 8                     6.674 4
femme de -enage                              hti,se morw            17   12    17                  36        30 9        370 8       370 8       370 8                I I1? 4
GUARDIEN',                                   how.re rinsi          24   24    24                   72        309         741 6       741 6       741 6               2.224 8
Sub-lotal PlRSOttEI APPUI                                                                                                 8 899 2   8.899 2   8.899 2                   26 697 6
Sub-Tolal PERS6INNf  tOCAI                                                                                                   33.1392  39.319 2  39.319 2                  111 777 7
8  fONCIIONNI0 ENt   El El4161R11
I  INtIREIIEt 8814141t                              AINNEt                                                                1.772 4    1.772 4    1.772 4                  S.317 3
2  EHIREIIEI, f8RIE-l BUREAU
INiORttfl OUE                                    844Ef                                                                 1. 32q 3   t. 329 3   1.329 3                 3 986 0
EOUIPEEit I                                      4Hi4t1                                                                  738 5       138 5      73ts S               2.215 S
Sub-olal tl tRElltH  MAIERIlI  BUREAU                                                                                     2.067 8   2.067 8   2.067 8                    6 203 5
3  FHIREIIEII VfHICUtt                              9111if                                                                1 083 1   1 083 I   1.083 1                    3.249 4
4  CONSOltNAPIES lb                                 ARiNE                                                                17.428 8  17.428 8  17.428 8                   52.2e6 5
S  ASSURANCIS VEHICULE                               N4EfV                                                                   295 4      295 4       295 4                  886 2
Sub lotal IONCEIOENNEPIENI tl fHIREIiN                                                                                       22.647 7  22.647 7  22.647 7                  67 943 0
C  IOCATION BUIEAU                                      iNtEf                                                                 8.034 0   8.034 0   8.034 0                  24. 102 0
lotal RECURRINI CO-IS                                                                                                            63.820 9  70.000 9  70.000 9                  203.822 6
lolal                                                                                                                            23. t62 9 264 182 0 251.489 2                  753. 534 1
/a Af RIOUt/lRA4CE
/b  fOIJRNITURTS/kIf /hUEo 
bpr~I 27.RtelT"*IS/*t 1990                                                                                                                ........ 
April 27. 1990  17  8



P50.11 0 ACTIONt' POUR tE DEMaLPPE1101" SOCIAL
Table 2 CINIRS U APPUI 15CHN1IQ11
Detailed Cost fable
IICFP. '0091
Q..anl tip                                   S~~~~~~~~ase Costs
Untt           t99t  t,92  1993   1994 1995 Total  Unit Cost           1991        199?       1993    1994 19915  10t6l
18V151518I COSIS
A  RIRA6ILiFArioU LOCAt EXISIAN1                                      [3810               1                                        853 8        853 8                                       853 8
S (04IP15181 DE LA CILLULi
I  K4AlIRIEt 18F0616A11QUf                                 00rAt608 G108Ai1                                                              2.599 4                                      2 595 4
2  PIIOIOCOPIIUSL                                                 99111                I                               I       704 9        704 9                                        704 94
3  IQUIPFNE8I DUl SOCRFIARIAI                                   DOIAIION                                                                    979 0                                        979 0
4  508191ER                                                     DOIAIIONI                                                                 2.003 4                                     2. 003 4
Sub-IotaI FOUIJIUNI8I Of LA CILIUIE                                                                                                          6.283 9                                      62783 6
C  1011P151N7 AIELIIR                                           dolatIo0hn/&ieO                                                              4.895 I  9.790?2 19.580 3                  34.295 9
B  E4IIP1RNE8  tr.G15E81S COORDINAFEUR/VP                      00181 108/106G6(E6         2                   -2    2.003 4    4 009 7                                                    4.006 7
VffuiCIE 5111                                                                    I                                I    4 405 5    4. 4005                                        4. 405 5
2  5010CYC611195                                                                      4      3                         7       416 I    1. 664 3  1.24B 2                             2 912 6
Sult-Fotal VFIICIIES                                                                                                                         6. 0699   1. 24827                           7. 318 1
F ASSISIANCI IICHIIIJOU
I  ASSISIA8CI  IECH8IQUI A 10N6 lERASE
C009R18811115 Of IA CELIULL                                ho,ew Mo.s             12      9            .is    3.9635 3   43.624 1 21 8)2 0                                       55. 435 1                              .
EUPIRIS VI  /a                                             homm  mois              5    39      30                72         73 7       442 4  2.954 4  2.212 0                   5.30188
18GEN11U5.CO0RD089515UR ADJOINI N91108Ai                   Istatu mets            12    1?    12                  36        390 5    4.32390  4.329 0  4.325 0                    %2.979 0                             VI
S.b-flega  89S518JCE 11C1N1Q13E A L09G 61ERFF                                                                                           48. 392 5 29. 792 4  9.938 0                 53. 732 9
2 8160185 PI.W1CI9ISLS DE SERVICE DE SPLCIAILI51IS
APPUF A to CLILUIE                                         hon  M'                 2      I      3                  5    4.0592       8. 192 3  4.096 2 12.25885                 34.577 0
18A8Si5815 DE IEC66N0L0GIE                                 howD 3nne.             4      4      4                 I2    4 095 2   15 384 7 16.354 7 15. 384 7                    49 1-54 0
Skt-lotal B1'OI85 PONCIUFIIS Of SFIRVICI Di SPEC IALIISM                                                                                24.517 0 20 450 5 259,73 2                   71.731  1
Sub-lotal ASSISiANCE IICII8IQUE                                                                                                             72 969 S 49 273 3 35.211 2                 157. 453 9
G.    OS0 P013  9 10 9551108  /b                                      586655                                                                 S   . 15  0  2.060 0  2.090 0               9.210 0
IF  FOR0 DL DOCUI.5661P.Iio9 IICII8IquL                               51685                                                                  4.595 I    919 0    979 0                    6.553 I
1. NISSICOS ITiRIEURES
I   MIS1 BE5 liIPLAC5i[IS                                  AlLiR/RIOUR             30    45      45               120        122 9    3.5856 65.530 0  5.530 0                     14.74596
2  PER Olt"                                                                         680   320   270                  720        41 53    7.455j 5 It. 198 2 I1. 195 2                29.561 8
Sub-lots$ NI55'08S 1919R11U85S                                                                                                              11.1)2 i 16.728 2 16.725 2                  44.9r
Iota)  19V9515181 cI'SIS                                                                                                                      116. 275 8 80.078 5 74. 555 7               270.913 3
it RECURREIII C056'
A P955066161 locAl
110f010GUES MIX6 VP                                           5O0-ml                       24    36                 99        25? 5      1. 545 0  6 180 0  9.270 0                 16. 995 0             20 
S(CRIMAI S                                                   homm  mDs                     I2    12                 24          103                1.236 0   1, 235 0                2.472 0
CHAtiPfOtUR                                                  homtiemol                     I?      ?t               24         6) 8                  74168      741 6                1.483 2 
Sub-Iotal P19RS398E1  tOCAl                                                                                                                 1.545 0  B. 157 6 11.247 9                 20. 950 2         0
I  58N97F11E  8A11N181                                           ANNEE               I      I      I                 3        147 7        147 7     147 7     147 2                  443            __
2  C0ltS0MA91IS /c                                               88811               I      I      I                  3    3.938 7    3.938 7  3.938 7  3. 938 7                    11. 8167 2       9
3  0If1I1611  8*,161RI'T11 URL,All                            AWE1(                                                                    984 7    984 7    984 7                   2.954 0
4  191"I1   mm) :18 I16  SuR AU                                  ANN *                                                                      96959    195 9      195 9                  5908a
5  908C1t08V166L81 if EM10061Il VE"IIIULLS                       ANNIE                                                                  2. 168  0  2. 189 0  2. 185 0                6.558 0
6  ASS51RANCIS V;HICIII(S                                        8881                I      I                         3       295 4        295 4    295 4    295 4                     889 2



Sub Toiat FOHCIIONNEHIENI El ilENIQItEN
C  lOCATION DOE BuREau       El                                                        12     1      123                                   7. 74  4  7.749 4  7 749 4                  23 248 3
C  EOCAIIOM OE BUREAU                             ~~~~~~mois          12    22    12                   36       24         1.854 0  1.854 0  1 854 0                  5.562 0
Total RECURRENI COSTS                                                                                                                          11.148 4 17.761 020.861 0                   49 760 5
Iota I                                                                                                                                         127.424 2 97.839 995 409 7                  320.6738
/a tOGEtENI El CHARGES POUR DEUX EXPERIS
/b CADRES NAIIONAUX A APPUI MICRO ENIREPRISE
/C  fOURNIIURES / ELI  / IEI / IElX
April 27.  1990  17 i8
I-
0%
CDM
OQ X
41
Pt



)CHAD
PROJ(1  0 ACTIONS POUR 11 0 EVELOPPEMENI SOCIAL
Table 3 ASSISIANCI A IA RfIMISERTION DES ILCEIICIIS
Detailed Cost table
IICFA 10001
Quantity                                                     Base Lostsi
Unit            1991 1992 1993 1994  1995 Iotal  Unit Cost               1991       1992       1993    1994  1995  Total
IIN9ESMENIT COSTS
A ANITE 110JAM(NA0
I EQUIPIMINi Of BURfAU
(iRDINATIUP/TMI  .nANII/TOGICIfIS             DOTAidON GIOBAit                                                                2596 4                                        2596 4
EQUIPIMEINI  tIELTRIQIIE                      DOlUAtIlN G108A811           I                                I                    712 b                                         712 6
MACHINE A ECRIRE                                     SUITE                 I                                I       195 B        195 8                                         19S U
Sub  oIcal EQUI[PEMINI DE BURIAL]                                                                                                 3 534 A                                       3 504 B
2  MOBLIII(R 01 BUREAU                            DOlAllON ti £1801            I                               1                  I 101 a                                        1lot 6
3  ROBOIEtTFI                                           uJNIT                 2                                2        142 7       liU'i 3                                        605  3
Sub total UNITE NOJAMENA                                                                                                              5 21I 9                                       5 231 9
A UNIIE M1001100
I  iRuIPEMINrI BURtEAU   /a                      OOIAtlTI-  6108011                                                                 SliT S                                        AOl 
2 VEHIICUItS
RIIIICUII DE 91111                                   OWL11                 I                                I     3 426 6    3 426 b                                         3 426 Ii
Sub Total VEt  CUIlS                                                                                                              3.426 6                                       3426 IiI
Sub Iotal U11111  MOUNDOU0                                                                                                            4.288  I                                      4.268  1                                                  1-.
C  AFSOINS PONC-UEIS DE SPILIAIISIIS                                                                                                                                                                                                         -4
I  EVAIUAIIOI. UNNUIIIf                             tionwi,, seetaine         4    2       2                   7     1.228 9    3 686 A  2 457 A  2 457 A               8         6102 2 
2  ( TODOS                                             tuiMwme tour          20    tO    to                   40         41 2       824 0       412 0      412 0                 I 648 0
3  NETRODOIOeY                                      honn-e semtaine          10      5     5                  20      1.542 5   15.425 3  7 712 6  7.712 A                     30.850 6
Sub-lotal BISOItS PONCIUIIS DI SPICIAIISIIS                                                                                          19 93m  9 10 582 4 10 582 4                   41 100 2
D IDRMAIIOII lb
I  spectalisue  infoinatique                        HOMlIr    JOUR           18                               18         72  I   I 297 A                                        1.297 B
2  MATERIEL                                             T01TA ION                                                                   247 2                                          241  2
Sub lotal IORMA  IOiN lb                                                                                                              1.545 0                                       I 545 0
I MISSIONS INII'RIEURIS
1  891011 SOb' REGION                                aller/retou,r            7     5      5                  17        122 9       860 2      6,14 4     614 4                 2 089  I
2  PER DIEM                                                                  25    25    25                   75         41 5    1.036 9   1.036 9   1.038 9                    3. 11086
S.b Yotal MISSIONS INTIRIEURIS                                                                                                        1.897 I  :.6S1  3  1,651 3                    5. 199 7
lotal INVESIMENIl CoMst                                                                                                                 32.958 0 12.233 2 12.233 7                    57.425 5
II RECURRENT COSTS,
A PERSONNEL IOCAL
ECONOMISit                                           tionr  atIs            12    12    i2                  36          94 4    I 132 2   1. 132 2   1. 3.2 2                  3.396 5                          9
CHAUFfIUR                                            h"imie nWIts           12    12    12                   38         37 8       453 6      453 6      453  6                1. 360 B                        (I  2
SECRETAIRE                                           litre ants             24    34    24                  32          75 5    1 812 0   l.8t2l 0   2.6812 0                  5.435 9                          ( 
Sub Total P189111411 I 101A                                                                                                         3 397 8  3.3197 8  3. 397 8                   10. 1933 3
B  IO9ICIIONNtRINT  IT  INTREIIENI
MOBYLE1TT',                                       ANN[I/MOB              2      2     7                   6        777 9    1. 555 8   1555 8   1555 8                     1667 4                           .
INFORRAT190lf                                       AINNE                                                                      598 /      oSA?        598 7                  796 1
COTSORMMUPI ES                                      4N9(:                                                                      98417    7647          Gm47                 2954 0
1P08111(1R                                          AriNE                                                                       10* 3      200 3      108 3                   324 9



Sub lotal UNil  NIDJSAHNA                                                                                          3.247 5  3.247 5  3.247 5    -           9.742 4
2  UNIIIE  lUtOOU
VEHICUtE                                       ANNEE              I    I    I           -      3    2.166 3   2.166 3  2.166 3  2.166 3               -  6.498 9
NOBILIER                                       ANIIE                                                              10-  3    IOS 3    108 3                 324 9
FOUIPENIkI BUREAU                              ANNIE                                                              837 0    837 0    837 0                2.510 9
CONSONNABIES                                   ANNUE              I    I    1                  3      984 7       984 7    984 7    984 7                2.954 0
Sub-total U1Ill IOUIINOU                                                                                           4.096 3  4.096 3  4.096 3               12.288 8
Sub-Total FONCIIO NENINI El ENTREIIEN                                                                                7.343 7  7.343 7  7.343 7               22.031 2
C. tOCAIION BitkAU                                   INOIS              12   1      2 12            36        98 5   1 181 6  1 181 6  1 181 6                  3.544 9
lotal RECURRENt C0IS                                                                                                     11.923 1 11.923 t 11.92' 1               35.769 4
lolal                                                                                                                      44. 881 2 24. 156 8 24. 15b 8            93 194 8
/a M11CHINlE A ECRIRI fl tO8111fR
/b  en informaltque .ooi g        '.1 .mnte.,
April 27  t990  it  ts
0C
WIg 
OQ Z



IC4AD
PROJEI 0 ACII0NS POUR6 II OEVILOPPI6INI SOCIAL
lable 4  RINIORCEMEWI DES SERVICES SOCI0    SANITAIRES A 6D.1A6ENA
Detailed Cost table
1FCOA '000)
Quant ity                                                                 ease Cooss
U-1t           1999        2992        1993      1994 1995   Total        U-1, Cost       T9M         1992        1993     1994 1995    lotd
I 6VE516162 COSIS
A.  IRAVAUX DE G6NI1 CIVIL
IcoNsIRUClIOR
6A16R91115                                                    UNliI                  I           I           I                       3   47.201 2   47.287 7  47 287 2  47 297 2                        141.861 6
C1N2R(S MEDICO SOCIAIJO                                       UMIIE                  I           I           I                       3   52.209 3   5,2.109 3  b2.209 3  52.209 3                  - 156.627 9
O1SP1NS9112F                                                  UNIT[                  I           I           1                       3    16.024 7    26. 194 7  16.194 7  16 194 7                      49.594 0
Sub-lotal CONSIRUCIION                                                                                                                                   115.691 2 115.691 2 115 691 2                     347.073 6
2 RE11A92111A1106
OISPf6>6161l.                                              UIW(MIIAIRI               2           2                                   4    2 481 I    4 962 3   4.962 3                                    9.924 5
C01611.11  MI'i     r.    I                                   Oil 11                             2                                   4     1. BIB 2     3. 636 3   3 636 3                                7.272 6
tiI IUll I1 *.   116                                          116111i                I                                               1   30. 135 2   3 0. 1352                                           30.135 2
CLVPII PIIAkI6ALIUIIQUI                                       U16IT(                 I                                               I   15.0b7 6    15.067 6                                            15.067 6
L06GI16  MED01016                                             UNIT[                  I                                               1    8.536 3    A 539 3                                              8.536  3
Sub lotal REHABILITATION6                                                                                                                                 62. 339 6   8598gg6                               70 936 4
S.b-lotal TRAV91X Of G0161   CIVIL                                                                                                                           178. 030 9 124. 289 9 115 691 2                   418 Oil9
I  CEM2R1S SLCIAIIX                                             C161R1                 I?2          5           5                      22     4 307 7   5,1. 692 0  2 1. 538 3  21 538 3                    94. 768 7
2  CIliJUiI DI* 01161201                                                                                                                                   18461I   9839 1                       .14. 685 2
3  tD0E16161 P1DECI6                                                                                                                                        1. 502 53                                         1. 502 9
Sub-total IQUIP9OItl6l                                                                                                                                        59 040 7  31 377 5)  21 538 3                    110. 956 5
I  91410011I. F l 911                                           36111                  4                                               4     4 40'j 6    21.627 3                                          I7 622 3
2  96211CUtE  0UT TERRAIN   A 9BU319C0S                          36111                  4                                               4     6.8l1'      3 5.244 6                                          35. 244 6
Sub-lotal VFIIICIItIS                                                                                                                                         5,.866 9                                          52 866 9
0  6101CA61N1S ISSE61121    /a                                        CAS            250.000    325.000    400.000                   975.000           0 3   73 426 2  95i 454 0 117 481 9                     286.362  I
I 66C98REUR'
S1MI6AIR2" 01 RlICYCIAGI                                   SIPlINAIRI               53           5           6                      16       637 4      4 197 0   4 197 0   5024 3                       13.398 2
F0605 POU  OR 1099110  CONIINUL                                                                                                                         1.030 0   2. 060 0 2 060 0                        5. 150 0
Sub lotalNIADR199URS                                                                                                                                       5.227 0   6.247 0   7084 3            -18. 548 2
2  A96161 PERSONNI 0f S9NrE                                    $16168A161               4          10          II                      25          624     3.296 0    8.240 0      9 064 0                  20.600 0
3  PROG6A661 A62016S11GNE66N2  lb                                 96*966                                                                                    2.030 0       595 0       525 0                   2.060 0
Sub 10282 90R68120N                                                                                                                                            9.543 0   15.002 0  16 663 3                     41.209 2
9  AS52S2A6C1  2kCHNIQ2JE
I ASSISIA6CI IICKNIQUL A IONG 216191
610102N mphl                                               hofw16 IoIS              12          1?          12                      36     2.56O 2    30.720 &  30.720 8  30.720 8                       9?. 162 4
ASSIS1AN1  SOCIAL/101126626R                              hlomri  motsr             12          12          22                      36     1.877 4   22.529 1  22.539 I  22.529 1                        67. 587 3        09 I 
Sub Total AS ISIANCE 11C86202J1 A 1066 T16R9(                                                                                                             53.2.9 9  53.249 9  53 249 9                     159.749 7           -
2 81S0161. PI-NCIUtLS 06 0P1C1A125215
APPIJI I(C21N10U6A0MIN252RA111                           howo. senatne               3           3    .      3     .9                      3.072 2      4 216 6   9. 216 9   9.216 6                     27. 949 a             0%
RICHiRCIII   0P1RAIIO19N1116                              h*uoe jour               40          40          40                      120       253 5    20. 239 3  10. 138 3  10.1238 3                    30,414 9          I*6
SIIP1RVISIl)6                                             hommI ",.jor             30           30         30                      90        337 9    10. 139 3  10. 138 3  10. 238 3                    30.414 II
LIUDIS Li SUPERVISION 169AVAU0 0161k CI vii                                                                                                            29. 674 1   7. 999 4                              35. 842 5         s
Sub lotal Si 0265 P060261 t  Di SPICIAI 25215                                                                                                             56. '67 3  36. 661 5  29. 493 2                  124. 322 0



Sub-Total ASSISIANCE ILCMNLQUE                                                                                                                           Ill. 417 2  89.911 4  82.743 I                   284.071 7
ToLal INVEStMENT COSTS                                                                                                                                      481.324 8 356. 034 7 354. 137 8        -        . 193. 477 3
LI  RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNEL LOCAL
GESTIONNAIRE                                               homme mois               12          12         12                      36       144 I      I. 730 4    1.730 4   1.730 4                   6. 191 2
IOGISIICIEN                                                tamme-mats               12          12         12                     36          103     1.236 0   1.236 0   1,236 0                      3.708 0
MANDIAJYRE                                                 homme-moss                8          12         12                      32        43 8        350.2      625 3       526 3           -       1.400 8
Sub-total PERSONNEL  LOCAL                                                                                                                                3.316.6   3.491 7   3.491 7                     10.300.0
B flAIS CE IF0qCIIONNEMENT ElI ENTRETIEN
I  VEIIICULt.                                                 ANNEE                                                                                   8.773 5   9.748. 3  13.972 6                    32.494 5
2. CELLULE Of G1STION                                          ANNIE                             ..                                                   8.271.3   8.822 7  10.477 0                     27.571 I
LNINIES MIDICO-SOCIALES                                    ANNEE                                                                                   9.949 7   2.924 5   5.957 3                     t0. 831 5
Sub-total FRAIS CE fONCI]OIINMENET El ENIREIIEN                                                                                                          18.994 6  21.495 6  30.406 9                     70. 897 0
Total RECURRENT CO: 1S                                                                                                                                       22 311 I  24.987.3  33.898 6                     81.197 0
toLal                                                                                                                                                       :.05.L36 9 381.021 9 388.0166                   1 .274. 674 3
/a PAR NONSRE OE NInJlVEAUX CAS
ib MATERIEL
April 27. 1990  17 '8
0' 3
00



I CHAD
0110J11 0 ACIIONS POUR It DVIVLOPPININI SOCIAL
Table 5  RFNIORCIMENI OES SERVICES SOCIO   SANIIAIRIS A 161174116
Detailed Cost table
(IdCA '0OOL
Q..antit BI ase Costs
unit              1991       1992        1993     1994 1995    Iot,il       l/nj( 'Ost    1V9I          199?        1993     1994 1995  total
IINVESIMINI costs
A. IRAVAUX DE (.'PIE CIVIL
I  CONSTRUCTIONl
tOEDIMENI PICA                                           611111                   I                                                1   35 157 A    35. 157 8                                        5  157 8
Sub lotal COthSIRtCIION                                                                                                                                 35. IS? 8                                      35.1I57 A
2 ROIHABIEIIATION
106G01111  MIc/ MCP                                    (OGEMENr                  2                                                 2    5.02? 5    10.045 f                                     -  1.G45 1
8411(40 MCF   " CA                                       UNLII                                            1I    5.022 5                              5.022 5                        -5.022 5
SIRUCIUREI  SAIIIIAIRES                                  IJNLIt                   I          -                                          5.02? 5    5.022 5                                 --       5.022 5
DEPOT PHIAIMACEUIIQUE                                    ANIlE                    I                                                '   20.090 2   20.090 2                                      -20.090 2
Sub-Iot1iI RIfA81IItIAIION                                                                                                                              40. 180 3                                      40. lAO 3
Sub-lotla  IRAVAILX DE GENIE CI VIt                                                                                                                        75. 338 I                                      75. 338 I
8 VIIIICULUS
I  VEIIICUIE 'OUT 11FRRAIN1                                  WEN                     3                                                3    8.811 I   26.433 4                                         20. 423 4
2  VEINICUIE   X4                                             0114                   I                                                 I    4 405 V;    4.405 U6                                        4.409
Sub-lotal VftfIci t(S                                                                                               30. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~83c9 0             30 .39 0
I  AU N11V1A11 CENTRAI                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
PIIARMACIE                                               UNITE1                              .           .                                            1.202 0                                        1.202 0
NOAliIIR IIIRIAuL                                        UNiII                                                                                       91404 0                                        2. 404 0
MATERIE11  ,NFORMAIIQIIf   REPRODUIJIIDI               DOIAlION                   .           .                      .3.916 I                                                                        3.916 I
Sub lotal AU 111V1AU CENIRAk                                                                                                                             7b221 I                                        7.522 1
2  AU NIVIALL RIGIONiAL
BUREAU MCI             .                           OIAIION G1081A11               I                                                I         hOt        601 0                                          601 0
DISPfKSAiIIES                                        DISPIINSAIRI                4           4           4                        12       600O A    2.b43 3   2.643 3   2.643 3                    7.930 0
RADIO                                                    RADIO                    1          I                                     2     I 468 5      I 4U8 5    1.468 5                            2.937 0
8181iow4uE                                      DOIAIIOJI 6108811               I           .I    I. 134 N                                          1 174 8                                        1.174 8
RMOBIR 11  OGIMUINIS NCP I MCA                    DOIAIION/LDGEMINI               3                                                3       400 7      1.202 0                                        1.202 0
IVUIPEMENt LOGENENIS MCP / MCA                    DO101IIO1/10GEMIIIEW            3                                  .                     '143 2    2.349 11                                       2.349 6
PHIAR1ACII. PRffECIORAEf                                 011111                   1          .                                               o0i        A0l 0                                          AOL 0
PHARIIACIE SOULS   PREICIOCRALi                          111111                   I                                                1       300 5        300 5                                          300 5
Sd,b total AU NIVUAU RFG610A1                                                                                                                           10.2340 8   4.1III 9   2.643 3                 17.096 I
Sub-1oiaI EQIJIPI MINI                                                                                                                                     17.862 9   4 Ill 9   2 643 3                   24. 618 2
D  MEDICANENIS iSSENIIELS  /a                                  no hab            250.000   375.000   500.000                     L. 125.000)        0 2   5~.069 A  82. 604 5 110.139 3                  247.813 4
E ASSISTANCE IICIINIOUE
I ASSISIUNEI 1iCVNkIQUI A LONG LIRNE
GISt 10111181111     hoetite nors               12   12   I?                                     36  2.304 2 27. 649 8 27.1149 U 27 649 8                          82. 949 5    I..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 .34  7.4982764  2 698  2.4
NEOUCIN CIII1   A10JO11I                             hoxe.  nio's                12         12          12                        3b    2.304 2   27 649 8  27.649 11  27.649 U                    82. 949 5o
S., lotal AS'ISIANCI IECIINIQUiL  A lONG 111R0F                                                                                                         5j5.299 7  55 299 2  55. 299 7                t165.899 0             .
2  BISOINS P''NCIU(tS Of SP(CIALISF5S1I
tWA11UAI1I`I /b                                      hoelte jo,ii,                           5           t)                       15       10/ 5        537 6      537 6       537 6                 1.1612 9
IORNAIIO11                                           how. jo-.                                          to                        10       1125s                              1:24 8                 1.124 8
Sd,ibI    81tal 01115 PORLF.IIIS Al SPICIAL  SFf1$                                                                                                         537 6       537 6    I 16624                 2.737  7
Sub loalL ASSIS ANCE IICHINIQILI                                                                                                                           55. 837 3  b5.837 3  56 96?  I                188 636 7



I   ORttAItOt DU PfRSONPlt 0D  SAtttl
I tCP El ItCA                                         PARIILIPANI                2          2          2                        6         103       20h 0      206 0       206 0                 628 0
2  PfRSONttI2 SANI2AIR  REGIOAL0I0                     S2I2INAIRI                2           2          2                       6    1 287 5    2 575 0   2 575 0   2 57S 0                    7.725 0
Sub lolal lORAIt 108 DU PtRSOtt0 Et Of S4N1E                                                                                                          2.781 0   2.781 0   2.t81 0                 8.343 0
G  02PIAC2EMNIS INttRltURS                               AltlR/RtlOUR                5          5          5                       IS         103       S15 0      55 0      525 0                1.545 0
total INVESIOENN 2 COSTS                                                                                                                               738 243 0 145.849 6 273.040 7               557. 133 2
11 RECURRENT COSI0.
A  PE RSO12 I2IOUCAL
GESIIOtN2412R                                        horime rois                          12          12                      24       257 5                 3.090 0   J.090 0                6.180 0
AO28INISIRAI(UR    COMPIA61E                         hoe moIs                  12          12         12                      3C,        .09    J. 'u: 0   3.708 0   3.708 0                 t2. 124 0
SECRElllRE                                           honme mols                12          12         12                      36       123 h      I 403 2   1.483 2   1.483 2                 4 449 6
CHtlUltEUR  h*mme-nmo,s                                                        24         24         24                       72         l2 e         1 483 2   1.483 2   1.483 2             4449 6
Sub 2otal PERSIINNEI  OCAI                                                                                                                         6.674 4   9.764 4   9.764 4                 26.203 2
8 ftRtlREIEtt E. FOttCION8iFftilP
I  (NIREIIII DES VEHICUIES                            annee/veh                 4          5          5                       14    4 43'       17  24 3  22. 255 3  22. 155 3               62.034 9
2  20NC2I0214Em082l 02S VEttlCUtES                       AttNNt                                                                                  3.93e 7   4.923 4   4 923 4                 13 785 5
3  AssRuAtLrS D05 VHICUt2S                            anenee/veh                4          5          S                       14      275 4      1 la- t,    1 477 0   2 477 0                4. 35 7
4  fO7tC710ttEIIEtl  0U 8URE4U CEttlRAtl                 ANIE                                                                                    5.9U8 I  ".908 2   5.908 1                  17.724 3
S  fOtCllOttt2EPME08  OU 8UREtU RlCIL7tAI               ANIE2                                                                                    1. 772 4   1. 72 4      '72 4           -   5 317 3
6  1014CtlOtlEtlEt  PHA4R4CIE CE108R288E                 8A880                                                                                      .96 9      196 9      19E 9           -     590 8
7  FONC201022EENIEtl PH4RARACIE REGIONAtt41              ANNIE                                                                                      98 5        98 5       98 S                 295 4
8  IR8it;POR; DES IlDICAtENtS                            JOUR                  10         20          20                      50       118 2    1. t812      2.363 2   I J63 2                5.908 I
Sub lotal E1N1R2121E  El 1011CII2N0 EtN8t1                                                                                                          32.0021  3.8894 9  38.894 9                109.79t 9
C   OCtlOt'   i
I  BUREAU ClINRAt                                       A21(0                   I          '           '                       3       4.944    4. 9440   4.944 0   4.944 0               -   4.832 0                252
2  PHAM882CIt CtHIRittE                                  821866        t              I                1                       3       2 4i2    2.472 0   2.472 0   2.472 0               -   7.416 0
Sub Votal tOCA I0N                                                                                                                                   7 4;6.0   7.416 0   7.4t6 0    -           22.248 0
lotb l R8E68t82 CO-15                                                                                                                                   46.092 , St.075 3  56.07S 3                 158.t243 t
fotal                                                                                                                                                   284.335 5 202.924 9 229.116 0                72S;376 4
.. ... ..   ....     ... .     . . .... . ...........     ....
Ia * 02t9i9S PETIT (QUIPDtHtft 288
hb .ISI INt P14CI Di PROrRU4t
4>rII 27. 199O  17 '8
.,o
C
I'



T CHAO
PROJIEI B ACT IONS POU0R If OEVE LOPPENENI  SOCIAt
fable 6 AMQELORATION OE  ASSAINISSEMNtN URNAIN
Detailed Cost fable
(CIA '000)
Quantity                                                      Bose Couts
Unit            1991 1992 1993 :994 1995 Total  Unit Cost            ?99t        1992        1991      1994 tgg5    Totld
IINVESTMENI COSTS
B GENIE CIVIL
I IRAVAIIX A I ENTREPRISE
RESOAU P81)A1Rk                                                                                                             '45.736 5  145.699 2                              291 497 8
R(S(AU SICONDAIRE                                                                                                           1(14. 20 5  02.929 3 302. 0)9 3                   9:0 049 I
EAU 1101A81                                                                                                                   169C53I  3u 5410                                  53 532 3
ECLAIRAGE  PUBLIC                                                                                                                        71 lOt 0  35 550 5                    106 651 4
P1(1115 OUVRAGLS                                                                                                              'i 678 6  IA 373 0  13 805 2                      49 857 5
REHABILITATION BUREAU CEIIUILE                           0N1T6              1                               1   32.973 5   32.973 5,                                            32 973 5
Sub lotla  IR50A0X A I INTREPRISE                                                                                               517 6444  04 7  642 3 312 27'i0                 I 444.56?  7
2 IRAVAUX EN RIGIL
RAIN D GElUVRE                                                                                                                 4.120 U    b.507 0   2 163 o                     :2 675 U
0U1  (LACE                                                                                                                     4.6120? 7 6.629 9   2 913 1                      14. 163 6
Sut lotal 10R19AUX EN RIGh                                                                                                        B. 744 7  1 3.22 1 A 5 076  1                    27.038 6
S.b-Iotal GENIE CIVIL                                                                                                              S2Et 3857 787,864 0 357.15 It I                 t 47 1. 600 2
B EQUIIPEIIEK1
VENICUELS
CANIONS OTOURES El CONIENEURS                     0010? ION GLOBALL                                                          58. :53 5                                          58 15  5                                  t
VENICULES 4 84                                            YEN               2                              2     4.405 6    B.S1t  I                                             a alt 
MNBYLEITIE                                               MOTO0              4                              4        342 1      t 370 6                                           1.370 6
Sub-lola?  ViLIECULES                                                                                                            BA  (335 3                                        6A. 335 3
2  EQUIJPENENI CELLUEL  INFRASIRUClURI                BOIAIEON GLOBALE                                                           tS 824 6  Ii. 354 5   5 976 I                     36 t'3 2
SubtIota) EQUEPFNENI                                                                                                                 bi 159 9  II 354 5   s) 976 I                    104.4905
C ASSESIANCE IECCHNIOLUE
I ASSISIANCC A LA CELIJEE( INFRASIRUJCIURlE
ENGENIEUR PRENCIPAL                                  henna ntOtS           12   12      6                 30     3.993 9   47.926 4  4 7. 9284  23. 963 2                      119.816 0
INGENIEUR                                            homna moios            6    12   12                  30     3.993 9   23.963 2  47.926 4  47.92B 4                        119.81I6 0
Sit Iota) AS' ISIANCL A LA CLE(LUIEI  NFRASIRUCTIURE                                                                             71.68926  95i.852 B  7I.a8906                    239.631 9
2  CONSUiIANIS EIUBOES DE1AlIELES El D9                                                     .           .O                       46.772 3                                          46. 772 3
Sit-Total ASSISIANCE  IECIINIQUE                                                                                                    116 661 4  25.6852 5  71.889 6                    286 404 2
Total INVEST14ENI COSIS                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~732. 207 0 69Ω.07t  3 435. 216 7  1  62. 495 0
11  RECURRENI COST'                                                                                                                                                                                                EQJZ
A  FONCIIONNENINI ElI ENIREIIENi DES VENICULES                 ANNIE                                                                 7.6/55 4   6.148 A  10.634 6                     34.759 2
B  CONSONNAIEL  /a                                             ANNI E                                                              29.540 4  25.540 4  29.540 4                       88. 621 3                1  t
lotla  RECURRENt C015                                                                                                                   33~161I  45 6892   40 1715 0                     123 3805                  C    1
Iotal                                                                                                                                   769 723 3 740. 760 5 475 391 7I 985. 875 5
/a FOURNIIURES. EEIC/lE(/lIEIE
April 27. 1990 17 8



ICHi 5
P290J1.7 0 ACTION', POUR 1E 0101 LOPPEENT SOCIAL
labIe 7 911101 SUCIAI StjR tLITERRAIN
Dasta.ted Cost Table
II CFA '000t
Oows,nt'y                                                     Oaso Costs
Onlt            1991 1992  1993  1994  1995 bloal  U-t Lost              iqTV       1992       1993    1994 1999   Iota)
IINVESTMENI COSTS
A  RENA8I1ITA;IrN 08 IOCAL                                                  -TWIE 1(                                                   1.908 a        Sob a                                        Iboba 
8EQOIP8NINT
I  BUREAU                                                       O'1TAIION GIO8AIE                                                               I ssE                                           I .b02 9
2 VEIIICULIS
VEIIICRIE 4 14                                                      UNITE                I                               t      2.048 9        248                                          7 048 9
NOBYLETIES                                                           UNITE               I     t                         4        342 7    T  2   0       142 7                             I 37068
Sub roala  VEltICUIES                                                                                                                           TI. 33/  9   39/, 7                            8 419
3  MAtERIEl  If TERRAIN                                           9otat,o,,/an,,eft4 849  1  4 790 2  '1 790 2                                                                                24 475 4
Sub Total EQEtIPtEMNI                                                                                                                             t4. 479 9 10  13, 8  '9. 74  2                  34 397 4
C ASSISIANCE TICHNIQUE
IASSISIANCI  IFCIENIQUF A lONG T18111
TEIINC"KCIE,/CHfF Of PR80111                                     hommne, 'so.'.         2    12    12                   38      I 689  3   i4 9,35 .  1j S39 2 '8 9`39 2                  58 lit?77
IORMAIEUR' NATIONAUX                                             soIfme 'sos           24    24    24                   7?         59 t   1.417 9   1 417, 9   1 417 9                      4293 A
Sub Total AS..ISIANCf TECHNIQUE A EUON  TERME                                                                                                 20.9. 4i2 &2b-1 372 20 9957 2                   82.871  9
2B8501NS PINCIUtLS Of SERVICES BE SPILCIAILSIE.                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
IDOEStItIL.N                                                     homne  M.ess           2      2     t                   5      18689 7    3. 3FiT,s  3. 3 M94   i849/                      84488                                              4
1UIVI SUR8 18  TERRAIN                                           hsomus  'o's           4      3     3                  tO0    1.689 7   & .N79  8  h. 0b2  !  5069 1                      18 8371 1
EVAIUA113E  ANNULItE D3 PROG3RANJI    /a                           "ISSION               I     I     I                   3     2.098 4   2 093 4  2el194 4  20,38 4                         8. 179  1
Susb bloat  BE'OTNS PONE.IUEIS DE SERVICES DE SPECIALiSIES                                                                                     12.111, 8  tO.2"8.  t  8a817 2                 3i.b20 8
Susb-Total ASSEStANCE  IECIINIQUE                                                                                                                 33. 163 A 31.484  I 24 '174 4                   94.392 3
bloat  ENVtS;INEI CISTS                                                                                                                               49. T11, 0 4t.S9ts It 39 564 9                 130 29869
A  PERSONNEL  EICAI
AN1I4AIEALRS  ~E IERlRAIIE NA11088110                              hoffts. tones          40    80    80                 180          St 9    2.080 0   3.090 0  4 .2   0                     4 2700
SECRE 1A1RE                                                        haumtsmos,s            I?    1?    12                  38          41 2       494 4      4U1  4     4'34 4            -      .483 2
Pi 4104 ON                                                            seusaMs's           12    12    12                  38          30 9       2708a      V 310       150 8                 I1124
CR81111811                                                         hosme-muoss            12    I2    12                  38          30 9       370 a      770 8       i?!' a           -        I?24
Sub total PERSOUNNE   LOCAl                                                                                                                       9.2960   4. 328  0  I. il,6 0                  12.9)8 0
8 ONciNCINWEMI tENT El 418111
I2  i  IOSCUTIE                                                    ase/sb03                      9     9                               128       384. CS    840 5    0,  25-2 0               6. 84497
3ASSUJRANCIS                                                         ANNCELE  88         I    2       2                   5       799 4        799,4      "104 A      WI'A                   1, 4770 0M
I  FONCII014~EMENt  811 808180   /b                                    ANNEE                                                                  7. 9793   10.98b S 1040. 4 11'                 28. 4496             M I  01
Sub totat  fONC'IOkNNMINI El i,tRITIEN                                                                                                            9. 90 9   14 317         31 3 1,7'             38.540 4              j.
CIOCATION Of BUREAO                                                       1101               12    17    12                  38           309    3.708 0   3.708 .2  3. .08 0                   II  24
total RECURRENI CO IS                                                                                                                                 18.q90   9 22 391 3 23. 381 3                  02. 6424 4_
total t66.044 q bl.idli 262 9145 8                                                                                                                                                                    192.93899
/a   lS jow         d  ..,'i  'o,,/an
/b fOURNIIUR[S / ELI / TEL / TiltX



tCHAD
PROJEI 0 ACTIONIS POUR LE DLVEtOPPIMINI SOCIAl
lable 6 PROGORARRE DE RECHERCHE DE POtIlIQUJLS SOCUAIES 6tiQUEES
Detailed Cost lable
tFCFA '0OOt
Qu.antsty                                                                Base Costs
Unit            1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   total         tJ-,  Costz      1991       18y2l       1993         1994       1995      lotol
A BUREAU CENTRIiI,
I  RERAAItLIA1IO8  DES 10C8U1 (0X5188A5 S                                                           260                             260         140 6                .18.564  1                                  -36.564  1
2  80811 lER                                                           001A1108                                                        .                                .079 2                                        3.079 2
3  [9U1PE181411   IRIORMAIIQUI
ORDINAIEI                                                             UNtITEII                     I                                I     3883,4                   3.66b 4                                         3.665 4
ORDI8AiUI                                                             UNITf                 I                                       I     1.527 3    1.527 3                                                       1.527 3
INPRIHANI                                                            U 0811                I       I                               2        4582        458 2        4582                                            916 4
LDGICIELS                                                             UNITE                        3                               3        I610 9                 t 83  7                                   -      .832 7
PHOTOCOPIIUSE                                                         UNiE                         I                               1      2 2b.t 9                 2 290 9                                        2.290 9
Sub Iotal 601 1P(8181  INI0R8AEIQUi                                                                                                                        t 745 4    8.247 2                                        tO. 232 2
4  VIIIECULE   I                                                          UNITE                I       -                                      3.426       3.42b 8                                                     3.426 6
5    QtlIPEtLid ttLCIRIQUE                                           OQIATION                                                                                        4.887 2                                    - 4.887 2
Sub-Totla  AUREAI. CENIRAt                                                                                                                                   15 412 0  52. 177  7                                        58. 189 7
8  UNITES REGIOIIAAES
I  RI1lA8IItflulR0(5 DESOCARX  XISISANTS                                  M2                        154                              154        '4  A                21. 657 2                                       2 1. 6572 2
2  NOBItIERA                                                           001A1108                        I                               I                   .R,                                                        4.651 8
ISJ)
ORDINAIIUI                                                            UNtIE                        6                                6     1 527 3                  911,638                                        9. 163 6                      $
IMPRI188811                                                           uNItF                        6                               0        4583                     749  I                                       27249  1 
Sub-lotal f41 IME8N? IfIfORHAIQIII                                                                                                                                    it 912 7                                       II. 912 7
4  6Qt3IP88ENi 1iICIRIQUf                                              001A110N                        I                               I                  4 443 7                                                     4.887 2
Sub-total UI:IE1  REGIONAIES                                                                                                                                 9 519 8   33.569 9                                        43 108 9
C  ENOULILS COlON
1  MAIERIft P1 IONCTIONNERENI                                            ANN11                                                                            /.512 6.                                                    7 512 8
2  ASSISIlNLtI ECHNIQUE NAfIONALI
SUPERVISEI AS                                                     hommse mo10s             2                                       2         42 5        lAS 4                                                       IRS 4
(8Q40(1108                                                        hoiwm. tiS               A                                       6            6f,      407 9                                                       407 9
AGENTS DE SAISIE                                                  hoeu* MO's               2                                       2         'I? 3       :54 5                                                       154 5
Sub lotaI  ASSISTANCE  10C8N1QUE NAIIONAIL                                                                                                                   .41 8                                                       747 8
3  86SO1NS PrINClU6IS DE SERVICES 0f SPECIAl ISlES                    hsont. miots             2                                       2     4.604 3   3 216 6                                                        9.2:6 6
S..b total 18001  ES COlON                                                                                                                                   11.477 0                                                    17.477 0
0 L8QIJEIES IN 911 1611 UR661N
I  88A(1E 1I   108fOC110NN(MENT                                          88816                                                                           311 It                                                       9.3:5 6
2 ASSISIANLI- tlLRNIQlIl WA1108A11
SUPIRRIsfRRS                                                      hta,ni  1101s            4                                       4                     1 70 8                                                      370 8
ENQUE II UP',                                                     howie  setis            20                                      20            1.0    I1 9 £                                                     1 .3b9 6
AGENIS Di 5A1511                                                  hous   M'ts              4                                       4          77 3       309 0                                                       309 0        co z
Sub  total AS.ISIA8LI 1TECHN1QUE 8A1108A11                                                                                                                2. 034  4                                                   2 039 4
3  BISOINS PINCIUIIIS DE SIRVICkS DE SPECIAIISIES                     holin   Mo.S             3              .3                             3 606 3   13 6,24 9                                                     13 824 9
Su.b total E8OUI,tS EN 811110i URBA1N                                                                                                                      iT  17s 9                                                    25 179 9         a
f  ENQUEI5 PIRI'UMNEiES ,UR LFS 818A615
1  MAIIRII   yl IONCIIONNImlmI                                           A881k                                                                                        4 307 5    4 507 tI  4 507 5  2.2b3 8   15.776 4
2  ASSISIARCtI ECR8lQUl  88A1088NA                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
SUPIROISI8RS                                                      homiue mitos                  36      72     84      46       240          47 I                 3 337 2   6.674 4  7.786 8  4 444 6  22.24690
188008114                                                         lhome, mo is                   84    168    192    108         552            08                 5 710 3   11.420 6 13 052 2  7.341 8  37.525 0



AGENTS at SA1S1E                                              hoavwr. mos                  42    814    84      42      292         ,7 2                3.244 5   6.489 0  6.489 0  3.244 5  19.467 0
ANTMROPONETRES                                                home mots                    36    72    84       48      240           68                2.44? 3   4 894 6  5.710  3  3 263 0  18. 315 3
Sit Petal ASSISIAIICI T8C181Q9E NAl 101A8F                                                                                                                14.739 3  29 478 633 038 318 299 0   95.555 2
3 81S038S PUNCIUELS Of SIRVICIS DE SPECIALIS1ES
SP8CIA1ISI1S 1INTER8AI1NAUX                                   hcomme raots                  2      4      I      2        8    4.EC6 2                  9.216 6  18.433 2  4 608 3  4 608 3  36 866 4
SPECIAtISTES NAuIONUX8                                       hommute mois                   -      2                      2        463 5                              927 0                            927 0
Sit total 88'.0INS POuCtUtIS at SERVICES DE SPECIAtISIIS                                                                                                   9 2186   19.360 2  4 608s3  4 6'08 3  37 793 4
Sit-total E891111E5 PEIRAl8NtElS SUR8 1FS M1N801$                                                                                                             28 463 5  533 346 4 42 154 I 25. 161 1 149. 125 0
fI ORNAllON 188tl1
SEMINAIRE'                                                 P8R11C1P681I/Ak           4      4      3      3      3        17    j. 21427   4l.At  0   4 .859 0    3. 644 2  3 644 2  3644 2  20. 650 6
VOYAGES 8(111015l                                               VOYAGE               I      I      I      I               4      1.714 7    I.21!4 7   1.214 7   1.214 7  1 224 7                   4.859 0
0RGAM1S58I08i 5NMAIRAliS R8G10NA88X                            30118NAIR                    2                             2      1. $19 1               3250 D3                                     3.750 3
PARJICIPA.ION 3(MJN8IRES P0I08OAUt                             stMhNAIARt            I      1      I       I     I        5      1.S53 1   1 553        l .553 8    1.553 8  I 553 8  1.553 8   7.768 9
Sit Iota1l0 881AIIO  lXlIRIIIRl                                                                                                                 7.6?7 5)  ii 372 8   6 412 7  6.412 2  5.198 0  37.028 7
2 f0R8A1108 1088A,1
118AI,08l.0'  it.  %A          A hi                                                                                                         :8940    1854 0    1.854 0          927 0      927 0    7.416 0
1011A61km U1.  .,,ilWVIyIlt Ilk,                          SkLItiA8In/SiMAINl         3      4      4      4      4        19       3231       59%4  3     927 0       927 0     927 0      92280   4.403 3
tORNI8IJ8NlIjuIl'ap 881 N IIIQ iIONIlts                     511118A1I11/A                   I      I      I      I        4        154 5                  154 5       154 5      154 5     ∂54 5       618 0
Sit lotal F01;MA81I0M IOCALE                                                                                                                    2.5,49 3   2.935 5   2..935 5  2.008 b  2.008 5  12. 437 3
Sub rotal FORMA ION                                                                                                                                                              .       ..      ...   ...
G  MISSIONS INTlIRIEURES                                                                                                                          20.7 017  14.313 3   9.348 2  8.421 2  7 206 5  49.466 0
I  PERSONNEL 11NQ011S COlON                                         J0O1R              90                                    90         5 5       49j 3..                                                 491 3-
2   P1RSONNEI 888U ItS IN 1118118 URB8AI1                         J011R             120                                   ∂20        53         6 s6 I                                           -      655 1                     0
3  PERSONNEL E80761ES PtIIIANaNIOL S111R ItS 818AG1S                 3081                    580   970   970   560    3. 108             5 5               3.166 2   5 295 2  5 295 2  3.1266 2  16. 922 9
Sit-bloat MISSI( .NS INIERIEURES                                                                                                                   1.146 4   3.166 2   5 295 2  5 295 2  3. 166 2  18.069 3
total  INV6SIMNIN  CIs01s                                                                                                                            683921 0 132.2909S  67 989 6 55 8206 35.533 8360 615 7
A  P4R8508Mb  IL CAL
CONPI88Ll                                                       hoime mo's                    6      12    12      0        38        77                    463 5       927 0      927 0     463 5   2 781 0
SICRItAiRI                                                      horri  mo' s                  : 2    24    24    24         84        46 4                  55 6 2    I 112 4  I 112 4  I 112 4   3.893 4
CHAUFFEURS                                                      harri  aois            6     36    72    64    48          206        SI 2       1113 0   2.057 9   4. 115 9  4 80: 9  2 743 9  14.C67 6
GUA8DIEN5                                                       ho-uin  mols                 24    48    48    24          144        30 9                   741 6    1.483 2  1 483 2    741 6   4 449 6
S.t Total P4RS808811 lO(CAL                                                                                                                         143l 0   3 819 2   7.636 5  8 324 5  5061 4  25. 186 6
8 1110111KM E1 108C110N8698N1 005 96818811$
I  18rR11168                                                       88811                                                                        '020        354 5   5.317 3  53 317 3  2.658 6   14.356 6
2  88R8L1888l                                                       88880                                                                     1.181 6   8596 3   17.192 5  17 :92 5  8.596 3  52 759 2
3  ASSUR888C1S                                                     8NN1E               2       1     9      9      9        30       531 7   t.063 5        53' 7   4.785 5  42785 5  4.785 5   15.951 8
Sit loial INTRIF111N tI FONCIIONNFMINI  81$ Vt9ICUIES                                                                                             )>.9n4 8   9 482 5  27.295 4 27 295 4 :6.040 4  83.087 7
LC oAtION VIhIlCULIS                                                 J089              210                                  2:0         42 2   8.868 1                                                  8.868 3
0  EN11881118 8.-tER11  INIORIIAtIQUI                                  8NN1[               I                    I      I        5t       779 "I     236 5       738 5       738 5     738 5    738 5   3 692 6    ~
tota  8888986811 COIS                                                                                                                                 i2.'90'3 g  14. 040 2  35 672 3 38 358 3 21. 840 4 170. 815 I                 Z00 
Total                                                                                                                                                 8'.8134 9 148.330 7  103 662 292 228 9 57,374 2 481.4308 IT
April 27. 1990   17 .8 



PiJEI 0 ACTIONS POUR1 &E D)(VEOPPEN#U1 SOCIAt
lable 9  PtOCdSt Of RICNIBCHII Ot POIIIIOUES SOCIALES  EIUnuS ~C0ICalOL
Oislamle Costl able
ClcA lo0l
Qua*ltI tp                                                 B ast Costs
"It          1991 1992 1993 1994 1999 bltal Unit Cost    1991           1992      193        M94      199     total
,. euvisimm;l ausil
A. ASSIS1MNCI ilcmicHNIl u*11081                            howmoss            12    8    a    a    1    37         463 5   5.562 0  31708 0  3.708 0  3.703 0    463 5  17. 149 5
S  ILSOINS PONICELS DE SERVICES DE sPtclaaisI&S            ,tai-Moss           9    7    6    4    4    30    4.608 3  41.474 532.258 I275b49.8 18.4332 18.433 2 138.249 2
C. fORUINA ND  A I hIRANGER                              P8RIICIPANIfMlOs       2    2    2    2    2    10    2.429 5   4.859 0  4.859 0  4.859 0  4.859 0  4.859 0  24.2794 8
0. FRAIS Of PRORUCIICI Dl RKPORIS                                               .                .    .aBS 2  1.772 4  1.772. 4  1.772 4  2.558 b   8.862 I
Total INVESINLNI CIISIS                                                                                                        b2. 781 9 42.597 537.989_228.772 626.,414 3 138.555 6
Total                                                                                                                           52. 781 9 42. 597 ' 3?. 989 2 28. 772 6 26.424 3 1183.555.6
pIl 2?. 199   t7.38
A)
aIz
'A0%



I CHAD
PROJIl 0 ACIIONS POUR if DElElIOPPEMENT SOCIAL
table 10  PROGRAHMiI  01 RtCHtRCHE DE POLIIIQIUS SOCIAL(S  APPUI ADNINISIRAIIl
Detailed Cost laole
(fCfA '(O001
Qi.anlily                                                 Base Coais
Unit      1991 1992 1993 t994 11Db lotat  Unit Cost    1991            1992     1993     1994     193$    lolal
. ... .. . . ...  .  .... . . .. . ...  .   .. ..  - ..  . ... .. .
INVESINI COStS
.. ..... .......
A  REHAFtiillATIQN OES lOCAUX EXISIANtS                                                                         3.013 5                                        3,013 5
B  EQUIlilENtt
I  NtOBIIEfR DO BUREAU                       DOIAION                                                        1.448 4                                        1.448 4
2  HATERIl  itNIORtAlIQUt                    DOIA1ION                                                        1.98S 4                                        1,985 4
Sub-lotal DQUIPEMIFNI                                                                                           3,433 9                                        3.433 9
C  fORiA6IO0i                                   SININAitE        I    I    I    1              4         927      927 0   927 0   927 ,   927 0                3.708 0
total INlVISINENI Ct,SIS                                                                                           7.374 4   927 0   957 0   927 0               10, 155 4
11  RECURRENF COSTi
A PERSONNEtt ICAt
I  GESIIONNI.IRE                           hanne-nals    12   12   12   12   12    60             185 4   2,224 8 2 224 8 2 22c 8 2.?24 8 2.224 8 11.124 0
2  SfCREIAIPE                              ho.e n,)Is    t2    2   12   12   12    60             80 3       964           1 984 1   964 1   964 1   964 1  4.820 4
3  PLANIOii                                homue ruos      t2   12   12   I?   12    60            41 7       500 6   500 6   500 6   500 6   500 6  2.502 9
Sub-loal PtRStttitEL LOCA8                                                                                    3.689 5 3.689 5 3.689 s 3.689 5 3.689 5 18.447 3
B  CONSOiIAABLE. /a                              AtNEI          I    I    I    t              b       2.954   2.954.0 2.954 0 2 954 0 2 9i4 0 2.954 0 14.770 2
Total RECURRENt COWS                                                                                               6.643 5 6.643 5 6643 * 6. 6435 6.643 5 33.217 S 5
lotal                                                                                                              14.017 97. b70 57.570 57 570 5 6.643 5 43.372 9                                                               1
/a  EtEC  t IEt
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~      ~   . . . .     .             ....  ... ... ..
Apeti 27. 1990  17 38
OQ z
0w
MriD
Fli 



I CHAD
PROUJt 0 ACTIONS POUR lE OTVEtOPPEHNI SOCIAL
Table 11  PROGRAItNES DE RECHERCHE DE POIITIQIUS SOCIALES  fORItiIIAIION POillIQUtS SOCIAIIS
Detailed Cost Table
U(CIlA '0001
Ou.ant ty                                                    Base Costs
Unit           1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 lotal  Unit Cost          1491       1492      1993      1994       1995    lotal
t tNVESIHtNI COStS
A  tDBYtEITES                                                     UNtIl             3                             3          235      704 3                                                704 9
8  MATERIEL Of FORCFIUNNERENI                                                                                                       1.468 5   1.468 5   .~458 5   1.468 5  2 202 8   a80780
C  BESOINS POMClUftS DE SERVICES DE SPECTAI SIES               hoitme ,   is        4    3    3    3    4        17    4.60B !         b8.4332  3.024 0 13 424 9  3.824 9 18 433 2  78 341 2
I  lORHAIlON A I EIRANGER                               P4ARICIPANI/llOIS        2    2    2    2    2        10    2.429 5   4 c59 0  ,.859 0  4.859 0  4.859 0  4 859 0  24.294 8
2  lORAIIAON tOCAlE                                     SEMINAIRE/SERA8Ni        4     1    3      .    I    10          92'   3 7118 '    927 0  2.781 0    927 0    927 D   9 270 0
Sub lotal lORNAIOON                                                                                                                8.507 0  b.i86 0  7 640 0  S.786 0  5.7860  33 564 B
total INVfSIrEHI COSIS                                                                                                                29. 173b 2' 07' 4 22 933 4 21. 079 4 2b. 4220 120 587 8
It  RECURRENT COS1
A  ENTRElENl E- IONCIIDNNENNit  DES VEHICUIES                    ANNFI             3    3    3    3    3    IS           221 6       6b4 1    6644 7    554 7    664 7    664 7   3.323 3
8  ASSURANCES                                                    AkNNE             3    3    3    3    3        IS          19      S84 9    584 9    584 9    584 9    584 9   2.924 5
Total RECURRENI  COSWS                                                                                                                 I249 b  1249 6  1.249 G  1.249 6  1249 6   6.247 8
total                                                                                                                                  30.423 2 22.329 0 24.183 0 22.329 0 27 671 5 126.935 6
April 27.  1990  17 38
go z
(D 
-4 W
t-
I0



I C"AD
P31O311 E ACTIONS POUR IE OEVCtOPPENENT SOCIAL
lable 32 CEEtLIE DE GESIION DU P31OJE(
Data. led Cost Table
(FCfA '0003
Quant .ty                                                          Base Costs
Unit            199t  3992  1993 1994  1995 Total  Untt Cost             1993       1992       1993        1994       1995      Total
IINVES11111NT  COSTS
h. EQLI3PEIIENT
I 1183(R1E1 INIFORIIATIQUE
ORD3I3ATEUR                                         UNiTE                I     I                         2     2,138 2    2.138 2   2.138 2                                          4.21683
IRPRIMANFE / tOGTCIILS                              UNiMTE               I                               1     1.069  I   3.069  3                                                    1.069  3
S.b-Total M3ATERIEL IN3ORN8T'QUE                                                                                                3.207 3  2.138 2                                         5.345 4
2 MATERIEL3 03 REPRODUCTION
PI3OTOCOPItEESE                                     UNIT1E               I                               1    2.1353 8    2. 153 8                                                   2 153 8
STENCII NACHINI                                     UNITE3               I                                      1.468       3  43.85                                                  t 468 5
Sub-Total WE~RIEE  DE REPRODtICI3ON                                                                                             3.622 4                                                  3.622 4
3  11083133R                                     DOlATtlUt  6108A11                                                           14. 023 5                                                 14 023 5
4  EQUIPENENII   DU SECRETARIAT                  00181Ot GIp  O 10881                                                           7.569 7                                                  7 569 7
5 VIIIICULE
VEHIICIILE O31 VILIE                                831311              2                                2     3.622 4    7.244 7                                                     7.244 7
IIBYLEliT                                           631311                                               1        342 7       342 7                                                     342 7
Sub-total OEIIICULE                                                                                                            7.587 4                                                   7.587 4
Sub Total EQU3PNI.NT                                                                                                             3b.030 i  2.138 2                                         36. 148 3
N  PERSONNEl  ET ASSISTANCE  3IC3INIQIIE
I  PERSONNEt D ENCADRfNENI
COORD3NAIIUR N18330N161                        hI.o.., sois            12    12    I2    12   I?        60        473 8    S. 685 6  j. 685 6  S. 685 6  5. 685 6  5.685 6  28.428 0
ADMITIISIR8TEUR                                  ho.w,.  mo is         1?    I2    12                   36        473 8   5. 685 6  S. 685 6  5. 685 6                               17. 056 A
Sub lotla  PiIISONNOEL  0 ENCADRTENENI                                                                                         1T. 3712 11. 371 2 11. 371 2S .685 6  5.68856   45.4848
2 B3SOINS PONCTUE3LS 01 SPECIAIIS11
8UD33  /a                                      hount, sama ine          6      3.    6     6     6      30     3. 206 2    7. 237 4  7. 237 4  7. 2374   7.237 4  7.237 4  3631870
APPUIi PON3.1U31                               homwa. sae a,ne          4      4     2                  TO        3 236    4. 9440   4.944 0   2.4720                                12. 3O00
Sub totla  BEIOtNS PONCUIILS 0i SPCILAI 3533                                                                                  I2 181 4  12 181 4  9 709 4  7.237 4   7 237 4  48 547 0
S.bTlotal PERSONNEL (I ASSISTANCE  TICAiNIQUE                                                                                     23.55? 8 23.552 6 21 080 6 12.923 0 12 923 0  94 031 8
C. VOYAGES/ OBSERY63 IONS
I  AVION INTERNAl TONAL                           aille. 'reto..r          2      2                         4      1.124 A    2 249 5  2.249 5                                           4 499 0
2  8930ON SOUS REGION                              aliols/,eto.,            I      I     1                   3        128 5       128 5       128 5      128 5                              385 6
3  PER DIEM3                                                               26    26      6                 58          43 4    1128 0   1.12a 0         260 3                            2536 2
Sub iotal V076GI,5 / OBSERVATIONS                                                                                                  350b 0   3.506 0         388 8                            7400 9 
Total INVESTMECNT COSTS                                                                                                               63. 06088 29. 196 8 21. 4894 12. 923 0 12. 923 0 139 581 5                                  09   Z
1I   RECURRENTF COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                                             O 
A  P'ERSONNEI LIUCAL                                                                                                                                                                                                              CY
INFORM4ATICIIN                                     h.om.w, so,s           I?    I2    32                  36        216 3    2,595 6  2.595 6  2.b956                                   7.78668
COMPrABIF                                          hotuse s.o is          I?    3 2    12    1 2    12    80        465 6    5.586 7  5 586 7  5. 586 7  5 586 7  5.586 7  27. 933 6
SECREIAIRE                                         h.ouwMG S.o.           32    I2    1 2    12    12     60        318 5    1 .421 4   1. 421  4   1 .421 4   1.421 4   1.421 4    7. 107 0                              .
PIANION/CHA3,fFEUR                                 hons, s.o.s            1 2    1 2    I2                36         ?2 I        865 2      865 2      865 2                            2.5S9   6
GUARD01EK                                          hors m.o.s            I1     I  12 12                  36          30 9       370 8      370 8      370 A                            '.112? 4
Sub-lotal PERS3JNNII lOCAI                                                                                                       10 839 7 10.839 7 10.839 7  7.008  1  7.008  3  46.535 4
B  IONCTIONNET3III ifNIR3381333



I  ENIREIIEN BATIRENT                              9OIEE                                                              1. 772 4  1. 772 4  1 772 4                          5 317 3
2  INFORNATIQUE                                    ANNEE                                                                783 8  1.244 6  1.244 6    393 9          393 9   4 060 8
3     1HICUIES                                    08NNEt                                                               590 8  1. 181 6  1.378 6    295 4    295 4   3 741 e
4  REPROGRAPIIE                                    fiNN8t                                                               54b 5    546 5    546 5    246 2    246 2   2 131 8
S  FOURIIIIURfS                                    AW1tE                                                              3.840 3  4234 1  4.7265   1 969 4  1.9694  lb 739 6
6  ASSURANC8 S                                   88ft1/EtlH           2    2    2       1    1      8       295 4       590 8    590 8    590 8    295 4    295 4   2 363 2
7  elec/aesutel/lel                               I4NNf[                                                              6.695 8 14 465 0 17 724 3                           38 885 0
Sub-Total   8C6LOltEltENTI El tIlRF1t1N                                                                                 14 820 4 24 0351 27 9836  3.200 2  3200 2  73 239 6
C  LOCAIION  BUI-EAU                                   l)IS              12   12   12                  36         618   7.416 0  7.416 0  7 416 0                             22 248 0
lotal RECURRENI CQIIS                                                                                                        33.076 2 42.2908 46.239 4 10.208 3 10 208 3 142 023 0
Total                                                                                                                         96. 144 9 71.487 6 67.708 8 23. 131 3 23. 131 3 28'.604 0
/a  SEtESIRIEt El 818UEt
........   ........  -   :
April 27. 1990  I?  8
t-
mET
C
w 0
'1
6 0



- 132 -
ANNEXE 4-1
Page 1 sur 10
TCHAD
PROJET D'ACTIONS POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT SOCIAL
SYSTEME DE PROGRAMMATION, COORDINATION, GESTION ET SUIVI DU PROJET
DESCRIPTION GENERALE DU SYSTEME
1.        Oblectifs.  Le systeme de programmation, gestion et suivi doit
contribuer aux objectifs principaux suivants:
(i) Veiller a la mise en oeuvre et l'execution des plans d'action de
chacune des composantes du projet conformement aux calendriers
prevus (programmes annuels) et aux accords de pret (procedures
de passation deu marches, deboursements et controle des depenses
engagees).
(ii) Assister les agences d'execution a ameliorer leurs performances
et leur gestion en developpant des systemes d'information, de
programmation, de pilotage des actions et d'evaluation
d'impact.
(iii) Evaluer les impacts de ces actions en vue d'ameliorer l'identi-
fication, la conception et l'execution des politiques, strat_-
gies et actions de soutien et promotion dans les secteurs so-
ciaux et des ressources humaines.
Pour mettre en oeuvre le systeme de programmation et d'administration qui a
ete identifie pour le projet, deux organismes joueront un role clef; a
savoir, une Cellule de coordination et de soutien du Projet (CCSP),
responsable de ltexecution financiere et du controle des procedures; et un
Comite Interministeriel, responsable de la supervision et du suivi des
actions des programmes d'actions sociales (denommes PADS), assiste de
quatre sous-comites techniques.
2.        Systeme de programmation et de suivi.  Toutes les composantes du
projet ont un plan d'action qui est defini dans les documents d'evaluation
joints a ce rapport; ce plan d'action est divise en tranches annuelles pour
son execution et devra specifier des criteres de performance qui
permettront de suivre l'execution du projet. Chaque agence d'execution
preparera donc a la fin de chaque annee un programme de travail ou plan
d'action annuel base sur les objectifs qui lui ont ete assignes dans le
plan d'action attache au projet (voir Annexe 3-6) et suL les performances
qu'elle vient de realiser l'annee precedente. La programmation initiale
est etalee sur une periode de trois ans, a l'exception de la composante
d'appui a la politique sociale, qui sletale sur cinq ans (voir Annexe 3-
4). Le premier jeu de plans d'action et criteres de performance pour la
premiere annee de programmation prerare par les divers services tchadiens
concernas a ete approuve a la negociation et confirme au seminaire de



- 133 -
ANNEXE 4-1
Page 2 sur 10
lancement prevu au moment de la mise en vigueur du projet. Chaque annee,
un plan d'action annuel sera actualise par chaque agence d'execution en
fonction des resultats precedents; ce programme sera tranamis par
l'intermediaire de leur tutelle technique et sera aggrege dans un budget
annuel a preparer par la Cellule de coordination et soutien du projet qui
servira de base au controle financier afin d'etre approuve par
l'Association. De plus, chaque agence d'execution preparera chaque mois un
rapport sur la situation des criteres de performance, et chaque semestre
des rapports d'execution pour transmission au Conseil Interministeriel pour
analyse et a lOIDA pour information. Ces rapports completes par des
rapports semestriels d'execution financiere seront finalises par la CCSP.
A la fin de l'annee, le Comite Interministeriel analysera les performances
sur le plan physique, methodologique, et d'impact; il adoptera, alors
conjointement avec l'Association, et pour chaque agence d'execution, les
nouveaux criteres de performance, et eventuellement des modifications de
methodes.
3.        Chaque programme pourra varier selon les specifites de la
composante et de l'agence qui le met en oeuvre. En general, il se
presentera sous la forme d'un tableau donnant (a) en ligne, les activites
detaillees par type d'action faisant l'objet d'une quantification (en
precisant l'unite physique et le coat unitaire servant de base aux
calculs); et (b) en colonne, le nombre d'unites concernees aux dates
prevues (sur base mensuelle en general). Ces tableaux, qui seront
accompagnis de commentaires qualitatifs, serviront de base pour actualiser
les criteres de performance sur lesquels sera jugee l'agence d'execution.
L'Annexe 3-6 fournit a partir de la structure des coats des programmes du
projet (COSTAB) la base normative pour preparer ces tableaux. Ces tableaux
seront joints aux accords a signer avec les agences d'execution non
administratives.
4.        Chaque programme et rapport annuel seront complitis par une
section qui reprendra les enseignements a tirer de la mise en place des
diverses actions. Conformement aux objectifs des PADS, cela permettra de
completer les informations qualitatives et quantitatives sur l'etat social
du pays, analyser les expirimentations et techniques pour resoudre les
problemes des impacts sociaux temporaires des programmes d'ajustement
structurel (PAS) et plus generalement, du diveloppement social (notamment
en matiere d'acces et de couverture des besoins essentiels),
d'identification des groupes vulnerables, et de strategie et programme
d'action sectoriels (notamment pour definir des types d'action
giniralisables et compatibles avec lea ressources du pays).
5.        Le contenu du systeme de programmation, gestion et suivi au
niveau des differentes composantes et de chaque agence d'execution est
decrit dans les annexes 3-1 a 3-4 oa sont presentis les plans d'action et
le systeme d'administration concernant les quatre composantes du projet.
Ce systeme est decrit au tableau 4.1 ci-joint.



- 134 -
ANNEXE 4-1
Page 3 sur 10
ASPECTS INSTITUTIONNELS.
6.        L'ensemble du systeme de supervision et suivi sera place sous
l'autorita du Ministere du plan et de la cooperation qui sera assiste du
Comite Interministeriel charge de la preparation et de la supervision des
Programmes d'Actions Pour le Developpement Social (PADS). Ce Comite
Interuinisteriel a ete cree par Arrete presidentiel en Novembre 1989. Il
reunit tous lee Ministres interesses par les PADS plus celui charge des
finances et des representants de la Presldence de la Republique.  Ses
fonctions concerner.t donc la mise en place de tous les PADS et, a ce titre,
il pourra suivre les dimensions sociales de l'ajustement (DSA) et tenir
compte des enseignements et recommandations tires de l'execution du projet.
Dane le cadre du projet, ce Comite Interministeriel est specifiquement
charga:
(i) de discuter les rapports periodiques prepares par les
agences d'execution et d'approuver le rapport annuel
d'execution du projet pour l'annee en cours avant de le
transmettre au Gouvernement;
(ii) d'analyser les dimensions sociales de l'ajustement dans le
contexte des programmes et.projets de restructuration
macro-economique et sectoriels;
(iii)de recommander des mesures de reformes et de support en
matiere de politiques, strategies et investissements dans
les secteurs sociaux et de ressources humaines, basees sur
les resultats du projet et les autres analyses pertinentes
quOil jugera necessaires.
(iv) d'examiner l'etat d'avancement de l'execution et d'approuver, si
necessaire, lee modifications de structure suggerees par rapport
aux plans d'action approuves a la negociation du projet.
La composition et le fonctionnement du Comita est decrite dans 1'Arrete qui
specifie sa responsabilite vis-a-vis des quatre Sous-Comites qui
l'assistent et de la Cellule de coordination et soutien du projet -CCSP-
.(par.8).
7.        Le Comite Interministeriel se reunira deux fois par an.  Au cas
ou son President ou un des ministres membres jugerait qua le deroulement
des actions des PADS exige une reunion exceptionnelle du Comite, il pourra
la requerir a travers son President. Compte tenu de l'importance des
travaux de supervision qu'implique le projet (et sans doute les PADS), le
Comite a besoin d'etre assiste pour lui faciliter l'execution de ses
responsabilites.
8.        Plus specifiquement, le Comite disposera des elements d'appui
suivants:



- 135 -
ANNEXE 4-1
Page 4 sur 10
(i)  l'execution technique de chaque composante du projet.  Pour ce
faire, il disposera des rapports semestriels sur les dtbourse-
ments prepares par la CCSP et sur la realisation physique
(criteres de performance) de chaque action prepares par les
agences d'execution, conformement aux programes annuels qu'il a
approuves.
(ii) la synthese de ces rapports en un rapport annuel du projet
transmis pour son approbation. Dans ce Rapport, on fera le
point de l'exicution du projet et des propositions pour amender
de facon structurelle le plan d'action prevu dans ce rapport
d'evaluation; on fera ensuite un resume des elements a caractere
de politique que l'on peut tirer soit des experiences de chacun
des programmes d'action, soit du programme d'etudes et
recherches.
(iii)la mise en oeuvre des recommandations qu'il a deja faites au
niveau du gouvernement, dans le contexte de la lutte contre la
pauvrete et des dimensions sociales de l'ajustement. Il devrait
continuer a jouer ce role meme apres le projet puisque le besoin
de mesures sociales en faveur des categories defavorisees ne
devrait pas disparaitre avec lui.
(iv) la diffusion des enseignements des PADS a tous les services et
organismes concernes (en particulier les ONG) pour les secteurs
et domaines concernes et assurer leur participation a
l'elaboration des strategies, en particulier a travers les Sous-
Comites techniques (et des groupes de travail ou seminaires ad-
hoc) selon le processus decrit pour chaque composante (voir les
annexes 3-1 a 3-4).
9.        L'Arrete presidentiel creant le Comite Interministeriel precise
que la preparation technique des travaux du Comite Interministeriel sera
assuree par quatre Sous-Comites techniques ad-hoc animes par les Directeurs
Aeniraux de ministeres membres du Comite Interministeriel; celui des
activites de promotion de l'emploi par le DG du Ministere du commerce et de
l'industrie; celui de la sante et du developpement communautaire par le DG
du Ministere des affaires sociales; celui des infrastructures urbaines par
le DG du Ministere des travaux publics; et celui de la dimension sociale
par le DG du Ministere du plan. Les sous-comites techniques se reuniront
quatre fois par an.
10.       Cet Arrete adjoint au Comite un secreariat qui, sous la
responsabilite du Ministre du plan, assure la bonne execution de son mandat
(suivi du projet, rapports annuels, recommandations de politique). Ce
secretariat est assure par la Cellule de coordination et soutien du projet
(para.10). Le Secretariat a trois fonctions principales: (a) de preparer
les travaux du Comite Interministeriel (convoquations, ordres du jour,
compte-rendus); (b) de finaliser le rapport d'execution annuel base sur les
rapports prepares par les diverses agences d'execution; et (c) d'executer
les travaux qui lui auront et delegues par le Comite, notAmment en matiere



- 136 -
ANNEXE 4-1
Page 5 sur 10
de surveillance de la mise en oeuvre de ses recommendations, de la qualite
des documents transmis, notamment sur les resultats des etudes et travaux
de recherche, et de preparation de recommandations de politique sociale et
de diffusions des documents i usage public resultant des travaux
preparatoires.
11.        Ces Sous-Comitts techniques devraient garantir que la tutelle
technique des composantes est convenablement effectuee (qualite et
ponctualite des rapports techniques des agences d'execution et de ceux
comptables de la CCSP); et que les seminaires de diffusion sont bien
prepares et sont suivis par des recommandations pertinentes. Le Sous-
Comite DSA sous la responsabilite de son president devra en particulier
finaliser avec l'IDA les termes de reference et la programmation des
enquetes et des etudes socio-economiques (Annexe 3-4). Le projet fournira
les moyens pour diffuser les rapports et organiser les seminaires ou
ateliers de reflexion, notamment par l'intermediaire de la dotation pour
etudes au Centre de recherches appliquees -CRA- (voir Annexe 3-4). Ils
seront assistes pour les travaux concernant les recortiandations de
politique sociale par les services du Ministere du plan, en particulier la
Division des ressources humaines (ou pourrait etre designe ur. responsable
des actions sociales), la Direction de la programmation et le Secretariat
permanent des ONG -SPONG-. Pour la premiere annie, a deja ete programme un
premier seminaire de lancement du projet qui se tiendra au moment de
p-rononcer la mise en vigueur.
12.       L'ensemble du systeme d'execution financiere et de controle des
procedures est sous la responsabilite de la Cellule de coordination et de
soutien du Proiet. Placee sous la tutelle du Ministre du plan, elle a pour
taches de (a) superviser les plans d'action de chaque programme du projet
en consolidant les resultats en matiere de criteres de performance; (b)
verifier la conformite des engagements et des deboursements avec le contenu
de ces plans et avec les accords de pret, (c) assister les agences
d'execution a comprendre les procedures et a gerer leurs allocations
financieres conformement aux specifications des accords de credit, (d)
preparer une projection budgetaire annuelle synthetisant les programmes
d'action actualises par chaque agence d'execution, (e) aider le Comite
Interminist&riel assista des quatre sous-comites techniques dans ses
travaux, et (f) servir d'interlocuteur pour l'IDA et les autres donateurs
sur toutes .es relations necessitees par la gestion du projet.
13.       Description des taches de la Cellule de coordination et de
souti.4n du Prolet.
A) Responsabilites vis-a-vis du Ministere du plan (tutelle), de l'IDA et
des autres donateurs.
(a)  etre habilite a repondre au nom de l'Association ou tout autre
donateur et prendre liaison avec les autorites nationales
competentes ou ayant un droit de regard mandataire;



- 137 -
ANNEXE 4-1
Page 6 sur 10
(b) certifier toutes les demandes de retrait adressees aux di'iers
bailleurs de fonds afin d'indiquer si les biens et services
remplissent les conditions requises pour etre financees
conformement aux procedures stipulees dans l'Accord de credit;
(c) verifier le maintien de tous les comptes consolides du projet et
les comptes detailles pour toutes les composantes
individualisees et commander les rapports d'audit comme
specifies par le projet;
(d) gerer le compte special ouvert pour le compte du projet;
(e) coordonner les travaux preparatoires de programmation des
composantes du projet, en etablissant les criteres de
performance annuelle, de suivi, de rapports d'execution et en
supervisant les activit;s des consultants et des organisations
non-gouvernementales impliques dans cette preparation; et
(f) transmettre les rapports requis par les accords de credit,
notamment le rapport annuel d'exacution, le budget annuel
consolidt previsionnel et les rapports d'audit semestriel
et annuel.
B) Responsabilites vis a vis du Comite Interministeriel.
(a) participer a toutes les reunions da Comite Interministeriel et
des Sous-Comites techniques et servir de principal lien avec les
services techniques des ministeres participant au projet;
(b)  aider a la finalisation des programmes de travail annuels
(critares de performance) du projet avec les agences d'execution
(services techniques et ONG) et a leur aggregation en une
projection budgetaire annuelle;
(c)  aider les agences d'execution a presenter au Comite
Interministeriel les rapports reguliers de mise en place du
projet requis;
(d) analyser les rapports mensuels sur les criteres de
performance et preparer les rapports semestriels et annuels
d'execution du projet a soumettre aux Sous-Comites et au
Comite Interministeriel; ce rapport fera la synthese des
rapports individuels concernant chacune des composantes du
Projet;
(e) verifier la mise en oeuvre des recommandations du Comite
Interministeriel pour lui en faire rapport; et
(f)  instruire les agences d'execution sur les conditions de mise en
place des differentes composantes du projet.



- 138 -
ANNEXE 4-1
Page 7 sur 10
C) Responsabilites vis a vis des azences d'execution
(a) assister lea agences d'execution a gerer leurs programmes si
necessaires et comme requis par les accords du projet;
(b) participer aux travaux preparatoires de mise en place des
composantes du projet (finances sur fonds d'avance PPF), se
concentrant sur les criteres d'eligibilite aux contrats,
achats et travaux, les mecanismes de comptabilite et
d'audits, les activites des consultants et des
organisations non-gouvernementales impliques dans cette
preparation et les preparatifs de passation des march"s;
(c) preciser et mettre en oeuvre les instruments de gestion et de
visualisation d'execution technique et des previsions
financieres;
(d) garantir le maintien d'un systeme de comptabilite
performant et repondant aux besoins des bailleurs de fonds;
(e) preparer des projections budgetaires annuelles a partir des
programmes annuels de chacune des composantes individuelles du
projet avec les agences d'execution (services techniques et
ONG);
(f) instruire lea agences d'execution sur les criteres d'eligibilite
et de performances des differentes composantes du projet;
(g) superviser les procedures de passation des marches ainsi que les
appels d'offre;
(h) verifier lea soumissions pour leur eligibilite au projet et leur
conformite aux programmes retenus et aux enveloppes financieres
allouees, en slassurant en particulier du caractere raisonnable
de ces offres;
(i) engager les contrats en s'assurant de leur couverture
financiere; et
(j) aider, si necessaire, les agences d'execution, en particulier
les agences importatrices, pour obtenir les licences
necessaires, lea lettres de credit et les approbations
administratives.
14.       Le personnel de cette Cellule se compose, pour la periode du
Projet, d'un administrateur faisant office de Chef de cellule et d'un
comptable experimente assista d'un personnel de support (secreaire,
chauffeur, planton, gardien). A la mise en vigueur et pour une periode de
trois ans, cette Cellule sera renforcee par un Coordonnateur national
faisant office d'adjoint. Le fonctionnement detaillee de cette Cellule
sera precise au moment du seminaire de lancement; des appuis ponctuels de



- 139 -
ANNEXE 4-1
Page 8 sur 10
specialistes, en particulier pour la mise en oeuvre pratique des procedures
du Projet sont egalement prevus par le projet.  L' Administrateur de 1a
CCSP sera responsable, vis a vis de son Ministre de tutelle et des
donateurs, (i) de la gestion du projet et de la coordination des i:ravaux
des agences d'execution, en particulier de la conformite des procedures
d'engagement et de passation des marches et de la certification de
l'utilisation des fonds; (ii) de la programmation des actions de cette
Cellule, leur execution et suivi; et (iii) de l'assignation des
responsabilites et taches entre le personnel de la CCSP. Le Coordonnateur
national assistera l'administrateur et sera plus particulierement
responsable du suivi technique des performances des agences d'ex&cution, de
la preparation des rapports requis par l'Accord de credit, et de la
preparation des reunions du Comite interministeriel et des quatre sous-
codites et du suivi de leurs recommandations.  Le comptable assurera les
fonctions de chef du service administratif et financier et sera charge de
maintenir le systeme comptable en conformite avec lea modalites speclfiees
avec les bailleurs de fonds; a noter que ce systeme sera mis en place avec
l'auditeur en ckarge d'auditer les releves Ae depenses tous les six mois
(sur financement PPF).
15.       Le co'ut de fonctionnement s'eleve a 350 millions de FCFA, soit
1,1 millions de dollars E.U. equivalent. Le projet financera entiarement
l'installation et les frais de fonctionnement de la Cellule.



*                            --       - ..         -  -.  -  -  - -  -  -    -,-
_~ ~~~ *  C                                                          .,'g ßl|        
o ~ ~                 ~            ~ ~~~ ,,     I
_ .    U1 --          - - ----  ---                         -  -  -     - -    -  -
_____g_            _____.___ _ __ o< o
r  -.  U~C           -  -  9- ------                                        
x x~~~~~~~ 
H.    -  U    U'     -    - -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -    -' -- -
-. n~ -           -- -                                                
I x;                   
C  -H -.           ----                                              H ----   -L :
1-t~~ X 3
-
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -~~~~~~~~1   - -
U                                                                                        -~~~~~ 
Cl~~~~~~~
HI ~ ~     ~    1      x    
0. ~    ~      ~                     ---------                                              
- MIT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



Tableau 4.2:  ORGANIGRAMME DU SYSTEME DE CESTION DU PADS
I)  COORDINATION ET SUIVI DU PROGRAMME                                                   MINISTERE DU PUN
COMITE INTERVINISTERIEL
CHARCE DES PRO¢RAMMES D 'ACTIONS                                                  CELLULE DE COORDINATION DUJ PROJET
DE DEVELOPPEUENT SOCIAL                         Assi-t nce
ET LES DIMENSIONS SOCIALES                      I         iexcutlon du proj-t     1  Directeur du Projet
DE L'AJUSTEMENT                                                                   I Direct ur-Adjoint
1 Compt bl-
Sous-Coeit6 OSA                                                                   I  S cr6tair-
1 Chauffeur
Sous-Co.it6 pour l'enploi                                                         2  guardians
Sous-ComitA des infrastructures
d'assainissement
Sout-Comit6 sant6 et d6veloppment
rural
Activit6s pour promouvoir h'iol I
Systemes de               Offic  National
FORMULATION DES                INFRASTRUCTURE       SANTE ET                       l                        Centres techniques            de t
POLITIQUES SOCT'LES            URBAINE              DEVELOPPEMENT SOCIAL        UNITE CENTRALE              d'appui                    Main d'oeuvrr
Renforzament des
circonscriptions
Z   r                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~mbdienles
IrCentre de     |Direction de In       |CELLULE          | CELLULE
IRechterches    lstatist;ques et des  |Infrsstructures l l6dico-Socisle|
|Appl'iquees    |*tudes ekonomiques ot||Assininss ment | de N'Djamens                
d6mographiques                                                                           ONG q6rant le
programme de cr&dit-
Consultants         Consultants            ONG chorge
du suivi          r                       f                      r.
social             Assistance               Assi   once            Aast!nce
et action    |   | technique |            ' techniqus  |         | tc cnique   9         | Consultants*
communautnirel                                                                                            It>
OQ z
b:orgi (grl)                                                                                                                                           o  s
I



..                      C i'                                            .4 |4                                     .  t  4_2G .  i      tt |0 l      i' ß |i{  
-4           -                                                                    .4~  - - - - -           - - - - -          - - - - -               
- - - ------                                 ---
*                                                                                               -. r. .~  .                                                       i.
0    ~~~~~~         3                    --w    --                                 -   -            -  -b                           
~~~~~~~~~~ -                                            - -        -      - -.
0                                                                                                                            .4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                         ~          ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~I  | 
____ ____    ________________________________-  __                                                                                                             j
-   -     -     -       -     -     -       -     -     -       -     -     -     - -     -     -     - -     -     -     - -     -     -     -       -     -     -       -     -     -       - '-     - 3



REPUL1C OF CHAD
Social Doevlopment Action Project
Sumry of Foreign and Local Specialist Servic                                  1
Specialist         Local    No         Total        Poriod
Project Component              Services            or       of    Staff-Month/  (in Project                              Terms of Reforence
Foreign  Persons  Staff-Day        Year)
From     TO
I. EMPLOYMENT PROWOTION
1   CREDIT AND ASSISTANCE FOR MICRO-ENTERPRISES
1.1  N'Djamnn  Office    Program Coordinator         F         1       30 SM      1      *id-2  To implement a credit program combined special assistonce
given to micro-enterprixe; training of local staff
Manag_ment Specialist      F         1       12 SM       1      1     To organize office; Task pannting; Performace criteria
and field supervision
Micro-onterprise  Spec.   F         1-2     230 SD       1      2     To finalize methodology to reach micro-entrepreneurs and
meet thoir needs with appropriate techniques; follow-up on
implementation and foed-back on techniquo used
Computer Specialist      Short-      1       62 SD       1      2     To provide technical support to computerize all activities
Term                                       and train personnel
Marketing Specialist     Short-      1       28 SD       1      1     To help define export techniques
Torm
Evaluation Specialist    Short-      2       21 SM      1       3     Annual review of performnce and foed-back on tosk mnage-
Term                                       ment and methodology
2. TEC04ICAL SUPPORT
2.1  Coordinating Unit    Program coordinator         F         1       18 SN      I      *id-2  To lmplement a technical support program targeted at micro
entrepreneurs and focusing on technology transfer, and
organize credit
Technicions            Volunteers   3        72 SN       1     mid-2  To provide technical support to micro-entrepreneurs on
new tochniques and know-how
Engine r                   L         1       3S SM      1      *id-2  To dovelop a technology transfer program for small and
micro-enterpriss and stimulate cross-exchange with foreign
assistance and NGOOs
Technology Specialist    Short-    1-2       42 SM      1       3     To provido assistance on now equipmnt and technology    Q0  Z
Term                                       transfer.                                                       > 
o w



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Social Developmnt Action Project
Su_mmry of Foreign and Local Specialist Services
Specialist         Local    No        Total        POriod
Projoct Cooponent             Services            or      of   St.aff-month/  (in Project                             Terms of Reference
Foreign  Porsons Staff-Doy        Yer)
From    To
I. EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION (Continued)
S. COUNSELLIN FOR LAID-OFF WORKERS
8.1  Branch in N'Djauen   Specialist In job          L/F       1       20 SM      1    *id-3  To help *et up a mthodology to counsol job seekers (inter-
seeking                                                             views, profossionol profilo, adequacy with job availability)
Specialists in labor    Short-
Survoys                Tere     2/3      4S SD      1      3     To design, implement and ovaluate a system to ovaluste job
openings on a continuous basis
Labor Specialist         Short-     1       7 SW       1      a     To evaluate the counselling program with feed-back on
Tr                                        merthods used                                                 >
Computor Specialist      Short-     1       18 SD      1      1    To set up the information system
0'
T re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Social Development Action Project
Sumary of Foroign and Local Specialist Services
Specialist         Local     No        Total        Period
Project Component              Services             or      of    Staff-Month/  (in Project                              Terms of Reference
Foreign  Persons  Staff-Day        Year)
From   To
__Ö______________________Ö - ------------------ -                                                                                                                 _---------------------Ö
1. HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
1. Centers In N'Djm-na   Public Health Spec.            F      1         s3 S        1      3     To provide al formn  of assistance to personnel and m_nagero
of rehabilitated health centers to develop new preventive
techniques, promote essntial drugs and strengthen team work
with sociol workers
Specialist in              F       1         a3 Su      1       3     To provide all forms of assistance to personnel and managers
Comunity developmnt                                                   of rehabilitated social centers to develop now progr as
(nutrition, birth spacing) and outreech community to
sollicit the r participation
Technical Support        Short-   1          9 SW       1       a     To set up, train and evaluate information and accounting
Term                                       systmem
Health Operational       Short-   -         120 SD      1       3     To provide technical assistance on new health and social       U'
Reserch                   Term                                        programs or implement special surveys or social marketing    I
analysis
Heolth Program           Short-
Supervisor                Trm    1           90 SD      1       3     To evaluate the program execution with feed back on methods
used
2.  Tandjllo Region         Physician                   F      1         36 sm       1      3     To assist the chief physician in Tandjile in all his/her
activities, with emphasis on primary health, mother and
child health and essential drug promotion
Public Heolth
Manager                    L       1         36 SM      1      3      To help manage the progr ms, process essential drug orders
and implement cost-recovory scheme
Health Training          Short-
Specialist                Term    1           f6 SD     3      3      To evaIuat, tra Ining noeds of all personnel and recomnd
programs
Health Program           Short-                                                                                                    0 
Supervision               Term    1          1C So      1       3     To evaluate impact on regional management and service        m z
delivory with feed back on further actions                   J
- -



REPUBLIC OF OMAD
Social Developsat Action Project
Summary of Foreign and Local Sp eialist Servie.o
Specinlist         Local      No       Total        Period
Project Component              Services             or      of    Staff-Month/  (in Project                              Terse of Reference
Foreign Persons  Staff-Day         Year)
Frm To
III. SANITATION IN N'DJAMENA
1.  Infrastructure Unit   Senior Civil Work
Engin r                     F        1       a0 SH      1       3     To orpgnizo the infrastructure rehabilitation progrm and
set up the Executing Unit, and promote labor-intensive
programs
Head For men                F        1       as Sm       1      8     To organize sites, toechnicnl control end local contraction
Technician                                                            supervision; provide special assistance to small local
enterprise. in the low program
Bidding documents           F                            1      1     To prepare bidding documents for civil works
2.  Social Follow up     Specialist in working
with urban
comunities                  F        1       as Sb      1       8     To organize the set of prograss to outreach and mobilizk
communities on public hygien issues; Identify needs end
help design _thods
Supervisor                  L        2       72 SM      1       8     To train, supervise and evaluate a team of 4 to 5 soial
workers
Program Specialist          F       1-2      6 SW       1       a     To Identify, appraise and evaluate special progrms targeted
at urban poor with feed baeck methods
Specialist in Mobiliz-
ation Techniques            F       1-2      16 SM      1       3     To design, extend and control specific techniques to outreach
urban communities
Evaluation Specialist      F         1       8 Sm       1       3     Annual review of iopact and prformance with feedback on
program and training
X i
0 1



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Social Devlopm_ent Action Project
Summary of Foreign and Local Specialist Service.
Specialist         Local    No        Total        Period
Project Component             Services            or      of   Staff-Month/  (in Project                             Terms of Reference
Foreign Persons  Staff-Day        Year)
From   To
IV. SOCIAL POLICY FRVJLATION
4.1  Surveys              Supervisor                 L        7      246 SM      1      5    To supervise teaum participating in housholds surveys
Household Survey         Short-     8       13 SM      1      6     To train, and evaluate survoq
Specialist                Term
(F)
Economist Specialist    Short-      1       2 SM       a      3     To help finalize questionnaires
in household Economy     Term 
(L)
4.2  Socto-economic       Specialist in            Short-     -       30 SJ      1      6    Speciality will be defined during project implementation
Studies           Development Economics     Term                                      The first studios would include cotton growing isues,
(F)                                      access to essential n      ds  financing basic services, financ-
ing housing, potable water, micro business
Economist Specialized    Short-     -       87 SM      1      5     Speciality will be defined duric. project implementation
in Chadian Economy       Term                                       The first studies would includb c<tton growing isoue,
(F)                                      access to essential needs, financing basic services, financ-
ing housing, potable water, *icre business
4.8  Policy Formulation   Specialist in Social     Short-     -       17 SM      1      5    Social policy issues will be identified in the course of
Dimcnsions of Adjust-     Term                                      project execution. Priority will be given to promotion of
ment                                                                small farmers in the cotton belt, improving access to basic
services, food security and vulnerable groups, micro-
enterprisos
o 
--  -   --   - ---- ---    --    --- ---- ---- ----   -   - ----   -   -   -   - ---      --    --    --- -   -  ---- -   -  -   -  ---- ----   -   - -   -  ---- -    -   ----   -   - --   - ----



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Socil Development Action Project
SuAmery of Foro;gn and Local Specialist Service 
Specialist           Local       No         Total         Period
Project Component                 Services               or        of    Statf-Month/  (in Project                                     Terms of Roference
Foreign  Persons  Staff-Day            Year)
From   To
---------------------------------------------------------------------___------__--------------------------------------------------------------------__--
V. PROJECT COORDINATION AND SUPPORT UNIT
Proj-et Director               L         1        60 Sm        1       6      To supervis  project financing implementation and overall
execution
Deputy                         L         1         3BSL1       1       3
b:aonex4 4 (grl)
cQ Z
0 Ir
H 
-I j



- 149 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1 of 2
CHAD
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Part A. Procurement of Goods and Works
1.        Except as provided in Parts C and D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set corth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.        To the extant practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more
each.
Part B. Preference for Domestic Contractors and Manufacturers
3.        In the procurement of civil works and goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, civil works and goods manufactured in
Chad may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C. Other Procurement Procedures
4.        Contracts for civil works for rehabilitation of health centers and
contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract, which are not likely to attract foreign suppliers, would be procured
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally (LCB), in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association, provided that: (a) a copy of
the draft standard bidding documents is submitted to and found acceptable by
IDA prior to approval of the first contract by the Association; (b) eligible
foreign firms are not precluded from participation and not required to be
incorporated in Chad in order to participate in the bidding; (c) bids are
opened in public; (d) evaluation criteria is specified with sufficient clarity;
and (e) award is made to the lowest evaluated bidder.
5.      Items not exceeding US$15,000 and aggregating a maximum of US$200,00
equivalent could be purchased through local and international shopping on the
basis of price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
6.        Procurement of goods and services financed by other donors would be
carried out in accordance with the donors' procurement guideliens found to be
economical and efficient.



- 150 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1 of 2
Part D. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
7.        Prior Review.  For all contracts or bid packages of at least
US$100,000 equivalent, each of the following stages in the procurement process
would be subject to IDA's prior review and commented upon by IDA staff before
they are implemented and finalized:
- Advertisement
- Prequalification (if called for)
- Bidding documents and addenda
- Bid evaluation and proposal for award of contract
- Contract documents
- Subsequent major modifications of the contract
8.        Initial Review.  For all contracts which are not subject to prior
review, an initial review by IDA staff would be required for standard documents
which are common to a number of procurement operations, for example:
- the general format of advertisements and their circulation;
- the prequalification questionnaire and method of evaluation;
- standard bidding documents, including instruction to bidders,
general conditions of contract, and in some instances, technical
specifications.
9.        Post Review.  For all contracts or bid packages estimated at less
than US$100,000 equivalent, two copies of the final contracts, together with
the bidding documents, bid evaluation and award decision, would be furnished to
IDA for post review before the first application for withdrawal of credit funds
against these contracts.
10. Random Review. The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs of
Part D, (6), (7) and (8) shall not apply to contracts valued at under US$20,000
equivalent on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditures. Such contracts
shall be retained at the Project Management Unit for random review by IDA
supervision missions and for regular semi-annual audits.
Part E. Specialist Services and Local Training
11. Specialist services, including audit services, valued at US$9.1 million
equivalent, would be contracted in accordance with IDA's guidelines on the use
of consultants. Local training represents US$0.260 million equivalent and
would be carried out under principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part F. Modification of Contracts
12. The figure of 10? would be specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines (related to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of contracts or granting a material extension of the
stipulated time, or issuing any change order under such contract which would
increase the cost of contracts by more than 10 of the original price).
B:annex4_4 (grl)



- 151 -
ANNEX 4-5
CHAD
SOCIAL ACTION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate                                Expected Skill      Staff Input
Dates              Activity             Requirements       (staff-weeks)
5-6/90             Review of technical    Public Health            0.5
aspects of project      Public Works           1.0
implementation          SDA programs           2.5
Procurement            1.0
9190               Project-launching        SMEs Promotion         1.0
seminar                 Public Health          1.0
Sanitation             1.0
Community Dev.         0.5
Social Policy          2.0
Procurement            1.0
Disbursement           1.0
Management             2.0
12/90               Supervision Mission    Management              3.0
to review next annual  SDA programs            2.0
action programs
2-3/91             Review of technical    SMEs Promotion           1.5
implementation          Public Health          2.0
issues for the four    Public Works            2.5
components              SDA programs           4.0
6/91                Supervision Mission    Management              2.0
for mid-year            SDA programs           2.0
performance review      Procurement            0.5
Disbursement           1.0
1992 and           Two Supervision         Management              4.5
1993               Missions plus one        SMEs Promotion         3.5
technical review        Public Health          4.0
mission for the         Public Works           5.0
four components         SDA programs           6.0
1994 and           Two Supervision         Management              2.5
1995               Missions                 SMEs Promotion         1.0
Public Health          1.0
Public Hygiene         1.5
SDA programs           6.0



SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION PROJECT/
PROJET D'ACTIONS POUR LE DEVELOPPIDMENT SOCIAL
DIS8URSEMENT PROFILE/PROFIL DE DEBOURSEMENTS
4.
Prof ilJ Protil               1.
Disbursementr/ Dobourem_ntO            Regional        u  as-
___A__F_______l__--Ö -    ---Sector/                    o
IDA Fiscal y  ro                                           S ct ur a       boo                                      
and quarters/     By Quarntr/      Cumulative/    Project/ I 'ochell-     coAi
Annes budgetaIr.t Par trimeetres  Cumulatif       Projot  regional*        Cr
IOA et trimestrer  (US1 NTIITon)    (USS Million)    (U)      (X)
0
1990       8              0.30          0.30       2.2X    0.OX 0%
4             0.20           0.S0      a.7∂    o.0 o             Us
1991       1              0.80          1.10       8.2%    2.0%        c    a.4     /
2             0.70           1.80     13.4X    4.0%
a             1.00           2.80     20.9X     6.0        ∞f
4             1.00           8.80     28.4%     8.0%
1992       1              1.00          4.80      86.8x    11.OX       P.   0.2- 
2             1.00           e.80     43.3X    14.0%1
8             1.00           6.80     60.7X   17.0%
4             1.00           7.80     68.2X    20.0%
1998       1              1.00          8.80      65.7X    26.0X              Is" 1 I Dme    lm         IN4   ln      ins    1W?    15W
2             0.90           9.70     72.4%    80.0X
8             0.70          10.40     77.8X   8C.0%        U
4             0.60          11.00     82.1X   89.0X
1994       1              0.50         11.60      86.8X    48.0X               Estimated Project Disbursement Profile/
2             0.40          11.90     88.8%   460%E
8             0.40          12.80     91.8%   49.0%                 Profil estimatif des deboursements du Projet
4             0.80          12.60     94.0O    S2.0%
1995       1              0.80         12.90      96. 8!   66.0* Regional Sector Profile/Profil du secteur
2             0.20          13.10     97.8X   69.0X                 a l'echelle rggioinale
B             0.20          18.80     99.8X    64.0%
4             0.10          18.40    10O.OX   68.0%
1995       1                                               72.0X
2                                              76.0%
8                                              8 1.0                            Assuming credit effectiveness
4                                              85.0X                            during the first quarter of
1997       1                                               89.0X                           FY91/Avec  Vihypothbse que le
2                                              92.0X                            crgdit entrera en vigueur au                    x
3                                              94.0X                            cours du premier trimestre
4                                              96.0%                            de l'annee fiscale 91.
1998       1                                               98.0%
2                                               OO.OX



IBRD 21555
*-''-   't d''s-'                       SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
j'   ACTION PROGRAM
WI                                                       IB\ 
4I      \                                                              i
Zuuueforlesal"hacdonpmram                     BORKOUJ-ENNEOI- I8E$tI
Z jonZ   e *r ottb so"" pnnr    |  t!        8 
4A11 Citlo for small _rtSs.    I
prmtion                   .
-  Man roade                 CD
-~~eod                      I                     \.._2,orgecu 
-O r           ws        -I               I
Proectudary rondsv.
lnt-- ta P boundaries  Z;
-*-ttb ona bo_<dFade
O  bO  100 I20 20O 2 5I
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Igi1
miles                                                                                           !
>   /   ~/           ,9* _6m.ChoIouba     .
./                            ,fi,<___S/         |    I              Irib )
KANEM~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
K  A  N  E  M11~Iit   
L C7J7;\ E X Edr 
Mon          /              to2Slda
i >_C H A R I5<ffts  
NIG   E  R  I A  1                        %              (fs_                    -     (
v~~~~~~~~~~~~of ''-.  m*Tma   \
/                                   OOc $ ;/    9         C           MAAFRICAF
!  *tA-St ,1Z0   Efl  M @b i y< @   RE N TAL IACF
|C A M E R                                                          = i                         ,Sr6



