Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2156 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Development Action Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 6, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2156 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) an 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Capital 
Development Fund (UNCDF) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount of three million 
two hundred seventy one thousand dollars
($3,271,000) (the UNCDF Contribution) to assist in financing Part C of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNCDF Contribution Agreement) 
to be entered into between the
Borrower and UNCDF,
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) a grant in an amount of two million three hundred 
thousand dollars ($2,300,000) (the USAID Grant) to assist in financing Part A.l of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the USAID Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and USAID;
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Swiss 
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount of ten 
million Swiss Francs (SwF 10,000,000),
equivalent to six million seven hundred thousand dollars ($6,700,000) (the Swiss 
Contribution) to assist in financing Parts B.l and D of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Contribution Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
(E)
Switzerland has appointed the Association to administer the Swiss 
Contribution in accordance with the provisions of a Procedural Arrangement, dated May 
9, 1990 (the Arrangement), between
Switzerland and the Association, and the Association has accepted such appointment; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Swiss Contribution Account" means the account established by Switzerland 
for the purpose of the Swiss Contribution;
(d)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
March 15, 1989 and April 13, 1989
between the Borrower and the Association;
(e)
"MATUH" means Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire, de l'Urbanisme et 
de l'Habitat, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development of the Borrower;
(f)
"MPH" means the Ministry of Public Health of the Borrower;
 
(g)
"MSAWD" means the Ministry of Social Affairs and Women Development of the 
Borrower;
(h)
"ONAMO" means Office de la Main d'Oeuvre of the Borrower;
 
(i)
"PCSU" means the Project Coordination and Support Unit referred to under 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Sub-project" means a small-scale or a micro-enterprise development 
project financed out of the proceeds of Category 7 of the table in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for purposes of Part A.l of the Project; and
(k)
"VITA" means Volunteers in Technical Assistance, a non-governmental 
organization operating in Chad under a cooperation agreement dated January 21, 1984, 
and responsible for the management of the line of credit referred to under Part A.1 of 
Page  3
the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 10,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and of the Swiss Contribution may be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Swiss Contribution.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF one special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to 
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of 
the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2000 and ending June 1, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2010 shall be one 
percent (l%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
Page  4
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental protection practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For purposes of the execution of Part A.l of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (a) make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category 7 of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to VITA under 
a Subsidiary Financing Agreement for financing of Sub-projects in accordance with the 
terms and conditions and eligibility criteria set forth under
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, such terms and conditions to be revised, satisfactory to 
the Association, not later than December 31, 1991, on the basis of the financial 
performance of the credit scheme, the prevailing commercial lending rates and the 
findings of a banking sector review study; and (b) exercise its rights under the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend or waive any provisions of said 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
Section 3.04. For purposes of the execution of Part A.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ an expert, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to establish a technical support unit for 
micro-enterprises within the Ministry responsible for Labor and Employment.
Section 3.05. For purposes of the execution of Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (a) maintain throughout the execution of the Project, a health and 
social unit, with competent staff from
MPH and MSAWD in adequate numbers, whose qualifications and experience are at all 
times satisfactory to the Association; (b) maintain throughout the execution of the 
Project, arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, to charge and collect a fee to 
cover the cost of services provided in the maternities constructed under the Project 
Page  5
and in the health centers supplied with essential drugs under the Project; and (c) 
take all necessary measures to annually increase the health and social services' 
operating budgets of N'Djamena and Tandjile, by lO% from their 1990 base in fiscal 
years 1991, 1992 and 1993.
Section 3.06. For purposes of the execution of Part C of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (a) maintain throughout the execution of the Project, the Sanitation 
Infrastructure Unit within MATUH, with competent staff in adequate numbers whose 
qualifications and experience are at all times satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) employ for such unit an engineer and a head foreman in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain PCSU with the full time positions 
of director and accountant throughout the execution of the Project and of deputy 
director for the first three years of the Project, filled with staff whose 
qualifications and experience are at all times satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) cause PSCU to submit to the Association, not later than November 1 in each year, 
annual budgetary programs for the execution of each component of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than November 1 in each year, review 
the progress achieved in the execution of each component of the Project during the 
previous 12 months and submit to
the Association promptly thereafter, for approval, action plans for the execution of 
each said component during the following year.
Section 3.09. For purposes of the execution of Part D of the Project, the 
Borrower shall review with the Association the recommendations of each study, and 
prepare action plans for their implementation satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or the Swiss Contribution Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
Page  6
from the Credit Account or the Swiss 
Contribution Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that every six months said auditors furnish to the 
Association an opinion as 
to whether the statements of expenditures 
submitted during such period, together 
with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
subject to paragraph (ii) of this Section:
 
(i)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant 
made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefore.
 
(ii)
Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform 
any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
Decree No. 823/PR/MPC/89 of the Borrower establishing the 
Interministerial Committee for the monitoring of the Project shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the Association's prior approval.
(c)
The respective responsibilities of the Interministerial Committee, its 
four technical sub-committees, PCSU and the executing agencies in respect of the 
execution of the Project shall have been modified without the Association's prior 
approval.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the expert referred to under Section 3.04 of this Agreement and the 
engineer and the head foreman referred to under Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement 
have taken up their duties and are satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
contractual arrangements with each executing agency under Parts B.l, B.2 
and C.2 of the Project have been signed between the Borrower and said executing 
agencies, and are satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
Section 6.03. In the event that Switzerland or the Association decide to 
terminate the functions of the Association as Administrator pursuant to paragraph 9 of 
the Arrangement, the Association shall notify the Borrower promptly of the date on 
which Switzerland shall assume the rights and obligations of the Association under 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Planning is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
BP 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
 82987 (FTCC)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Ali Adorem
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Swiss Contribution
l.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of 
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount         Amount         % of         % of
                       of the         of the       Expendi-     Expendi-
                       Credit          Loan         tures        tures
                      Allocated      Allocated      to be        to be
                     (Expressed     (Expressed    Financed      Financed
                       in SDR        in Dollar                     by
     Category        Equivalent)    Equivalent)                Switzerland
(l)  Civil works     2,100,000       2,240,000       100%        100%
(2)  Furniture         900,000       1,050,000       100%        100%
     and equip-
     ment
(3)  Essential         700,000       1,500,000       100%        100%
     drugs
(4)  Technical       2,650,000       3,060,000       100%        100%
     Assistance
     and Studies
(5)  Goods and         550,000            -          100%         -
     services
     for Non-
     governmental
     organizations
(6)  Training          240,000         610,000       100%        100%
(7)  Goods and         470,000          -            100%          -
     services
     for Sub-
     projects
     under
     Part A.1
     of the
     Project
(8)  Incremen-       1,320,000        720,000        80%           80%
     tal operat-
     ing costs
(9)  Refunding         620,000           -        Amount due     Amount due
     of Project                                   pursuant       pursuant
     Prepara-                                     to Section     to Section
     tion                                         2.02 (c) of    2.02 (c) of
     Advance                                      this Agreement this Agreement
(10) Unallocated       850,000        820,000
                     _________      _________
     TOTAL          10,400,000     10,000,000
                    ==========     ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental operating costs" means 
Page  9
expenditures for maintenance of Project vehicles, equipment and buildings, salaries of 
local staff and gasoline and subsistence expenses for travel of Project staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above no withdrawal shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement; 
and (b) under Category (6) of paragraph 1 above unless: (i) the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement referred to under Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement has been signed and is 
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the USAID Grant Agreement has become 
effective.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in stimulating 
employment generation, improving health and living conditions of vulnerable groups, 
and strengthening its capacity to design and monitor social improvement programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Stimulation of Employment Generation
 
l.
Financing of Sub-projects to be carried out by small-scale and micro-enterprises 
through a line of credit.
2.
Assistance to micro-enterprises through training or workshops organized by NGOs 
or public agencies in technical knowledge, product design and quality control.
3.
Counselling assistance to laid-off public sector employees through ONAMO to 
explore job opportunities and retraining possibilities.
Part B:
Improvement of Primary Health Care and Social Services
 
1.
(a)
Rehabilitation of four health and/or social centers in N'Djamena, 
construction of three integrated health-social centers and three health-posts in 
N'Djamena, acquisition of equipment related thereto, preparation of staff training, 
work planning and supervision programs, improvement in the allocation of essential 
drugs, and introduction of an efficient cost-recovery program for health care services 
and essential drugs.
(b)
Construction of three 16-bed maternity centers in N'Djamena and 
acquisition of equipment related thereto.
(c)
Strengthening of the overall management of the urban health and social 
services in N'Djamena through the creation and staffing of health and social 
districts.
2.
Strengthening of regional health services in the Tandjile region to improve the 
delivery of primary health care through staff training, renovation and equipping of 
health facilities and the
establishment of an essential drug distribution and cost recovery system.
Part C:
Improvement of N'Djamena's Sanitation Infrastructure
 
1.
(a)
Rehabilitation of the drainage system in N'Djamena's two areas most 
exposed to flooding through the cleaning and widening of two collectors, construction 
of a network of drainage ditches and of ground ditches around each block, streets 
reprofiling and regrading, and assistance to residents in cleaning ditches and 
installing concrete culverts in front of their compounds.
(b)
Rehabilitation of N'Djamena's marketplace through drainage works and 
construction of a concrete platform, improvement of public lighting and water supply 
in selected areas, acquisition of insecticides for mosquitoes' control, and 
improvement in garbage collection.
Page  10
2.
Promotion of community participation in the maintenance of sanitation 
infrastructure and in the improvement of their living and work environment.
Part D:
Strengthening of Social Policy Formulation
 
Execution of studies and surveys on living conditions in rural areas, promotion 
of micro-enterprises and employment generation, living conditions of urban households 
and their essential needs, household budget structure and the financing of essential 
services, and food security to identify vulnerable groups.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
l.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each for works and 
$300,000 or more each for
goods.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chad may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Construction and/or rehabilitation of health centers, and furniture and 
equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,700,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $15,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix l to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a 
Page  11
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of a Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account on the basis of statements of 
expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) 
of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
I. Terms and Conditions for the
financing of Sub-projects under
Part A.l of the Project
                  First Window      Second Window     Third Window
Loan size         $100-1,000        $1,000-24,999     $25,000-50,000
Collateral            none              yes               yes
Maturity          4 months-         1-3 years         5 years
                  1 year
Annual interest   12% until         12% until         12% until
rate œ1             6/30/91           6/30/91           6/30/91
                  13% thereafter    13% thereafter    13% thereafter
Grace period      0-l month         2-4 months        6-9 months
Technical
assistance fee    CFAF 750          1.5% œ2             2% œ2
Equity            none              lO%               20%
contribution
by beneficiary
Processing fee    CFAF 750          2% œ2               4% œ2
------------------------------------------------------------------
Footnote:
1
The interest rate may be adjusted to the financial performance of the credit 
scheme, the 
prevailing commercial lending rates and the findings of a 
Page  12
banking sector review study.
2
The fee is expressed as a percentage of the principal amount of the loan.
 
II. Eligibility Criteria
Sub-projects shall be for trade and crafts services (first window), 
manufacturing and agro-industrial production (second window), and agro-industrial 
production (third window). Beneficiaries shall be new or existing micro- or 
small-scale enterprises (first and second windows) and existing small-scale 
enterprises (third window). Sub-projects shall have a financial rate of return of 30% 
(first window), 40% (second window) or 50% (third window).
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule l to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Contribution allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
200,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss 
Contribution Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss 
Contribution Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been 
made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Swiss Contribution Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
Page  13
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the 
Swiss Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Swiss 
Contribution allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Swiss Contribution allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amoun 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
