Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2156 CD
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Development Action Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 7, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2156 CD
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Social Development Action Project), dated July 6, 1990, as amended 
(the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
6,800,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by: 
(i) deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (j); (ii) substituting "; and" for "." 
at the end of Subsection (k); and (iii) adding a new Subsection (l) as follows:
"(l)  "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement 
(Social Development Action Project) between the Borrower and 
the Association, dated March 7, 
1995;".
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventeen million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,200,000) (the  Credit), which 
includes an original amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,400,000) and an additional amount in 
various 
currencies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
6,800,000) (the Additional Financing)."
 
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; and provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall 
accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
inserting a new Subsection (d) which shall read as follows:
"(d)  The charter documents of VITA, or any provision thereof, shall have 
been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, or repealed so as to adversely affect 
VITA's ability to operate as a 
non-governmental organization."
 
Section 1.05. The following amendments are made to the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
(a)
the amount of the Credit allocated under the first column to Category 
(1)(a) is increased from SDR 2,340,000 to SDR 7,740,000;
(b)
the amount of the Credit allocated under the first column to Category 
(3)(a) is increased from SDR 620,000 to SDR 1,320,000;
(c)
the amount of the Credit allocated under the first column to Category (7) 
is increased from SDR 820,000 to SDR 1,520,000; and
(d)
the total amount of the Credit referred to at the end of the said table 
is increased from SDR 10,400,000 to SDR 17,200,000.
Section 1.06. Part A of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by inserting a new paragraph 3 which shall read as follows:
"3.  In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part 
A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications 
thereto as the Association shall have 
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  
Where no relevant 
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use 
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with 
the Association."
 
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Page  3
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
satisfactory evidence shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution 
and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions, satisfactory to the Association, of counsel acceptable to the Association, 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Favitsou Boulandi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
