                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003195



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-42120)



                                        ON A

                                      CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 93.2 MILLION
                       (US$ 135 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

                                       FOR A

               EMERGENCY ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                  November 25, 2014




GTIDR
Republic of Iraq
Middle East North Africa Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective: November 25, 2014)

                   Currency Unit = SDR
                     1.00 = US$ 1.46
                     US$ 1.00 = 0.68

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  September 1 – August 31



           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AM       Aide-Mémoire
CD       Country Director
CMU      Country Management Unit
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DP       Disbursement Plan
EA       Environmental Assessment
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERL      Emergency Recovery Loan
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
ERRP     Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project
ESIA     Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESSAF    Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Management Report
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GOI      Government of Iraq
GDRB     General Directorate of Roads and Bridges
HDM-4    Highway Development and Management Model
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
IO       Intermediate Objective
IQ       Republic of Iraq
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
ISR      Implementation Supervision Report
                                             REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

                                Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 50
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 54
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 55
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            IQ - Emergency Road
Country:                Iraq                      Project Name:
                                                                            Rehabilitation
Project ID:             P087735                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-42120
ICR Date:               11/25/2014                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                       Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
Original Total
                        XDR 93.20M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 74.39M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 93.20M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 General Directorate of Roads and Bridges (KRG-GDRB)
 State Commission for Roads and Bridges (SCRB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/25/2005      Effectiveness:             10/15/2007         10/15/2007
                                                                                    01/25/2010
Appraisal:            02/07/2006      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                    07/13/2012
Approval:             06/29/2006      Mid-term Review:                              03/21/2009
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2010         06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
ITF    Iraq Trust Fund
KRG    Kurdistan Regional Government
MIM    Master Implementation Manual
MOCH   Ministry of Construction and Housing
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MS     Moderately Satisfactory
MU     Moderately Unsatisfactory
NPV    Net Present Value
PDO    Project Development Objective
PMT    Project Management Team
RAM    Road Asset Management
S      Satisfactory
SCRB   State Commission for Roads and Bridges
SM     Sector Manager
TA     Technical Assistance
TCP    Transport Corridors Project
TOR    Terms of Reference
TSMP   Transport Sector Master Plan
UN     United Nations
WB     World Bank
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
XDR    Special Drawing Rights (currency)




               Vice President: Inger Andersen
            Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
            Practice Manager: Marc Juhel
        Project Team Leader: Ibrahim Khalil Dajani
           ICR Team Leader: Omar Raja Wahab
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      2                    2
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              98                   98


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  33                   33
Improving labor markets                                               17                   17
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                17                   17
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                   33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                         Joseph P. Saba
Practice
                           Marc H. Juhel                        Hedi Larbi
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Ibrahim Khalil Dajani                Mohammed D. E. Feghoul
ICR Team Leader:           Omar Raja Wahab
ICR Primary Author:        Sanne Agnete Tikjoeb


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to improve the condition of road assets by
rehabilitating highly damaged segments of the country's highway and rural road networks,
reestablishing critical river crossings, and restoring the capacity to manage and maintain
road assets.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target         Completion or
                                                documents)           Values         Target Years
                Improved capacity both at SCRB and KRG-GDRB measured by the development
Indicator 1 :
                of road asset management tools and their effective use.
                                            Development of
                                            road asset
                                                                                 Road asset
                                            management tools
Value           No established road asset                                        management
                                            and their use to
quantitative or management systems at                                            systems developed
                                            produce adequate
Qualitative)    SCRB and KRG-GDRB.                                               and in use by the
                                            maintenance and
                                                                                 SCRB and GDRB.
                                            rehabilitation
                                            programs.
Date achieved 06/06/2006                    06/30/2010                           06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : % of population in the targeted villages with access to an all-weather road.
                                            100% of
Value                                       population in the
quantitative or 0%                          targeted villages                    100%
Qualitative)                                have access to an
                                            all-weather road.
Date achieved 06/06/2006                    06/30/2010                           06/30/2014
                 Although the target for this indicator has been met, it is considered a weak
Comments        indicator since its wording does not reflect the significant downward revision of
(incl. %        the rural roads rehabilitated target. Section 2.3 discusses the adequacy of this
achievement) indicator in detail, and its limitations have been considered in assessing the
                Project’s achievement of outcomes.
Indicator 3 : Average reduction in travel time for villagers to reach markets/services.
Value
                                            50% reduction in                     41% reduction in
quantitative or 0%
                                            travel time.                         travel time.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/06/2006                    06/30/2010                           06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %         Target largely achieved.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Roads rehabilitated, Non-rural
Value
(quantitative   0 km                       338.5 km             268.5 km       194.3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/06/2006                   06/30/2010           06/30/2014     06/30/2014
                Revised target value result of Level II restructuring in June 2012.
Comments
                  155.8 km completed under Part A out of 230 km revised target (original target
(incl. %
                  300 km)
achievement)
                  38.5 km under Part B, meeting the target.
Indicator 2 :     Roads rehabilitated, Rural
Value
(quantitative   0 km                       225 km               115 km         119.3 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/06/2006                   06/30/2010           06/30/2014     06/30/2014
                Revised target value result of Level II restructuring in June 2012.
Comments
                  37.7 km completed under Part A out of 40 km revised target (original target 150
(incl. %
                  km).
achievement)
                  81.6 km completed under Part B, exceeding target by 6.6 km.
Indicator 3 :     Bridge replacements
Value
(quantitative     0                          3                   4              3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/06/2006                 06/30/2010          06/30/2014     06/30/2014
Comments
                  Revised target value result of Level II restructuring in June 2012. 3 bridges
(incl. %
                  replaced under Part A of the project.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Road asset management
                                        Maintenance
                                        management
                                        capacities are
                                        satisfactory (with
                No road maintenance and                                         Road asset
                                        road rehabilitation
Value           management strategies.                                          management
                                        and village-access-
(quantitative   No road asset                                                   systems developed
                                        road programs
or Qualitative) management system in                                            and in use by the
                                        developed). Road
                place.                                                          SCRB and GDRB.
                                        assets management
                                        systems are in
                                        place and
                                        operational.
Date achieved     06/06/2006                 06/30/2010                          06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Partial duplicate of PDO-level indicator 1.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Transport Sector Master Plan
Value                                                                            Transport Sector
(quantitative     No plan                    No plan             Yes             Master Plan
or Qualitative)                                                                  Completed.
Date achieved     06/06/2006                 06/30/2010          06/30/2014      06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator added as a result of the Level II restructuring in June 2012.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Local employment created
Value
                                                                                 310,000 person-
(quantitative     0 person-days              Not included.       No target
                                                                                 days
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/06/2006                 06/30/2010          06/30/2014      06/30/2014
Comments
                  Number of temporary employment generated. No target was set for this indicator
(incl. %
                  which was added during implementation.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Direct project beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative     0                          Not included.       No target       300,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/06/2006               06/30/2010         06/30/2014       06/30/2014
Comments          Measured as population with improved access due to the project in Central and
(incl. %          Southern Governorates only (Part A). No target was set for this indicator which
achievement)      was added during implementation.
Indicator 8 :     Female beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative     0%                         Not included.       No target       50%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/06/2006                 06/30/2010          06/30/2014      06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Supplemental indicator to direct project beneficiaries.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     10/10/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            0.00
  2     12/19/2006       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     06/21/2007          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                           0.00
                              Moderately              Moderately
  4     12/18/2007                                                                               0.00
                            Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  5    05/03/2008                                                              0.00
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  6    11/07/2008                                                              9.25
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 7     04/15/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory         19.02
 8     07/22/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory         27.56
 9     09/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory         34.05
 10    01/22/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory         43.81
 11    10/05/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory         63.32
 12    02/12/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory         69.45
 13    08/29/2011       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                72.94
 14    03/11/2012       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                81.60
 15    04/28/2012       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                84.05
 16    12/23/2012       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                89.95
 17    06/25/2013       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory         95.52
 18    12/27/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory        101.41
                         Moderately
 19    07/01/2014                             Moderately Satisfactory        107.54
                       Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of the credit's closing
                                                     date from June 30, 2010 until
 01/25/2010       N       MS    MS           46.46   June 30, 2012 and reallocation
                                                     of credit proceeds under Part B
                                                     of the project.
                                                     Extension of the credit's closing
                                                     date from June 30, 2012 until
 07/13/2012       N       S       S          87.31   June 30, 2014 and revision of
                                                     key performance indicators and
                                                     project scope.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       Once regarded as having one of the Middle East’s most comprehensive transportation
systems, Iraq’s transport infrastructure at the time of appraisal had suffered from more than two
decades of neglect, underinvestment, conflict, and war. In 2003, the invasion of Iraq led to further
destruction of critical infrastructure and entailed years of on-going fighting, leaving many areas
of the country extremely dangerous. As a result, Iraq faced enormous challenges in reconstructing
its transportation networks and facilities, as well as in re-establishing key transport services.

2.       Iraq’s 42,000 kilometer road network is classified as national highways, primary roads,
secondary roads, village access roads, and special purpose roads (military and border roads).
Although some 85 percent of the network was paved, damages sustained during numerous
conflicts, inadequate repairs, and deferred maintenance had rendered much of the network to fair
or poor condition.

3.       With the exception of municipal roads in urban areas, responsibility for constructing and
maintaining the classified road network lies with the Ministry of Construction and Housing
(MOCH), and specifically, the State Commission for Roads and Bridges (SCRB). In the northern
Governorates under the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), there is a regional Ministry of
Construction and Housing and a General Directorate of Roads and Bridges (GDRB) that mirror
the structure of the MOCH and the SCRB. This arrangement has been in place for more than ten
years.

4.      Increasingly, the SCRB and the GDRB had developed and relied on in-house capacity to
design most of the country’s roads and bridges. In the 1970s, there were a number of private
consulting firms in all fields of engineering, but due to a change in policy requiring ministries to
rely on in-house expertise and parastatal consulting corporations, the quality and capacity of the
private sector deteriorated to the extent that it no longer offered services in the transport sector.
Similarly in the road construction industry, the capacity and capabilities of the private sector had
been depleted due to years of war and increased reliance on parastatal corporations.

5.      The key challenges in the road sector at the time of appraisal are summarized below:
         Loss of key road assets: Most of the country’s nearly 42,000 km road network was
           developed in the 1970s and 1980s, and little new construction had taken place since.
           Although some 85 percent of the network was paved, maintenance had consistently
           been deferred.
         Deterioration of village access roads: There had been a pronounced deterioration of
           village access roads to the extent that reconstruction, rather than rehabilitation, was
           needed along much of the rural road network. This had diminished access to markets
           and social services in many rural areas, and contributed to isolation.
         Bridges critical to Iraq’s road network: The topography of Iraq, with two major river
           systems along which most cities are located, makes bridges a vital part of the road
           network. Many of the country’s more than 1,000 bridges had suffered damage, and
           several key river crossings were never provided with replacement bridges. Instead,
           temporary floating bridges were put in place, such as the 69 pontoon bridges located
           in the central and southern part of Iraq.




                                                 1
            Weakened capacity to manage road network: Historically, capacity to manage the
             country’s network of roads had been strong and adequate. However, reliance on
             outdated procedures and equipment had eroded skills and abilities.
            Rapidly expanding vehicle fleet: Due to extensive reliance on land transport and
             demand that had been suppressed for more than a decade, the size of Iraq’s vehicle
             fleet was expected to continue increasing rapidly, which would cause traffic to grow
             significantly.

6.       The preservation of road assets was identified by the Government of Iraq (GoI) as a
priority, and support for a project to rehabilitate key segments of the network and prepare overall
road rehabilitation and rural access programs was expressly requested to be part of the first IDA
allocation of US$500 million to Iraq since 1979. As per the GoI’s declaration that 17 percent of
donor support be earmarked for projects determined by the Kurdistan Regional Government, the
KRG explicitly requested that its share of the IDA allocation be concentrated in roads (US$45
million) and power.

7.      The rationale for significant IDA involvement in rehabilitating Iraq's highway and rural
road infrastructure was the comparative advantage in addressing immediate needs, while at the
same time strengthening the policy and institutional framework for the sector's long-term
sustainability. In addition, there was a significant financing gap in the sector in the short- to
medium-term based on the UN/WB Joint Needs Assessment (2003).

8.       As such, the proposed project was fully consistent with the World Bank’s Second Interim
Strategy Note (ISN) for Iraq (2005), which emphasized the need for rapid rehabilitation of critical
infrastructure services and institutional support as pre-requisites for long-term sustainable
recovery. The civil works and subsequent maintenance activities associated with the project
would also create some much needed local employment opportunities in the near-term. The
Bank's reconstruction efforts put a premium on early, but selective engagement, flexibility in
design and implementation, capacity restoration, and close monitoring and evaluation.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.      The objective of the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) is “to improve the
condition of road assets by rehabilitating highly damaged segments of the country’s highway and
rural road networks, reestablishing critical river crossings, and restoring the capacity to manage
and maintain road assets.” In the Technical Annex, it is emphasized that given the project’s
emergency nature, outputs, rather than outcomes, will be used to measure success in achieving
objectives.

Table 1: Original Key Performance Indicators

GOAL                                                 KEY INDICATOR
Sector Level
Build capacity to manage the enormous                Trained and well-functioning road sector institutions
reconstruction efforts, which addresses poverty      are managing road assets and operations
through employment generation, kick-start
economic activity and restoring essential            Key bottlenecks in the road networks removed
infrastructure and services
                                                     Vision for developing the road sector prepared
Policy and analytical work to help transition from
central planning to market economics



                                                     2
PDO Level
The project development objective is to improve          Network of high quality and well-maintained roads
the condition of road assets by rehabilitating           improve reliability of transport and access to markets
highly damaged segments of the country's highway         and services
and rural road networks, reestablishing critical
river crossings, and restoring the capacity to           Access between villages affected by project
manage and maintain road assets                          investments improved, and time taken for villagers to
                                                         reach closest markets and services reduced (improved
                                                         accessibility)

                                                         Training of staff provided and capacity increased in
                                                         road agencies
Intermediate Level
Part A                                                   Parts A and B
A. 1 Highway Rehabilitation Program: Emergency           A.l, B.1) 300 km of key regional links rehabilitated to
rehabilitation of 300 km                                 bitumen standard in the fifteen central and southern
of pavement on critical road corridors                   provinces and upgrading the Erbil - Altun Kopri Road
                                                         (38.5).
A.2 Village Access Roads: Rehabilitate
150 km of access roads                                   A.2, B.2) Programming and implementation
                                                         arrangements defined for highways and village access
A.3 Bridge Replacements: About three                     roads. At least 225 km of village access roads
key bridges upgraded to more                             constructed, providing improved access between
appropriate standards                                    villages (75 km in KRG Governorates, and 150 km in
                                                         central and southern Governorates)
A.4 Road Asset Management:
Equipment and procedures, Road                           A.3) At least three bridges improved on critical road
Rehabilitation Program, Village                          sections
Access Road Program are functional.
                                                         A.4) Maintenance management capacity satisfactory
A.5 Project Management: Provision of
international expertise, capacity                        A.4, B.3) Asset management system in place and
building initiatives, office and                         operational
communication equipment, and vehicles
                                                         A.5) Adequate institutional arrangements in place for
Part B                                                   project implementation and sufficient project’s funds
B.l Erbil-Altun Kopri Road: (38.5 km) widening           will be allocated for project management support and
and rehabilitation                                       capacity building activities

B.2 Village Access Roads: Rehabilitate                   B.4) sufficient project’s funds will be allocated for
75 km of access roads                                    project management support and capacity building
                                                         activities*
B.3 Road Asset Management:
Equipment and procedures, Road                           A5, B.4) Annual audits carried out showing no
Rehabilitation Program, and Village                      irregularities
Access Road Program are functional
                                                         Training programs carried out.
B.4 Project Management: Provision of
international expertise, capacity
building initiatives, office and
communication equipment, and vehicles
* Key indicator B.4 was incomplete in the Technical Annex.




                                                        3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

10.     The project development objective was not revised.

11.      The indicators tracked since ISR 1 are worded differently from the key indicators listed in
the Technical Annex, but they are similar in scope (see section F in the Data Sheet). According to
the first ISR, the PDO indicators stated in the Technical Annex had been “reformulated to allow
for better collection and reporting.” These changes were not formally revised and it is not clear
whether they were discussed with the Borrower as there is no mention of the issue in the Aide
Memoire (AM).

12.     The key performance indicators were formally revised during the second restructuring on
June 29, 2012 to reflect realistic results considering the available funds from the credit and the
increase in unit prices of construction material since project appraisal (corrective restructuring).
At the same time, the project scope was expanded at the request of the Borrower to include the
preparation of a Transport Sector Master Plan, which formed part of the 2013-2016 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) between Iraq and the Bank (opportunistic restructuring). A new key
indicator was established to track the implementation of this supplementary activity.

13.     The two core indicators Roads Rehabilitated Non-Rural and Roads Rehabilitated Rural
formed part of the PDO-level indicators until June 2013 (ISR 17), after which they were included
as intermediate indicators. No formal revision to this end preceded the change. However, the ICR
team notes that these standard Bank-wide core indicators are usually included as intermediate
output indicators, and not as PDO-level outcomes indicators.

14.     The last three indicators did not form part of the original results framework, nor were
they formally revised to be included in the results framework. They were introduced in a Bank-
wide exercise to incorporate core indicators in on-going projects. No targets were set for these
indicators as they were added during implementation. They first appeared in June 2013 (ISR 17).

15.      The evolution of the results framework follows that of the project. In the Technical
Annex, it is noted that outputs, rather than outcomes, would be used in measuring progress
towards project objectives. However, the Technical Annex also mentioned the option of including
PDO-level outcome indicators at a later stage. This happened shortly after approval when the
PDO-level indicators were revised to allow for better tracking of project outcomes (see section
2.3 for a discussion of each indicator). The final results framework is thus defined by its roots in
an emergency operation with mostly output-based indicators, yet adjusted to reflect a standard
results framework with outcome-based indicators. Overall the framework was adequate in
tracking progress towards project objectives.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

16.       In the Technical Annex the project beneficiaries are briefly described as road users
throughout Iraq. Other project benefits included promoting the country’s economic integration,
facilitating trade, and supporting reconstruction efforts across all sectors. Although the project
was essentially an emergency operation, substantial benefits would be derived from attempts to
address medium- to long-term policy and institutional issues, and by developing a vision for how
road sector assets should be managed and developed beyond the emergency stage. In addition,
civil works and subsequent maintenance activities would provide local employment opportunities.



                                                 4
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Part A – Components for the 15 Central and Southern Governorates (US$90 million)
   A1       Highway Rehabilitation Works
   A2       Village Access Roads
   A3       Bridge Replacements
   A4       Road Asset Management and Road Rehabilitation Programming
   A5       Project Management Support
Part B – Components for the Northern Governorates in Kurdistan Region (US$45 million)
   B1       Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Erbil-Altun Kopri Road
   B2       Village Access Roads
   B3       Road Asset Management and Road Rehabilitation Programming
   B4       Project Management Support

1.6 Revised Components

17.     The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

18.      The project was restructured twice. The first restructuring on January 25, 2010 was a
level 2 restructuring to (a) extend the closing date from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012 to allow
for the implementation of the Um Qasr – Al Zubair highway rehabilitation sub-project under Part
A (82 km), and (b) to reallocate funds between expenditure categories for Part B to cover
escalating construction costs in the Works category.

19.      The second restructuring on June 29, 2012 was also a level 2 restructuring to (a) extend
the closing date from June 30, 2012 to June 30, 2014 to complete on-going works and technical
assistance (TA) components for Part A, (b) revise the key performance indicators to reflect
realistic results for road and bridge rehabilitation, and (c) to modify the project scope to include a
requested supplementary activity to prepare a Transport Sector Master Plan.

20.     It is important to note that in 2010 a change in mandate of the implementing agency for
Part A, the SCRB, meant that the responsibility for village access roads now fell under each
Governorate, which would be financing rehabilitation of village access roads from their own
funds going forward. As a result, all remaining village access road sub-projects for Part A were
cancelled as was the development of a road asset management (RAM) system for rural roads to
be implemented at SCRB.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

21.     Citing the experience of other projects in the Iraq portfolio, the ERRP was carefully
designed to deliver emergency assistance while developing the institutional capacity of the
implementing agencies and enabling the development of a shared vision for the transport sector
across ministries and agencies.

22.     The project was well conceptualized and prepared. A detailed assessment of the Iraqi
transport sector underpinned the structuring of the project, which sought to strike a careful
balance between generating results on the ground and providing essential policy advice. Adopting


                                                  5
a flexible design allowed for the sequenced implementation of sub-components, giving priority to
existing SCRB/GDRB designs for simple road improvements, while bringing in the services of
international engineering firms to prepare more complex investments following project launch.
This approach was adopted to prevent early implementation delay and to allow for an early
review of the project scope given the difficulty in predicting project cost in areas where prices are
affected by security risks, difficult mobilization, and supply/demand imbalances.

23.     The Bank’s recent experience in Iraq had highlighted the importance of Iraqi ownership
and commitment for effective project implementation. At the time of project preparation, a total
of nine projects financed by the Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) were under implementation, only one of
which was Bank-executed. Based on experience gained through the ITF-financed projects, the
ERRP project adopted a similar approach utilizing the concept of the Project Management Team
(PMT). In the PMT model, staff from various departments in the implementing agency was
seconded on a full-time or part-time basis to implement the project. This approach, which had
proved successful in previous projects and which was being adopted by other donor agencies,
would permit the capacity and skills developed during the project to be reintegrated into the
MoCH upon project completion.

24.      The project was designed to be implemented in two parts with a PMT for the Central and
Southern Governorates and a PMT for the Northern Governorates in KRG, under one financing
agreement. Both SCRB and GDRB showed early commitment to the project by appointing key
members to each PMT. The PMT staff members were to include Project Managers, senior
technical staff, procurement specialists, financial management specialists, accountants,
environmental focal points, and administrative support staff. According to the Technical Annex,
the initial PMTs worked closely with Bank staff to complete project preparation at the appraisal
and negotiations stage and received early training in the Bank’s fiduciary requirements.

25.     Given the relatively weak capacity of each implementing agency, the project was
designed to rely on international consultant services for the key tasks of providing project
management support and construction supervision and delivering technical assistance. This was
intended to accelerate the implementation process while building the capacity of the SCRB and
GDRB and to avoid early implementation delay.

26.      Project readiness was in an advanced stage with detailed engineering designs for three
non-rural road works packages of about 100 km combined as well as three bridge replacements
prepared by SCRB and ready for tendering. Similarly, detailed engineering designs and tender
documents for Erbil-Altun Kopri highway were well advanced. This showed a high level of
ownership and commitment from SCRB and GDRB at an early stage. Sub-projects were
identified based on a number of criteria, which took into account current condition, security
situation, accessibility, traffic, and other governorate priorities.

27.      At the time of appraisal, the main risks to achieving project development objectives were
identified as delay in ratification leading to delay in effectiveness and implementation, changes in
MoCH senior staff leading to lower commitment, deterioration of political and security situation,
escalating prices, difficult Bank supervision, and unfamiliarity with Bank procedures. Central to
mitigating these risks was early and close follow-up by Bank staff, securing endorsements from
senior and middle management, dispersing sub-projects geographically across governorates to
minimize security risks, generous provision for price contingencies, and putting in place sound
implementation arrangements with trained PMTs, particularly related to procurement and
financial management, relying on independent supervision agents when needed.



                                                 6
28.      The services provided by a Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA) were to be utilized to
support Bank supervision of project implementation and conduct spot inspections. The role of the
FMA had been defined in the Master Implementation Manual (MIM) guiding all projects in Iraq
following the re-engagement in 2004, and would report directly to the Country Management Unit
(CMU). This arrangement would prove to be critical for monitoring progress in the absence of the
ability of the Bank team to conduct site visits in the field.

29.      To diminish financial management risk, transactions were simplified using direct
payments to contractors and suppliers for eligible expenditures above US$ 20,000 as the primary
tool for financing project activities. FM arrangements included hiring of an external auditor to
review statement of expenses, while intensive training was provided to the PMTs, even prior to
project implementation.

30.     Based on the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF)
applicable to emergency operations in Iraq, the project was classified as a safeguards category “A”
given the extensive work planned for the replacement of bridges with concrete structures (A3)
and the rehabilitation and widening of Erbil-Altun Kopri Highway (B1). While maintaining
fundamental operational policy requirements, the ESSAF affords sub-projects with minimum
impact a fast-track approval process, with environmental assessments and resettlement
instruments prepared during early implementation rather than prior to approval. The project
triggered two safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary
Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). No land acquisition and resettlement was anticipated at the
preparation stage.

31.     In hindsight, despite the fact that many of these risks were effectively mitigated, early
delay in implementation due to the prevailing country context at the time and issues regarding
financial management, procurement, and safeguards still arose during the implementation phase
(see Section 2.2 and Section 2.4).

32.      However, given the Bank’s experience with infrastructure reconstruction projects and
institution building in conflict-zones, the Bank was in a good position to assist the GoI in
rehabilitating the road sector and to support the SCRB and GDRB in implementing the project
successfully.

2.2 Implementation

33.     Given the complex country context, project implementation was delayed and not fully
completed. Yet, in spite of the challenging operational environment, the project was able to
disburse approximately 85 percent of project funds by the time of project closing. This compares
favorably to other completed IDA projects since WB reengagement in Iraq in 2004: An
emergency loan to the education sector (P096234) disbursed 62 percent in total, while an
emergency loan to two KRG hydropower plants (P099059) disbursed 96 percent due to the more
stable operating environment in Kurdistan.

34.     Despite a high degree of project readiness and client commitment at the preparation stage,
the project experienced early implementation delay partly due to delay in ratification by
Parliament before effectiveness could be declared (ISR 1) and partly due to delay in tendering
sub-projects under Part A (ISR 2). On the former issue, ratification was stalled due to the overall
country context at the time. The Bank team was supported by the CD, who sent a letter to the
MoF urging the GoI to take action towards credit signing and effectiveness. Meanwhile, the
GDRB was proactive in completing the tendering process for the Erbil-Altun Kopri road segment


                                                7
before all project activities came to a complete hold due to the extensive delay. The project was
declared effective on October 15, 2007, 15 months after Bank approval, following which the
project was re-launched and the PDO and IP ratings were upgraded to MU.

35.     On the latter issue, the SCRB postponed launching several key tender packages and
slowed down preparation of other sub-projects. Contrary to their GDRB counterparts, the PMT in
SCRB was not empowered to proceed with project preparation in advance of Credit signing. This
resulted in a complete freeze of project activities planned for the Southern and Central
Governorates, which only resumed following project effectiveness. At that time, the PMT still
lacked critical human resources and adequate office facilities. By March 2008, the SCRB
designated a full staff team to the PMT (ISR 5), and in January 2009, a budget was allocated to
cover PMT’s operational expenses (ISR 7).

36.     A mid-term review supervision mission was carried out on March 21-28, 2009 in Amman,
Jordan. At the time, commitments for Part A equaled 18.5 percent of funds allocated to SCRB,
whereas funds allocated to GDRB for Part B were fully committed. The mid-term review
included a review of the project’s financial management reports, internal controls, procurement
plans, and disbursement projections, both for Part A and for Part B, and all were found acceptable.
Key outstanding issues related to the severely delayed contracting of an independent auditor for
Part A and to the urgent need for further documentation of social safeguards procedures in
accordance with Bank policies for Part B. The overall implementation progress for the project
was upgraded to MS.

37.      The first restructuring was approved on January 25, 2010 to extend the project closing
date until June 30, 2012 and to reallocate funds between expenditure categories for Part B. For
Part A, a new sub-project investment had been prepared for the rehabilitation of the double-lane
Um Qasr –Al Zubair highway, which would allow for the full commitment of funds under Part A.
The rehabilitation period for this road segment of 41 km in each direction (i.e. 82 km in total) was
estimated to be 20 months. For Part B, the price escalation for construction material such as fuel,
cement, steel, and bitumen, necessitated a reallocation of funds between categories to cover the
higher costs for remaining works on the Erbil-Altun Kopri highway segment. The request
reflected the advanced implementation of activities under Part B and the fact that some planned
expenditures had been funded by GDRB’s own budget, including an additional 18 km of village
access roads in extension of project-funded roads under component B2, and the nesting of a RAM
system into an on-going GDRB activity to develop a Road Master Plan for the Kurdistan region.

38.      The second restructuring was approved on June 29, 2012 to extend the project closing
date until June 30, 2014, to revise the key performance indicators, and to revise the project scope.
The Bank discussed the need to restructure the project with the Client in October, 2011. The
Borrower’s letter of request to restructure the project was received in May, 2012. At the time, the
project was 65 percent disbursed with a satisfactory rating for both development outcome and
implementation progress. Under Part A of the project, 74 km of non-rural roads and 37.7 km of
rural roads had been rehabilitated, and three floating pontoon bridges had been replaced. For Part
B, project implementation was complete and the GDRB had submitted a draft ICR.

39.      The extension was required to allow for the completion of on-going infrastructure
activities under Part A, to implement the RAM system, for which services had yet to be
contracted for SCRB, and to extend the scope of the TA component to include a supplementary
activity to help prepare a national Transport Sector Master Plan. The national TSMP was
identified as a priority in the 2013-2016 CPS between the GoI and the Bank. Three of the main
performance indicators for Part A were revised to realistically reflect the targets to be achieved by


                                                 8
the Credit closing date. This involved: (1) downgrading the target for rehabilitation of non-rural
roads from 300 km to 230 km due to an increase in unit prices for construction material since
project appraisal, (2) downgrading the target for rehabilitation of rural roads from 150 km to 40
km due to a change in mandate for SCRB resulting in the cancellation of remaining rural roads
sub-projects, and (3) upgrading the target for bridge replacements from 3 bridges to 4 bridges to
reflect actual works under contracts awarded.

40.     Project implementation was inevitably marked by the stark contrasts between the
operating environment in the Central and Southern Governorates and that of the Northern
Governorates in KRG. The heightened security risks in the Central and Southern Governorates,
which experienced prolonged periods of violent conflict, insurgent fighting, and elevated military
campaigns coupled with unstable political leadership, negatively impacted the mobility, capacity
development, and efficacy of SCRB. In comparison, the relatively stable political and operating
environment in the KRG enabled GDRB to develop significant capacity in project management
and to attract international expertise to ensure smooth implementation of the project. This country
context duality led to two very different implementation processes and different project outcomes.
As summarized in the bullet points below, several key implementation challenges, which should
be considered in light of the above, affected the planned outputs:

       Low empowerment of SCRB-PMT: Due to a lack of advanced funding to cover
        operational expenditures and due to a lack of designated technical staff on engineering,
        procurement and safeguards issues, the SCRB-PMT lacked the ownership and
        commitment at the project management level to prevent significant implementation delay
        in the early stages of project implementation. The issue was resolved when SCRB
        appointed additional PMT members and the GoI allocated an operational budget.
       Increasingly difficult operating environment due to the worsening security situation: The
        effect of security issues on the project cannot be overstated. First, it disrupted or delayed
        the progress of tendering packages and performing rehabilitation works as different areas
        of the country became inaccessible due to insecurity. Second, it proved difficult to attract
        qualified international bidders for the technical assistance components as international
        consulting firms were reluctant to come to Baghdad. Third, price contingencies were
        inadequate to cover the rising cost of sourcing construction material. Fourth, the difficult
        operating environment and depletion of resources caused several contractors to
        underperform on their responsibilities, leading to work sites being vacated or sub-
        contracted without prior approval.
       Attracting international expertise: The delay in contracting consultant services for the
        TA components was caused by the reluctance of international consultant firms to operate
        in Baghdad due to the security risks. The lack of a competitive environment meant that
        sometimes no bids were received. This led to several rounds of tendering of large TA
        components with revised TORs. The issue was resolved when the TA components were
        launched under separate SCRB and GDRB contracts and when the activities under each
        component were combined to raise the total award amount. This issue mostly affected
        Part A of the project: the RAM system was not adopted until the end of the project,
        construction supervision services were never contracted (except for Um Qasr – Al Zubair
        and al-Daraji Bridge) but instead undertaken by SCRB in-house staff members, and the
        lack of project management support significantly delayed the tendering of road works.
       Price escalation of construction material: The cost of construction material rose as the
        country situation worsened, while adding further expenses for security related costs. In
        the case of GDRB, this was mitigated by extra funding from GDRB’s own budget.




                                                 9
        However, in the case of SCRB this lead to poor contractor performance and to the
        reduction in target value for road rehabilitation.
       Poor contractor performance: Considering the difficult operating environment, it is
        notable that most contractors performed satisfactory. However, despite close follow-up
        from the SCRB-PMT and the Bank, and despite formulating joint action plans for
        completion, several contractors were unable to fulfill their contracts. As of project closing
        date, the outstanding works negatively affected by contractor performance are the
        rehabilitation of Um Qasr – Al Zubair (82 km) and al-Daraji Bridge (245 meters). The
        delay in tendering consultant services to supervise the construction work, even as works
        contracts were awarded, left a void in terms of capacity building and technical assistance
        that was planned as part of the sequenced design to proceed from simple to more
        complex sub-projects. In the case of SCRB, the complete TA component was only fully
        implemented shortly before project closing. These issues were partly addressed through
        post-construction quality control measures, such as expert reviews of bridge designs.
       Change of mandate governing rural roads: Due to a change in SCRB’s mandate, which
        delegated the responsibility for rural road maintenance and rehabilitation to each
        Governorate, the remaining work under component A2 was cancelled as was the
        development of a RAM system for rural roads to be implemented in SCRB (component
        A4). However, even prior to this decision, the rehabilitation of village access roads was
        severely challenged by a deteriorating security environment in remote areas.

41.    By end of 2010, the GDRB had completed all works financed by the project. The RAM
system was installed and operational by 2012. As noted by one SM, the advanced progress in
KRG was consistent with Bank experience in other sectors.

42.     By project closing date, the SCRB had disbursed roughly three fourths of the funds
allocated to Part A of the project. SCRB has expressed commitment to completing remaining
works using national funds and has requested funding from MoP. The Bank has not received a
timeline for the completion of remaining works.

43.      It is worth noting that the project evolved over time from being an emergency operation
at the time of preparation to being closer to a standard project by the time of closing. This is
common for this type of project, which is prepared for a post-conflict country, extended several
times, and implemented over eight years. Particularly at the time of the second restructuring when
the national Transport Sector Master Plan was added, it became obvious that the project had
reached beyond its initial emergency stage with urgently needed road rehabilitation to responding
to Client demands by engaging in on-going dialogue with the GoI and showing flexibility in
embracing a new activity.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

44.      As an emergency operation, monitoring activities were originally arranged to focus on
project outputs, rather than outcomes. Monitoring of overall progress towards the PDO as well as
of project management issues and milestones was entirely the responsibility of the implementing
agencies. Both SCRB and GDRB were to send quarterly progress reports and financial reports to
the Bank. From the Bank’s side, the team relied on independent supervision agents (FMAs) to
visit project sites when prevented from conducting field trips during missions.

45.    In general, the output indicators established in the Technical Annex, as well as the
outcome indicators included in the ISRs, were adequate in tracking progress towards the



                                                10
achievement of the PDO. However, vague wording of the PDO and the PDO-level indicators was
raised as a critique by participants in the ICR stakeholder workshop:

       The PDO aims to “improve the condition of road assets”. This rather vague wording
        implies that any improvement of the road assets is a fulfillment of the PDO;
       The first PDO-level indicator assesses the “Improved capacity both at SCRB and KRG-
        GDRB measured by the development of road asset management tools and their effective
        use.” The emphasis on effective use was never defined and thus monitoring of this
        indicator has focused on the “development of road asset management tools”, i.e. RAM
        systems. It may be understood that “effective use” refers to “training in RAM operation
        completed”; however, no targets for the number of trainings completed or number of
        people trained were established;
       The second PDO-level indicator tracks the “% of population in the target villages with
        access to an all-weather road.” Since the indicator was defined as a percentage, rather
        than a number, the target fluctuates with the revision of km rehabilitated and is therefore
        less meaningful than intended. Originally, the target was a number equal to 100 percent
        of the population “living in villages of at least 50 households within 1 km along a stretch
        of 225 km of rural roads”, according to the definition of rural accessibility discussed in
        AM from November, 2010. However, as the target of rural roads rehabilitation was
        adjusted downwards to 115 km, fewer people were to gain access to an all-weather road.
        However, this is not reflected in the outcome of this indicator, and neither is the
        overachievement of the revised rural roads target. The indicator only relates to the target
        for rural roads rehabilitated, which was not achieved under Part A against the project’s
        original target due to the change in mandate governing SCRB;
       The third PDO-level indicator measures the “Average reduction in travel time for
        villagers to reach markets/services.” However, a multitude of factors may influence the
        speed with which a villager can reach markets and services, such as mode of transport,
        condition of vehicle, traffic, time and day of the week, weather, security level, etc. For
        the same reason, the tracking of this indicator in effect refers specifically to the reduced
        travel time on the rehabilitated road segments.

46.     It is worth noting that the Transport Corridors Project (TCP) follow-on operation has
incorporated lessons learned from the ERRP, and specifically addresses the above short-comings
by having a clearly defined PDO with closely aligned and measurable indicators. For example,
the TCP has set a numerical target for the rural population to gain access to an all-weather road.
Similarly, reduction in travel time is targeted to specific road segments.

47.     Improving Iraq’s capacity to manage road assets was an integral part of the project, and
the on-going monitoring activities of road assets using the systems adopted under the project help
inform decision-making and resource allocations on a regular basis in each of the implementing
agencies. The sustainability of this monitoring system depends in large part on regularly updated
information from the field, which is currently challenging in certain parts of the country. The
TCP follow-on operation will continue to strengthen the operation of RAM systems thereby
building the institutional capacity to properly monitor road assets beyond the implementation of
the ERRP.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

48.     During implementation, compliance with the Bank’s safeguards and fiduciary policies
represented significant challenges for both SCRB and GDRB given the immediate post-conflict



                                                11
conditions with weak institutional capacity and resource availability, lack of familiarity with
Bank policies, and the delay in assigning technical staff and hiring safeguards specialists to
support project implementation.

49.      A Safeguards Audit Report was carried out by an external consulting firm and submitted
to the Bank in January 2014. The report covered seven sub-projects on highway rehabilitation and
bridge replacements. The report concluded that there were significant short-comings in
complying with Bank safeguards policies affecting most sub-projects, particularly related to:
     (1) Preparation of appropriate safeguards documentation according to EA classification
     (2) Post-construction preparation and disclosure of safeguards documents
     (3) Missing or incomplete resettlement instruments
     (4) Lack of or limited public consultations

50.     While the Bank team worked with the PMTs to develop action plans for compliance and
to provide on-going safeguards training throughout the project life-cycle, delayed and incomplete
reporting still affected the project. Among the measures applied in an effort to meet minimum
safeguards requirements were post-construction technical reviews of bridge designs, ex-post
ESIAs to verify that no harm was done to PAPs, and ex-post obtainment of signatures for
voluntary donation following land acquisition.

51.    The Bank’s safeguards policy on Cultural Heritage (OP/BP 4.11) was invoked when a
mosque was in the right of way of constructing the Al Majd Bridge. The contractor built a new
Mosque at his own expense on land donated by a local resident.

52.      Overall, both PMTs were largely in compliance with the Bank’s fiduciary policies. Non-
compliance with the Bank’s fiduciary requirements related to two key issues. First, SCRB’s
severe delay in contracting an external auditor to review financial statements placed the project at
risk of suspension of disbursement. The issue was resolved when SCRB submitted an audit report
for the period from effectiveness to October 31, 2009 in November 2010 (seven months overdue).
Second, lack of due diligence on the part of SCRB and the FMA led to the undetected presence of
sub-contractors on the project site without prior clearance. This issue was resolved when SCRB
issued a notice of cancellation to the contractor due to the contractor’s inability to meet its
obligations under the contract. The Bank has also recently contracted an international auditing
firm to audit the contractor’s project files to review the performance of the contractor against the
payments made by the Bank under the ERRP.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

53.     SCRB and GDRB both have the technical skills and financial means to conduct proper
maintenance of project rehabilitated roads segments as part of their regular work program, even
though heightened security concerns makes regular maintenance challenging in certain parts of
the country. Lack of adequate road service, such as operation of weighing stations to control the
access and overload of heavy axel vehicles to appropriate roads, may jeopardize the proper
management of road assets. These are some of the challenges facing SCRB, in particular, in the
post-operation phase (see section 4 for further discussion of risks to development outcomes).

54.      The use of installed RAM systems as a planning tool in SCRB and GDRB bodes well for
the sustainability of institutional capacity built at each of the implementing agencies. However,
the system needs regular updating in order to be a reliable decision-making tool, and SCRB
expressed concern that some areas of the country are currently too unsafe for staff members to
collect the needed data. This activity will be resumed as areas become more accessible again.


                                                12
Meanwhile, the development of a 5-year rehabilitation program is currently guiding near-term
investments in the road sector at both SCRB and GDRB.

55.       A newly approved Transport Corridors Project (TCP), which is currently awaiting
ratification by the Iraqi Council of Ministers, builds directly on the experience and achievements
of the ERRP. Sustaining and further developing local capacity is ensured by grandfathering the
same PMT model and staff members into the new project.

56.      The road sector in general enjoys support at the ministerial level (MoCH), where the
budget envelope for road maintenance has steadily increased. At the political level, the project
has succeeded in building attention to critical transport issues with the development of a national
Transport Sector Master Plan. The Bank is now supporting the GoI to develop other priority areas
of the transport sector, such as rail and air.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

57.     Rating: Substantial

58.     The project is based on a proper diagnosis of development priorities, which remain highly
relevant today. Using a flexible design and implementation plan, the project objectives are as
relevant today as they were at project start. This bodes well for the recent approval of the follow-
on Transport Corridors Project, which builds on the progress achieved in the ERRP project.

59.       The need to rehabilitate critical segments of the road network and restore the institutional
capacity to maintain road assets was a high priority for the GoI at the time of appraisal, and
remains so today. The project came on the heels of a major war and decades of sanctions and
neglect causing widespread damage to roads and bridges and depleting ministries and transport
facilities of equipment, machinery, furniture, and supplies. Ultimately, road users were poorly
served and rural isolation increased as access to markets and services diminished.

60.     On this basis, the project was prepared as an emergency operation with the specific
objective of rehabilitating damaged roads and bridges and restoring institutional capacity. As the
network of highways and village access roads continues to improve both in terms of rehabilitating
deteriorated roads and strengthening maintenance capacity at the relevant agencies, in part due to
the successful outcomes of this project, much work remains to be done. As such, the operation
has stayed highly relevant to achieving country development objectives throughout the lifespan of
the project.

61.      The transport sector is one of the key sector priorities outlined by the GoI in the latest
National Development Plan for 2013-2017. The Plan aims to support development in Iraq’s
countryside by ensuring acceptable levels of infrastructure and services. This entails building and
rehabilitating roads and bridges as a means to reduce trip times, accidents, and costs and to
contribute to Iraq’s economic independence.

62.      The first Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) between the GoI and the World Bank for
the period 2013-2016 also provides evidence of continued high project relevance. Pillar 1 draws
attention to the need for “supporting improvements in institutional capacity and governance […]
with focused attention on governance issues at the sector level”, while Pillar 3 aims to “[…] help



                                                 13
Iraq to improve delivery of its core public services through a combination of existing
infrastructure investments and institutional capacity building.”

63.     The delivery of a national Transport Sector Master Plan for Iraq was a key element of the
CPS and was funded as part of the ERRP. The 20-year TSMP was developed as a collaborative
effort between the MoCH and the MoT. Road rehabilitation is identified as a priority in TSMP
and forms part of the project activities in the follow-on TCP operation.

64.    It is worth noting that the same PMT model will be used to implement the TCP project,
and that the current PMT members will be grandfathered into the new PMT. This is a
demonstration of continuously relevant implementation arrangements and helps ensure that the
new project further develops the capacity built in the ERRP.

65.      However, the outcome indicators were vaguely worded, even if adequate in tracking
progress towards achieving objectives. In addition, the reliance on international consulting firms
to assist in capacity building and construction supervision proved to be a challenging design
element, which did not serve the project as well as it should have due to the reluctance of
consultants to travel to Baghdad. Given the current country context, a similar design element
could be expected to have a similar outcome in the foreseeable future and thus has not remained
relevant over time.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

66.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67.      The project partially achieved the stated development objective of “improving the
condition of road assets.” It did so by rehabilitating 194.3 km of highly damaged segments of the
country's highways (57 percent and 72 percent of original and revised targets, respectively) and
119.3 km of rural road networks (53 percent and 104 percent of original and revised targets,
respectively), replacing 3 temporary bridges with concrete structures at critical river crossings
(100 percent and 75 percent of original and revised target, respectively), and restoring the
capacity to manage and maintain road assets by developing and implementing Road Asset
Management systems in SCRB and in GDRB (100 percent of target). The project provided 100
percent of the population in the targeted villages with access to an all-weather road. Finally, the
project reduced travel time by 41 percent on average for rehabilitated non-rural and rural road
segments under Part A and Part B, combined (82 percent of target). As such, the project largely
fulfilled the PDO-level outcome indicators (Table 2).

Table 2: Achievement of PDO-level Outcome Indicators

Indicator                                  Target                     Achieved Outcome
PDO Level
Improved capacity both at         Development of road asset    -RAM for non-rural roads in
SCRB and KRG-GDRB                 management tools and         place and operational at SCRB
measured by the development       their effective use to       -RAM for rural and non-rural
of road asset management          produce adequate             roads in place and operational at
tools and their effective use     maintenance and              GDRB
                                  rehabilitation programs
% of population in the target     100%                         100%
villages with access to an all-
weather road


                                                14
Average reduction in travel      50%                           41%
time for villagers to reach
markets/services

68.      Given the project’s emergency nature, the Technical Annex emphasized that outputs,
rather than outcomes, would be used to measure success in achieving project development
objectives. Yet, ever since the first ISR a number of outcome indicators have been included in the
results framework. The following discussion of project achievements towards the development
objectives is divided in two sections: (a) Rehabilitating roads and bridges and (b) Restoring the
capacity to manage and maintain road assets. In each section, outputs and outcomes are
considered together. To aid the discussion, please refer to Annex 2, which lists project outputs by
component.

    a) Rehabilitating Roads and Bridges

69.      Under Part A of the project in the Central and Southern Governorates, the project
rehabilitated a total of 155.8 km of highway and 37.7 km of rural roads, representing 68 percent
and 94 percent of revised targets, respectively, and installed three out of four planned bridge
replacements (see Table 3).

Table 3: Achievement of outputs for Part A

                                 Original     Revised     Achieved     Achieved (%        Achieved (%
PART A
                                  Target       Target       (Km)      original target)   revised target)
Roads rehabilitated, Non-Rural    300 km       230 km     155.8 km          52%               68%
Roads rehabilitated, Rural        150 km       40 km       37.7 km          25%               94%
Bridge replacements              3 bridges    4 bridges   3 bridges        100%               75%

70.      Price volatility of construction material and political instability in Iraq and abroad has
obstructed the work of several contractors due to a number of interrelated factors, such as
insufficient supply, limited cash flow, cuts in labor cost, etc., which combined has caused great
delays and occasional termination of contracts.

71.      Current shortcomings are related to two contracts with on-going work: First, the double-
lane Um Qasr –Al Zubair highway segment of 82 km, which had 25 km completed and open to
traffic on the northbound by September 2014 according to spreadsheets received by the ICR team
from the PMT; and second, the 245 meter long Al Daraji bridge, which was 35 percent complete
as of June 15, 2014 according to the latest Financial Quarterly Report for Q2 submitted on
August 14, 2014.

72.     By the project closing date, total commitments stood at 94 percent of project allocations,
demonstrating the intent to complete works given more time. Beyond planned disbursements for
Q3, the SCRB has committed additional funds from its own budget towards the completion of on-
going works and the fulfillment of set targets. The national budget is awaiting parliamentary
approval.

73.      Under Part B of the project in the Northern Governorates of KRG, the project
rehabilitated a total of 38.5 km of highway and 81.6 km of rural roads, representing 100 percent
and 109 percent of set targets, respectively (see Table 4).




                                                15
Table 4: Achievement of outputs for Part B

                                  Original      Revised     Achieved      Achieved (%         Achieved (%
PART B
                                  Target        Target       (Km)        original target)    revised target)
Roads rehabilitated, Non-Rural    38.5 km       38.5 km     38.5 km           100%                100%
Roads rehabilitated, Rural         75 km         75 km      81.6 km           109%                109%

74.     Given the price escalation for construction material, funds were reallocated between
disbursement categories to cover the works of the Erbil-Altun Kopri highway segment
(component B1). For the same reason, project funding for village access roads only covered 63.6
km. To meet the target, GDRB completed an additional 18 km village access roads in extension
of project rehabilitated rural roads as part of its own work program, thereby exceeding the target
with 6.6 km.

75.     Based on the above, the two core project indicators, which are tracked across all Bank-
financed roads projects, were partially achieved (Table 5). In total, 194.3 km of non-rural roads
and 119.3 km of rural roads were rehabilitated under the ERRP. While this achievement would be
unsatisfactory against the original targets, as shown in Table 5 below, a late restructuring of the
key indicators improved project achievement: The project rehabilitated 72 percent of the revised
target 268.5 km of non-rural roads and 104 percent of the revised target 115 km of rural roads.

Table 5: Achievement of core indicators

                                  Original    Revised      Achieved      Achieved (%         Achieved (%
Core Indicator
                                   Target      Target       (Km)        original target)    revised target)
Roads rehabilitated, Non-Rural    338.5 km    268.5 km     194.3 km           57%                72%
Roads rehabilitated, Rural         225 km      115 km      119.3 km           53%               104 %

76.      Two PDO-level outcome indicators are associated with the development objective of
rehabilitating roads and bridges and both relate to the importance of providing rural populations
with access to markets and services.

77.      Outcome Indicator: % of population in the target villages with access to all-weather
road. According to the latest ISR, the project provided 100 percent of the population in the target
villages with access to an all-weather road. This indicator relates specifically to rural accessibility
and therefore to the achievement of rural roads rehabilitated. See section 2.3 for a discussion of
this indicator.

78.      Outcome Indicator: Average reduction in travel time for villagers to reach
markets/services. On average, the project reduced travel time on rehabilitated road segments by
41 percent for non-rural and rural roads under Part A and Part B, combined. This is nine
percentage points short of the target 50 percent reduction in travel time (82 percent achieved).
The measure of travel time reduction on rehabilitated roads is standard across Bank-projects in
the road sector, and it is generally understood that this outcome indicator can be positively linked
to the rehabilitation work funded by the project.

79.      The ICR team was provided with the latest travel times for each road segment by the
PMT for Part A (non-rural roads only) and the PMT for Part B (rural and non-rural roads). Based
on this, the ICR team calculated the reduction of travel time for each road segment and across all
roads to derive at a single number representing the average travel time reduction (see Table 14 in
Annex 3 for a full analysis). For non-rural roads, travel time was reduced 45 percent on average



                                                  16
for Part A and Part B. For rural roads, only data for Part B was available, which showed that
travel time was reduced by 33 percent. On average, travel time was reduced by 41 percent for
rural and non-rural roads under Part A and Part B, combined.

    b) Restoring the Capacity to Manage and Maintain Road Assets

80.      Improving the capacity to manage and maintain road assets is an objective, which is
reflected both in the PDO and in the PDO-level outcome indicators. This speaks to the
importance of restoring institutional capacity and implementing an operational system to guide
and monitor the priorities for maintenance work. It also encompasses the larger objective of
developing a shared vision for the wider transport sector in a national perspective. As mentioned
in the beneficiary section, substantial benefits would be derived from addressing medium- to
long-term policy and institutional issues, and by developing a vision for how road assets should
be managed and developed beyond the emergency stage. The TA activities address these aspects
of the project, even if their cost may not be reflective of their relative importance.

81.      The two key outputs for the fulfillment of this objective are a Road Asset Management
system and a national Transport Sector Master Plan. First, as part of establishing a RAM system,
an extensive database with road characteristics and conditions and traffic counts was completed.
Based on this, appropriate maintenance and rehabilitation strategies can be selected within agreed
budget constraints. A 5-Year Road Rehabilitation Program was prepared using the RAM system,
which also identified capacity reinforcement needs for its implementation. Finally, detailed
designs and environmental and social assessments for a selection of priority roads to be included
in the first year of the Road Rehabilitation Program were prepared.

82.     At SCRB, the RAM system was fully installed shortly before project closing and covers
non-rural roads. Five staff members from SCRB head office and four staff members from the
SCRB field offices have been trained in using the HDM4 software, which supports the RAM
system. At GDRB, a RAM system has been installed since 2012 and covers primary, secondary,
and rural roads. Six staff members received training in RAM operation. According to the GDRB
representatives at the ICR stakeholder workshop, the RAM system is regularly being used to plan
future maintenance work for inclusion in the following budget cycle.

83.     The completion of a national Transport Sector Master Plan has provided decision makers
with a structured plan to develop an integrated multi-modal transport system for Iraq over the
next 20 years. The report includes the strategies, policies, and tools needed to implement this plan.
Within it, it contains a short-term plan for a 5-year period with urgently needed ‘fast-track’
investment projects for both the road sector as well as for rail, water, and air transport sectors.

84.       The TSMP was developed across relevant ministries and agencies thereby leveraging
strategic cooperation and commitment as the foundation for a successful outcome. By developing
a shared vision for the transport sector at the national level, the TSMP has built significant
capacity in the GoI as a tool for guiding future investments and policy directions. By improving
its strategic national transport system, Iraq will not only help facilitate regional integration, but
also offer an alternative transport corridor for international logistics and trade between East Asia
and Europe.

85.      These achievements fulfill the PDO objective and PDO-level indicator of restoring the
institutional capacity to manage and maintain road assets. This outcome can be positively linked
to the installation of road asset management systems in the implementing agencies and to the



                                                 17
broader dialogue on a national level to develop a shared vision for the transport sector guiding
decision-makers in their capacity to develop policies and direct funding to development priorities.

3.3 Efficiency

86.     Rating: High

87.      An ex-post economic evaluation of the ERRP rehabilitation works was done measuring
the economic benefits of reducing vehicle operating costs and travel time costs on the project-
funded roads segments (see Annex 3 for a full analysis). Vehicle operating costs and travel time
costs were estimated for the without project-alternative and the project-alternative using the
Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4) and considering the average vehicle
fleet characteristics of Iraq.

88.     The overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the program is 52 percent. All
project roads generated a satisfactory EIRR higher than the 12 percent discount rate threshold
referenced in the Technical Annex. This is due to the high level of traffic on the roads, and the
high impact of the road works on travel times and roughness reduction. Some of the project roads
even generated an EIRR higher than 100 percent due to very high traffic on those roads (average
16,962 vehicles per day). At project appraisal, no ex-ante economic evaluation of the proposed
investments was done, thus, it is not possible to compare the ex-post economic evaluation results
with project appraisal estimates.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

89.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

90.     The achievement of project outcomes must be understood in the security context
prevailing in Iraq throughout the project implementation period. Although the ERRP was
financed by an IDA Credit, and not by the ITF, the following quotation from the Independent
Review of the ITF1 is also relevant for the ERRP: “Providing assistance to countries in crisis,
especially crises as extreme as the one in Iraq, is challenging. Intervening in these turbulent
circumstances cannot be held to the same rigorous account as intervening in more peaceable
circumstances where the complexities may be significant but insecurity and extreme social
tensions are less pervasive.” With continuing security concerns, the country context in the Central
and Southern Governorates of Iraq throughout the project implementation period has been
extremely challenging. Following project approval in 2006, when conditions were expected to
improve in the aftermath of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, they in fact deteriorated even further in
many parts of the country with continued sectarian violence and insurgent fighting and periodic
surges in military campaigns. That GDRB in KRG operated under very different, more stable
conditions is evident in their timely implementation and meeting of originally set targets.

91.      Given that the project indicators were formally revised, the ICR team undertook a split
evaluation of the achievement of project outputs and outcomes against original and revised
targets, weighted by the actual disbursement rate before and after the second restructuring in June
2012 (see Annex 2 for a full methodology and analysis). The team found that the overall
achievements were moderately satisfactory against both the original and revised targets, implying


1
 Independent Review of the Iraq Trust Fund—Final Report—GHK Consulting in association with Stars Orbit
Consultants and Management Development—December 21, 2011.


                                                 18
that the late restructuring kept the overall rating at MS even though the project was rated
satisfactory at the time of the second restructuring.

92.      Under the circumstances with a number of external obstacles affecting the project,
including the hostile operating environment particularly in rural areas, the unwillingness of
international consulting firms to operate in Iraq, and the change in mandate for SCRB, it is quite
remarkable that the project managed to disburse 85 percent and include an additional task of
technical assistance in the development of a national Transport Sector Master Plan. It is worth
reiterating here that while the cost for works are typically the most expensive, the importance of
building and restoring Iraq’s capacity to manage and maintain road assets should carry equal
weight in the overall assessment of outcomes.

93.     In arriving at an overall outcome rating of moderately satisfactory, it is noted that: a) the
project enjoyed a high degree of relevance of objectives and implementation with some short-
comings in the design; b) the achievement of project development outputs and outcomes was
moderately satisfactory given the short-comings in meeting both original and revised targets for
road rehabilitation and bridge replacement under Part A of the project; and, c) the ERRP
generated a 52 percent economic internal rate of return on the investment, greatly exceeding the
appraisal stage benchmark, and is therefore considered highly efficient.

94.      At the time of the last ISR, the DO rating was downgraded from MS to MU due to delays
in receiving information on reduced travel times. It was agreed to revisit the DO rating in the ICR
after the information was available. The ICR team, having received the information on travel time,
which positively confirms a 41 percent average reduction in travel time across roads rehabilitated,
asserts the moderately satisfactory achievement of the targeted development outcome of an
average 50 percent reduction in travel time.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

95.     In the literature, it is well documented that access to good quality roads has significant
economic, social, and environmental benefits. Improving road services and reducing
transportation costs can connect farmers more easily to markets and contribute to economic
development in rural areas while supporting regional integration. According to the Borrower ICR
prepared by the GDRB, the project has accelerated farm activities and industrial development in
the project area as a growing number of local residents settle along the rehabilitated roads. At the
community level, access to low cost transport can improve health and education outcomes, such
as reduce maternal mortality and increase school participation rates. While these impact measures
may not form part of the project objectives or indicators, the benefits manifest themselves over
time and have the potential to reduce poverty and engender development.

96.      Three measures were tracked by the Bank project team, which did not form part of the
results framework (Table 6).

Table 6: Additional measures tracked throughout implementation

 Measure                           Result
 Local employment created          310,000 person-days
 Direct project beneficiaries      300,000 villagers in Central and Southern Governorates
 Female beneficiaries              50% of direct beneficiaries


                                                 19
97.      In the Technical Annex, it was expected that civil works and subsequent maintenance
activities would provide local employment opportunities. Throughout implementation, the Bank
project team tracked the number of employment person-days that the project generated.
According to the latest ISR, 310,000 person-days of local labor were purchased as part of the
works contracts financed by the project.

98.     Based on the final number of rural access roads rehabilitated, the Bank project team
estimates that 300,000 villagers in Central and Southern Governorates directly benefitted from
the project-financed rehabilitation works, providing them with access to an all-weather road. It is
generally assumed that 50 percent of those direct beneficiaries are women.

99.     These results are likely to have significant positive impacts at the local level. However,
without targeted social indicators or an impact assessment, it is not possible to assess the actual
impact of the project at this level. In an effort to capture such impacts, the TCP follow-on
operation includes specific indicators tracking the number of fatalities on roads rehabilitated and
person-days of employment created.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

100.     The ERRP has effected institutional change at the agency and political level with
potential long-term impacts for institutional development. At the agency level, a deeper
understanding of the purpose for giving due attention to safeguards measures at the design stage
has taken root. According to participants in the ERRP ICR stakeholder workshop the
“government is keen on adopting policies that are similar to those applied in the ERRP.” In
GDRB, for example, an EMP/ESIA is now required for all new roads funded. At the political
level, the project has succeeded in building attention to critical transport issues. The development
of a Transport Sector Master Plan has benefitted not only the road sector, which is experiencing a
surge in maintenance budget, but also other sectors, such as aviation and railway. The Bank is
now supporting the GoI to develop these priority areas of the transport sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

101.    As part of the rehabilitation of the Um Qasr – Al Zubair highway segment, there was a
need for higher quality asphalt that would hold up to heavy traffic even at the peak of the summer
season in 50 degrees centigrade heat. The challenge was to source high-quality bitumen to be
mixed into the asphalt shortly before application. An analysis performed by an international
consultant firm concluded that reforming the oil refineries to produces better bitumen as part of
the project was not a viable option, and neither was importing bitumen from the Gulf countries as
bitumen does not transport well. From this gap in the supply chain, arose the opportunity for a
local entrepreneur to produce a high-quality polymer to be mixed in the bitumen for better road
performance. The company now successfully sells and distributes high-quality polymer to other
roads projects in Iraq. As a testimony to the success of the piloting of such asphalt under ERRP,
Basra Governorate has made it mandatory to use high-performing asphalt on all road construction
and maintenance work.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

102.    An ICR Stakeholder Workshop was held in Beirut, Lebanon on September 22-23, 2014.
The workshop was attended by key members of the PMT for Part A and Part B, respectively, as
well the Bank project team and the ICR team. The discussion centered around six key topics: (1)


                                                20
Project design, (2) World Bank Supervisory and support role, (3) Borrower performance in
project execution, (4) procurement and contractor / consultant issues, (5) compliance with World
Bank policies, and (6) sustainability and post-operation phase (see Annex 6). The bullet points
below summarize the key lessons learned:
 A number of factors were identified that could have enhanced the design at the preparation
    stage. This includes: wording the indicators for improved monitoring and evaluation;
    including generous price contingencies to cover rising security costs and price escalation of
    construction material; and in a fragile environment with on-going conflicts relying more on
    local and regional consulting firms willing and able to do site visits;
 The Bank’s safeguards training modules should be made available to all relevan t parties,
    including local SCRB engineers who are in a position to observe safeguards issues on-the-
    ground on a regular basis;
 Continued needs assessments are essential for successful follow-on operations, even in cases
    where the project management unit is grandfathered into the next generation project with the
    same team;
 A number of proactive measures were identified to better attract international expertise, such
    as: reduce the security risk by allowing international consultants to work from home and
    apply creative measures to relay on-the-ground information; combine components to raise the
    contract award; identify potential consultants beforehand and invite them to submit bids.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

103.    Rating: Substantial

104.     In general, the SCRB and the GDRB have the technical skills and financial means to
maintain the roads network, including the segments rehabilitated under ERRP. The budget for
road maintenance has increased for both SCRB and GDRB, showing the current political will to
invest in the road sector. Furthermore, the implementation of RAM systems in SCRB and GDRB
has greatly improved Iraq’s institutional capacity to manage and maintain road assets.

105.    A number of external factors place the project outcomes at significant risk of not being
sustained. These mainly relate to the inherent security risks affecting Iraq at the time of writing
this ICR and the foreseeable future. However, there are also a number of other factors importing
the risks to development outcomes as discussed below. Table 7 shows the ICR team’s best
assessment of the risk to development outcomes for Part A and Part B.

Table 7: Risk to development outcomes for Part A and Part B

Outcome                                                  Part A                    Part B
Rehabilitation of roads and bridges                       High                    Moderate
Capacity to manage and maintain road assets             Substantial               Moderate

106.     Particularly for Part A, the risk to development outcomes is elevated. Concerning the risk
to rehabilitated roads and bridges, the risk relates primarily to axel load control, which is a key
element of sustaining any investment in the road sector. For a long time there has been an
institutional void in assigning responsibility for operation of the weighing stations, which is
leading to a lack of enforcement to control the access and overloading of heavy axel vehicles,
particularly from the country’s southern ports of entry. This is a key risk factor for premature
damage of rehabilitated roads. However, as of November 2014, the MoCH has ordered that all
weighing stations be operated by each Governorate, thereby removing the responsibility from



                                                21
SCRB. Furthermore, the heightened security level is cause for concern as there have been recent
reports of bombing of weighing stations.

107.     Concerning the restored capacity to manage and maintain road assets, the risk lies in the
need for continued updating of the RAM database to remain relevant as a planning and decision-
making tool. Currently, it is too dangerous for SCRB staff to visit certain areas of the country to
collect data to update the RAM system because of security issues affecting those areas; putting
the RAM system at risk of becoming obsolete. One mitigating factor is the follow-on Transport
Corridors Project, which will strengthen the continued updating and use of the databases, which
in-turn will help to sustain and institutionalize the benefits of the RAM systems.

108.     For Part B, the risk to development outcomes is considered moderate given the more
stable political situation and the lower level of security concerns. GDRB enjoys a high degree of
institutional support and has experienced a significant increase in the maintenance budget. These
factors support the long-term flow of net benefits to road users.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

109.    Rating: Moderately satisfactory

110.     At the project preparation stage, the Bank team employed due diligence in basing the
project on solid sector analysis with rigorous risk mitigation measures to address the weak
institutional capacity of the implementing agencies and other obstacles (security, absence of Bank
field supervision, etc.). The Bank team worked closely with the client to advance project
readiness. The sequenced implementation design allowed for flexibility in the identification of
road and bridge sub-projects, and some sub-projects had detailed engineering designs and
tendering packages ready prior to approval to kick-start implementation. Provisions for
procurement, financial management, and safeguards were all adequate at the design stage.
However, short-comings at the preparation stage relate to the wording of the outcome indicators,
which were vague even considering that the ERRP was an emergency operation. Furthermore, the
reformulated outcome indicators were added post-appraisal without formal restructuring. Overall,
though, the indicators were adequate in tracking progress towards project objectives, and the
Technical Annex did allow for the subsequent introduction of outcome indicators. In addition, it
is apparent that the Bank team overestimated the extent to which international consulting firms
were willing to operate in Iraq. Given the recent reengagement with Iraq as a client country, the
Bank team did foresee the risk of ratification delay; however, beyond allowing for retroactive
financing of project related expenses, it is not clear what further measures the Bank team could
have taken to bridge the gap from project approval to effectiveness.

(b) Quality of Supervision

111.    Rating: Moderately satisfactory

112.    The Bank project team undertook 19 supervision missions in 7 years, or 2.7 missions per
year: a rate above the required two missions per year, though many of the missions took place
outside of Iraq due to the security situation. Such proactive supervision demonstrates a high level
of commitment from the Bank’s side, but it also proved necessary to support the PMTs in the



                                                22
implementation process. Throughout the project, the Bank team consistently worked with the
PMTs to develop action plans for compliance and meeting key milestones for outputs and
outcomes. Furthermore, the FMA arrangement was effective in monitoring and reporting the
project’s progress. Regardless, there were project short-comings in meeting Bank safeguards and
fiduciary requirements relating to the preparation of proper safeguards documentation, lack of or
limited consultation processes, and ex-post disclosure procedures. While the responsibility for
compliance is clearly borne by the Client, there is no apparent explanation for the Bank team
allowing the project to continue despite on-going lack of compliance. This is supported by the
reportedly low frequency of mission participation by the project-assigned safeguards specialists
and the inadequate attention to safeguards issues in the ISRs as compliance is rated S or MS
throughout the project period. On a positive note, the Bank team delivered high quality technical
assistance to the PMTs by reviewing and amending TORs, tender documents and project
deliverables, particularly for the RAM systems and the Transport Sector Master Plan. This was
confirmed by members of both PMTs, who expressed great satisfaction with the Bank’s
performance throughout the project in the ICR stakeholder workshop.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

113.     Rating: Moderately satisfactory

114.     The overall rating for Bank performance is moderately satisfactory. The Bank’s
performance during project preparation was moderately satisfactory given the due attention
afforded to government development priorities, sector analysis, flexibility in design,
implementation arrangements, and risk mitigation measures in procurement and financial
management issues. The Bank’s performance during project supervision was moderately
satisfactory due to the short-comings in proactively resolving Client’s non-compliance with
safeguards and fiduciary requirements. Regardless, the Bank project team demonstrated a high
level of commitment with 19 supervision missions and supported the PMTs with high quality
technical assistance. The continued partnership between the Bank and the PMTs in the TCP
follow-on operation is a demonstration of the trust developed for continued country engagement.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

115.     Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

116.     The significant ratification delay by the GoI placed the project at risk of cancellation. The
project was declared effective 15 months overdue, following which the project was re-launched.
The delay in ratification caused significant implementation delay, particularly for Part A of the
project, and partly affected the need for project restructuring. Ratification delay was not specific
to the ERRP, but rather common for other IDA projects in Iraq as well.2 While it is not clear what
caused the ratification delay, it may be difficult to assume that it relates to low GoI commitment.
Most likely, it is a result of the overall country context at the time.

117.  Following effectiveness, the GoI has performed satisfactorily, showing a high level of
commitment to the transport sector in general. Under the TCP follow-on operation, the


2
  Effectiveness of the emergency education sector loan was delayed 23 months, the KRG Dokan and Derbandikhan
emergency hydropower project was delayed 10 months, the emergency electricity project was delayed 9 months, and
the emergency water sector project was delayed 15 months.


                                                       23
partnership between the GoI and the Bank will continue to evolve and the Bank is now supporting
the GoI in other areas of the transport sector as well, such as air and rail.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

118.    Rating: Moderately satisfactory

119.     At project start, SCRB lacked the financial and technical empowerment to advance
project implementation in spite of ratification delay. High turnover of PMT staff members
depleted the skills and capacities built through training sessions on procurement, financial
management and safeguards. The delay in assigning engineering and other technical staff as well
as contracting an environmental specialist and independent auditor to support the PMT further
delayed implementation and weakened overall compliance with Bank policies. However, it is
noticeable that out of 23 works contracts, only a few contracts experienced poor contractor
performance, which led to work sites being vacated or sub-contracted. This is due to committed
PMT staff members willing to take on a steep learning curve to familiarize themselves with Bank
procurement policies, coupled with a high-level of Bank support. Given the overall challenging
operating environment, it is commendable that the SCRB has shown high commitment to the
project since the initial period of inadequate staffing and resource allocation, and partly achieved
target objectives disbursing three-fourths of the funds allocated to Part A.

120.    GDRB delivered Part B of the project on-time and within budget, using its own funds to
meet project targets when price adjustments for construction material impacted the achievement
of actual outputs. GDRB demonstrated a high level of commitment since project approval with
the tendering of several roads sub-projects in advance of project effectiveness. Nesting the
development of RAM systems under another KRG-funded activity was a creative solution to
mitigate the effects of higher costs for works. Low turnover of PMT staff members has retained
the capacity built at the PMT, even though short-comings in safeguards compliance also affected
Part B of the project. The GDRB met all project objectives for Part B.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

121.    Rating: Moderately satisfactory

122.    The overall rating for Borrower performance is moderately satisfactory due to the overall
outcome rating being moderately satisfactory. Despite a challenging implementation environment
with a number of external factors affecting the project, it is noteworthy that the project largely
achieved the PDO and PDO-level indicators with short-comings in road and bridge rehabilitation
under Part A. This is attributable to two dedicated and competent PMTs supported by a
committed GoI and by a responsive Bank team.

6. Lessons Learned

Fact                   Finding              Lesson                   Recommendation
Effectiveness was      Partly because       Timely ratification is   Closer relations between the
delayed 15 months,     ratification was     important to avoid       Bank and the GoI as well as a
necessitating the      delayed, the         implementation           more visible presence of the
project to be re-      project needed two   delay.                   PMTs in Baghdad may help
launched as project    extensions and                                to overcome ratification delay
activities had come    was not fully                                 in the TCP follow-on



                                                24
Fact                   Finding               Lesson                    Recommendation
to a complete stop.    disbursed at                                    operation.
                       project closing.
During the             The price             Generous price            Bank teams should consider
restructuring it was   contingencies         contingencies are         building in price
necessary to revise    were inadequate to    necessary to control      contingencies both at the
the targets and        cover the             cost overrun in an        project and component level.
reallocate between     escalating costs      environment where
disbursement           for construction      sourcing and
categories.            material.             mobilizing material is
                                             challenging.
The implementation     The unwillingness     More attention should     Proactive measures include:
arrangements relied    of international      be paid to attract        (a) reduce the security risk by
on international       consulting firms to   much-needed               allowing international
consulting firms to    operate in Iraq       international             consultants to work remotely
deliver critical       delayed project       expertise by reducing     and apply creative measures
support services       implementation        the security risk and     to relaying on-the-ground
related to             and weakened          increasing the interest   information; (b) combine
construction           compliance with       level of bidders.         components to raise the
supervision and        Bank policies.                                  contract award; and (c)
technical                                    In a fragile              identify potential consultants
assistance.                                  environment with on-      beforehand and invite them to
                                             going conflicts it may    submit bids.
                                             be more practical to
                                             rely on local and         Engage with local and
                                             regional consulting       regional consulting firms with
                                             firms willing and able    the linguistic and cultural
                                             to conduct visits to      understanding of the local
                                             project sites.            project context.
Non-compliance         Client supervision    In a challenging          The Bank’s safeguards
with Bank              was inadequate        operating                 modules should be made
safeguards policies    due to a number of    environment, it is        available to all relevant
affected many          reasons, including    important to be able      parties, including local
works sub-projects     lack of familiarity   to rely on local agents   engineers, who are in a
financed by the        with safeguards       to monitor safeguards     position to observe
ERRP.                  policies and          issues in the absence     safeguards issues on-the-
                       difficulty            of Bank-led               ground on a regular basis.
                       supervising           supervision missions.
                       progress on the                                 In the follow-on TCP
                       ground.                                         operation, the TORs for the
                                                                       FMA have been broadened to
                                                                       include reporting on
                                                                       safeguards compliance.
Significant delay in   When a new            High level                Bank teams should
processing             Minister of           commitment is             proactively engage
payments to            Construction and      crucial for effective     ministerial-level support to
contractors led to     Housing was           project                   ensure smooth
disbursement delay.    installed in          implementation,           implementation. This is
                       December 2010,        particularly in fragile   particularly important in
                       the issue was         operational               fragile operational



                                                25
Fact                   Finding               Lesson                    Recommendation
                       brought to his        environments marked       environments.
                       attention.            by conflict.
                       Following this, the
                       average time for
                       processing
                       payments was
                       significantly
                       reduced and
                       disbursement
                       picked up.
The inclusion of the   This late addition    Remaining flexible,       Operations in fragile
national Transport     of an important       engaging in               countries should be designed
Sector Master Plan,    and                   continuous dialogue,      with the flexibility to allow
which was added        comprehensive         and showing               the project to evolve over
during the second      technical             readiness to adjust to    time while ensuring that
restructuring in       assistance            new circumstances         objectives are directly
June 2012, came        deliverable was       should be a top           relevant to changing priorities
late in the project    made possible by      priority when             on the ground.
implementation         the close dialogue    implementing
period.                between the Bank      projects in Iraq.
                       team and the GoI
                       and the readiness
                       of the team and
                       Bank to respond to
                       client demands.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

123.  The ICR team has no comments to the Project Completion Report received from the
GDRB. The Bank team did not receive a Borrower ICR from SCRB.

124.    The draft ICR was shared with both PMUs. GDRB had no further comments. The SCRB
submitted comments on the draft ICR in track changes (saved in internal project files in
WBDocs). SCRB’s main points related to:

       Third restructuring: According to SCRB, the project was restructured on January 16,
        2014 to reallocate funds between disbursement categories for Part A of the project.
        However, the ICR team could not locate Bank records to indicate this. Possibly, there
        was a final allocation of remaining contingency funds to cover the last phase of
        disbursements, which would not entail a formal restructuring. Additionally, if the
        reallocation did not affect the project’s objectives, components or indicators, it is possible
        that the reallocation was approved without a formal restructuring.
       Km of rural roads rehabilitated under Part A: According to SCRB, a total of 40.7 km of
        rural roads were rehabilitated under Part A of the project, implying that an additional 3
        km of rural roads were rehabilitated and thereby meeting the revised target. The
        discrepancy relates to the al-Raisa road, which is now said to be 28 km in length, and not
        25 km as previously communicated by SCRB in documents received for the economic


                                                 26
       analysis. As the ICR team is not in a position to verify the actual length of the
       rehabilitated al-Raisa road segment, the 37.7 km initially communicated will be recorded
       as the final achievement.
      Final project cost by component: SCRB provided an updated table with project costs by
       component. The figures are included in the final ICR, Annex 1.

(b) Cofinanciers

125.   Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

126.   Not applicable.




                                             27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                      Appraisal
                                                       millions)*
PART A: 15 Central and
                                         81.53              66.29                            81
Southern Governorates
A.1 Highway Rehabilitation               44.84              46.89                           105
A.2 Village Access Roads                 18.90               8.57                            45
A.3 Bridge Replacements                  14.18               7.34                            52
A.4 Road Asset Management and
                                          1.85               2.29                           124
Road Rehabilitation Programming
A.5 Project Management Support            1.77               1.20                            68
PART B: Kurdistan Region                 40.79              47.87                           117
B.1 Rehabilitation and Upgrading
                                         28.84              40.98                           142
of Erbil-Altun Kopri Road
B.2 Village Access Roads                  9.84               6.49                            66
B.3 Road Asset Management and
                                          0.99               0.05                            1
Road Rehabilitation Programming
B.4 Project Management Support            1.13               0.35                            31
             Total Baseline Cost        122.32
Physical Contingencies
                                                0.00                   0.00                 0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              12.68                   0.00                  0.00
             Total Project Costs             135.00                 114.16
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                   0.00                   .00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                   0.00                   .00
     Total Financing Required                135.00                 114.16                    85

* Based on (i) figures provided by SCRB for Part A, and (ii) the Financial Quarterly Report Q2 2014:
Cumulative disbursements for Part B. The Actual/Latest Estimate (in USD million equivalent) matches the
historical disbursement recorded in Client Connection.



(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                           millions)   millions)
                                         Funds and
Borrower                                                 0.00           0.00            0
                                         staff salary
International Development
                                                         135.00         114.16          85
Association (IDA)




                                                  28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Table 8: Part A - Outputs by Component

#    Component        Original Target       End Target         Output                                             Comments
A1   Highway          300 km                230 km             Total completed:                        155.8km    Rehabilitation of the Um Qasr – Al Zubair
     Rehabilitation                                            Kut – Amarah:                              10km    highway is still on-going, however, 25 km
                                                               Kut – Nassiriah:                           11km    on the north bound route are fully
                                                               Kut – Baghdad:                             19km    completed and open to traffic.
                                                               Diwaniah – Daghara:                        10km
                                                               Diwaniah – Samawa:                         10km
                                                               Samawa – Diwania:                        15.5km
                                                               Karbala – Mussayeb:                      21.2km
                                                               Samawa – Nasiriya:                         20km
                                                               Al Zubair – Um Qasr:                        0km
                                                               Um Qasr – Al Zubair:                       25km
                                                               Najaf – Karbala:                         14.1km
A2   Village Access   150 km                40 km              Total completed:                         37.7km    Given a change in SCRB mandate, all
     Roads                                                     Al-Aziya – Rahaima:                      12.7km    subsequent village access roads had to be
                                                               Al-Raeda:                                  25km    cancelled.
A3   Bridge           3 bridges             4 bridges          Total completed:                       3 bridges   Al Daraji bridge is 35 percent complete and
     Replacements                                              Al Majd:                              Completed    still under construction (Source: Q2
                                                               Al Ibrahimia:                         Completed    Financial Report)
                                                               Suq Shaalan:                          Completed
                                                               Al Daraji:                             On-going
A4   Road Asset       RAM in place and      RAM in place       RAM for non-rural roads in place and operational   As rural roads are no longer under SCRB’s
     Management and   operational           and operational                                                       mandate, RAM system for rural roads was
     Road                                                                                                         cancelled.
     Rehabilitation
     Programming
A5   Project          Provision of          Provision of       National Transport Sector Master Plan: Short-
     Management       international         international      term and long-term master plan reports delivered
     Support          expertise, capacity   expertise,
                      building, office      capacity           Various workshops and training sessions carried
                      and                   building, office   out
                      communication         and
                      equipment.            communication      Annual audit reports delivered
                                            equipment



                                                                           29
Table 9: Part B - Outputs by Component

#    Component        Target (not revised)            Output                                                Comments
B1   Rehabilitation   38.5 km                         Total completed:                            38.5km    Completed as planned. The GDRB allocated
     and Upgrading                                    Erbil – Altun Kopri:                        38.5km    US$ 1,469,115 (4% of project cost) from own
     of Erbil-Altun                                                                                         budget to cover price adjustments for construction
     Kopri Road                                                                                             materials for Erbil-Altun Kopri Road.
B2   Village Access   75 km                           Total completed:                            63.6km    The GDRB financed an additional 18 km in
     Roads                                            Erbil: Dween, Babajijk, and Afiryan         17.1km    extension of project rehabilitated roads using their
                                                      Dohuk: Neawok, Badrea, Bearkholy,                     own budget. Thereby, the project was able to reach
                                                      Girdaseen Road + Lakan, Bazerazera,         27.1km    beyond the 75 km target to achieve 81.6 km of
                                                      Esmawa Road                                           rehabilitated rural roads.
                                                      Sulaymaniya: Gligal, Pishta, Snor,
                                                      Parween Road                                19.4km
B3   Road Asset       RAM in place and                RAM in place and operational.                         RAM system completed as part of GDRB-funded
     Management and   operational                                                                           activity to prepare a comprehensive Road Master
     Road                                                                                                   Plan. TORs and final output reviewed by WB task
     Rehabilitation                                                                                         team.
     Programming
B4   Project          Provision of international      Various workshops and training sessions carried out   Technical assistance and capacity building
     Management       expertise, capacity building,                                                         activities joined with B.3.
     Support          office and communication        Annual audit reports delivered.
                      equipment.




                                                                             30
Split Evaluation of Achievement of Project Outputs and Outcomes

127.    A split evaluation of the project output and outcomes against both original and revised objectives
is presented below in Table 11, as recommended for projects with formally revised indicators. To assist in
arriving at an overall outcome rating for the project, separate outcome ratings (against original and
revised project objectives) were weighted in proportion to the share of actual credit disbursements made
in the periods before and after approval of the revision (June 29, 2012). As stipulated in the ICR
Guidelines, each objective was given equal importance in the overall weighting regardless of the cost of
the component to which it relates.

128.    Actual credit disbursements reached US$ 114 million by project closing date, implying that the
achievements before the second restructuring will be weighted 76 percent (87 million / 114 million * 100)
and achievements after the restructuring will be weighted 24 percent (27 million / 114 million *100).

129.    The results framework was used as the basis for including appropriate indicators in the evaluation
(see section F in the Data Sheet), but the ICR team made certain modifications in a conservative effort not
to bolster a positive outcome of the evaluation. Two indicators were purposely excluded: 1) The
duplication of an indicator to track the development of Road Asset Management systems at the PDO-level
and intermediate level was only included once in the evaluation so as not to double-count the satisfactory
outcome; and 2) the indicator tracking “% of population with access to an all -weather road” was left out
so as not to count the “100 percent achieved” satisfactory outcome, since the indicator is inherently weak,
as described in section 2.3. The final three “indicators” included in the results framework were also
excluded given their late addition without set targets. As explained in section 1.3, these indicators were
introduced in a Bank-wide exercise to incorporate core indicators in on-going projects.

130.    The ICR team used the cutoffs presented below in Table 10 to rate the achievement of each
objective in the split evaluation.

Table 10: Split evaluation rating framework

 % Achieved            Rating
 0 – 24                Highly Unsatisfactory
 25 – 49               Unsatisfactory
 50 – 74               Moderately Unsatisfactory
 75 – 89               Moderately Satisfactory
 90 – 109              Satisfactory
 > 110                 Highly Satisfactory

131.    Overall, the split evaluation shows that project achievements before and after the restructuring
were moderately satisfactory. It is noticeable that the restructuring resulted in only a minor improvement
in the achievement of the non-rural roads target, and even a set-back in the achievement of the bridge
replacements target. The only significant improvement achieved with the restructuring was in the
fulfillment of the rural roads target. Revising the indicators earlier may have improved the rating of
project outcomes more markedly.




                                                    31
    Table 11: Split evaluation of achievement of project outputs and outcomes

               Key           Original    Revised     Achieved    Achieved     Achieved     Rating against     Rating against     Overall        Comments
               Indicator     Target      Target                  against      against      Original PDOs      Revised PDOs
                                                                 original     revised
                                                                 target (%)   target (%)
Rating         Non-rural     338.5       268.5       194.3       57%          72%          Unsatisfactory     Moderately                        Small
               roads (km)                                                                  (2)                unsatisfactory                    improvement
                                                                                                              (3)
               Rural roads   225         115         119.3       53%          104%         Unsatisfactory     Satisfactory (5)                  Significant
               (km)                                                                        (2)                                                  improvement
               Bridges (#)   3           4           3           100%         75%          Satisfactory (5)   Moderately                        Small setback
                                                                                                              satisfactory (4)
               Road Asset    Completed   Completed   Completed   100%         100%         Satisfactory (5)   Satisfactory (5)                  No change
               Managemen     for SCRB    for SCRB    for SCRB
               t system      and GDRB    and GDRB    and GDRB
               National      -           National    National    -            100%         -                  Satisfactory (5)                  New
               Transport                 TSMP        plan                                                                                       indicator
               Sector                    completed   completed
               Master Plan
               Reduced       50%         50%         41%         82%          82%          Moderately         Moderately                        No change
               travel time                                                                 satisfactory (4)   satisfactory (4)
Rating                                                                                     Moderately         Moderately                        No change
Value                                                                                      satisfactory (4)   satisfactory (4)
Weight (%                                                                                  76%                24%                100%
disbursed
before/after
PDO
change)
Weighted                                                                                   3.04               0.96               4
value

Final rating                                                                                                                     Moderately     Late revision
(rounded)                                                                                                                        satisfactory   keeps the
                                                                                                                                                rating at MS




                                                                         32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

132.     The ex-post economic evaluation of the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project
rehabilitation works was done measuring the economic benefits of reducing vehicle operating
costs and travel time costs on the project roads produced by the project investments. Vehicle
operating costs and travel time costs were estimated for the without project-alternative and the
project-alternatives using the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4)
relationships considering the average vehicle fleet characteristics of Iraq. At project appraisal, no
ex-ante economic evaluation of the proposed investments was done, thus, it is not possible to
compare the ex-post economic evaluation results with project appraisal estimates.

133.    Table 12 shows the basic road characteristic of the Part A and Part B project roads in
terms of length, width and traffic. The project roads carried on average 7,654 vehicles per day, of
which 11 percent are heavy vehicles, and have an average width of 7.1 m.


Table 12: Road characteristics
                                                                          Latest      Latest     Latest
                                                                         Traffic     Traffic     Traffic
                                                                           Light      Heavy
 Road                                                  Length   Width    Vehicles    Vehicles     Total
 Name                                          Part     (km)     (m)    (veh/day)   (veh/day)   (veh/day)
 Kut – Amarah                                   A       10.0     8.0      5,641       1,347       6,988
 Kut – Nassiriah                                A       11.0     7.0      3,314        586        3,900
 Kut – Baghdad                                  A       19.0     7.0      13,858      2,825      16,683
 Diwaniah – Daghara                             A       10.0     7.3      4,550        405        4,955
 Diwaniah – Samawa                              A       10.0     7.2      6,345        860        7,205
 Samawa – Diwania                               A       15.5     7.3      15,493      2,755      18,248
 Karbala – Mussayeb                             A       21.2     7.0      14,777      1,186      15,963
 Samawa – Nasiriya                              A       20.0     7.3      10,297      1,005      11,302
 AL - Zubair - Um Qasr*                         A       41.0     7.3      8,503        866        9,369
 Um Qasr – Az Zubair *                          A       41.0     7.3      7,759        735        8,494
 Najaf – Karbala                                A       14.1     7.3      11,487      1,034      12,521
 Al-Aziya – Rahaima                             A       12.7     6.0
 Al-Raisa access road                           A       25.0     6.0
 Erbil – Altinkopri highway                     B       38.5     7.5     3,356       6,234       9,590
 Dween, Babajijk, Afiryan                       B       17.1     7.0      120         120         240
 Neawok, Badrea, Telbok, Perkoly, Qarabajer,
 Lakan, Bazerazera, Ismawa                      B       27.1     7.0      180         120         300
 Gligal, Pishta, Snor, Parween                  B       19.4     7.0      250         250         500
 Total                                                 352.6     7.1     6,223       1,431       7,654
 Latest traffic for Part A roads is for 2013
 Latest traffic for Part B roads is for 2010

134.    Table 13 presents the estimated annual traffic growth rate on the project roads in recent
years. On average the average annual daily traffic has grown at 27% per year from around 2008
to 2013, which is a very high traffic growth rate explained by the suppressed travel at the start of
the project.




                                                      33
Table 13: Annual traffic growth rate

 Road                                                  Traffic Total            Traffic Total        Annual Growth
 Name                                          Year   (vehicles/day)   Year    (vehicles/day)          Rate (%)
 Kut – Amarah                                  2006        3,054       2013         6,988                13%
 Kut – Nassiriah                               2006        4,907       2013         3,900                -3%
 Kut – Baghdad                                 2006        3,714       2013        16,683                24%
 Diwaniah – Daghara                            2009        3,692       2013         4,955                 8%
 Diwaniah – Samawa                             2009        3,797       2013         7,205                17%
 Samawa – Diwania                              2009       10,055       2013        18,248                16%
 Karbala – Mussayeb                            2009        2,351       2013        15,963                61%
 Samawa – Nasiriya                             2008        3,216       2013        11,302                29%
 Al - Zubair - Um Qasr                         2010        1,455       2013         9,369                86%
 Um Qasr – Al Zubair                           2010        1,455       2013         8,494                80%
 Najaf – Karbala                               2009        4,630       2013        12,521                28%
 Al-Aziya – Rahaima
 Al-Raisa access road
 Erbil – Altinkopri highway                    2007        5,110       2010        9,590                 23%
 Dween, Babajijk, Afiryan                      2007         200        2010         240                  6%
 Neawok, Badrea, Telbok, Perkoly, Qarabajer,
 Lakan, Bazerazera, Ismawa                     2007         220        2010         300                  11%
 Gligal, Pishta, Snor, Parween                 2007         350        2010         500                  13%
 Average                                       2008        2,545       2012        7,654                 27%

135.    The project roads were in poor condition in need of rehabilitation, reconstruction or
paving. Before the road works the average travel time was 36 minutes (average speed of 42 km
per hour) and after the road works the average travel time decreased to 21 minutes (average speed
of 75 km per hour), representing an average decrease of 41% in travel times with the project.
Table 14 presents the estimated travel times on the project roads.

Table 14: Travel time

                                                                               Without       With
  Road                                                                         project      Project      Reduction
  Name                                                                        (minutes)    (minutes)       (%)
  Kut – Amarah                                                                   13            7           44%
  Kut – Nassiriah                                                                14            8           43%
  Kut – Baghdad                                                                  24           13           46%
  Diwaniah – Daghara                                                             13            7           44%
  Diwaniah – Samawa                                                              13            7           44%
  Samawa – Diwania                                                               20           11           44%
  Karbala – Mussayeb                                                             26           14           46%
  Samawa – Nasiriya                                                              25           14           46%
  Al - Zubair - Um Qasr                                                          51           30           41%
  Um Qasr – Al Zubair                                                            51           30           41%
  Najaf – Karbala                                                                18           10           47%
  Al-Aziya – Rahaima
  Al-Raisa access road
  Erbil – Altinkopri highway                                                     50             30          40%
  Dween, Babajijk, Afiryan                                                       60             30          50%
  Neawok, Badrea, Telbok, Perkoly, Qarabajer, Lakan, Bazerazera, Ismawa          70             45          36%
  Gligal, Pishta, Snor, Parween                                                  50             35          30%
  Total                                                                          36             21          41%



                                                      34
136.     Table 15 presents the contract construction costs and the actual construction costs of the
road works. On average, the actual construction costs were very similar to the contract costs with
and Actual per Contract costs ratio equal to 1.05. The average actual cost of the rehabilitation
works was US$185,391 per km, of the reconstruction works was US$446,890 per km and of the
paving costs was US$100,218 per km. The average actual cost per km of the project roads was
US$327,897 per km. The rehabilitation works comprised of drainage works, asphalt patching,
milling of bleeding & rutting & upheaval areas, treatment of crack, side slope treatment,
stabilizing shoulders, asphalt concrete leveling & binder &wearing courses, and road furnishing
(Marking traffic sign). The reconstruction works comprised of milling, sub-base course, two
layers of crushed stone as base course, asphalt binder and wearing courses, drainage repairs, Road
furnishings (guard rail ,traffic signs & marking), and milled materials for shoulders. The paving
works comprised of new construction of 20cm sub-base layer + 20cm crushed stone layer +
Double bituminous surface dressing layers. The widening works comprised new construction of
the right side parallel of the old road side.

Table 15: Construction costs

                                                           Contract       Actual       Actual/      Actual
  Road                                                      Cost           Cost        Contract      Cost
                                     Road Work                                                    (US$ per
  Name                               Type              (US$ million)   (US$ million)    Ratio        km)
  Kut – Amarah                       Rehabilitation        2.5             2.4          0.96       237,200
  Kut – Nassiriah                    Rehabilitation        2.1             2.1          0.98       186,636
  Kut – Baghdad                      Rehabilitation        3.1             3.3          1.05       171,211
  Diwaniah – Daghara                 Rehabilitation        1.3             1.2          0.92       122,500
  Diwaniah – Samawa                  Rehabilitation        2.1             2.1          0.97       205,800
  Samawa – Diwania                   Rehabilitation        2.8             2.5          0.90       161,677
  Karbala – Mussayeb                 Rehabilitation        3.5             3.4          0.97       158,726
  Samawa – Nasiriya                  Rehabilitation        4.2             4.8          1.12       238,000
  Al - Zubair - Um Qasr              Reconstruction        18.4            18.3         1.00       446,890
  Um Qasr – Al Zubair                Reconstruction        18.4            18.3         1.00       446,890
  Najaf – Karbala                    Rehabilitation        2.3             2.0          0.86       142,766
  Al-Aziya – Rahaima                 Rehabilitation        2.0             1.9          0.94       146,220
  Al-Raisa access road               Rehabilitation        5.9             6.7          1.14       268,560
  Erbil – Altinkopri highway         Widening              34.9            40.7         1.17      1,057,482
  Dween, Babajijk, Afiryan           Paving                2.0             2.0          1.01       118,479
  Neawok, Badrea, Telbok, Perkoly,
  Qarabajer, Lakan, Bazerazera,
  Ismawa                             Paving                  1.8           1.8          1.00       67,838
  Gligal, Pishta, Snor, Parween      Paving                  2.3           2.2          0.97      114,335
  Total                                                     109.6         115.6         1.05      327,897



137.     The construction works had an average duration of 17 months. Table 16 presents the start
year of the construction and the construction duration of the project roads. The construction of the
Al – Zubair – Um Qasr and Um Qasr – Az Zubair roads is ongoing and the actual progress rate is
52%.




                                                      35
Table 16: Construction duration
                                                                           Construction   Construction
  Road                                                                      Start Year     Duration
  Name                                                                        (year)       (months)
  Kut – Amarah                                                                 8002           12
  Kut – Nassiriah                                                              8002           13
  Kut – Baghdad                                                                8002           17
  Diwaniah – Daghara                                                           2010            6
  Diwaniah – Samawa                                                            2010           12
  Samawa – Diwania                                                             2011           11
  Karbala – Mussayeb                                                           2011            9
  Samawa – Nasiriya                                                            2011           33
  Al - Zubair - Um Qasr                                                        2011           32
  Um Qasr – Al Zubair                                                          2011           32
  Najaf – Karbala                                                              2010            6
  Al-Aziya – Rahaima                                                           2009           21
  Al-Raisa access road                                                         2009           21
  Erbil – Altinkopri highway                                                   2008           26
  Dween, Babajijk, Afiryan                                                     2008           12
  Neawok, Badrea, Telbok, Perkoly, Qarabajer, Lakan, Bazerazera, Ismawa        2008           12
  Gligal, Pishta, Snor, Parween                                                2008           12
  Total                                                                                       17

138.     Table 17 presents the resulting economic evaluation results in terms of Economic Internal
Rate of Return (EIRR). All project roads generated a satisfactory EIRR higher than the 12%
discount rate threshold due to the high traffic of the roads, and the high impact of the road works
in travel times and roughness reduction. Some of the project roads generated an EIRR higher than
100% due to the very high traffic of these project roads (average 16,962 vehicles per day). The
overall EIRR of the program is 52%.

Table 17: Ex-post economic evaluation results
   Road                                                                           EIRR
   Name                                                                            (%)
   Kut – Amarah                                                                   43%
   Kut – Nassiriah                                                                29%
   Kut – Baghdad                                                                 > 100%
   Diwaniah – Daghara                                                             67%
   Diwaniah – Samawa                                                              58%
   Samawa – Diwania                                                              > 100%
   Karbala – Mussayeb                                                            > 100%
   Samawa – Nasiriya                                                              84%
   Al - Zubair - Um Qasr                                                          37%
   Um Qasr – Al Zubair                                                            33%
   Najaf – Karbala                                                                33%
   Al-Aziya – Rahaima
   Al-Raisa access road
   Erbil – Altinkopri highway                                                      36%
   Dween, Babajijk, Afiryan                                                        13%
   Neawok, Badrea, Telbok, Perkoly, Qarabajer, Lakan, Bazerazera, Ismawa           19%
   Gligal, Pishta, Snor, Parween                                                   19%
   Total                                                                           52%




                                                     36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Robert Bou Jaoude        Program Coordinator                  SARFM
Karim-Jacques Budin      Consultant                           MNSTI
Majed El-Bayya           Lead Procurement Specialist          ECSO2
Mutasem El-Fadel         Consultant                           MNSEE
Mohammed D. E. Feghoul   Consultant                           SASDU
Cornelis Kruk            Consultant                           AFTTR
Thouria T. Nana-Sinkam   Temporary                            MNSTI
Knut Opsal               Lead Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
James A. Reichert        Senior Infrastructure Specialist     EASNS
Hany Shalaby             Consultant                           AFTN2
Terje Wolden             Consultant                           AFTTR
Supervision/ICR
Soran Hama Tahir Ali     Operations Officer                   MNSTI
Nazaneen Ismail Ali      Senior Procurement Specialist        MNAPC
Maya Boulos Boulos       Financial Management Specialist      MNAFM
Ibrahim Khalil Dajani    Senior Operations Officer            MNSTI
Majed El-Bayya           Lead Procurement Specialist          ECSO2
Mona El-Chami            Sr Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM
Mutasem El-Fadel         Consultant                           MNSEE
Mohammed D. E. Feghoul   Consultant                           SASDU
Natasha Hafez            Program Assistant                    MNARS
Jerome Leyvigne          E T Consultant                       MNSSD
Jad Raji Mazahreh        Sr Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM
Knut Opsal               Lead Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
Amanj Gh. Mohammed
                         E T Consultant                       MNAPC
Qazaz
James A. Reichert        Senior Infrastructure Specialist     EASNS
Colin S. Scott           Lead Specialist                      OPSOR
Terje Wolden             Consultant                           AFTTR
Azeb Yideru              Program Assistant                    MNSTI
                         Senior Social Development
Carolyn Winter                                                MNSSU
                         Specialist
Dariusz Kobus            Consultant                           MNSTI
Samia al-Duaij           Consultant                           MNSF1
Tracy Hart               Senior Environmental Specialist      MNSEN




                                           37
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                               235.09
  FY06                                                               282.17
  FY07                                                                 0.13
                          Total:                                     517.39
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                47.18
  FY08                                      21.06                     64.72
  FY09                                      24.29                     88.61
  FY10                                      28.40                    101.64
  FY11                                      24.81                    119.21
  FY12                                      33.91                    172.99
  FY13                                      38.99                    173.28
  FY14                                      40.52                    262.18
                          Total:                                   1,029.81




                                       38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                      39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

139.    An ICR Stakeholder Workshop was held in Beirut, Lebanon on September 22-23, 2014.
The workshop was attended by key members of the PMT for Part A and Part B, respectively, as
well as the Bank project team and the ICR team (see Table 18). The objective of the ICR
workshop was to discuss the project’s experience with relevant stakeholders in order to derive
lessons learned for future operations in Iraq.

140.    The discussion centered around six key topics: (1) Project design, (2) World Bank
Supervisory and support role, (3) Borrower performance in project execution, (4) procurement
and contractor / consultant issues, (5) compliance with World Bank policies, and (6)
sustainability and post-operation phase. Each topic was discussed in sequence based on a number
of discussion questions. Below is the list of participants followed by a summary of the key
lessons learned derived from the workshop.


Table 18: Participants at the ERRP ICR Stakeholder Workshop

Name                            Affiliation                     Function
Mohammed Salahuldeen            SCRB                            PMT Leader
Mohammed Hussein                SCRB                            PMT Manager Assistant
Mohammed Alsaad
Ashti Tareq Berkah Al-Windi     SCRB                            Procurement Engineer
Baraa Mohammed Wannas           SCRB                            Procurement Engineer
Esraa Ayad Hadi Al-Hadhari      SCRB                            Procurement Engineer
Adwaa Qassem Mohammed           SCRB                            Financial Management
Al-Rubaye
Ban Ali Mustafa                 SCRB                            Accountant
Youbert Youkhna Sorany          GDRB                            Financial Management
Zuhair Yousif Atto              GDRB                            Procurement
Ibrahim Dajani                  World Bank                      Task Team Leader
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi           World Bank                      Procurement Specialist
Omar Wahab                      World Bank                      ICR Task Team Leader
Sanne Tikjoeb                   World Bank                      ICR Lead Author




                                              40
Table 19: ERRP ICR Stakeholder Workshop - Discussion Comments and Derived Lessons

PROJECT DESIGN                   DISCUSSION COMMENTS                                                  DERIVED LESSONS
Components:                      The planned components and activities were adequate to               This is a positive lesson about structuring a
Were there other                 meeting the development priorities identified at the time of         project to meet identified development
components/activities that       approval. These priorities are still relevant today, as evident in   priorities allowing for ownership and
should have been included        the great degree of continuity in the TCP follow-on operation,       commitment to take root in the implementing
under the project?               which will rehabilitate additional expressways and continue the      agency, Ministry and country at large.
                                 development and updating of RAM in SCRB and GDRB.
Indicators:                      The indicators were adequate in measuring the project                PDO and indicators should be carefully
Were the project’s outcome       outcomes. However, the wording in some cases was too vague,          considered and worded to allow for more
indicators adequate in           such as “travel time reduced for villagers to reach markets and      precise monitoring and assessment of
capturing the benefits of the    services”. Such wording should be replaced by more specific          achievements.
project? If not, then which      targets, e.g. “travel time reduced on rehabilitated road
indicators?                      segments”.
Outcomes:                        The objectives and timeframe for project implementation was          Achievements are not derived in a vacuum, but
Were the targets and/or the      generally adequate. The security environment, however,               rather the project outcomes complement the
timeframe for implementation     caused significant delays and resulted in the need for two           regular Government program and should be
too ambitious? Was the           extensions.                                                          considered in that context when evaluating the
allocation of funds sufficient                                                                        success of the project.
for financing planned            Furthermore, price contingencies were inadequate to cover the
activities?                      rise of construction material in an increasingly difficult
                                 security situation.

                                 The project was successful in leveraging significant
                                 commitments from SCRB’s and GDRB’s own budget and
                                 funding resources towards realizing planned outputs. Since
                                 2006, for example, SCRB has financed over 20 bridge
                                 replacements, and every year GDRB funds the rehabilitation of
                                 75 km of rural roads.
Institutional arrangement:       The proposed institutional set-up was adequate, and the PMT          Where possible, in a fragile environment with
Was the proposed institutional   model worked well. However, one design short-coming was              on-going conflicts, it is better to rely on local
set-up sound? Did the            the heavy reliance on international consultant services for PMT      and regional consultants and contractors
institutional arrangements       support, construction supervision and technical assistance. Due      willing to be on-site, at least intermittently.




                                                                        41
contribute to smooth           to the prevailing security environment it was difficult to attract
implementation? What other     international expertise, which delayed implementation
measures should have been      significantly.
considered?
                               The FMA-model also worked well as Bank staff was prevented
                               from visiting all project sites.
Risk Management:               The Bank has been absent from Iraq for decades, and has lost         Generous price contingencies are central to
Were original measures as      much its knowledge about operating in the Iraqi country              controlling cost overruns. This lesson is
approved effective in          context. In 2003, when the project was being designed, it is not     incorporated into the TCP follow-on project,
mitigating identified risks?   clear that neither the Bank nor the Client could have                where 10 percent price contingencies are
Were there any unforeseen      anticipated the development of the overall country context.          included under each component, and another
risks that could have been                                                                          10 percent is included as a separate line item.
mitigated at the preparation   One measure that could have been included at the time of
stage?                         appraisal to mitigate some of the risks associated with the
                               challenging security environment would be to build in larger
                               price contingencies.
WORLD BANK
SUPERVISORY AND                DISCUSSION COMMENTS                                                  DERIVED LESSONS
SUPPORT ROLE
WB - PMT Collaboration:        Both PMTs expressed satisfaction with WB-PMT                         Positive reinforcement of a known lesson
How would you describe the     collaboration. Neither had encountered any problems, while           learned: that continuity of Bank staff on the
collaboration between the WB   noting that there had been great continuity of staff in the Bank     project team is an appreciated factor, which
team and the PMT?              team.                                                                helps ensure smooth collaboration and lays the
                                                                                                    foundation for future work.
Responsiveness:                Both PMTs stated that the World Bank has been responsive to
Was the World Bank             all concerns raised within its capacity. One issue was raised on
responsive to the issues and   the need for Bank assistance with the certification of an
concerns raised throughout     amount owed by the GDRB to a contractor, which is awaiting
implementation? Where can      approval by the Council of Ministers. However, as this is not
we improve?                    within the jurisdiction of the World Bank, there is a limit to
                               how much the Bank can push for the release of this payment.
Technical assistance:          The technical assistance provided on FM, procurement and             The Bank’s training modules should be made
Was the provided technical     safeguards was adequate. However, the point was made that            available to all interested parties, who can




                                                                       42
assistance on financial          training should be available not only to the PMT, but to SCRB        directly benefit from developing skills on
management, procurement and      more widely. As some PMT staff members have been                     financial management, procurement and
safeguards adequate to the       reassigned to other tasks, essential skills at the PMT needed to     safeguards and apply the lessons learned at a
needs of each PMT? Did the       be rebuilt. By widening the audience, the skill sets are better      practical level.
FMA provide effective            retained. A specific request was made for delivering safeguards
technical support and accurate   training to on-site engineers, who observe the conditions on a       Include FMAs in safeguards training modules,
reporting of progress?           regular basis.                                                       to ensure that FMAs have the required
                                                                                                      technical skills to assess on-site conditions and
                                 The FMA did a good job inspecting financial management               progress, in addition to providing essential FM
                                 procedures, such as applications for withdrawals. On the other       services to both the Bank and the Client.
                                 hand, the FMA was not strong on monitoring the more
                                 technical aspects of implementation, and for example missed
                                 the fact that rented equipment was present on a work site
                                 where it did not belong, indicating that the work had been sub-
                                 contracted to a third party without prior approval and without
                                 the necessary capacity to carry out the task (Um Qasr).
Technical assistance:            Overall, the Bank’s level of effort and quality of support was       When operating in a fragile country context
Were you satisfied with the      held in high regard by both SCRB and GDRB. It was                    with on-going conflicts, two supervision
level of effort and quality of   applauded that the Bank always seeks to finds the best fit           missions a year is not enough. Close follow-up
World Bank support on            between the need assessed and the tool offered. Such as in the       is required throughout the implementation
technical issues, such as        case of deploying a road asset management tool, where the            period to ensure compliance and to track
specialist TORs and feed-back    Bank advised the Client to adopt a simpler approach to mirror        progress. Qualified FMAs should be relied
on deliverables?                 actual needs and to keep operating costs low.                        upon when Bank staff is prevented from
                                                                                                      visiting the field.
                                 One criticism related to social aspects of safeguards work,
                                 where the SCRB and GDRB felt that the Bank could have been           The Bank’s global practice experience is
                                 more proactive in addressing key issues.                             highly useful when a set of TORs are shared
                                                                                                      across regions and continuously improved
                                 The Bank undertook 19 missions in 7 years, or 2.7 missions a         upon, such as in the case of the TORs for
                                 year. That is above the average 1-2 per year. And yet, even          RAM systems.
                                 Bank staff has not managed to visit all the project sites over the
                                 past 8 years. This is when the Bank relies on the FMA to
                                 conduct spot inspections and quality control. There was a
                                 general sense that the FMAs were qualified to do their job



                                                                        43
                                   well.
Going forward:                     In preparation for the implementation of the TCP, the SCRB       Additional training on more advanced aspects
How can the World Bank             expressed a need for additional training on FM, procurement,     of project management and monitoring should
better assist the PMT in the       and safeguards as monitoring construction supervision under      be included in follow-on operations.
implementation phase?              TCP will be much more detailed than under ERRP.
BORROWER
                                   DISCUSSION COMMENTS                                              DERIVED LESSONS
PERFORMANCE
Ratification delay:                From the discussions it was difficult to pinpoint what caused    The discussion concluded that the issue of
What caused the delay in           ratification delay. However, ratification happened through the   ratification is outside the control of the Bank
ratification? How can              personal connection that the ex-minister of MoCH had with        and the PMT. However close follow-up should
ratification delay be avoided in   Prime Minister Maliki.                                           be made by both parties to push for early
the future?                                                                                         ratification in the future.
GOV - PMT collaboration:           The collaboration between the GoI and the PMTs has evolved
How was the collaboration          over time. While problematic initially due to the delay in
with the central administration    effectiveness and the lack of approval for operational funding
in Baghdad? What were the          (SCRB), the relationship evolved and towards the end the GoI
challenges for each PMT?           showed great ownership of the project, in particular the TSMP
                                   component. The Minister of Transport and his Deputy came to
                                   Beirut to discuss the TSMP with consultants. This
                                   demonstrated a high degree of country ownership.
PMT - PMT collaboration:           The PMTs met during supervision missions and took part in
How was the collaboration          discussions of both projects. Beyond that, no other PMT-to-
between the PMTs in Baghdad        PMT collaboration took place outside of Bank supervision.
and Erbil? What can each PMT
learn from the other PMT?
Capacity development:              Extensive capacity building has taken place in both PMTs.        Continued needs assessments are essential,
How has the capacity of each       However, as pointed out earlier, more training will be needed    also in cases where the PMT is grandfathered
PMT evolved over time? In          for the management and monitoring of the TCP follow-on           into a new project with the same team
what areas do you observe the      operation, which has more sophisticated measures of              members.
most progress, and which areas     implementation taking into account the lessons learned from
are still weak?                    the ERRP.
Biggest challenge:                 For SCRB, one of the most critical challenges was the delay in
What was the most difficult        contracting an independent auditor. SCRB explained that the




                                                                         44
challenge during project       reason for this delay was that within the Ministry there was a
implementation (for each       sense that no outside auditor was needed as internal controls
PMT)? How was it resolved?     were a sufficient measure of quality control.

                               For GDRB, social safeguards issues, although handled
                               properly, constituted the biggest challenges.
CONTRACTOR AND
                               DISCUSSION COMMENTS                                                DERIVED LESSONS
CONSULTANT ISSUES
Cost:                          This point is difficult to discuss before the ERR calculations
Given the high and variable    are complete. However, it appears that there is a high return on
cost for material, works and   the investment and that the per-unit cost of rehabilitated km
services in Iraq, were the     seems to be on par with international standards. From that
realized project activities    perspective, the ERRP was worth the price.
worth the price?
Competition:                   The technical assistance components were severely affected by      The security risk for consultants can be
What factors would attract     the lack of interest from international consultant firms, which    reduced by allowing them to work from home
international bidders?         were reluctant to come to Baghdad to work.                         to the extent possible.

                               The discussion focused on a number of project measures that        Where appropriate, components can be
                               potentially could be applied in an effort to make it more          combined to raise the contract award and make
                               attractive for international firm to participate in the bidding    it more interesting for international firms to
                               process (see lessons learned).                                     compete.

                                                                                                  Implementing agencies should not rely on
                                                                                                  advertisement only to attract bids, but should
                                                                                                  also identify potential consultants/contractors
                                                                                                  beforehand and invite them to submit a bid.
                                                                                                  While this approach was tried and failed at
                                                                                                  SCRB, it would still be worth considering in a
                                                                                                  different context.
Performance:                   Contractor performance was particularly poor under a couple        If employing an international consultant, bring
What measures would improve    of contracts, both of which were eventually terminated (Um         on board local or regional counterparts willing
contractor performance?        Qasr and Al Daraji).                                               to go on-site and then apply creative measures




                                                                      45
                                                                                                   to relay observations (recorded or streaming)
                                Another currently underperforming contract is the Al Daraji        back to the international consultant.
                                bridge (second contract). At first, the contractor was trying to
                                hedge risk by sourcing steel from abroad, in this case Ukraine.    Rely on regional construction supervision
                                However, the conflict earlier this year abrupted supply.           companies with Arab speaking staff members,
                                Instead, the contractor turned to a steel producer in Mosul,       who are in a better position to liaise with local
                                which over the summer was impacted by the on-going crises.         counterparts.
                                All work has come to a stand-still and the contractor is
                                awaiting the approval of next year’s SCRB budget before
                                continuing operations (expected in October, 2014).

                                Poor contractor performance is best mitigated through rigorous
                                construction supervision. However, such rigorous supervision
                                is most often supplied by international-level consultant firms.

                                In a case from KSA, a construction project in Mecca prevented
                                international consultants from entering the project site. This
                                necessitated video recordings to be used as an aid in passing
                                on-the-ground information to the firm.

                                Sub-contracting of various works without prior approval is a
                                key risk factor for poor performance. Effectively preventing
                                unauthorized sub-contracting is one of the most effective tools
                                to enhance contractor performance.
Security:                       In general, growing security concerns are the main explanatory     Higher price contingencies built into every
What role did security issues   factor for poor contractor performance, according to SCRB. In      contract can help mitigate poor performance
play in the poor performance    ERRP, all security arrangements have been left to the              when contractors are faced with escalating
by some contractors?            consultants / contractors to arrange for themselves. The           costs due to the security situation.
                                government has never been involved in proving secure passage
                                for undertaking project activities.
COMPLIANCE                      DISCUSSION COMMENTS                                                DERIVED LESSONS
Bank support:                   The SCRB expressed a general lack of local capacity in Iraq to     More training needed from the Bank’s side,
In what ways could the Bank     undertake environment and social assessments. It was felt that     not only for PMT members, but also for the




                                                                       46
have better facilitated          the Bank could have provided even more support, for example       specialists hired to work on the project. This
compliance with its policies?    in terms of training, not only for PMT members, but also for      includes local engineers on the ground, who
                                 the specialists hired to undertake safeguards work, such as       observe safeguards issues on a daily basis.
                                 engineers observing safeguards issues on-the-ground on a
                                 regular basis.                                                    Safeguards issues are best mitigated at the
                                                                                                   design stage – both of the project and of
                                                                                                   individual works – when impacts on
                                                                                                   environment issues, social issues, and the
                                                                                                   investment at large can be considered together.
                                                                                                   This approach helps to ensure a smooth
                                                                                                   implementation process with fewer safeguards
                                                                                                   obstacles.
SUSTAINABILITY AND
                                 DISCUSSION COMMENTS                                               DERIVED LESSONS
POST-OPERATION
Maintenance:                     Both agencies have experienced a gradual increase in the
Are the resources allocated to   budget, and feel that the budget is sufficient to conduct
road and bridge maintenance      maintenance work on the roads network.
sufficient to sustain the
improvements achieved?           The weakest link is perhaps in the lack of enforcement at
Where are the weakest links?     several newly installed weighing stations to comply with max
                                 limit weights for certain roads (see section on risks below).
Sustainability:                  At the political level, the project has succeeded in building     Including components that directly address
How can project benefits be      attention to critical transport issues. According to one          sustainability through specific measures and
sustained?                       stakeholder participant: “GoI is keen on adopting policies that   strategies, such as the RAM and the TSMP,
                                 are similar to those applied in the ERRP.” The development of     are essential for the long-term success of the
                                 a the Transport Sector Master Plan has benefitted not only the    project.
                                 road sector, which is experiencing a surge in maintenance
                                 budget, but also other sectors, such as aviation and railway.     Spill-over effects, such as positive unintended
                                 The Bank is now supporting the GoI to develop these priority      outcomes, can play a key role in creating an
                                 areas of the transport sector.                                    enabling environment where project outcomes
                                                                                                   are better sustained.
                                 At the project level, the use of installed RAM systems as a
                                 planning tool in SCRB and GDRB bodes well for the




                                                                       47
sustainability of institutional capacity built at each of the
implementing agencies.

At SCRB, the RAM system was fully installed shortly before
project closing. The RAM has provided a five-year investment
plan and a road map for identifying priority maintenance work
to be included in the following budget cycle. 5 staff members
from SCRB head office and 4 staff members from the SCRB
field offices have been trained in using the HDM4 software,
which supports the RAM. However, the database needs regular
updating in order to be a reliable decision-making tool. SCRB
expressed that some areas of the country are too unsafe for
staff members to collect the needed data, but this will be done
as the areas become more accessible again.

At GDRB, RAM has been installed since 2012 and covers
primary, secondary, and rural roads. This was a surprise
finding, as the Bank was under the impression that only rural
roads were covered under the Road Master Plan and that RAM
development for non-rural roads would form part of the TCP.
It appears that there is a need for updating of the database,
particularly for non-rural roads. Since 2012, the RAM system
has been regularly used by the GDRB to plan future
maintenance work for the following budget cycle.

At the sector level, a number of unintended outcomes speaks to
the sustainability of the broader road sector:

    (1) As part of the Um Qasr – Al Zubair, there was a need
        for higher quality asphalt that would hold up to heavy
        traffic even in 50 degrees centigrade heat. Without
        viable options to reform the oil refineries to produces
        better bitumen or to import bitumen from the Gulf
        countries, there was an opportunity for a local



                                         48
                                         entrepreneur to fill the gap of short supply of high-
                                         quality polymer to be mixed in the bitumen for better
                                         road performance. The company now successfully
                                         sells and distributes high-quality polymer to other
                                         roads projects in Iraq.
                                     (2) In Basra Governorate, it has become mandatory to use
                                         high-performing asphalt on all road construction and
                                         maintenance work as a result of the piloting of such
                                         asphalt under ERRP.
                                     (3) EMP/ESIA now required for all new roads funded by
                                         GDRB. Similarly, SCRB adopted specifications and
                                         procedures that are impacted strongly by the
                                         experience of this project.
Risk:                           The key risk relates to mode of using the rehabilitated road        RAM should be complemented by effective
How would you assess the risk   segments. The lack of enforcement to control the access of          axel load control to minimize the risks to
to development outputs and      heavy axel vehicles on appropriate roads is a key risk factor for   rehabilitated roads.
outcomes given the current      the sustainability of rehabilitated roads. A decision is pending
situation in Iraq? Consider     on how to operate the weighing stations and under which
both material and policy        agency it should be operated. Security concerns, such as
implications.                   bombing of weighing stations, has affected the enforcement
                                and the question remains, who is better suited to operate these
                                stations. Axel load control is key to sustaining any future
                                investment in the road sector.




                                                                       49
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


    a. Summary of Borrower’s ICR (Part B only)

141.     The GDRB of the KRG MoCH submitted an Implementation Completion and Results
Report for Part B of the project to the Bank project team in January, 2012. The outline of the
report is based on the same format used in ICRs prepared by the Bank. A brief summary of key
aspects of the report is included below. The full report (59 pages) is attached separately.

Section 1: Context at appraisal

142.     This section summarizes the project and background information at the preparation stage
(similar in scope to section 1 in the present ICR).

Section 2: Implementation

143.    Overall, the report shows that project implementation went smoothly and that project
objectives were achieved without exceeding costs and within the specified period.

144.    The report tracks the achievement of project development objectives and states: Three
village roads of about 63.6 km in total were rehabilitated in the three governorates of Erbil,
Dohuk, and Sulaymaniya.

145.    The report makes note of implementation related processes:
       Procurement: Many early activities were implemented as planned. However, during the
        second half of the project, bidding for goods and calls for proposals had to be repeated,
        and it was noted that payments were delayed as a results of belated opening of letters of
        credit.
       Safeguards: The report states that no significant issues have been identified and that the
        EMP was implemented. Land acquisition was required in two instances: for the
        realignment of 4 km of the Erbil-Altun Kopri highway and for the realignment of a short
        segment of village access roads in Dohuk governorate. All land was voluntarily donated.
       Financial management: The report states that all financial aspects were carried out
        according to World Bank guidelines.
       Monitoring and evaluation: The report mentions that Bank supervision focused on
        assessing project indicators and assisting the GoI in overcoming implementation
        difficulties.

Section 3: Risk to development outcome

146.    According to the report, the risk to development outcomes is considered moderate as the
security situation in KRG has continuously improved.

147.    Elsewhere in the text, the report makes important mention of the issue of overloading by
trucks, which can cause premature pavement damage. As a result of sufficient budget allocations,
16 weighing stations have been established in Erbil governorate and 20 weighing stations have
been established in Dohuk and Sulaymaniya governorates.




                                               50
148.     Furthermore, the report states that rehabilitation of the old carriageway of the Erbil-Altun
Kopri highway was implemented within GDRB 2011 budget and included repairing all damaged
segments and covering the road with a layer of asphalt binder and improving road marking with
installation of road signs.

Section 4: Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

149.    According to the report: “The World Bank staff had supportive and courageous role
during the preparation of the project (advertising, procurement, prequalification of companies,
evaluation, contracting…etc.) and during the implementation of the project technically,
financially and documentary, consequently Project was well prepared as an emergency operation.
The planned outcome and key indicators in the results framework are practical and relevant to the
Project activities, and closely aligned with the Transitional Support Strategy. Right from the start,
the Project was ready for implementation. The project risks were clearly recognized and adequate
mitigation measures were proposed.”

150.    “The Bank task team was multidisciplinary with a good mix of skil ls. The team was
responsible for identifying project issues during supervision, flagging issues in aide memoires
and ISRs, and proposing, when possible, solutions to resolve them. The soundness of the advice
given to the government and the speed of Bank follow-up were highly commendable. Key
performance indicators used in the ISR adhered to those set up in the results framework of the
Project design and were updated at each supervision mission, tracing the Project’s consistent
progress and showing how the PDO was achieved.”

151.    The report notes that the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

Section 5: Lessons learned and benefits derived from the project

152.    In this section, it is stated that the objectives pursued through this project have been
achieved in terms of reducing transport costs, effectively improving the level of road service,
contributing to opening up of the country and to regional integration. Furthermore, the project has
produced definite social and economic effects as it has made basic social services and centers of
economic activity more easily accessible at low cost to the population.

153.     The report notes the importance of clarifying the price index adjustment of construction
materials in the request for proposals for construction work. It is understood that use of a foreign
price index is necessary when there is no national price index. During this project, GDRB has
assigned a procurement engineer to investigate material prices in the region on a monthly basis in
order to establish a price index adjustment formula. Ministry and government agencies will
benefit from establishing a national industrial price index to be used in future projects.

154.    Further lessons include:
    -   The importance of the choice and quality of the materials used as well as strict
        geotechnical control during the execution of works.
    -   Risk of non-application of contract terms strictly and entirely, as concerns landscaping
        and tree planting and the systematic restoration of access roads to adjacent villages upon
        completion of works.
    -   The need for appropriate project environmental protection measures, to ensure rainwater
        drainage and durability of roadside slopes, especially in certain urban areas.
    -   The urgent need to ensure checks for leakages of oil products (diesel, lubricants) which
        have damaging effects on road surfaces.


                                                 51
    -   The need for the borrower to mobilize, on a regular basis, sufficient financial resources to
        ensure road maintenance, so as to protect its roads.
    -   Cost estimates of major civil works components should be based on solid and up-to-date
        feasibility studies and detailed designs during project preparation and appraisal.
    -   Coordination between government agencies has to be maintained throughout the period
        of the credit to expedite the approval process and its implementation.
    -   Commitment of local funds for acquisition of land and for payment of people affected by
        the project should be programmed as early as possible.
    -   A method of funding maintenance on a continuous basis is required before much progress
        can be made toward developing sustainable methods of implementing routine and
        periodic maintenance procedure.

Annex1: Project costs and financing

155.    The report notes that due to material price adjustments for bitumen, cement, and steel
incurred for the rehabilitation of Erbil-Altun Kopri highway, the KRG allocated from its annual
budget a total of USD 1,469,115 to cover the extra amount needed. The KRG also allocated USD
190,000 for reallocation of electrical poles as part of the road widening and USD 208,000
allocated for local staff supervision.

Annex 3: Economic analysis

156.    The post-construction economic evaluation has been prepared using the World Bank’s
Vehicle Operating Cost 4 model in combination with a simple spreadsheet cash flow model used
to estimate economic rates of return (ERR) for the investment option chosen.

157.     Regarding the Erbil-Altun Kopri highway segment, the assessment indicates that the road
improvements have been successful in reducing the unit costs of operating vehicles (per km
VOCs and travel time) and have contributed to an overall reduction in transport fares and rates,
and thereby in the prices of goods in markets of the region. The ERR for the overall project is
38.9%. Total net present value (NPV) of benefits estimated at about more $50 million. The
project is efficient in regards with the benefits to the agricultural sector. On the basis of solely
vehicle operating costs, the investment fulfills all the requirements for the 12% hurdle rate of
return. Savings in travel time and reduction in emission due to termination of the long queues on
both ways could be other considerable benefits from this rehabilitation project. Average annual
daily traffic has doubled, level of service increased from E-F to A, and a clean environment
formed along the road; benefits from stand point of economy, social activities, and environment
are appreciable. The project has already accelerated farm activities, industrial development, and
other civilization works considerably.

158.      Regarding the village access roads, the assessment indicates that the road improvements
have been successful in reducing the unit costs of operating vehicles (per km VOCs and travel
time) and have contributed to an overall reduction in transport fares and rates, and thereby in the
prices of goods in markets of the region. The ERR for the overall project is above 35%. Total net
present value (NPV) of benefits estimated at about more $5 million. The project is efficient in
regards with the benefits to the agricultural sector. On the basis of solely vehicle operating costs
fulfill all the requirements for the 12% hurdle rate of return. Savings in travel time and reduction
in emission could be considered other considerable benefits from this rehabilitation project.
Average annual daily traffic has doubled, level of service is increased, and a clean environment
formed along the road; benefits from stand point of economy, social activities, and environment



                                                52
are respectable. The project has already accelerated farm activities, industrial development, and
other civilization works considerably.

Annex 7: Project completion report

159.    A sub-section on achievement of project development objectives lists the following
benefits:
    - With the completion of right side of the carriage way, one direction road became a
        divided highway: this improved the safety of the road
    - Also with the completion of intersections and implementation of warning and regulatory
        signs the road became safer than before
    - The condition and quality of the roadway, which includes the pavement, shoulders,
        intersections, surface water drainage, and the traffic control system, are some of the
        factors in an accident (driver, environment, and the vehicle are other factors). It is to be
        expected that, this divided highway will reduce the number of accidents – especially head
        to head collisions – with its adequate design geometry and material quality
    - The number of resident families increased after the construction of new road
    - To reach the secondary schools at the near villages became easier
    - Rehabilitating the Village Access Roads will increase social activities between the nearby
        villages and towns and to raise the value of what they are growing and breeding
    - Rehabilitating the Village Access Roads will provide an access to the farm lands.
    - In winter time, it was very hard to reach some villages because of flood and mud. With
        the paved road, it will be easier to reach the villages.



    b. Summary of SCRB’s Comments on Draft ICR

160.    The draft ICR was shared with both PMUs. GDRB had no further comments. The SCRB
submitted comments on the draft ICR in track changes (saved in internal project files in
WBDocs). SCRB’s main points related to:

       Third restructuring: According to SCRB, the project was restructured on January 16,
        2014 to reallocate funds between disbursement categories for Part A of the project.
        However, the ICR team could not locate Bank records to indicate this. Possibly, there
        was a final allocation of remaining contingency funds to cover the last phase of
        disbursements, which would not entail a formal restructuring. Additionally, if the
        reallocation did not affect the project’s objectives, components or indicators, it is possible
        that the reallocation was approved without a formal restructuring.
       Km of rural roads rehabilitated under Part A: According to SCRB, a total of 40.7 km of
        rural roads were rehabilitated under Part A of the project, implying that an additional 3
        km of rural roads were rehabilitated and thereby meeting the revised target. The
        discrepancy relates to the al-Raisa road, which is now said to be 28 km in length, and not
        25 km as previously communicated by SCRB in documents received for the economic
        analysis. As the ICR team is not in a position to verify the actual length of the
        rehabilitated al-Raisa road segment, the 37.7 km initially communicated will be recorded
        as the final achievement.
       Final project cost by component: SCRB provided an updated table with project costs by
        component. The figures are included in the final ICR, Annex 1.




                                                 53
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank documents:
    Agreed Minutes of Negotiations – February 16, 2006
    Technical Annex – June 6, 2006 (Report No: T7665-IQ)
    Financing Agreement – April 2, 2007
    Restructuring Paper – January 25, 2010 (Report No: 52645-IQ)
    Restructuring Paper – June 29, 2012 (Report No: 70489-IQ)
    Implementation Status Reports, Sequence No 1 – 19
    Aide Memoires and Management Letters, November 2006 – February 2014

Progress reports:
    Procurement Quarterly Progress Reports, Q1 2013 – Q1 2014 (Part A only).
    Financial Quarterly Report, Q2 2014 – August 14, 2014 (Part A and Part B).
    Progress Report, February 23-26, 2014 (Part A)

TA Deliverables:
    SCRB Road Asset Management System and Rehabilitation Program + Appendices, June
       2014
    Transport Master Plan Study – Stage 2 – Short Term, January 2014

Other:
    Implementation Completion and Results Report, Part B – January 2012
    Economic Evaluation Data (Part A and Part B)
    Monitoring Road Works Contracts and Unit Costs for Enhanced Governance in Europe
       and Central Asia, World Bank, Transport Papers (TP-33) – January 2011
    Monitoring Road Works Contracts and Unit Costs for Enhanced Governance in Sub-
       Saharan Africa, World Bank, Transport Papers (TP-21) – September 2008
    ERRP Environmental and Social Safeguards Audit Report – December 2013. Prepared by
       an external contractor for the World Bank.




                                            55
56
