Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2956 
Operation Name 
Programmatic Support for Institutional Building III 
Region 
South Asia Region 
Sector 
Central government administration (75%); General finance sector 
(15%); General industry and trade sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P102709 
Borrower(s) 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Pushtunistan Watt 
Kabul, Afghanistan 
Tel: 93 0 79 406 639   
mujeeb.sulimankhail@yahoo.com 
Date PID Prepared 
March 20, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 15, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
May 29, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Country background.
After two decades of conflict, significant progress has been made to secure 
peace and start the reconstruction of the country.  Growth has been strong since 2001 (29 percent 
in 2002, 16 percent in 2003, 8 percent in 2004, and 14 percent in 2005).  It is projected to reach 8 
percent in 2006.  Almost 6 million Afghan refugees have returned to their home country.  Almost 
5
million children are now back in school and the coverage of basic health service has been 
greatly expanded.  The Government has initiated important structural reforms, including 
introducing a new currency and an open trade regime.  Important achievements have been made 
to build core state institutions by reforming public administration and improving budget and 
fiduciary management.  A new Constitution has been approved in January 2004 and Presidential 
and Parliamentary elections were held in October 2004 and September 2005 respectively.   
 
Despite these impressive achievements in a challenging context, the situation in Afghanistan 
remains fragile, especially in view of the tense security situation in the south and east of the 
country.  Security deteriorated in the summer of 2006, and was stabilized during the fall and 
winter, yet it remains volatile.  Opium production and trading has increased in some regions so 
that Afghanistan accounts for most of the world production of opiates and narcotics interests are 
a
threat to good governance.  Capacity remains weak and the needs for investment and services 
very large.  
The Government’s challenge is to deepen its reform program beyond Kabul and to 
implement reforms that, beyond the initial steps of state building, will deliver effective 
government services and generate broad-based growth. 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement.
The Government laid out its reform strategy in the 
Interim 
National Afghanistan Development Strategy 
(I-ANDS) presented to the international community 
at the London conference in January 2006.  This strategy underpins the 
Afghanistan Compact
 
between the Government of Afghanistan and the international community.  To implement its 
Page  2
strategy, the Government needs multi-year financial support that is not linked to specific 
projects, but that can support its entire reform program, especially as two thirds of external 
assistance is delivered outside the government budget.  A development policy grant is proposed, 
at the request of
 the Government, to support the Government’s entire budget including recurrent 
costs (which pay, for example, civil servants salaries), as well as development projects that are 
viewed as a priority, yet not fully financed by donors, including small-size rehabilitation 
projects, and operations and maintenance.  This operation is the third in a series of three.  After 
this operation, the series is expected to transition to a successor program as the Government 
finalizes its full ANDS and seeks to extend its reform program from the core institutions to line 
ministries and provinces. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of this operation is to deepen and sustain the reforms underway in the areas of 
public administration and fiscal management.  The success of these reforms is essential for 
building an accountable and effective state and is critical for successful poverty reduction.  The 
operation also supports the implementation of reforms that lead to a more efficient allocation of 
fiscal resources in the areas of human development and private sector development.  It 
complements separate investment and technical assistance operations that, together, support the 
implementation of comprehensive sectoral reforms. It is in addition closely coordinated with 
other donors’ support. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The Grant of SDR (XX.X) million (US$80 million equivalent) supports the implementation of 
the Government of Afghanistan’s (GoA) medium-term development strategy within the context 
of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.  The series of Programmatic Support for Institution 
Building (PSIB) operations, of which the proposed Grant is the third, provides rolling support to 
the Government’s development strategy with each operation specifying a set of triggers which, 
when met, provide the basis for proceeding with the next operation.   
 
Since PSIB II went to the Board in December 2005, the Government has demonstrated 
ownership of the reform program and has achieved satisfactory progress in most reform areas 
outlined in the Program Document for PSIB II.  Achievements include further progress in raising 
revenues, with an increase of more than 50 percent of domestic resources in 2005/06.  Budget 
management has continued to improve and some 50 percent of the development budget is 
expected to be implemented in 2006/07 (compared to less than 40 percent the year before).  
Fiduciary standards have continued to improve, as evidenced by the preparation and, for the first 
time, submission to Parliament of audited financial accounts.  Progress in budget management 
and fiduciary standards are underpinned by a number of legal and institutional reforms, including 
the approval of a Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law and a Procurement Law, 
with associated regulations, manuals, forms, and training.  The reform of public administration 
has also continued, notably with an expansion in merit-based recruitment (now covering more 
than 1,400 senior positions) and the preparation of a comprehensive implementation plan for 
public administration reform.  Some progress was also made in improving the legal and 
institutional framework for private sector development (through the approval of Corporation and 
Page  3
Partnership Laws, further strengthening of the capacity of the central bank to supervise the 
banking sector, and the approval of amendments to the Insurance Law to enable development in 
the sector) and in building a statistical base  (by completing the 2005 National Vulnerability and 
Risk Assessment and undertaking poverty analysis based on this survey). 
 
In all these areas, however, challenges remain very large and the objective of the proposed 
operation is to support the Government’s strategy to continue and deepen its reforms in these 
areas. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The policies supported under this operation focus on a subset of the Government’s overall 
program and are not likely to significantly affect the environment.  The specific actions included 
in the areas of maintaining macroeconomic stability, strengthening public financial management, 
public administration, and statistical capacity, enhancing human development, and promoting 
private sector development focus on activities that aim at establishing legal, administrative, and 
regulatory functions of the State.  They do not include physical investments or policy changes 
that would significantly affect the environment.  As a result, specific policies supported by this 
operation are not likely to have any significant impact on the country’s environment, forests, and 
other natural resources.  The increase in electricity tariff is not expected to lead to any significant 
shift towards fuelwood or polluting fuels, since electricity supply is unreliable and very little 
electricity is used for heating and cooking by low income families.  Nevertheless, this impact 
will be monitored.  The Government is committed to develop the regulatory framework and the 
institutions to protect the environment (Compact benchmark, 3.7). 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
80 
 Total 
80 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact:  
Stephane Guimbert 
 
 
 
Birgit Hansl 
Senior 
Economist 
   Economist 
The World Bank Group 
 
 
The World Bank Group 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
Tel: (202) 458-9030 
 
 
 
Tel: (202) 458-8131 
Fax: (202) 522-0356   
 
 
Fax: (202) 522-0356 
Email: 
sguimbert@worldbank.org
Email: 
bhansl@worldbank.org
