Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H295-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Programmatic Support for Institution Building  
Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 17, 2007  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H295-AF 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 17, 2007, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the 
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to fifty 
two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 52,900,000) 
(“Financing”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Anwar-ul Haq Ahady 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
/s/ Alastair J. McKechnie 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. The 
Recipient
’s cabinet has approved the budget for FY 1386 with due regard to 
sustainability in accordance with the Recipient’s medium-term fiscal framework.  
 
2. 
The Recipient has, as part of its public administration reform program:  
(i) approved through the PAR Steering Committee, a plan for implementing the 
Civil Service Reform along with the cost estimates therefor; (ii) recruited more 
than one thousand four hundred (1,400) senior civil servants through merit-based 
recruitment procedures; (iii) approved through PAR Steering Committee, an 
action plan for the improvement of the merit-based selection process used by the 
Civil Service Appointments Board; and (iv) made individualized salary payments 
to more than eighty thousand (80,000) civil servants. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has, as part of its public financial management reform program:  
(i) decreased the ARTF Ineligibility Ratio for Non-Wage Recurrent Expenditures 
to less than 0.26 for FY 1384; (ii) approved and adopted Ancillary Regulation to 
the Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law and the Procurement Law; 
and (iii) submitted to Parliament an audit report on the State Budget Accounts for 
FY 1385.  
 
4. 
The Recipient’s cabinet has prepared and adopted a policy to restructure state-
owned enterprises.  
 
5. 
The Recipient has: (i) submitted to Parliament for enactment a draft Corporations 
Law and a draft Partnership Law; and (ii) published in its official gazette the 
amendments to the Insurance Law.  
 
6. 
The Recipient’s cabinet has approved and implemented revised electricity tariff 
rates for the city of Kabul.  
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.   
Page  6
-
5
-
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
the Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the 
following two deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts”) on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank:   
 
(a)  
a deposit account in Dollar (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”); and  
 
(b) 
a deposit account in Afghani (“Local Currency Deposit Account”).   
 
2. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon each deposit of an amount of 
the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the Recipient shall 
deposit an equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit Account. 
 
D. Audit
.
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 21, 2008. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Afghani” means the currency of the Recipient.  
 
2. 
“Ancillary Regulation” means, in respect of: 
 
(a) 
the Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law: the public 
finance regulation published in the Official Gazette 893, dated July 27, 
2006; and 
 
(b) 
the Procurement Law: Procurement Rules of Procedures, dated April 12, 
2007, issued by the Minister of Finance pursuant to Circular 
PPU/C005/1386. 
 
3. 
“ARTF” means the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund established in  
March 2002, to support the Recipient’s recurrent and capital costs and to finance 
priority reconstruction projects and programs, which is administered by the 
Association and jointly managed by the Association, the United Nations 
Development Programme, the Asian Development Bank and the Islamic 
Development Bank. 
 
4. 
“ARTF Ineligibility Ratio for Non-Wage Recurrent Expenditures” means the 
ratio of: (a) non-wage recurrent expenditures ineligible for ARTF financing, to 
(b) non-recurrent expenditures submitted to the ARTF Monitoring Agent.   
 
5. 
“ARTF Monitoring Agent” means the independent firm contracted by the 
Association as administrator of ARTF, to monitor the procurement of goods and 
services, review and recommend approval of withdrawal applications and 
monitor all expenditures financed by ARTF grant funds.  
 
6. 
“Civil Service Appointments Board” means the board established by the 
Recipient pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Civil Service Law (Law No. 862), dated 
September 22, 2005, for purposes of managing the appointment of senior civil 
servants.  
 
7. 
“Civil Service Law” means the Recipient’s Law No. 862, dated September 22, 
2005. 
 
8. 
“Civil Service Reform” means the Recipient’s administrative reform plan for 
FY1386 though 1390 aimed at increasing the efficiency of its civil service, as 
approved by PAR Steering Committee on April 2, 2007.  
 
Page  8
-
7
-
9. 
“Corporations Law” means the Recipient’s draft law intended to regulate the 
establishment and administration of corporations in the territory of the Recipient, 
as approved by presidential Decree No. 99 and filed with the Parliament by 
Letter 4042. 
 
10. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the 
Local Currency Deposit Account.  
 
11. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
12. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1(a) 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
 
13. 
“FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, commencing on March 21 of each 
calendar year and ending on March 20 of the following calendar year.  
 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
15. 
“Independent Administration Reform and Civil Service Commission” means the 
Recipient’s reform commission established pursuant to Chapter 4 of the Civil 
Service Law. 
 
16. 
“Insurance Law” means the Recipient’s Law No. 289, dated December 21, 1974.  
 
17. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1(b) 
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
18. 
“PAR Steering Committee” means the Recipient’s committee chaired by the 
Chairman of the Independent Administration Reform and Civil Service 
Commission, responsible for overseeing the Recipient’s public administration 
reforms.  
 
19. 
“Parliament” means the Recipient’s 
Wolesi Jirga
 and 
Meshrano Jirga
.
Page  10
-
9
-
20. 
“Partnership Law” means the Recipient’s draft law intended to regulate the 
establishment and administration of partnerships in the territory of the Recipient, 
as approved by presidential Decree No. 100 and filed with the Parliament by 
Letter 4042.  
 
21. 
“Procurement Law” means the Recipient’s Law No. 865, dated 
 
October 25, 2005.  
 
22. 
“Program” means the program of actions (other than those referred to security 
and the rule of law), objectives and policies designed to promote growth and 
achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter 
dated April 2, 2007, from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its execution, 
such Program to exclude all aspects related to the promotion of security and rule 
of law. 
 
23. 
“Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law” means the Recipient’s Law 
No. 856, dated June 27, 2005.  
 
24. 
“State Budget Accounts” means the financial annual statements as defined by 
Article 55 of the Public Finance and Expenditure and Management Law.  
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through  
October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
Page  11
-
10
-
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
