Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
Rqert No. P-4187-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.5 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 20, 1985
IThis iocmmt a3 £ re'rkti iisfttribEm mimy be medby ereplemftos iya.thePefftornamue o
tbeir sUch doomlb Its  dmt -y nut othewise be dscodoed withoat Wodd Bank autboanutom-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of November 8, 1985)
US61.00         =  Rs 12.18
Rs 1.00         =  US$0.082
Rs 1 million    =  US$82,000
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 12.00, which represents the average exchange
rate at the time of anpraisal.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC     - Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation
AUDA    - Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority
GHB     - Gujarat Housing Board
GMFB    - Gujarat Municipal Finance Board
GOG     - Government of Gujarat
GOI     - Government of India
GSCB    - Gujarat Slum Clearance Board
HDFC    - Housing Development Finance Corporation
HUDD    - Housing and UTrban Development Department
HUDCO   - Housing and Urban Development CoDrporation, Ltd.
JMC     - Jamnagar Municipal Corporation
MOWH    - Ministry of Works and Housing
SMC     - Surat Municipal Corporation
TP      - Town Planning
4          TPVD    - Town Planning Valuation Department
USPMC   - Urban Stracegy and Project Management Cell
vMC     - Vadodara Municipal Corporation



FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
INDIA
CUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:     The Gujarat Housing Board (GHB); the Municipal
Corporations of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara (Baroda),
Rajkot, and Jamnagar and the towns of Jetpur, Palanpur
and Ankleshwar.
Amount             SDR 58.5 million (USS62.0 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard
Relending
Terms:             India to GOG: As part of Central assistance for State
Development projects on terms and conditions applicable at
the time.
GOG to GHB and Participating Local Authorities:
US$98.8 million at not less than 8.75% interest per annum
over 20 years including a 4 year grace period. The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government of
India.
Project
Description:       (i)  Area Development Program: The construction and
financing of about 14,000 serviced residential and small
business plots, including community facilities on 7 sites
in 5 cities benefiting about 79,000 people.
(ii) Town Planning Schemes: The provision of serviced
land for residential, small business and community
usage in 3 rapidly growing cities benefiting about
325,000 people.
(iii) Slum Upgrading Program: Upgrading of about 250 ha
of slum areas in 5 cities, and in the area East of the
City of Ahmedabad including the provision of tenure,
improved infrastructure, home improvement loans and
community facilities, benefiting about 300,000 people.
(iv) Solid Waste Management: The provision of equipment
for the collection and disposal of solid waste in 5
cities.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their ofwicial duties. Its comnenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authDrization.



-ii-
(v) Urban Infrastructure: The provision of storm
drainage to 2 cities, secondary sewerage to 2 cities,
and water supply and a trunk sewer for the East
Ahmedabad area.
(vi) Technical Assistance and Training: The provision
of technical assistance and staff training to improve
the technical, financial, and managerial capacity of
participating agencies to plan and implement urban
development schemes.
The project is complex involving a number of implementing
agencies. Measures taken to minimize the risk of delay include the estab-
lishment of an Urban Strategy and Project Management Cell, and the advance
acquisition of land for the area development (about 8OZ) and slum upgrad-
ing (about 70Z) components of the project. With these measures, and a
close monitoring of project implementation, a timely completion of the
project would seem feasible.
(US$ Millions)
Estimated Costs                                Local      Foreign     Total
Area Development Program                        9.3         1.3        10.6
Town Planning Schemes                           9.2         1.3        10.5
Slum Upgrading Program                          8.3         0.7         °.0
Solid Waste Management                         10.3         1.8        12.1
Urban Infrastructure                           36.2         5.4        41.6
Technical Assistance and Training               2.3         0.1         2.4
Total Base Costs                           75.6        10.6        86.2
Physical Contingencies                      5.1         0.7         5.8
Design, Supervision and Management              5.7         0.5         6.2
Price Contingencies                        28.3         4.0        32.3
Total Project costs 1/                    114.7        15.8       130.5
1/ Includes US$6.5 million of duties and taxes.



-iii-
(USS Millions)
Financing Plan 1/                               Local     Foreign      Total
IDA Credi.                                      46.2       15.8         62.0
COG Loans/Grants/Direct Expenditures            41.4        -           41.4
Authorized Market Borrowings by
Implementing Agencies                         23.0        -           23.0
Implementing Agency Contributions
(Land and Down Payments)                      4.1         -            4.1
114.7       15.8        130.5
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
IDA FY           FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90     FY91     FY92      FY93
Annual            5.0       8.7      9.9      10.5     10.5      i3.7      3.7
Cumulative        5.0      13.7     23.6      34.1     44.6     58.3      62.0
l/ Includes US$6.5 million of duties and taxes.
Rates of Return: For area development components,
town planning schemes and the slum upgrading program
about 13%, 29%, and 17%, respectively.
Appraisal Report: No. 5565-IN dated November 26, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 58.5 million (US$62.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a project designed to
improve the provision of shelter and urban services in a number of cities and
towns in the State of Gujarat and to strengthen State and local institutions
involved in urban development. The proceeds of the credit would be channeled
to the Government of Gujarat (GOG) in accordance with the Government of India's
(GOI's) standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State development
projects. GOG will relend the proceeds of the credit to the Gujarat Housing
Board and participating local authorities at not less than 8.75% interest per
annum over 20 years, including 4 years of grace. The proposed relending rate
is comparable to the current rates of interest charged by financial institu-
tions in India on loans for similar purposes. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 760 mil-
lion (in mid-1985) and an average per capita income of about US$260.
Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, accounting for 36Z of GDP, 23%
of exports and about two-thirds of employment. The steady increase in
population, which continues at a rate of 2.2% a year, has put increasing pres-
sure on natural resources, in particular cultivable land. By the mid-1960s,
nearly all productive land had been brought under cultivation. While irriga-
tion continues to increase total cultivable area, an increasing share of the
labor force will have to be absorbed in non-agricultural activities.
Industrial development has not progressed rapidly enough to provide employment
opportunities for the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result the long-term growth of per capita income has only averaged about 1.4%
p.a. and close to one-half of India's population continues to live below the
poverty line. The pervasiveness and intensity of poverty is such that its
alleviation has been and remains at the core of India's development strategy.
1I/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Second National Agricultural Research Project
(No.P-4154-IN), dated September 26, 1985.



-2-
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was generally
characterized by slow economic growth, moderate inflation and a sustainable
external position. GDP rose at about 3.5%, with agriculture and industry
growing at 1.8% and 4.8Z respectively; imports increased by 4.6Z and exports by
5.8% a year. india was abLe to reduce its dependence on foodgrain imports from
a peak of 14% of total foodgrain consumption in 1966167 to 4.5Z by 1969/70
through improvements in agricultural production, but progress in poverty
alleviation was slow mainly because of continued high population growth.
5.      In the early to mid-1970s, in response to a sharp deterioration in
India's terms of trade, the Government introduced various policy measures
designed to stimulate exports. This resulted in a Large increase in export
growth to about 7.3Z per annum in the 1970s compared with only 2.2% per annum
between 1950/51 and 1969/70. While expanding world markets, particularly in
the Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported
inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role. The success
in the export expansion effort coupled with continued import substitution,
particularly of foodgrains resulted in a surplus on current account between
1976/77 and 1978179, which was further enhanced by increased concessional aid
flows. India was thus in a relatively favorable position to deal with the
increases in international oil prices, the sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade and a series of poor harvests. The comfortable foreign exchange position
also played a major role in the Government's decision to initiate import
liberalization.
6.      Towards the end of the 1970s, India again faced considerable domestic
difficulties. In 1979/80 it experienced one of the country's worst droughts
which caused a large reduction in agricultural production. In addition,
industrial production, plagued by labor unrest and a vicious circle of supply
shortages (coal, power and transportation), failed to expand. These events
coincided with a second round of international oil price increases. As a
result, the current account reverted to a deficit position and the remarkable
price stability chat the Indian economy enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt
end. The Government responded by mounting an adjustment program, which was
embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85). The program aimed at
raising the GDP growth rate from its historical level of 3.6X to 5.2Z per annum
while adjusting the country's external balance to the adverse price develop-
ments in world markets. The major elements of the program were alleviation of
infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy independence, improved
efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and efficient import
substitution.
Economic Performance Under the Sixth Plan
7.      Overall the Government's adjustment program has been effective despite
the severe drought in 1982/83 and a worsening of the external environment in



-3-
the early 1980s. During the Sixth Plan period, GDP grew by 5.1% per annum, 1/
well above India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%.  However, overall growth
during the first half of the 1980s has not been steady, mainly because of the
effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production. In 1980/81 and 1981/82,
the economy substantially recovered from the 1979 drought, with real GDP grow-
ing by 7.6% and 5.32, respectively. The recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15Z in
1980/81 and 5.5% in 1981/82. A severe drought in mid-1982 brought the economic
recovery to a halt. Agricultural output decLined by 4Z, which in turn reduced
GDP growth to only 1.8%, and put further strains on the balance of payments
and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of various economic
policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and distribution, and the
increased allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the adverse effects
of the poor monsoon. An excellent monsoon combined with satisfactory perfor-
mance of the infrastructure sectors, in particular coal and transport, led to a
recovery of the economy in 1983/84. Agricultural output rose by 9Z, industrial
output by 4.5% and overall GDP by 7.4%. The power sector, however, emerged
again as a constraint on higher growth, especially in industry. In 1984/85,
despite a mediocre monsoon and difficult political circumstances, the aggregate
growth of the economy is likely to range between 4 and 4.5%.
8.      During the Sixth Plan period, foodgrain production continued to grow
at an average annual rate of 2.6% a year-sufficient to maintain a broad
balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic demand. The progress
achieved is an indication of the effectiveness of programs to expand
irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage efficient use of other agricul-
tural inputs which are being implemented. Bountiful harvests have led to
record foodgrain stocks in recent years. Over the past year, Government held
stocks have increased by more than 40%. Maintenance of ample, balanced operat-
ing stocks to ensure smooth operation and even expansion of the public dis-
tribution system remains a top priority of Indian agricultural policy. Yet,
the financial cost of foodgrain storage and subsidies represent a rapidly
growing burden on the budget.
9.     Growth of the industrial sector during the Sixth Plan period was slow
and uneven.  Industrial growth averaged about 3.4Z a year-below the growth
rates achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. An inadequate policy environment,
coupled with depressed domestic demand, power and raw material shortages, as
well as labor unrest are the main causes for the slower than anticipated growth
of the industrial sector. After the severe drought in 1979/80, manufacturing
output grew at 1.7% in 1980/81 and 3.3% 1981/82. The drought in 1982/83, which
led to widespread shortfalls of agro-based raw materials and a sharp drop in
the demand for consumer durables, combined with a prolonged textile strike in
Bombay, reduced the growth of industrial output to 1.7% in that year.
Following the excellent monsoon in 1983/84, industrial output gained momentum
1/ Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984185 period was 5.1% per
annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because
of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5Z GDP growth per annum
and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983/84 (two "normal"
years) are more representative of the growth rates during the period.



-4-
and grew by 5.0Z. Preliminary estimates place the growth of the manufacturing
sector at about 5.5Z in 1984/85.
10.     The performance of the infrastructure sectors was mixed under the Sixth
Plan. While electric power generation, coal production and railway traftic
grew by 8.7Z, 6Z and 2.5% a year respectively, oil and gas production increased
by 22.6%. The rapid expansion of domestic oil production is largely the result
of India's oil development program. Backed by substantial financial
commitment, performance under the program has been excellent with real invest-
ment and oil production levels running well ahead of Plan targecs. In 1984/85
domestic oil production is estimated to have reached 29.4 million tons. While
the gap between domestic consumption of petroleum and Production remains large,
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to
30% in 1984/85. About two-thirds of current output comes from offshore fields
around Bombay High. As most of these fields have now reached their mature
stage, further increases in domestic oil production will have to come mainly
from new discoveries.
11.     India's economy has reverted from a situation of a resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit during the Sixth Plan period.
The gap between gross investment and national savings increased from negligible
levels to an average of 2.1Z of CDP in 1980-85. Gross domestic capital forma-
tion increased from an average of 22.6Z of GDP in 1975-80 to 24.7Z in 1980-85
while gross national savings reman,i;d constant at an average of 22.6Z of GDP in
both periods. The increase in capital formation mainly resulted from an
increase in the public investment rate, but it was largely a financial rather
than a real phenomenon since prices of investment goods increased considerably
faster than the general price level.
12.     The basic thrust of fiscal policy during the Sixth Plan was to provide
sufficient resources for growth and planned investment while maintaining infla-
tion under control. However, the Sixth Plar period was characterized by sig-
nificant budgetary resource constraints. Despite massive additional resource
mobili'ation efforts, public sector deficits exceeded 7Z of GDP as compared to
only 4-5% of GDP during the mid-1970s. The shortfall was met by additional
market borrowings, both domestically and from abroad and by deficit financing.
Major reasons behind the large deficits were continued lusses by most
departmentally-run undertakings, unsatisfactory performance of the two major
non-departmental undertakings of the States (the State Electricity Boards and
the State Road Transport Corporations), and the increasing importance of sub-
sidies which are estimated to have reached 2.8% of CDP in 1984/85. Of these,
fertilizer accounted for more than 0.8% of GDP, and food subsidies nearly 0.5X
of CDP.
13.     Developments in the savings-investment balances were mirrored in the
balance of payments. Thus, India's current account balance, which had recorded
surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging
US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during 1980-85. Several developments con-
tributed to these relatively large deficits. First, the terms of trade
deteriorated sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases
and continued to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s.
Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued.
Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittan-
ces stagnated (reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and



-5-
payment of interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Fourth, export
growth was sluggish partly due to growing domestic demand, and, perhaps most
significantly, due to depressed foreign markets and prices. Faced with a
growing need for external capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of
concessional assistance, India drew SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended Fund
Facility of the IMF and borrowed significant amounts on commercial terms from
the Euro-dollar market and increased the use of suppliers' and export credits.
14.     Price performance during the Sixth PLan period has been mixed.  The
overall improvement in economic performance in the early 1980s, combined with
more restrictive monetary policies in 1981/82 and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp
decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices declined
from 18Z in 198G/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83. The lagged effects of shortages
of foodgrains in 1982/83 and of other agricultural products and industrial
goods in 1983/84 coupled with a rise in the domestic cost of imports and rapid
liquidity growth, gave a boost to inflationary pressures towards the end of
1983/84. The annual average growth of wholesale prices rose to over 9% in
1983/84, and the rate of growth of consumer prices exceeded 12%. In September
1984, the Government took a number of measures to dampen pressure on prices
including increased imports of important agricultural commodities (sugar, jute,
coconut oil and others), releases of sugar stocks for distribution through fair
price shops, and a reduction in wheat prices for flour mills. These measures,
together with a decline in cereal prices as a result of the bumper crop in
1983/84 and a generally restrictive budgetary policy, led to a slowdown in the
rate of increase of wholesale prices to about 7.1Z in 1984/85.
15.     Developments in the Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore the
progress that has been made in recent years towards accelerated GDP growth,
external adjustment, and increased investment. The experience of recent years
illustrates that India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid
pace. It is a tribute both to the fundamental soundness of key policies and
programs, particularly in agriculture, and to the strength and effectiveness of
public administration, that neither the serious political disturbances in
Punjab, nor the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, resulted in
significant disruptions to the performance of the economy in the last year of
the Sixth Plan. But the results during the Plan period also highlight the
disappointing performance of industry, the continuing shortfalls in electric
power generation, the rising public sector deficits, the importance of regain-
ing and sustaining momentum in export growth and the need for continued prudent
economic management so as to avoid a resurgence of inflation while genernting
adequate resources for development. This mixture of achievements and _hallen-
ges provides the context for an assessment of deveLopment prospects and
policies.
Development Prospects and Policies
16.     To deal effectively with its dual challenges of alleviating pervasive
po-rerty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor force, the
Seventh Plan is expected to aim at sustaining an annual rate of growth of GDP
of at least 5%. The Seventh Plan which will Lay down the development strategy
for 1985/86-1989/90 is also likely to continue the emphasis on agriculture,
energy development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where
economically justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks.



-6-
17.     Achieving a GDP growth of around 5X a year will place heavy demands on
policy adjustment and entail major challenges. India will need to:
(a) maintain the recent higher rate of expansion of agricultural production;
(b) accelerate industrial production and export growth through policy changes
which enhance competitiou and efficiency; (c) expand supply capacities in the
economy by improving basic infrastructure services and the availability of
energy; (d) improve the efficiency with which resources are used, including
particularly the existing-capital stock in infrastructure and industry; and
(e) further improve the already high resource mobilization effort.
18.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth Plan,
Indian agriculture faces many challenges in the second half of the decade. As
possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink, agricultural growth will
depend on finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land through
further development of irrigation, better water management, more intensive use
of new technology, efficient delivery of inputs and services, and appropriate
pricing policies. High priority must be given to the expansion of the
country's irrigable area through completion of ongoing irrigation projects, as
well as selective investment in new undertakings. Besides creating new irriga-
tion potential, the efficiency of irrigated farming will have to be enhanced
through the improvement of water management practices in existing irrigation
systems. Greater emphasis should also be given to obtaining higher yields
under rainfed and dryland farming conditions. Finally, even greater efforts
must be made to build and strengthen institutions to ensure the efficient
delivery of agricultural services, input supplies, credit and technology.
19.     Industry and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's GDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production and export
growth to be attained through improved productivity and efficiency. A key
requirement will be greater competitive pressure on industry than has been the
case in the past. The size and domestic orientation of the Indian economy make
it necessary that this competitive pressure come mainly from within the domes-
tic economy. An important complement, however, will be greater exposure to
foreign trade to stimulate domestic competition as well as to induce tech-
nological innovation and modernization.
20.     To increase domestic competition, domestic policies will need to allow
.reer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater reliance on
market price signals. While the Government has taken various initiatives in
the above directions during the past several years, the most significant were
announced in the context of the 1985/86 Budget. These include the broadening
of licensing categories for certain industries, delicensing for others,
increases in the size limits for MRTP l/ and small-scale industries, reductions
in the incentive for small-scale industries to stay small and various initia-
tives to stimulate efficient indigenization of 'sunrise' industries (energy
exploration equipment, computers, telecommunication equipment, motor vehicles
and parts, general electronics). These are significant advances that need to
be sustained in future years.
1/ Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969.



-7-
21.     Changes in external trade policy will also be required to stimulate
export growth which is essential not only for current financing of imports, but
to enhance borrowing capacity, to service debt, to provide an impetus to the
economy from the demand side, and to expose entrepreneurs to the quality-
consciousness of competitive external markets. While some changes have been
recently introduced, there remains a need to: (a) provide greater access to
imported inputs and capital goods through continued import liberalization
(b) review tariffs, eliminating anomalies and lowering their overall level; and
(c) modify trade policies in such a way that the net impact of incentives is
more neutral between exports and import substitution.
22.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently con-
stitute about one-third of total investment in India, and the efficiency with
which these investments are managed has an important bearing on the efficiency
of total investment and the growth rate of the entire economy. There is sub-
stantial evidence that better planning and management of public investments in
power, coal, railways and irrigation could improve returns and lower the cur-
rent capital-output ratios. For example, more efficient use of investment
could be achieved by better water management in irrigation projects, improved
load factors in thermal power generation, better capacity utilization in the
fertilizer industry and improved efficiency in railway transport.
23.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6% in
1980-85) is already high for a country at India's level of income.
Nevertheless, the investment required to sustain the relatively high CDP growth
rates realized during the Sixth Plan period-while holding foreign savings as a
share of GDP at prudent levels-will require some further increase in the
aggregate savings rate especially in public savings. Because there will con-
tinue to be well-founded demands for expansion of current and capital expendi-
tures in the public sector, the burden for a reduction in the savings invest-
ment gap has to be put on the revenue side. Increasing tax rates beyond their
current high levels would be counter productive. Thus, economically efficient
pricing policies in public enterprises, supported by improvements in their
operational efficiency, are to be preferred over tax increases as vehicles for
increased public resource mobilization. The sheer size of past and present
pubLic enterprise investment indicates that if proper returns were made even
only a part of them, an increase in revenues of about 3% of GDP would be
attainable. In a number of sectors, e.g. thermal power, railways, and
fertilizer, concerted efforts are being made-with Bank assistance-to increase
efficiency and reduce costs. These efforts need to be improved and expanded
into new areas.
24.     Balance of Payments.  A policy of sustained GDP growth of 5% per annum
will need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable balance of
payments position. AcceLeration of industrial growth will lead to a substan-
tial increase in import requirements, even after allowing for continued import
substitution of key bulk commodity items. Bank staff estimates place the
export volume growth necessary to support these growing import requirements
without excessive increases in external borrowing at about 8% a year over the
Seventh Plan period. Prospects for India to attain the needed higher export
growth rates appear to be reasonably good because India's share in total world
exports in value terms is only about 0.4Z, leaving ample room for growth.
Furthermore, India's exports are relatively less sensitive to fluctuations in
demand in the OECD industrial countries because exports are well diversified



-8-
with respect to both products and markets. Nevertheless, success in India's
export drive will depend heavily on changes in domestic policy to improve the
supply and profitability of exports.
25.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to need
substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the
foreseeable future. Even with 8Z export growth, the 5% GDP growth implies an
increase in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to US$34.5 billion
between the Sixth and Seventh Plan periods. In che past, the bulk of this
financing was provided in the form of official development assistance. In more
recent years the availability of concessional assistance to India has declined.
Total bilateral grants and concessional loans declined from a level of about
US$1.3 billion per annum over the years 1979/80-1981/82 to US$1 billion in
1983/84. Moreover, there was a Large deterioration in the terms of aid from
multilateral sources. For example, while total lending from the Bank Group
continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant element declined from 71% to
41% as new conmitments of IDA declined from a peak of $1,535 million in FY80 to
$673 million in FY85.
26.     In the event that official development assistance does not increase
significantly from recent levels, nearly the full additional financing required
would have to be provided from additional non-concessional borrowing from
official and commercial sources. This will increase India's debt service ratio
from the present level of 15.5% to 21.6% by 1989190. Provided India can in
fact, expand export earnings along the lines described earlier, and provided
India's past record of prudent borrowing and debt management continues, the
country should be able to raise the projected amounts. While its foreign
resource requirements would be manageable, the increase in its external debt
exposure would leave it with little cushion to deal with unfavorable even-
tualities and with the risks of policy change.
27.     rn the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing,
including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth strategy described
earlier. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. While therefore a
greater rolume of both official concessional and non-concessional assistance
is warranted, concessional assistance, in particular, will be invaluable in
moderating the build-up in India's debt service burden. Apart from the quan-
titative arguments for concessional aid, there remains the imperative to assist
India in addressing the problems of pervasive poverty. While India is now
better placed than other poor countries to tackle its development problems, the
mobilization of additional resources to address poverty problems is heavily
constrained. Concessional assistance can also play a very important role in
relieving this constraint.
28.     SunMary.  India has demonstrated that it can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per annum. If the
rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0X growth
rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income
of 1.4Z per annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant dif-



-9-.
ference to the prospects of easing poverty in India. Development prospects
over the next few years will hinge on the extent to which the economy can be
brought into both internal and external balance, while at the same time achiev-
ing more rapid growth than in the past. This will require the continuation of
the current development strategy which assigns high priority to export
promotion, public finance discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and
investment in infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of external borrowing
and aid.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
29.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 84 loans and 174 development
credits to India totalling US$6,818 million and US$12,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,465 million has been
repaid, and US$5,909 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1985. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1985
totalled US$787 million, representing a decrease of about 27 percent over the
same period Last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1985.
30.     Since 1959, IFC has made 32 commitments in India totalling US$265
million, of which a total of US$145 million has been repaid, sold, terminated
or cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
March 31, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
31.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecoummnications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
32.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Seventh Plan. First, high priority
will continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India has made
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sus-
tained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute
to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural



-10-
extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assis-
tance will be provided for industrial development. Third, in line with the
stress which the Seventh Plan gives to the expansion and more efficient use of
basic infrastructure capacity and to the development of India's indigenous
hydrocarbon resources, the Bank Group will continue to provide substantial
support to the development of the energy, transport and telecommunications
sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban development and
other GOI basic social services programs for the poor will also continue in
light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lowering birth
and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year.
33.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in sup-
port of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank
economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in
part to the response of the aid community, India successfully adjusted to the
changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India continues to
require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the relatively
higher investment and growth rates achieved during the Sixth Plan period. As
in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include
the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital
gaoos because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as
agriculture and irrigation.
34.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5 billion
in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts &lready underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains seLf-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
35.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13Z of gross disbursements, and 12Z of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37%, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank



-11-
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debr was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As
of March 31, 1985 outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$18,288 million, of which US$5,909 million remain to be disbursed.
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,379 million.
PART III - URBAN SECTOR IN INDIA AND GUJARAT
National Urban Trends and Management
36.     In recent years, India's urban population has expanded rapidly.
Between 1971 and 1981, it grew at an annual rate of about 3.9%, from about 107
million (20.2Z of total population) to approximately 156 million (23.7Z).
According to the 1981 census, about 6OZ of India's urban population live in 216
cities of 100,000 people or more. An additional 12Z live in towns with popula-
tions between 50,000 and 100,000. If the present growth trend continues, half
of India's population increase during the next two decades would be in cities.
At present, approximately 40z of urban households throughout India are below
the absolute urban poverty threshold (about Rs 650 per month in 1984).
37.     A number of factors account for the slow expansion in the supply of
urban land, infrastructure and shelter to meet growing demands. These include
difficulties encountered by the public and private sector in acquiring land for
development, inappropriate planning and building regulations, inadequate provi-
sion of trunk infrastructure by local governments, rent control legislation and
an inadequate system of housing finance.  Furthermore, due to complex planning
and implementation arrangements involving a large number of agencies and costly
construction standards, the provision of municipal infrastructure (roads, storm
drainage, water supply, sewerage, etc.) and of municipal services (solid waste
manAgement, maintenance, etc.) is often limited. More importantly, municipal
budgets are seriously constrained due to low tariffs and limitations imposed on
the municipal taxation system, particularly on property taxes (see para. 46).
38.     The Central Government provides overall policy guidance in urban
development to the state governments through its Ministry of Works and Housing
(MOWH). MOWH has also been responsible for a number of centrally supported
urban development programs under the Fifth and Sixth Five-Year Plans.  The most
important direct central government invoLvement in the urban sector has been
through the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO), a semi-
autonomous Government of India (GOI) corporation that comes under the policy
guidance of MOWH. HUDCO provides a large amount of financing to state and
local agencies (Rs. 221 crores (US$184 million) sanctioned in 1982/83), about
80% of which is for urban housing and plot development. Apart from HUDCO,
other agencies of MOWH involved in the urban sector include the Town and
Country Planning Organization, the National Building Organization, the Central
Public Health Engineering and Environmental Organization and the National
Institute of Urban Affairs. Nevertheless, the formulation and implementation
of most urban development programs remain the primary responsibility of state
and local governments. It is at the state level that laws governing urban
planning and administration are enacted, and that most urban development



-12-
budgets are controlled. Although specific urban policies and programs may be
advocated by the Center, states differ widely in their approach to urban
development.
Urban Trends in Gujarat
39.     Gujarat is the seventh largest state in India covering a total land
area of approximately 187,091 sq. km., with a population of about 34 million
(1981 census). It is one of India's most industrialized states with its secon-
dary sector accounting for about 27% of output in 1980/81, compared with 22X
for all-India during the same period. Gujarat's per capita output in 1982 was
Rs 852 (in 1970/71 prices' compared with Rs 738 for all-India. It is the third
most urbanized state in India with 31% of its population living in cities and
towns compared to 24Z for all-India. Gujarat's urban population is currently
increasing at about 3.5% per annum. Almost 60Z of the State's urban population
reside in the corridor region stretching south from Ahmedabad towards Bombay
covering Gujarat's three largest cities of Ahmedabad (population 2,212,000),
Vadodara (Baroda) (744,000) and Surat (913,000). The balance live
predominantly in seven medium-sized cities in the eastern Saurastra region with
populations ranging between 100,000 and 500,000. At the present rate of urban
population growth (3.5% per annum), it is likely that the State's urban popula-
tion would double from 10.6 million in 1981, to about 21 million by the year
2001; more than 50% of this growth is expected to take place in the urban
corridor region.
Land and Housing Development
40.     According to an Urban Sector Memorandum prepared for Cujarat, 1/ public
agencies (the Gujarat Housing Board, Gujarat Slum Clearance Board, municipal
corporations, development authorities) acquire and develop land and produce
about 6,000 housing units per annum. This figure amounts to only about 10% of
the units required to meet the needs of the 60,000 new households added each
year to the urban population. Most of the units constructed are completed
units which require heavy subsidization of land, overhead costs and interest
rates (4Z-62) with the result that somewhat less than 50% of costs are
recovered in real terms. Since the subsidy elements come from a number of
sources, it is difficult to fully quantify them for the State's public housing
program. These subsidies, however, account for the large deficits run by
development agencies such as the Gujarat Housing Board. The cooperative and
private formal sectors also contribute to the supply of housing providing about
three times (about 30%) the amount produced by public agencies, while most
needs (about 60Z) are met by informal development. The growth of slum areas in
Ahmedabad has averaged abour 7.7% per annum over the last decade, as compared
with Ahmedabad's total population growth of about 3.72. The lack of access to
suitable land (para. 42) is the most serious constraint to the provision of
shelter by both the public and private sectors.
1/ India-Gujarat Urban Sector Memorandum, Report No. 4729-IN, February 23,
1984.



-13-
41.     A fundamental shift in the strategy for land and shelter development
is required if Gujarat is to increase significantly the supply of affordable
shelter to meet the needs of its growing urban population. It would entail
public sector agencies concentrating on the provision of developed land, espe-
cially for low income groups and small businesses. Land development schemes
could also be designed much more efficiencly, with up to 50% more saleable land
and with differential pricing arrangements that could result in a reduction of
plot prices for low income households by up to 50X, thereby eliminating the
need for subsidies. Most house construction and a much larger proportion of
land development would, under these circumstances, be undertaken by the private
sector. Where land is available, housing has been financed by the Gujarat
Cooperative Housing Finance Society 1/ (GCHFS),. the Housing Development Finance
Corporation (HDFC) 2/ (which has recently begun operations in Gujarat), and
directly from private savings.
42.     In order to provide for an increased supply of serviced land and
shelter, existing constraints to private investment (e.g., rent control, land
development regulations, etc.) would need to be relaxed. Fortunately, in most
cases, actuaL rents in Gujarat have risen higher than controlled rents. Also,
the effects of rent control on the property tax have been mitigated by a par-
tial delinking of property valuation from rent control (see para. 46).
Nevertheless, the effects of rent control in Gujarat would still need to be
studied in depth and measures taken to diminish its most negative aspects and
to phase it out altogether. Continued movement in this direction is envisaged
under the proposed project (see para. 50).
Town Planning (TP)
43.     TP schemes in Gujarat have been used to develop land, mainly for
private sector housing. Some 59 schemes have been implemented during the past
10 years involving 10,000 hectares or more in 20 cities. Where areas are
designated for TP schemes, local governments may acquire land for public pur-
poses (e.g. for roads, parks and commercial areas) and readjust the size of
private plots to fit the new layout. Basic infrastructure is provided, and
landowners are charged a betterment fee. Such schemes are usually subsidized
from about 50Z to 90% of costs depending on the type of infrastructure
provided. Cost recovery on TP schemes is inadequate for a number of reasons.
The formula used to calculate betterment fees does not provide for cost escala-
tion during scheme processing and implementation; no allowance is made for
recovery of the cost of off-site infrastructure; below market interest rates
are used and only limited amounts of land are recovered by local authorities
for leasing purposes. Increased cost recovery is possible in such schemes
through improvements in the design of road networks and infrastructure which
would result in enhancing the value of the land to be acquired and leased as
commercial areas. There are long delays in processing and implementing TP
schemes (often 5 to 10 years), and it is possible to reduce this period without
limiting rights of public appeal. Despite their problems, TP schemes do play
1! GCHFS finances about 6,000 units per annum.
2/ HDFC was established with IFC support.



-14-
an important role in developing large amounts of privately owned land through
public/private sector collaboration, without requiring costly and time consum-
ing land acquisition. With some modifications, these schemes could be made
more effective. The proposed project would address this issue.
Municipal Services
44.     The most immediate problem facing municipal authorities in Gujarat is
the need to provide adequate services of all types to slum areas. The highly
subsidized clearance and redevelopment programs undertaken by the Gujarat Slum
Clearance Board (GSCB) cannot possibly help to resolve the problem of providing
adequate shelter at affordable prices in slum areas. About 6,000 housing units
were constructed by CSCB since 1975, compared to the growth of about 4,000 slum
househoLds per year in Ahmedabad aLone. Most local governments have begun to
recognize that the improvement of existing slums and the provision of legal
tenure is the only feasible means of helping to resolve this problem. ALthough
limited improvements have been effected in some areas, no tenure has been
granted, nor has there been any attempt to recover costs. Improved management
of solid waste (administration in city governments, work team organization,
collection methods, transfer points, disposal, etc.) is also needed. There are
serious storm drainage problems requiring immediate attention, especially in
Surat, where many natural drainage channels have been blocked by unplanned
development and improperly disposed solid waste. The problem of providing
adequate services in all cities throughout Gujarat is closely linked to local
financial resource constraints. Attention would be focussed on this critical
area in the context of the proposed project.
Water Supply and Sewerage
45.     The Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 1280-IN of
November 1982) is financing the augmentation of water supply services in five
cities. i/ Credit 1280-IN also provides for the improvement and extension of
the sewerage systems in the cities of Nadiad and Anand; the extension of the
sewerage system and treatment facilities in Ahmedabad, and the provision of new
sewerage to the cities of Rajkot and Savarkundla. The project also includes
rural water supply and low-cost sanitation components. With the exception of
the works for the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), all works are being
implemented by the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board (GWSSB). Credit
1280-IN provides for improvements in organization, financial management, and
operation and maintenance in the sector. Progress is being made in improving
cost recovery under this project. Tariffs have been doubled in all participat-
ing towns between 1981/82 and 1983/84. However, actual collections are lagging
due to delays on account of litigation following tariff increases. Pending
court actions are in the process of resolution. The towns participating under
Credit 1280-IN are required to cover the costs of operation, maintenance and
depreciation of their water supply and sewerage services through user charges
by March 31, 1988 and debt service (excluding depreciatioo) by March 31, 1993.
1/ The cities of Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Godhra, Nadiad and Anand.



-15-
Urban Finance
46.     Local governments are supported largely by revenues from the octroi
tax, l/ which account for approximately two-thirds of the taxes collected and
more than half of recurrent revenues. The prospects for generating increased
revenues in the future lie in the more effective use of the property tax, which
presently accounts for only 15% to 20Z of current revenues. Better property
raluation and collection performance could improve municipal revenues in the
short term. A more fundamentaL long-term probLem, however, is the limitation
imposed on increasing property taxes due to the linkage of property valuation
to controLled annual rental values. This problem was partially addressed
during project preparation through an amendment to the Municipal Corporations
Act which dispensed with the use of standard (controlled) rents for property
valuation purposes where actual rents are higher. Further action is needed,
however, to either completely delink property taxation from the constrained
valuation base or to phase out rent control altogether. Also, the Gujarat
Municipal Finance Board (GMFB) has a mandate to provide local governments with
technical assistance to improve their finances, but has so far played a limited
role in this respect. Under the proposed project, GMFB would be required to
play a more effective role in analyzing the options for municipal finance and
providing technical assistance and training to local governments.
Bank Group Role and Strategy 2/
47.     Over the past decade, the Bank Group's strategy for urban development
in India has concentrated on three of India's largest cities-Calcutta, Madras,
and Bombay. The first Bank Group-supported urban projects, in Calcutta and
Madras, financed integrated packages of urban services (i.e., sites and
services, slum upgrading, water supply, sanitation, and transport). Follow-up
projects in both cities have continued this pattern, although in Calcutta,
three general urban development projects have been supplemented by a project
focussed on a specific sector thrninh the Calcutta Urban Transport Project,
which supports a program of investments and policy measures designed to
alleviate the critical transport deficiencies in that city. In Bombay, a
sectoral approach has been followed from the beginning largely due to the
1/ A tax imposed on goods entering a city.
2/ Bank Group-assisted urban development projects include: Calcutta Urban
Development Project (Cr. 427-IN, approved in August 1973); Madras Urban
Development Project (Cr. 687-IN), approved in March 1977); Second Calcutta
Urban Development Project (Cr. 756-IN, approved in December 1977); Second
Madras Urban Development Project (Cr. 1082-IN, approved in December 1980);
Kanpur Urban Development Project (Cr. 1185-IN, approved in October 1981);
Third Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr. 1369-IN, approved in May
1983) and Madhya Pradesh Urban Development Project (Ln. 2329-IN, approved
June 1983). Sector-specific projects in major Indian cities include:
Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 390-IN); Second Bombay Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 842-IN); Bombay Urban Transport Project
(Ln. 1335-IN); Calcutta Urban Transport Project (Cr. 1033-IN); and Bombay
Urban Development Project (Cr. 1544-IN).



-16-
strength of sectoral institutions and the Lack of a strong regional development
authority to prepare and coordinate a multi-sectoral project. Urban projects
in Bombay were initially focused on transport and traffic management, and water
supply and sewage disposal. With the recently approved Bombay Urban
Development Project the focus has been broadened to provision of affordable
shelter and allied urban services. Following the approval of a project for
Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh in 1981, the Bank began extending its support to urban
development in medium-sizee cities in India. In 1983, a statewide project
approved for Madhya Pradesh provided for area development, slum upgrading,
improved municipal services, and institutional improvements in ten cities. The
Madhya Pradesh project involves HUDCO as a central-level financial and policy
intermediary. Water supply and sanitation projects also assist urban areas.
They have generally followed a Statewide pattern in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and the Punjab.
Experience with Past Lending
48.     All Bank-assisted urban and water supply projects in India have sought
not only to upgrade the level of urban services in India, but also to address
some of the underlying problems in the sector. The principal objective has
been to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of resource utilization and to
improve resource mobilization. Improvements in resource utilization have
included: (i) design changes in land development by public agencies (e.g., plot
costs per household have been reduced by 75%); (ii) the gradual shift of hous-
ing construction and finance from the public to the private sector; (iii) shift
of emphasis from slum clearance to upgrading with the provision of tenure to
encourage private investment; (iv) improved management of municipal solid waste
and maintenance operations; and (v) lower cost technology in sanitation. More
effective resource mobilization has included: (i) improved cost recovery, e.g.,
increases in interest rates from 4-5% to 12% in land development and shelter
projects, and substantial bus fare and water tariff increases; (ii) the intro-
duction of direct cost recovery in slum upgrading projects; and (iii) programs
to enhance general municipal revenues (e.g. through improved property tax
valuation and collections). The strengthening of institutions at the national,
state and local levels has been critical to achieving these objectives.
Project Completion Reports for the Madras Urban Development Project
(Credit 687-IN) and the Calcutta Urban Development Project (Credit 427-IN)
indicate that good progress has been made in achieving improved resource
utilization, while improvements in resource mobilization and institutional
strengthening are taking substantially longer than expected.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.     The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Gujarat (COG).
It was appraised in November 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
in October/November 1985, with a delegation representing the Government of
India (GOI) coordinated by Mr. C. K. Ramachandran, of the Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No.
5565-IN, dated November 26, 1985) is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.



-17-
Project Objectives
50.     The proposed project is designed to reduce the serious deficits in
urban shelter, infrastructure and services in the participating cities in the
State of Gujarat. More importantly, fundamental improvements would be sought
in the planning, management and financing of urban growth. These improvements
would include, inter alia, better resource utilization (e.g., significant
reductions in the cost of publicly provided land, infrastructure and shelter,
and more efficient land use in Town Planning (TP) schemes) and improvements in
resource mobilization (e.g.. increased interest rates in area development from
4X-5Z to 12Z, introduction of full cost recovery in TP schemes, and measures
for improving local taxation). To support these objectives, the project would
aim at strengthening administration, planning and financial management in local
government and state-level agencies in the urban sector. Measures would also
be taken under the proposed project to further address the rent control issue.
A Housing Strategy Study for Ahmedabad to be undertaken as a part of the
project would examine the effects of rent control on the supply of housing.
The results of the Study would be reviewed by COG, AMC and IDA by September 30,
1986, and a timetable for the implementation of recommendations agreed upon as
part of an operational Action Plan (para. 61).
Project Location
51.     Project investments would be primarily concentrated in the major cities
of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and Jamnagar. The new strategies used
and the institutions developed in these cities should in the longer term
facilitate the development of other cities in the State. Three medium sized
cities (Jetpur, Palanpur and AnkLeshwar) would also benefit under the proposed
project. These cities represent different regions with higher than average
population growth (average of 4.1% per annum during 1971/81, compared with 3.5Z
for all the cities of Cujarat). The rapidly urbanizing land to the east of the
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation area with its low income population (7.8Z
annual population growth compared to 3.7% in the entire Ahmedabad Urban
Agglomeration) would receive special attention under the project. Industrial
growth in this area has been rapid (8.5Z increase in industrial units per
year), and service deficits are acute, particularly the lack of proper drainage
for industrial effluents. The Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) has
prepared an investment and urban management strategy for this area that
includes a first phase investment program which would be supported under the
proposed project.
Project Description
52.     Area Development.  Under the project, about 100 hectares would be
developed in seven sites to provide about 14,000 serviced residential plots,
including about 3 hectares for small business plots. Ahmedabad, Vadodara,
Ankleshwar, Palanpur and Chodasar (E. Ahmedabad) would have one site each and
Surat two sites. ALl sites are located close to commercial and industrial
locations. The sites in Vadodara, Ankleshwar, Palanpur and Chodasar would be
provided with an independent water supply system, while those in Surat and
Ahmedabad would be connected to existing systems. All sites would be connected
to existing waterborne sewerage systems. About 80% of the land required for
area development at these sites has already been acquired by the respective
local authorities. A schedule for the purchase of the balance of land
(required after project year one) was agreed at negotiations.



-18-
53.     Emphasis would be on the provision of developed plots affordable to
low-income households and small businesses. About 68Z of the residential plots
would be affordable to households with monthly incomes below US$54 (about the
40th percentile). Efficient use of land would be achieved with an average of
about 65% of each site being made available for sale to the public compared
with about 40Z in existing projects in Gujarat. Appropriate lower-cost stand-
ards for infrastructure would also be used. Larger plots would be allocated to
applicants at market prices. Assurance were obtained that necessary planning,
engineering and building approvals would be given promptly by GOG to all area
development subprojects. Optional housing expansion loans would also be avail-
able to about 50% of the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) 1/ households and
25% of the Lower Income Group (LIG) households covered by the project.
54.     Town Planning (TP) Schemes.  Infrastructure would be provided in six
TP schemes that would include land readjustment on about 570 hectares. When
fully developed, the sites would accommodate a total population of about
325,000. The schemes would incorporate more efficient land use and infrastruc-
ture design than previous such schemes (see para. 43). The TP scheme mechanism
would be strengthened to achieve full cost recovery. Prior to negotiations,
GOG amended the Town Planning Act through an Ordinance to provide for improved
betterment taxation, allow local authorities to acquire and lease land for
business and mixed residential purposes, tie the interest rate on unpaid bet-
terment tax balances to a current bank rate (see para. 63), and include an
allowance for off-site infrastructure in the cost of such schemes.
Improvements in the procedure for scheme processing would be pursued by GOG
during project implementation.
55.     Slum Upgrading Program.  About 250 hectares of slums with about 300,000
inhabitants would be upgraded in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Jamnagar and
Jetpur, and in the area east of Ahmedabad. Basic services (water supply,
sanitation, roads, footpaths, drainage, street lighting) would be provided,
and residents given security of tenure. Since costs would be fully recovered,
the proposed improvements have been determined in accordance with the
occupants' ability to pay. The proposed program for Vadodara, Surat, Jamnagar
and Jetpur involve the upgrading of slums on government owned land. In
Ahmedabad, however, about 50X of the s:um areas are located on private property
which would be acquired under the project. The slum upgrading program would
provide tenure on a priority basis to slum dwellers registered in a 1976
citywide slum census. Community improvements would be provided and residents
charged a betterment taz.
56.     Solid Waste Management.  Improvements in solid waste management opera-
tions would be carried out in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot and Jamnagar
through independent solid waste departments, or sub-departments of Health
Departments in the participating cities as necessary. Existing methods would
be continued but with improvements effected to ensure higher labor productivity
and better management, collection, and storage of solid waste. Simple transfer
stations would be constructed where waste disposal sites are located at con-
1/ EWS and LIC households are those with incomes below Rs 600 per month.



-19-
siderable distances. More appropriate vehicLes and equipment would be
provided, and improvements would be instituted to ensure that existing land
filling operations meet required sanitary standards.
57.     Urban Infrastructure.  The sewerage network in Ahmedabad would be
augmented to ensure that trunk works under the Cujarat Water Supply and
Sewerage Project are fully utilized as early as possible. This measure would
help to reduce the overloading of existing sewers and facilitate linkages to
slum areas to be upgraded under the project. In Vadodara and Surat, storm
drainage works would be provided to alleviate serious flooding problems. In
both these cities, works are being planned as a first stage of longer-term
drainage plans. More economical drainage designs would be used than in the
past, and equipment and technical assistance would be provided to improve drain
maintenance.
58.     Infrastructure proposals for the East Ahmedabad area are based on an
investment pLan prepared by the Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA),
which includes the shelter and Land development proposals referred to above
(paras. 52-55). A trunk sewer and treatment plant would be provided to accom-
modate industrial wastewater and domestic sewage from East Ahmedabad's most
intensively developed area (about 70 sq.km). In addition, the water supply
systems in three densely populated settlements (Naroda, Saijpurbogha and Odhar)
in the East Ahmedabad area would be augmented through groundwater sources. The
settlements would also have sewerage facilities with provision for wastewater
discharge to the new trunk sewer to be constructed.
59.     Institutional strengthening.  Consultant assistance, equipment and
start-up costs would be provided to strengthen urban sector agencies. A major
thrust of the project would be to increase the capability of the Gujarat
Municipal Finance Board (GMFB) to improve the analysis of municipal finances
and to provide training for municipal employees. During project preparation
initial measures were taken to strengthen local finances, including a partial
delinking of property taxation from rent control, as well as the adoption of
administrative measures in Ahmedabad to improve collections. Minimum fees for
WaLer and conservancy were introduced prior to negotiations. Further measures
in these areas are contemplated to strengthen municipal finances. GMFB would
monitor the progress of implementation of these measures under the Action Plan
(para. 61). For Ahmedabad, these measures are expected to generate an addi-
tional Rs. 8.8 crores annually (about 7X of revenues).
60.     Consultant assistance would also be provided under the project for
strengthening the financial management activities of the Gujarat Housing Board
(GHB). The capacity of the Town Planning and Valuation Department (TPVD) would
also be strengthened, with a view to improving the processing of Town Planning
schemes. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) would be assisted in the
preparation of a long-term housing strategy. Other project agencies being
provided with consultant assistance for project preparation and detailed
engineering include the Municipal Corporations of Surat, Vadodara and Jamnagar.
Project Implementation
61.     At the state level, the Housing and Urban Development Department (HUDD)
would be responsible for overall project coordination. An operational Action



-20-
Plan has been agreed upon aimed at improving the efficiency and financial
viability of all project agencies. An Urban Strategy and Project Management
Cell (USPMC) established in HUDD under the Action Plan would undertake the
monitoring of project implementation and the review of urban development
strategies. USPMC would also be responsible for planning and monitoring
similar projects in the future. The responsibility for implementation of the
project components in the East Ahmedabad area would be with AMC whose jurisdic-
tion would shortly be extended to cover this area.  The responsibility for
implementing individual project components would be as foLlows:                               _
Project Management - HUDD, USPMC; GMFB (For Municipal Finance and
Training).
Area Development   - GHB (for Vadodara and Ankleshwar), Surat
Municipal Corporation (SMC), AMC, Palanpur
Municipality.
TP Schemes         - TPVD (for scheme processing), AMC, SHC,
Ankleshwar Municipality.
Slum Upgrading     - AMC, Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), SMC,
Jamnagar Municipal Corporation (JMC),
Jetpur Municipality.
Urban              - SMC, VMC (storm drainage), AMC (water supply,
Infrastructure       sewerage and trunk sewer).
Institutional      - GHB, TPVD, AMC, SMC.
Strengthening        JMC, GMFB
Project Costs and Financing
62.    The total estimated cost of the project is about US$130.5 million,
including about US$15.8 million (12x) in foreign exchange costs and an
estimated US$6.5 million in taxes and duties. The project components, net of
contingencies, consist of the area development program (US$10.6 million), town
planning schemes (US$10.5 million), slum upgrading program (US$9.0 million),
solid waste management program (US$12.1 million), urban infrastructure develop-
ment (US$41.6 million), and technical assistance and training (US$2.4 million).
Physical contingencies of US$5.8 million have been estimated on the basis of
10% and 15% respectively for detailed engineering and preliminary engineering
design for civil works. Approximately US$6.2 million has been provided for
design, supervision and management. Price contingencies (US$32.3 million) have
been added for both local and foreign costs at 8.5% for fiscal years 1986/87
through 1988/89, and 6% for fiscal years 1989/90 through 1992/93.
63.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$62 million would Einance about 50% of
total costs, net of taxes and duties. The balance of funding amounting to
US$68.5 million would come from COG (US$41.4 million), implementing agency



-21-
borrowings I/ (US$23.0 million) and agency contributions (US$4.1 million). The
Credit covers lOOX of estimated foreign exchange costs, and about 43Z of local
costs net of taxes and duties. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million
is proposed to cover eligible expenditures for consultant services and civil
works incurred after September 1, 1984. GOG would lend approximately US$98.8
million equivalent, incLuding the proceeds of the Credit to CHB and participat-
ing local authorities at an annual interest rate of not less than 8.75Z over 20
years, including a 4 year grace period, make available US$3.2 million to the
Local authorities and the other participating agencies as a grant for technical
assistance, and use US$1.3 million for the provision of community facilities
under the project. The remainder of costs (about US$27.2 million) would be
covered from the agencies' own resources and from authorized market borrowings.
The interest rate to final beneficiaries under the area development and slum
upgrading programs would be not less than 122 per annum for up to 20 years.
For town planning schemes, the interest rate charged would be two percentage
points above the current bank rate published by the Reserve Bank of India. 2/
Procurement and Disbursement
64.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items would be procured
under the project. About US$32.0 million, inclusive of contingencies, would be
spent on the procurement of goods, vehicles and equipment. Of this amount,
contracts totaling US$26.8 million for packages of major items such as solid
waste vehicles would ba awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement. In bid
evaluation, a preference margin of 15Z, or the current import duty, whichever
is lower, would be granted to local manufacturers. Other contracts for equip-
ment totaling approximately US$4.4 million would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA. These involve numerous small items (such as handcarts,
wheelbarrows, handtools and pipes) for which there are a large number of local
suppliers. They also include equipment for which locally available spare parts
and maintenance are important. The remaining equipment totaling about US$0.8
million which involves small items of a specialized nature costing under
US$50,000, would be fabricated by corporation workshops, or procured through
normal commercial channels after obtaining quotations from at least three
suppliers.
65.     Contracts for about US$73.5 million (inclusive of contingencies) would
be awarded for civil works. Major contracts under this category would be for
the trunk conveyance, treatment and waste water disposal facility in East
Ahmedabad (US$13.7 milLion). These contracts would be awarded on the the basis
of ICB. Qualified local bidders would receive a 7-1/2X margin of preference in
bid evaluation for these civil works contracts. A sum of about US$59.8 million
would be spent on the remaining civil works in the project. This would include
civil works for the area development program covering seven sites in six cities
1/ Authorized market borrowings from Insurance Companies, commercial banks
and other financial institutions.
2/ The current published Bank rate is 10 percent.



-22-
spread throughout the State. The largest contract would be for the area
development work on the site at Gorwa (US$3.4 million). Contracts for slum
upgrading would be small, spread over numerous slum areas in five cities and
phased over a five year period, while contracts for TP schemes would be for six
sites located in three cities. Civil works contracts for the solid waste
management component would also be small and spread over five cities. Given
the numerous and relatively small contracts to be carried out in 8 cities and
the simple, labor intensive technology to be used, the contracts for these
civil works components are not likely to attract the interest of foreign
bidders. They would therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB). 1/ Civil works for the urban infrastructure component consist of
several relatively small contracts which include drainage works in Surat and
Vadodara, sewerage works in Ahmedabad and water supply and sewerage in East
Ahmedabad which are also not likely to attract international interest, and
would therefore be subject to LCB.
66.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against: (a) 1002 of
expenditures for directly imported plant and equipment, or 100% of local expen-
ditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured plant and equipment procured
through international competitive bidding; and 39Z of expenditures on plant and
equipment procured locally; (b) 39Z of expenditures for civil works and home
improvement loans; (c) 100X of expenditures for technical assistance and
training. Disbursements for individual civil works contracts not exceeding Rs
600,000 (about US$50,000) for an aggregate value of Rs 10 million (US$833,000)
and for individual contracts for plant, vehicles and equipment not exceeding Rs
500,000 (US$25,000) for an aggregate value of Rs 10 million (US$833,000) would
be made against statements of expenditure for which documentation would not
be submitted to IDA but be retained locally for inspection during the course
of project review missions. All other disbursement claims would be fully
documented. Independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, would carry out annual
audits of all statements of expenditure.
Cost Recovery
67.     About 80% of total project costs would be directly recovered from
beneficiaries, .45% through payments received under the land development and
shelter components (area development, town planning and slum upgrading
schemes), and 35% through user charges on the water and sewerage components. A
further 18% for expenditures on municipa. services such as solid waste manage-
ment and storm drainage would be recovered indirectly through municipal
taxation. The remaining costs, amounting to about 2%, would go toward payments
for technical assistance and training, for which there would be no provision
for recovery.
68.     In area development schemes, land would be costed at market prices (up
to Rs 80 per sq.m compared to Rs 10 per sq.m typical in past projects).
Overheads would be included in the costs to be recovered. Beneficiary selec-
tion criteria, including income levels, the terms and conditions of lease and
1/ Improvements in GOG's LCB procedures (i.e., elimination of negotiations
after bid opening, unjustified bid slicing and the inclusion of price
adjustment provision for labor and materials) required for full compliance
with IDA guidelines would be effected as agreed with GOG during appraisal.



-23-
hire purchase arrangements for such schemes would be satisfactory to IDA and
would include, inter alia, an interest rate of not less than 122 per annum.
This rate is well above the 4% to 62 rate now charged in similar schemes and
would be positive in real terms. Cost recovery at this level wouLd be made
affordable through a system of differential land pricing with upper income and
small business plot beneficiaries paying higher than average costs. The design
and pricing policy proposed for this project is expected to demonstrate a
methodology for reducing the high levels of subsidy in land and housing
development which could be replicated in other such schemes.
69.     The high subsidies in Town Planning schemes would also be reduced with
the change in the basis of calculating betterment taxes, the inclusion of the
costs of off-site infrastructure, and the provision made for local governments
to recover a part of their costs in the form of land (which wouLd be acquired
for subsequent disposal) and to charge higher interest rates than at present
(see para. 54). These changes would also help to improve cost recovery in
other TP schemes not included in the project. Slum improvements have been
designed to be affordable with full cost recovery. The full cost of these
improvements, and the price of land would be recovered with an interest charge
of not less than 12%, representing the first direct recovery of costs in slum
upgrading schemes in Gujarat.
70.     Water and sewerage facilities in area development and slum upgrading
schemes would be taken over by local authorities and prevailing rates would
be charged to beneficiaries with individual connections. A minimum maintenance
fee for these services would also be charged to low income beneficiaries of
area development and slum upgrading schemes in accordance with established
income criteria. Cost recovery for the Abmedabad sewerage component and for
AMC's existing water supply services would be based on the agreements reached
under the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project (see para. 45). In the
poorer East Ahmedabad area where the water supply and sewerage works have yet
to be installed, all operation and maintenance costs including 501 of deprecia-
tion or debt service, whichever is greater would be recovered from the users of
these facilities by March 31, 1991 and a 100X of depreciation or debt service,
whichever is greater, by March 31 1993. To cover the cost of improved
municipal services (solid waste management and storm drainage), the project
includes a major program to enhance municipal revenues (see para. 46).
Benefits and Risks
71.     The proposed project would:  (a) ensure a redirection of  a significant
proportion of public investment in land, infrastructure and shelter towards
more efficiently designed low-cost replicable programs which would benefit low
income groups and small businesses; (b) help to focus public investment on land
development with full cost recovery with the private sector financing most of
the house construction required; (c) help to improve the planning and delivery
of municipal services and enhancement of municipal revenues to pay for them;
and (d) finally, strengthen state and local institutions involved in policy
formulation, planning and implementation of urban development programs. The
area development program would benefit about 79,000 people, about 75% of whom
fall below the poverty level. The TP schemes would benefit about 325,000
people about 50X of whom are below the poverty level (Rs 650 per household per
month) and the slum upgrading component would benefit approximately 300,000



-24-
people of whom about 95% are below poverty level. Investments in solid waste
management are expected to benefit about 4.5 million people about 50% of whom
fall below the poverty level. Over 4.3 million urban poor would benefit from
the project and about 63% of project costs would directly benefit poverty
groups. A weighted average economic rate of return of about 19% has been
calculated for components representing about 58% of project costs which
includes individual rates of return calculated for area development, town
planning schemes and slum upgrading program of 13%, 29% and 17% respectively.
72.     A major risk relates to the complexity of the project and project
management capacity. To minimize this risk an Urban Strategy and Project
Management Cell (USPMC) has been established at the state level with a reLa-
tively simple project management and flow of funds system. To avoid possible
delays in land acquisition, most of the land for area development and slum
upgrading is already in government hands (about 80% and 70Z respectively), and
a schedule for the purchase of the balance of land required for the project was
agreed to during negotiations.
PART V - B.ECOMMENDATION
73.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
November 20, 1985



ANNEX 1
T A a L t. 34                                    Page  1 of 6
F)1*1                - SOCIAL IhOICATU  BAm 
1I11)1                            URUIC GRL  CtIWNTROD AINAES) IN
MU STC bT KuNCU  abTUATs)J lb
UlM       I      lCtHSo         I      IIDUL:: INCO
19GOLb     :97d-t aalxrslllN       ABU & PACIFIC         ALA & NtI'LC
AM (Slu so. ml)
TOTAL                            3267.4     3287.4      3247.6
SRICILTRAL                       1763.3     1710.5     131 1.4
Mr NMWIT4 CMl)                     ..         ..       260.0             275.3                   1 1.1
-CuILOQIS 0 0IL P4UIVALRIT)    7'9.0       113.0      131.0             25.:                     Sb.b
_OAI  AIMVTTL SW      =
POPIILAflW.rnI-TIsI CT'SA) 431484.0   347349.0   733Z4L.0
URAN POPU1ATU  cs OP TOTA)        11.0        11.1       24.4              22.S                     33.9
~~~ ~~POPULATION nra tolls
POPDAUI lt TeA  24100 (HILLI                           ,4*4
LYATIONAW POQULkTII (Cll)                            1700.0
POPUIATIOt  MH3303                                      Las
PUFULATION 00KW
PCX m. i.                       132.3      143.6      223.0             173.8                    35t.y
PER SO. M7. ACEI. LAS           244.6      307.5      395.8             3533                    1591.2
POPULATON AGE STXTURIE (Z)
0-14 IS                         40.8       42.7       39.3              33.3                     35.2
15344 RS                        54.4        54.1       56.5              5.4                     57.7
b5 SD AN;M                        4.f        3.0        3.9               *.3                      3.5
1OIULTIOU Gwim  M= CZ)
TOTAL                             I.J        2.3        2.2               2.0                      2.3
11AM                             2.5         3.3        3.3               4.1                      4.1
CIeI tIC 1  RATE (Put Tum)        47.7        41.3       33.9              27.S                      0.1
OCDE DEATH   t (PL CPUM )         23.9        17.9       I2.5              10.2                     9.4
GRSS PWP'.JOUCTIOS RATE.            2.9        Z.9        2.3               1.7                      1.9
AtMXLY PLARIIN
ACC1m. Am    (CTIIC)             64.0     373.O   686.0 fe
USERS (S OF  ARRIC  u1E)          .,        11.7       37.0              49.4                     56.3
Iaun OFOOD MO D. uIa CeITA
(1969-71-1lO)                     95.0       102.0      113.0             113.4                    114-4
fER CAPlTA SUPLY W
CALORIES (I or  _AUISEN)        9n.0        91.0       n.0             I10.3                     115.7
PROTEIS (GAsa PMR DAY)          hl.0        50.0       50.0              40.1                    60.3
or WaICII AmaV AD an eL         17.0      1.0        13.0 Id           14.4                     14.1
autl  EACES 1-4) WAm RATE         26.3        19.7       11.0               73                      7.2
NTa
LIFE DXICr. AT 113231 (TEAS)      42.2        47.3       34.9              60. Se4.6
WNT mrT. am  CM lua)             165.0       139.0       93.0              69.2          ,4.9
ACCESS r13 SA  WATIXE (:pOP)
TTAL                              ..        17.0       41.0 Ic           44.2                     44.0
ChAsm                             ..        60.0       77.0 7            n.2                      5746
ERAL                             ..          6.0       31.0 a            34.6                     NI_1
ACc!S5 TO zx:P    DISMOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        18.0        4.0 I             7.5                     50.1
URB                              ..        83.0        27.0 Ti           28.8                     S2.9
URAL                              ..         1.0        1.7               5.5                     44.7
PuPMAlPT   P'l FStIAN           4650.9      468.0      2490.0 l          3318.0                   7751.7
-   P. PER 31RSIS 11ERSO3     10980.0 If  7420.0      0     i          469D.7                   ZAo.S
POP. PER HOSPITAL am
TOTAL                          210.0      14300       1290.0 la        11.39.2                  1112.1
CEDWA                            ..          ..       370.0P            299.1                    651.6
RURAL                            ..          ..     10410.0            6026.2                   251.9
ADeESSIOIS PER DiSPrTAL BED        ..          ..         ..               52.3                    41.1
AV:RJE SiZE oF BOUSENOLD
TOTAL                             5.         5.6
URsA                             i.2         5.6        ..
RURAL                            5.2         5..
AVERAGE MO. OF PERSONS/ROOR
TOTAL                             2.6        2.8
CRURA                            2.6         2.8
RItAL                            2.6         2.5
reAG o DOF      U.IIWtE  Wrly W=.
TOTAL                            ..          ..
URBAN                            ..          ..
RURAL                            ..



ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                        Page  2 of 6
INIA                  -SOCIAL IIDICATDRS oATA SHEET
IIDIA                               RUFERENCE GROUPS OlCICTD AVERAGES) /
mOST                    (MOST inCom  ESTIMTE) /b
l9601k            RECNSTT            LOW NCOME            111DL. INCOM
1960- " T IS   b        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA A PACIFIC
AWDETro ENROLLET RATIOS
PRI1ARY:  TOTAL                  61.0       73.0        79.0 /c          9Z.6                    100.7
MALZ                  60.0        90.0       93.0 T7          105.5                    104.4
FEOALE                40.0        56.0       64.0 T            79.3                     97.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                 20.0       26.0       30.0 /c            31.3                    47.8
NIAL                  30.0        36.0       39.0 7;           40.6                     50.6
FErAE                 10.0        15.0       20.0 7;:          21.9                     44.B
VOCAITOSL ( oI SECONDARY)           2.B        1.0        ..                3.2                     IB.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RAIO
PRIARY                           46.0       41.0       54.0 /c           38.0                     30.4
SrLODA                           16.0       21.0         ..               17.4                    22.2
PASSNGER CARS/YMUSAD POP            0.6        1.1        1.4 /b            0.9                     10.1
RADIO RECCIERSITBOUSAND POP        4.9        21.5       55.8              129.6                   172.9
TV RECEIVERSITOUSAND POP            0.0        0.0        2.9               19.8                    58.5
ZMESFAPER (DAMLT CUIER
INTREST") CIRO IAnOC
PER T0SAMW POPULATIO              10.6       16.2       19.4 /h            25.7                    65.3
CIMA ANNUEAL ATI1DAMCZICAF1T        3.2        6.2        6.6               6.0                      3.4
LAU1 NOVRG
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TOM)        185951.0   219194.0   284251.0
PENALE (PERCENT)                 30.7       32.5       31.4              33.2                     33.6
A*CItICLTURE (PERCT)M            74.0       74.0       71.0 /e           69.6                     52.2
INOuSMf (PERaEIT)                11.0       11.0        13.27             1S.8                   17.9
PARTICIPATO  RATE (PERCN)
TOTAL                            42.8       40.0       38.8               41.9                    38.9
MALE                             57.0       52.4       51.7               53.6                    50S.
FEMALE                           27.3       26.9       25.3               29.1                    26.3
EcOIUOIK DClEW    RATIO             1.1        1.1        1.1               1.0                      1.1
PCmsT OF nvD  U
RECEIVED BY
SxCET  5s Or NOOSEOLDS           26.7       26.3         ..
HIGHEST 202 OF IOSfI.D           51.7       4.9         ..                ..                       8.0
LOVS  202 Of nOOSEHOIDS           4.1        6.7 G      ''                ''                       6.4
lOWST 402 OF DUSOU               13.6       17.2 1       ..                ..                     15.5
ESTDIATD AIS.UXTE POVET IM30llR
LEEL (USS P  CAPIZA)
URBAN                             ..         ..        132.0 lb          133.9
RURAL                             ..         ..        11 W.07i          111.6                   151.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERT INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..          ..                ..                    177.9
RULAL                             ..         ..          ..              61.J                    164.7
ESTLIMT  POP. AELa1 A3012
PovEm  1a3 LEVL CS)
URBAN                             ..         ..        40.3 A             *3S                     23.5
RURAL                             ..         ..        50.7 7             51.7                    37.8
NOT UAnAI E
NOr APPLICABLE
11 O T 11 S
/a  Tb geouP avrge for each Indicator ae population-weighted aritbetic mean. Covera  of countriaa
among the ondicra depe  an availability of data ad is not nufome.
Ib  Unlsee otbezvla notod, 'DEta for 1960" refor to any yer betwem 1959 ad 1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Mot Recnt  atiuat" betwee 1981 and 1963.
/c 1960; 1d 3977; /a 1978; If 1962; & 1976; /A 1979; /1 1964-65.
UN.1985



ANNEX 1
DEFINmONS CIF SOaAL INDICATORS                                  rage      o f 6
Nota Akhough the dat are drwn frm io: genlly juded the nost autbotiive and relIable It should amo be noted that they may not be internationally
comparble bacoe of the tack of satardizd definkions and mumps ued by deilnt countie in adUocing the data. ihe dar am, noneheless. usfal to
deisnbe ordm erof naitudea indiae tiends, and rhacterie ramain mjor dilemm  bemn countdries
Tte reference groupsre a1) the samec ountry group  t he sbjet cony and (2) a coutry woup with smeas higher aver  Income than the country
group of the subject county (aezpt for HIbh lncore Oil Expnrs" group wher 'Middle Ineoe Nelth Afriic and Middle Eat is cosen bemuse of stronger
socio-cultural alilnitiud. In the referene group dat the averasre population weighted arithmetic mea fror eath indictor and shown only when majorily
oftahe countris in s grop has data for tbai lundiotk. Slcu the coverae of countrie amoig the indicat  depend on the availabily ordata and is pot uniform.
caution mst he eecise in relating avervaes atone indicatoe toanothe. lheea avernw are eony mweRl in comping the value crone indiator at a time among
the country and reference groups. 
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Cukd Ah RaRe (per heud)-Number or live brths in the year
Tetd-Total surface area comprising and area and inland waters:  pcr tbousand of mid-year population: 1960,1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Cmr   Death ae (per hsmsiand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agicnltmrl-Estimate of agricultural arca used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1933 dant
pmanently for crops, pastures., market and kitchen gardens or to  Grs RepadcJ  e Rht-Avcrage number ordaughiers a woman
lie rallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she emperiences
present agespecific fertfilty mtex asuaDly five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)--GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, cakulated by same conversiott method as Wol      Fx   fl          Ae,nw,F Anmal (Aeowandfl-Annual num-
Rank Arias (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                          berof acceptors ofbirth-ontrol devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                  family planning progam.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and  ignite,     FanCy PIasmlilg-Lsws (peanws ofn)-rd  wrnen-The prcen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dec-  rage of married women ofchild-bearing age who am practiLing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generly women aged 15-49, although for
some countres contracptve usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
rTtel Pbpslaio, Mi-Ye  (thosnds) -As of July 1; 1960. 1970,     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Ixp oa   of Fu td dfiwi nne. Par Cape (1969-71  10-0)-Index of per
Urba  ftpf.S   (pecen of ata)-tttioof ubanto ttal capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  e a  anal feed and sd for agicultur  Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.     includc primay commodities (eg. sugarane instead of sugar)
Popuhrle PJlrci-                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2WO-The projction or population for 20.      excluded); thcy comprie cereals. root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economny scparaty. Starting -with information on  vegetables, firuits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortalty rates, and  ivestock products Aggreate producion of each contry is based
international mnigation in the base year 1980. *bse prametes    on national average producer pnee weights; 1961-b5. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of geeralied  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             PA Caiydr Suppry of Calories (pwceflfs'nirensenrs) -Comput-
Staionary population-Ls one in which age and set-specifc mor-   ed from calorieequivalent ornet food supplies avitbt in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-secific  per capta per day. Ailable supplies comprise domcstic produc-
fertiity rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level    dion imnporcs less exports, and chmges in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate  l). In such a population. the birth rae is  exlude animal feed, seeds for usein agriculture, quantiti used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food procesing, and losses in distribution. Requiremnents wcre
constant, amd the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering envionmental temperature, body weights,
the population in tbe year 2100. and the ratt of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of popultion, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement levd.                                       waste at housebold level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Moomenrum--ls the tenkency for popudlanon growth to  Aw Cap" Suppy  f Prtoteinir (ramsper dayj- Protein content of
eontinue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility as been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply offood is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate ha mached  as above. Requirements for all countries esblished b  lUSDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the yar i Is measured as  provide for minimum allowancs of 611 grams or total protein per
a ratio or the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gamis of an&mal and pule protein, of which 10 grams
the year :. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards,are lower than those of
ment level from year r onvhard, 19S data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
fPpdhti- Deity                                                  averge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.bn.-Mid-year population per squarc kilomneter (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                Per Capt Prain Supply Fom Anbm  and Pie- -Protein supply
Per sqkm. agriculura houP-Computed as above for agricultural    offoodderivedfromanimalandpulsesingramsperday: 196165.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
lbpufonti  Aire Suture (percenrl-Children (0-14 years). vork-   CkW qes -4) Deat Rate (per Slussnd)-Number of deaths of
ing age ( 15-64 vears). and remi-ed (65 years and over) as percenage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 190,. 197(, and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derved
fPpuCuon Growh Rate rpereerjt-rf-Annual growth rates of         from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960.70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Populton Growth Rate (pen)-aran-Annual growth rates             Life Expectancy at lArk (yesi-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70w and 1970-83 data,     infant would iive tf prevailing patterns of mortality for all peopkl



ANNE 1
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its bL-M  were to stay the m  throusout itr life;  P*l& cr Ario - prbwy. m, d aeocdry-Toa students en-
1960. 1970 od 1983 data.                                     roled in prmary and    odayleelsb divided by numbes of
quw Mm'at Rate (per uhesend)-Number of infants who die    tecer in do corrsponding leves.
befoe reachng one year of ae per thousad live births in a ivn
year 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUmPnON
Acc4  to S;*  Wow (pfat of                    oriliwn, ed    PMAMq  Cer (per Mmmd psmlusiou)-Paenger car, coinm
ior1-Number of people (tol, urban, and  ) w       ouble      prim motor cr mdag bm than eight pero:u; ecludes snbul-
c     to sfe water supply (includs trated surfae wats or     anes. haru  and military vuteL
uitaled but unwoitinated water much a thit from p*ctod       Aa& Rwta    (per rlmdpopuhelmu-ANll fyps of reeiver
borehobs, sprinsp and sanitary wells) u pmntale of thur      for radio broadca to geea public per thosnEd of population;
tive populations In an uran am a public fountain or uandpost  escludes un-lkened receivers in cot ntries and in year when
located not more than 200 meter. ro  a hme may be cone       regtration of radio st was in deect; data for recent years may
as being wthin rasonble aum of that houeL In rural ars       not heco          msince m    cotri aooheod    licnsing                    -
rasonable aces would imply that the houeife or member of the
houslhold do not have to spnd a dsprportioae  pa of the day  JV AnIVW* (pa I        pep 2-iau-TV receivers for broadcas
in fetching the faisuwatrl,   a.                             to 0nerl public per touad poptladonu excudes uniensed TV
receivers in count   and in yawhen   ttion of TV et wau
Ace=s to Exeam DisVoal (presw  ofpepultion)-r.iul wmin       in effect.
ed rurd-Number of people (total, urban, and rural)  rved by  An
excrt disposal    peenta   of their repective populations    l*        Ck'edU (per  _        _dsnd,qpoill )lio    the aver-
Excreta disposa may indude the coDection and diposal. with or  aeF ciulation or daily _nel intems newspper," defined as a
without treatment, of human excretu and wae-water by water-  periodical publcaton devoted prinuriy to recording geral news.
borne sytem or the use of pit privies and simlar installtions.  It ucoddadd to be -da ily  it appea at last our thm  a week.
PopaWien per Pkyade-opulation divided by number of prcB      C1aim. Am_d Atkoimar per Cap& per Yem'BeDsed on the
tising physician qualified from a medical school at university  vel  number of ticke  sold during th year. including admisns to
fepai.ir per 19rlq Pesm-Fboulation divided by number of      drive-in Cilma aid mobie units.
practing male and female graduate nurse  asstant nurs,
pratcal nurms and nursing auxliaries                         LAKR FORCE
Popu_on per Reiie Aad              arbi , anual-1bpulation  r  opul Labor Feet (rhussD-Economically acve perons, in-
(lotaL urban, and rural) divided by their rsetve number of   cluding amd forces and unemployed but excluding houwive,
hospital beds available in public and pvate   and specialid  stu , et  cng poption of all   . Dinions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centeru Hospital    e im        venous countr  are not coruparabk 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
pennanetly staffed by at las one physician. Esbslients proe-  Fm             Fc      lbor fort u Percentage of total labor
ging principally custodial caue ame not inluded. Rural ospits,  fo
however, indude health and mecal centers not pemanendy stffed  A_uekw  (portl --Labor force in famuing. fosty, huntng
by a physician (but by a medical asisnt. nur  midwif ec)     and fishing as pewentge of tot labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offrr i-patient accommodatin  and provide a limited rane  da.tL
of medical f.iities.                                           A w (prmai)-Labor force in mining. construction, manu-
Adusssiem per legirel hi-Total number of admisions to or     factuing and electriity, water and gs as pecentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.     forez 1960. 1970 nd 1930 dataL
Pm*dpaties r (pmm_ -wl _m*,  tdnfiion
HOUSING                                                      or actviy rm  mm conputed as total, mal, and female labor force
A-rage Sze of Hfoie-       (posp tw  _ueke)-A   we           as perowtae ofr total male and femle population or aD ages
mwdrwra-A housholdnsists  of a groupofindividu  wboshre      respecvdr. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
hving quarters and their main meals. A boarder or bdger may or  partcipation rtsrfcingage-  ructueofthopon.and
may not be incuded in the household for sauiscal purposes.   long tume trnd. A few  tmtes are from national o s
A,ragr   Number of PmArw per Re,n-wad, mrif, .d nwaL--       Ecenmd D_pmdep Rui-Ratio of populaton under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rurl    65 and ovew. to the working ae popuation (thow  aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectvey. Dwellings exclude
non-pennar.ent structures and unoccupied parts.              IlCOME DISTRIUTION
Perceao  of Dwelir wkk EkcWk*-4orA wrm, end Po a-            ftmaq  of Toed 04isok bcaw (hwri wkh end kind)-
Conventional dwelings with eectr;city in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to pcenik  rowps of houeolds ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rual dwdElings respctively.        hold income
EDUCATION                                                    POVtMM  TARGET GlOUPS
Adjuted Ewomfiei Radios                                      The following esimates are very approxima  measures or pover
Nmar  .d, - toa,  m    and fm             totaL me and       leels and should be intepreted with coniderable caution.
femak enrollment of all ages at the primary vel as permntages of  EmilmosedA4seob PboePoy hlcer Lew# (Uf per espba)-worb
repect  prinmary school-a  populations. While many countries  Nd rwd-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 yas. others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequae diet plus esential
differences in country prartices in the aes and durntion of school  non-food requiments is not affordable
are reflccted in the ratios given. For some countries with univeral  Esa'mldPf Rai,e Po"  lucewd (e  pUS per coapla-ornbn
educaton. gross enrollment may exceed 1W0 prcent since some    d    -Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's sandard pnmary-scdiol  averge per capita pesol income of the country. Urban evel is
age.                                                         desived from the rural level with adjustment for higber cost of
Secondury school - r.,aI. mal and femak-Computed as abovS    !Wing in urban as.
secondary education requires at least four yeas of approved pri-  EsWo.ud Fbpd.rl  lelw Akse&e PAmty ae.s LeWl (pee-
mary instrucuon. provides ewraL vocanonal or teacher taining  cat-rhn raidru - Percent of population (urban and rund
instructions for pupiLc usually of 12 to 17 years o age correspond-  who am absolute poor
cane cmirocs are ncacally excduded.
Vocatiad Fnroldi (perent of secowary)-Vocational inctitu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Dvmsion
tions indude technical, industriaL or other progams which operate   Ecomic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of scondary institions.                              June 198S



AIE  I
Pag 5 of 6
ECOWNOIC D6VMJDPIUr DATA
CNP PER CAPITA Im 1983-4U260 */
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCr IN t983/84 kI                                      A         rF 0F GROWTH (. Constant Prices) a'
$55/6-59/60 60W61-64/65  65/66-69/70  70/71-74/75  75/76,79/80  80/81-82/83
US$ Dln.    E
COP at Market Prices            189.61    100.0                   3.7         3.6          3.7        2.9          4.1         5.1
Gross Domestic Inestmnt         45.94      24.0
Cross National Saving            43.17      22.7
Current Account aliaC            -2.17      -1.5
|   OUTPUT. lAD  FORCE AND PRoDUCTIVITY iD 1981
Value added (at factor cost)     Labor Force j    V.A. Per Worker
US5 32n.               1         Nil.             USe   z of Natioal Average
Agriculture                      52.5                 35.9        172.7    70.6    104         51
Industry                         34.5                 23.6         31.6    12.9   1092        183
Sir-ices                         59.2                 40.5         40.3    16.5   1469        24u
Total/Average                   146.2                100.0          244.6   1O. 0    598    1C0
COVERNtMEIT FINANCE
General Goverment e/                            Crntral Covtrsenc
Rs. Bln.           Z of GOP                  Rs. BlC.          S of CDP
1983/S      1983/84  1979/80-1983/84         1983/S4    1983/S      1979/60-1982/84
Current Raceipts                378.54         19.3          19.5            201.67        10.3           10.3
Current Expenditures            397.12         20.3          19.4            225.42        11.5           10.9
Current Surplus/Deficit         -18.58         -1.0           0.1            -23.75        -1.2           -0.6
Capital Expenditures fl         149.66          7.7           8.0            114.12         3.8            5.8
External A sistance Cat) d/      19.16          1.0           1.1
NDNEt. COtED!T AND PRICES       1970/71 1975/76  1978/79  1979/80  1980181  1981/82 1982183 1983184 January 1984 January 1985
(Rs Biltion outstanding at mad of period)
Money and Quasi Money           109.8    224.8   401.1   472.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   660.9          835.1         993.9
lank Credit to Covernmnt (net)   54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.8   407.7          403.1         483.9
BDak Credlc to Comnrcial Sector  64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   366.4   434.6   517.1   612.7          575.5         ' .0
(Percentage or Index Number)                      April-Ian 83/84   April-Jan 84/85
Money and Quasi Money as a A
of CDP                         27.3      30.3    41.1    44.1    43.7    42.5    44.5    44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - IOD)               100.0    173.0   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2          313.6            336.7
Annual Percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price  Inex             7.7      -1.1     -       17.1    18.2      9.4      2.6     9.2        9.2              7.4
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0     22.7    16.0    25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3          16.9 S          23.2 hi
Dank Credit to Commercial Sector  19.4     22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    18.7          13.8 !i         15.6 h/
a/ The per Capita GNP escimate s at market prices, using World Bank Atlas methodology. base period 1981-83.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the averg- echange rate preailing uring the period covred.
bh Quick Estimtes. Central Statiatical Organixation.
c/ Computed from trend line of GCP at factor cost series, inlqding one obse ratlon befoet flrst year and on. observaion after
lest year of liated period.
dl World Sank estmates of net disbursement of concessiaonal add and 1BRD.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have bean netted out.
f| All loans and advances to tbird parties have been netted out.
*   j/ Percentage change from end-Mrch 1983 to end-Jun.84.
hl Percentage chnge from end-March 1984 to ond-Jan.85.
i/ Total Labor force and pereentage breakdown from 1981 Cesus. Excludes data for Asacm.



ANNEX I
ft 6 of 6
BAXAW   01! Pw T nuw                191/8       M83         14    1US              IROI IS  MOTS (AVERAGE 1%0/61-1963134) g/
(Us$ min.)                                                                                                       US$ Hin. z
Worts of Goods gS                     3.519      6,290      8,355      6,724       asierg  ood                    l115      13
Imports of  tood                    -15.301   -14.290    -14.040    -14.501        Teo                             469      6
Trade BaIlae                        - 4.782   - *,000    - 5.6US    - 5.777       CGe                             1009      12
WE (st)                               1.002       935         9U       1.09        Clothing                        688      8
Leather end Leather Product.    343      4
Resoure Balance                     - 5.7W0    - 5.065    - 4,737    - 4.678       Jute Maufactures                269      3
Iron ore                      'LO        5
Interet Inus (noa) h/                   350   -  302    -            -  783        Cotton Txtiles                  316      4
Net Transfer.                         2.317     2.504       2.380      2.930       sug                             104      1
Others                        3704      44
Balance on Current Account          - 3.113   - 2,663    - 2.521    - 2.533
Direct leta                              10        63          62         41
Ofthcel loan  4 Grants (nt)           1.681     1,901       1.961      1.941
Gross Disbursements                   2.269      ?,513      2,576      2585         TUUIAL Dellr. MWM   31, 1984
Amortization                            5W        612         617        641
USE billi^on
Private Borrowing (mt)                  338       366         528        8U4
Outstandin  and Disbursed               21.5
b-Reslident Deposits                    260       578         903.       600       Ibdisbursd                              10.4
Transaction with IIF (net)              690      1.980      1.295         70       Outstanding Icluding Undiobursed        31.9
All other Items                     - 2.264    - 1,.m     - 1.347       - 6S3
Increase in Rerwrs t-)                2.398   -  504    -  82           - 303  DE8     SEC  RATIO 0FR 1983/864 j/  /       13.6 per cent
Gross Reserves (end yar) It           4.461     4.965       5,847       6.150
Net ltEerves (end yar) ul             3.497      2.089      1,697       2.250
1320t/mA tIIDDINC. HINGE 31. 1985 j/
Fuel ano Related Materials
WUS  mllion
Imports (Petrola) SI                  5.553     4.614       2.983      3.026                                           BRD IIA
of which: Crude                     3.921      3.139      2,18        1,015
Products                  1.632      1,475        800       2,010      Oustanding and Dibursed             2.158   8.90!
Undiabureed                        4,326   3.746
Outstandin  icludinx Undisbursed   6.484   12.650
RATe OF EXCIIUCE
June 1966 to ad-Decemr 1971         USS00 - Rs 7.50
Is 1.00 - 0530.13333
Hld-December 1971 to end-June 1972:  USS1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - 9050.137376
After end-Jume 1972             :  Floating bate
Spot Rat. ind-erch 1984        :  USS1.00 - Es 10.7181
Rs 1.00 - US50.0933
Spot Rate end-Mereh 1°95        :   ISS1.00 - PA 12.3457
Re 1.00 - ess0.0810
/  Estimted
k/ Figures given cover all investment incom  (net). Major peymuts ae inteest on foreign loans and charges pd to IM.
and major receipts ie interet earnd on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include .oSers  ritttsce  but excld  official pat assstanc  uhdeh is included witbin officil loans
and grats. a  non-resldent deposits which are  own separately.
m/ Exclude net us of 3IW credit.
it Artzation  ad interet pqamets on foreig  loan  - a percete  of total currnt reeipts.
o/ Includes exchange rate adjustents to the wlutuon of reserees ad finanog of imbalances In rupee trade.
j    et lofdle rold.
gl Nt of perrnleum xot



M 11
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANR GROUP OPEATIOnS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANR LOANS AMD rDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Anproval        Puruose                         Bank        IDA 1J     Undisbursed ;J
52 Loans/                                             2,379.0          -              -
96 Credits fully disbursed                                -        5,589.2           -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0           6.06
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development        -           18.0           0.01
1251-IN    1976     Andbra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            14.17
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0          -            3.66
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0           8.05
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           1.32
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0          6.34
1394-TN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -            1.90
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0         32.50
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -            8.0          4.85
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -            1.37
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -            0.02
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6         30.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0         23.31
806-IN    1978     Jammu-Kasbmir Horticulture            -           14.0          9.12
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5          7.91
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -           16.0          2.29
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            7.21
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -          150.0         27.26
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0        119403
844-1N    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -          190.0         14.50
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0          3.70
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -           27.0         11.99
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          0.40
871-IN    1979     Nr:ional Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0          0.18
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          0.06
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -           45.98
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0         26.82
899-rN    1979     Faharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0          0.45
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          3.25
954-IN    1980     Naharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0         25.86
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0          2.70
963-IN    1980      Iuland Fisheries                     -           20.0         14.41
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -           46.0         23.27
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0         16.81
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0         84.89
1012-rN    1980     Cashewnut                             -           22.0         14.74
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -          300.0        124.04



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.      Approval       Pur.osen                       Bank         MA j1      Undisbursed  J
1028-IN    1980   - Kerala Agricultural Extension        -          10.0           6.28
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -          56.0          15.71
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                -          54.0          24.87
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -           80.0         44.81
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC fIII                   99.2         -             3.96
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                -         225.0          75.02
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -           18.40
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -          35.0           9.75
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                    -          83.0          35.99
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -          42.0          19.31
1108-:N    1981     H.P. Medium Irrigation               -         140.0          74.08
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -         314.0          71.66
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Task Irrigation            -          54.0         33.13
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project            -         399.1          77.24
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -          23.0           8.96
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -          28.0          14.27
1138-In    1981     H.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -          37.0         23.98
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0         62.87
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II       -         400.0        243.01
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -         220.0         140.86
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint               100.0         -             8.60
1178-N    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry          -          29.0          18.21
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -          25.0          13.31
2051-IN    1982     ICICI flV                          150.0         -           44.73
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II        300.0         -          264.07
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -            6.0          4.36
2123-rN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0         -           76.58
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5         -           248.98
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -          60.0          25.13
2186-In    1982     Kallads Irrigation                  20.3         -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -          72.0          57.11
1286-TN    1983     Jamu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -          33.0         22.45
1288-IN    1983     Chanbal Nadhya Pralesh               -           -
Irrigation II                     -           31.0         17.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -         127.0         101.25
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration       165.5         -          121.55
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    -          200.0        167.25
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                  200.0          -          197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development      139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -         150.0         100.78
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II             -         101.0          87.73
1356-rN    1983     Upper Ind.avati Hydro Power          -         170.0         142.99
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power        156.4         -           156.01



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
US$ -uillion
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purnose                        kink         DA  J      Undisbursed 7J
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -          147.0        128.60
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -           32.0         24.45
2308-IN    1983     Naharashtra Water Utilization        22.7         -           22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Tranmision           250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Nanageont        46.2         -           45.82
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1         -           23.80
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -          105.0         76.24
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -           31.0         29.14
1426-IN   1984      Population III                        -          70.0         65.63
1432-Dn   1984      Karnataka Social Forestry            -           27.0         21.93
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                   250.0          -          247.92
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0          -          150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5          -          241.90
2415-IN    1984     Nadbhy  Pradesh Fertilizer         203.6          -          200.18
1483-IN    1984     Upper Gangs Irrigation               -          125.0        116.47
1496-Irn   1984     Gujarat Medivm Irrigation            -          172.0        145.22
2417-IN    1984     Railways Zlectrification*          280.7          -          280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power*          300.8          -          300.80
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarorar Uydroelectric*      157.4          -          157.40
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*        -          129.8        129.80
2452-rN    1984     Fourth Tr-abay Thermal Power*       135.4         -           135.40
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -           36.5         34.99
SF-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -           36.5         34.99
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai.11 Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
1502-rN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corpration III         -         220.0         205.99
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry               -           31.8         30.33
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension 1*         -           39.1         39.10
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development*            -          138.0        138.00
Total                                   6,818.3    12,934.1
of vhich has been repaid              1269 9        194.6
Total now outstanding                   5,548.4    12,739.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -      ----
Total now held by Bank and ID lJ        5,548.4   12,739.5
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,575.90    3,333.48
1   IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
ZJ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1985.
3J  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



AU=EX II
Page 4 of 4
B.* STAhIMRUT or TIC INVESTNE1qTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    CoMuanv                      Loan     Equitv    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.J. Pups Ltd.                      0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       ahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Lakhumi Nachine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jaysbree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chesicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                          4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -       15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Ishindra,bNhindra Limited            15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8        -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.5        -      15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.1        -       8.1
1984            The Owalior Rayon Silk Mau-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      3.5         -       3.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                          8.9       0.8       9.7
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      20.5        -       20.5
1985            Hodi Cement                          12.0        -       12.0
TOTAL GROMS CO- IITHENTS      251.9       12.9   264.8
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           139.1       6.2    145.3
Now Held                   112.8        6.7    119.5              S
-            0 -     _n73
Undisbursed                 72.8        0.8     73.6
-            - 



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
CUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Twenty-seven months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Cujarat Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and date of
first mission to consider the project
November 1982; March 1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 29, 1984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
November 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 1986
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) Beneficiary selection criteria, including income levels,
the terms and conditions of lease and hire purchase
agreements for area development schemes would be
satisfactory to IDA, and would include, inter alia, an
interest rate of not less than 12X per annum
(para. 68).
(b) The full cost of slum improvements and the price of land
would be recovered with an interest charge of not less
than 12% (para. 69).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2.
(c) MC would be required to cover the costs of operation,
maintenance and depreciation of its water supply and
sewerage services through user charges by March 31, 1988
and debt service (excluding depreciation) by March 31,
1993 (paraJ. 45 and 70).                                             a
(d) In the East Ahmedabad area all operation and maintenance
costs including 501 of depreciation or debt service,
whichever is greater would be recovered from the users of
these facilities by March 31, 1991, and a 10OZ of
depreciation or debt service, whichever is greater, by
March 31, 1993 (par&. 70).
..-:;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



ANNEX IV
INDIA
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Method 1/
(USs Million)
Project Element              ICB       LCB     Other     N.A      Total Cost
Materials and Equipment    26.8       4.4        0.8      -         32.0
(26.8)    (1.7)     (0.3)              (28.8)
Civil Works 2/              13.7     59.8        -        -         73.5
(5.3)   (23.3)                        (28.6)
BuiLding Loans                -        -         -       3.5         3.5
(1.4)      (1.4)
Technical Assistance          -        -        3.2       -          3.2
(3.2)                (3.2)
Land                          -        -         -       3.6         3.6
Design & Supervision          -        -         -       8.2         8.2
40.5     64.2       4.0    15.3       124.0 3/
(32.1)   (25.0)     (3.5)   (1.4)      (62.0)
1F Figures in parentheses are the r._.:pective amounts financed by the Credit.
2/ Includes related equipment and materials.
31 Excludes US$6.5 million in taxes and duties.



I N D IA
p,                    URBA  POPULAllON BY DISTRICT
P A K I S T A N                                                GUJARAT STATE
/          te ._t .......  _1981-2001
i . ,.~         IC'      BANASKANTHA  .  :
4--...,~              _      . *. --.l. -4HSN DHIw.iu .
KACHCHH                      SABARKAA:~                 wo ao
am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r       AN~~~~DHINAOA
SURENDRANAMAR Li            'HINAHEA ALS
JAMNAGAR                AH M iWEDABAD
,VADODARA/
0_0''S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  B
.4.;'SUA
0   44   50   0   J  rg' 
is Eh 32    44    64s.,i.
MILES        *-.,~~






