Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16042
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1643-IN)
September 30, 1996
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Rupee (Rs)
Fiscal Year Averages:
US$ 1.00 (FY85)    =     11.6 Rs = 0.98 SDR
US$ 1.00 (FY86)    =     12.4 Rs = 0.95 SDR
US$ 1.00 (FY88)          13.2 Rs = 0.76 SDR
US$ 1.00 (FY90)    =      16.5 Rs = 0.75 SDR
US$ 1.00 (FY92)    =     23.5 Rs = 0.72 SDR
US$ 1.00 (FY94)    =     31.1 Rs = 0.72 SDR
MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
ABBREVIATIONS
AUDA        -      Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority
AMC         -      Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation
GHB          -     Gujarat Housing Board
GMFB        -      Gujarat Municipal Finance Board
GOG         -      Government of Gujarat State
GWSSB        -     Gujarat Water Supply and Sanitation Board
TA          -      Technical Assistance
TPVD        -      Town Planning and Valuation Department
UPC         -      Urban Project Cell
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1643-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives                                 ...................................1
B. Evaluation of Objectives ...........................................3
C. Achievement of Objectives ...........................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................................5
E. Project Sustainability ...........................................6
F. Bank Performance ...........................................7
G. Borrower's Performance ...........................................8
H. Assessment of Outcome ...........................................8
I. Future Operations ...........................................9
J. Key Lessons Learned ..........................................                                                        10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ..........................................                                             12
Table 2:   Related Bank Credits ..........................................                                               14
Table 3:   Project Timetable ..........................................                                                  15
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements - Cumulative ..........................................                                  15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........................................                           15
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operations ..........................................                              15
Table 7:   Studies Included in the Project ..........................................                                    16
Table 8A: Project Costs                             ..                               ........................................ 17
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................                                                   18
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                                        18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ........................................... l9
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ....................................... 23
Table  12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ..........................................                                      23
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions ..........................................                                           24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|offlcial duties. Its contents may not othenmise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex  1: Composition  and Approximate Cost Breakdown ......................................... 26
Annex  2: Base Costs and Physical Contingencies .............................................                                  28
Annex  3: The Project, Its Restructuring  and Benefits Achieved .................................. 30
Annex 4: Operating Plans - Project Implementing  Agencies ....................................... 33
Annex  5: Borrower's Comments on the ICR  ..............................................                                       37
Annex  6: Final Supervision  Mission's Aide Memoire .............................................    39



INDIA
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1643-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gujarat Urban Development
Project in India (the Project) which IDA supported with Credit 1643-IN of SDR 58.5 million
(1985 US$ 62.0 million), approved on 12/17/85, and made effective on 11/11/86.
Following five extensions of the disbursement period, the credit was closed on 03/31/95
compared to the original closing date of 12/31/92. After cancellation of SDR 11 million (1985
US$ 11.7 million) in connection with both a 1989 restructuring of the Project, and the
experienced changes in exchange rates, a further SDR 0.76 million (1985 US$ 0.84 million) was
canceled at credit closing. There was no external co-financing of the Project.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. B.S. Bhavanishankar (Consultant),
E. A. Huning (Task Manager), and R.A. Ribi (Consultant) on behalf of the Energy and
Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department II, South Asia Region, with the
particular assistance of W. S. Humphrey (Consultant/former Project Adviser, SA2DR), C.
Godavitarne (Consultant/former Senior Operations Officer, India Resident Mission), S. Sarkar
(Sanitary Engineer, India Resident Mission), W. J. Roach (former Task Manager, now retired)
and T. Kanaley (former Task Manager, now Director General, AusAID, Australia). It was
reviewed by Mr. Jean-Francois Bauer, Chief, SA2EI, and Mrs. Kazuko Uchimura, Project
Advisor, SA2DR.
The ICR is based on material in the Project file, interviews with and contributions from
IDA personnel involved in project implementation, and the results of discussions with the
Borrower and Beneficiary agencies during IDA's 03/95 Final Supervision Mission. The results
of this mission are summarized in the aide-memoire of March 1995, attached to the present
report. The local authorities contributed to the ICR by supplying the 10/95 completion report
prepared by the Urban Project Cell and by commenting on the draft ICR. The comments are
appended verbatim to the present report whereas the contributions, which have been taken into
account in the report, are available in IDA's regional files.






INDIA
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1643-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
The Project and its Objectives
1.    The Gujarat Urban Development Project (the Project) aimed at helping reduce the deficits
in urban shelter, infrastructure, and services in the main centers of the state. To this effect it
included the following items addressing a complex set of sub-objectives: (i) development of 100
ha in six cities, (ii) town planning schemes covering 570 ha in three cities including land re-
adjustment and basic infrastructure, (iii) upgrading of 250 ha of slums in five cities, (iv)
improvement of solid waste disposal services in five cities, (v) other urban infrastructure (water
supply, sewerage, storm drainage, etc. in four areas, and (vi) institutional strengthening at local
and state level through technical assistance. See paras. 3 and 4.
2.    From the start, progress on the Project was disappointing, and already in 1987, the first
year after IDA had made the credit effective, it became increasingly clear that the chances were
slim that the Project's objectives, as originally set, could be achieved. The drought that afflicted
the state in the mid- 1 980s disrupted the local economy and induced a re-channeling of the
Borrower's resources state-wide to high priority endeavors, especially those related to relief from
the consequences of the drought. Therefore, it undoubtedly was the main factor for the Project's
poor prospects at the time. However, other factors that hampered Project progress were the
complexity of the operation involving a large number of sub-projects and executing agencies, as
well as the deficient ownership of the Project shown until the later stages by GOG and the
implementing agencies. These shortcomings were also in part related to IDA's wish to quickly
generate a major impact on the sector, without adequate preparations. See paras. 3 and 4.
3.    In 1989, the Government of Gujarat (GOG) and IDA agreed on a restructuring of the
Project to: (i) concentrate the Project on particularly urgent urban items with a good chance of
success; and (ii) use the IDA resources that became available in connection with the preceding
curtailment for improving water supply and sanitation in rural areas particularly affected by the
drought. The latter, new, component represented about 40% of the revised Project and
complemented similar items of the preceding Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project, which
GOG and IDA agreed to restructure in parallel with the operation discussed here. See paras. 5
and 6, and Annex 3.



- ii -
Project Outcome
4 .    The physical objectives of the urban component of the revised Project were achieved in
part. Some of the municipalities, especially Surat, Vadodara, and Jamnagar, were reasonably
successful, though in the case of Ahmedabad, substantial progress was only achieved at the very
end of the Project. The Gujarat Water Supply and Sanitation Board (GWSSB), the entity
responsible for the rural water supply and sanitation component of the re-structured Project, was
more successful, though it also fell short of some of the revised Project's implied sub-objectives.
Indeed, some of the sanitation objectives were exceeded. See para. 9.
5.    The sustainable institutional strengthening that resulted from the Project was modest, at
best. In particular, the improvements in cost recovery from urban services, both at the level of
the tax and tariff assessment and of the collection of dues, were limited during the Project until
the closing stages. This was also largely the case in the GWSSB component. Nevertheless, the
Project and the influence of its covenanted requirements on implementing agencies' financial
performance and capacities are likely to have contributed to the gradual improvements and policy
shifts that finally emerged. This change is also based in part on the creation by the Borrower, in
the late 1 980s and early 1 990s, of municipal service corporations which are, at least in principle,
less prone to direct political influences on day-to-day municipal management than branches of
government directly beholden to a political executive. See paras. 10 and 1 1.
6.    Despite the relative success of the rural component, the overall outcome of the
restructured Project rates as "unsatisfactory" (para. 18). A similar assessment seems indicated
for both the Borrower's and IDA's performance, although IDA quickly acknowledged the
deficiencies of the original Project and tried with various degrees of success to correct them.
Accordingly, in contrast to the original operation, which was grossly over-optimistic in its
assessment of the Borrower's and the other local entities' institutional capability, the revised
Project was more realistic but still fell substantially short of adequately assessing what was
achievable, both in physical and institutional terms, in the Gujarat environment. Further, the
scarcity of available information makes it difficult to evaluate reliably whether the results
achieved stand in reasonable relation to the human and financial resources that were invested in
the Project. In particular, it is impossible to determine ex-post economic returns for the Project
or its main items. See paras. 18 to 25.
Sustainability of Benefits
7.    The sustainability of the limited benefits from the Project is uncertain, as it largely depends
on the continuation of the institutional improvements that started to materialize at the very end of
Project implementation. In particular, it is not enough that taxes and utility tariffs continue to
improve but the collection of the dues must also turn substantially more efficient than it was at the
time IDA closed the operation. See paras. 16,17 and GOG comments in Annex 5.



- Ill -
Findings and Lessons
8.    The Project lacked realism, partly due to hasty preparation which was apparently related to
IDA's concern to have a large impact on the sector quickly. This fact is somewhat obscured by the
occurrence and consequences of the major drought, mostly identified as the main factor that
negatively affected Project implementation and forced IDA to restructure the operation. However,
even without this uncontrollable factor, the operation had little prospect for success. A basic
principle which should have been applied more firmly is that, at any point in time, the Project's
implementing agencies must have the capability (if necessary, through Technical Assistance and/or
other measures) to carry out the Project measures foreseen for that time. The ability to implement
the initial measures should have been in place already at the Project's start.
9.    The Project should have had less components and objectives to account for the weakness of
the implementing agencies which were already evident at Project preparation. A concentration on
advancing reforms and institutional strengthening in "core" public urban activities such as water
supply, waste management and other crucial environmental aspects, could have fulfilled this
condition, provided such measures were clearly identified as feasible in the project environment
prevailing at the time. Even so, the earliest possible setting up of a strong Project coordinating
body, like the Urban Project Cell as it worked in the later years, would have substantially improved
the prospects. Such a body should be tasked inter alia with unifying the approach to design,
procurement and execution of similar Project components in different places by different executing
agencies. However, the part of such an organization should be designed to progressively transcend
the initial role in the project, to extend its expertise and growing capacities throughout the Project's
institutional context. Otherwise, the institutional impacts of the coordinating body tend to disappear
on project completion, reducing the sustainability of the operation's benefits.
10.   The implementation prospects for complex projects involving urban services and
investments would also be strengthened if, at project launch, a strong intermediary capacity is
established. The role and authority of such an entity should considerably exceed those of UPC as
they should include wide responsibility for (i) project implementation performance, (ii)
developmental support to implementing agencies, and (iii) a clear focus on financial objectives and
management in the participating entities.
11.   In complex projects, even if much less complicated than this Project, monitoring physical
progress and procurement should be more streamlined from the outset to ensure that the Bank
Group staff responsible for project supervision are better able to focus on the main issues, which
should only occasionally be in procurement. The monitoring framework should be aimed at
ensuring that supervision missions avoid spending excessive time checking on procurement status
and physical progress in many sub-projects, at cost to more strategic issues.
12.   A project restructuring should address the core weaknesses that prompted the project
modification. In this case, the restructuring of the Project made it, if anything, more complex, as
more items were added than deleted, though the goals of the new components were prima facie
easier to achieve than those for the deleted items. Furthermore, the addition of a rural water supply



- iv -
and sanitation component introduced an essentially new type of specialty into the Project mix,
increasing the difficulties for IDA's supervision.
13.   There is a need to take fuller account of the lessons learned from past urban projects during
preparation of future projects, particularly with regard to size and the impact of complexity on
project outcomes. Clearly, a tradeoff must be made between the desire for quick, large scale
projects with perceived major sectoral impacts, and smaller, more manageable, and ultimately more
sustainable projects that are more in line with the existing reality of weak institutions and, in the
case of municipalities, the slow pace of financial devolution.
14.   IDA's budgeting for supervision should take more account of the complexity of a project
and the capabilities of the Borrower and Beneficiary agencies. The corollary is that IDA should
avoid committing itself to very complex projects which, in view of the institution's budgetary
situation (already tightening in the 1980s), are likely to be too costly to effectively supervise.



INDIA
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1643-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives
Project Context
1.    The Bank Group's lending for urban development in India started with the large water
supply and sewerage operation in Bombay (Credit 0390 of 1973) and the Calcutta Urban
Development Project (Credit 0427 also of 1973) which had an important water supply and
sewerage component. These were followed, between 1975 and 1981, by three further projects
covering mainly urban water supply and sanitation in Uttar Pradesh, Bombay, and Maharashtra, as
well as by three urban development operations addressing a wider range of issues (including area
development, slum upgrading, and improvement of municipal services) in Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh,
Madras (2 projects), and Calcutta (2 projects)..
2.    Starting in the first half of the 1980s, IDA encouraged the preparation by state governments
and appropriate consultants of Urban Sector Memoranda for the respective states; the second of this
series was that for Gujarat State, which was completed in 1983 and which served as a basis for the
project discussed here (the Project). In 12/85, two years after its formal identification by IDA, the
institution's Board of Directors approved the operation. The parties signed the corresponding
agreements four months later. In 1987 and 1988, IDA approved two further projects with similar
objectives for the Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu states, respectively. To the present, these were to
remain the last specific urban development projects in India.
Project Objectives and Content
3.    The Project's broad objectives were to reduce the deficits in urban shelter, infrastructure,
and services in the main centers of the state. To assure progress in this direction in the longer run,
the Project was to strengthen planning, administration, and financial management in local
government and state agencies in the urban sector. Through this operation and the similar ones in
Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, IDA further aimed at helping catalyze policy reform in India's urban
sector. The general objectives were well in line with IDA's broad policies both in the urban sector
and in India. They also were in agreement with the state governments' objectives for the urban
sector set forth in the Sector Memorandum mentioned earlier, and compatible with Central
Government's goals. However, IDA's wish to produce quickly a large impact on the sector, paired



- 2 -
with the Borrower's and the sector's urgent needs for funds and other support, contributed to the
elaboration of a project that was unrealistically ambitious.
4.    The main Project components addressing a complex set of sub-objectives were: (i)
development of about 100 ha in six cities with 65% of the resulting plots affordable to low income
groups, all the plots to be allocated on the basis of criteria agreeable to IDA, at market prices for
higher income beneficiaries, lower income families being able to avail themselves of low cost
shelter loans; (ii) town planning schemes covering some 570 ha in three cities and including land
re-adjustment as well as basic infrastructure; (iii) upgrading of some 250 ha of slums in five cities
with appropriate cost recovery schemes; (iv) improvement in collection, storage, transportation and
disposal of solid waste as well as in maintenance of the corresponding facilities and equipment, also
in five cities; (v) other priority investments in urban infrastructure and services such as water
supply, storm sewerage, waste water collection and treatment, in four areas; and (vi) institutional
strengthening at local and state level through technical assistance (TA) to the Gujarat Housing
Board (GHB) of the Governnent of Gujarat, (GOG), the Gujarat Municipal Finance Board
(GMFB) also of GOG, the Town Planning and Valuation Department (TPVD) of GOG, the
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), the Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority
(AUDA), and other municipal entities.
Project Restructuring
5.    In 1987, the first year after Credit 1643-IN had become effective, progress was
disappointing, the main reason given being the drought conditions prevailing at the time in the
state, weakening several of the main agencies involved in Project implementation (especially
AMC), and making them unable to carry out the agreed programs, both in the context of the Project
and the closely related Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project supported by Credit 1280-IN
approved in 1982. Therefore, towards the end of 1987, IDA started the planning of a re-structuring
of both projects. For the Project, IDA's Board of Directors agreed to the new scope and conditions
in 08/89. The adjustments to the Project took into account that: (i) the disruption in the state's
economy, which the drought had caused, had made it highly unlikely that Borrower and
Beneficiaries would be able to implement successfully several of the Project components (indeed,
several beneficiaries declared themselves unable to do so); (ii) the emergency justified a further
support to GOG rather than the cancellation of the credit; (iii) the scarcity of the drinking water in
many regions, especially drought-prone rural areas placed the population in such areas at risk and
made the pursuit of a regular economic activity exceedingly difficult; and (iv) the Gujarat Water
Supply Project already included a rural water supply component whose impact could be
strengthened through the inclusion in the Project of further rural schemes. Thus, the restructured
Project camne to include a reduced urban component and a new rural water supply part. The broad
objectives for the urban items were essentially the same as those of the original operation. Those
for the water supply and sanitation component were the alleviation of the critical health situation in
drought affected rural areas.
6.    The restructuring (i) substantially reduced the area development component, (ii) cut the
town planning schemes to about one third of their original scope, (iii) halved the slum upgrading
and solid waste management programs, (iv) reduced urban infrastructure components by about



- 3 -
20%, and (v) left essentially intact the originally planned investments in institutional strengthening.
However, the previous poor progress of the Project had demonstrated the need for extensive
institutional strengthening beyond that foreseen in the original Project. Therefore, the revision
added some US$ 2 million to the latter, leaving the specification of the items to be covered for the
implementation phase. This drastic curtailing of the urban component allowed the integration into
the Project of rural water supply and sanitation schemes that came to represent some 40% of the
revised Project.
B. Evaluation of Objectives
7.    Both the Project's broad objectives and the more specific sub-objectives were relevant and
appropriate for Gujarat, one of the most industrialized states of India, that faced pressing needs
brought out in the previously mentioned sector memorandum. However, the detailed goals to be
achieved through the various Project components did not adequately take into account the chronic
financial and institutional weakness of the mostly municipal institutions that were to implement
these components, nor the absence of any GOG capability to compensate for this weakness. Thus,
the operation was unrealistically ambitious and poorly designed. IDA's Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) acknowledges such institutional weaknesses and foresees an array of measures to overcome
them. However, it assumes that, even before the shortcomings could be eliminated, the sector
would be able to carry out a program far more substantial (even in physical terms) than what it had
implemented in the years preceding the Project. For example, the SAR assumes that Ahmedabad
Municipal Corporation (AMC) was about to double its annual investment (in current terms) in the
first two years of Project implementation and to quadruple it until the assumed closing date of the
IDA credit. Further, IDA might have foreseen that it would have difficulties properly supporting
the sector through Project supervision, as the set of sub-objectives called for the involvement of
about twelve different agencies, implementing a great number of sub-projects in various fields.
8.    At restructuring, the elimination of a series of non-performing Project items and of several
executing agencies made the remaining urban sub-objectives more achievable. However, at the
same time, the modification introduced into the Project numerous new sub-projects aiming at rural
water supply and sanitation, an area essentially extraneous to the original Project. It also brought
into the Project a new executing agency, the Gujarat Water Supply and Sanitation Board (GWSSB).
The latter also needed strengthening, a drawback that was somewhat compensated by the fact that
the entity had already substantial experience with a Bank Group project (the Gujarat Water Supply
Project). Nevertheless, the number of sub-projects increased rather than decreased, as would have
been desirable, and the time schedule remained unrealistically tight for the urban components taken
over from the original Project. For the new rural component the timetable also was overly
ambitious.
C. Achievement of Objectives
9.    It is evident that, in 1985-89, the Project was advancing in a way that it would have fallen
far short of most of the sub-objectives spelled out in the SAR or implied by the choice of



- 4 -
components. In the fields of area development, town planning, and slum upgrading, progress was
especially disappointing in Ahmedabad, the state's main urban center. Therefore, Project
restructuring drastically curtailed these urban components. But implementation continued at a slow
pace and with poor results. Nevertheless, some of the institutions in Surat, Vadodara, and
Jamnagar, proved able to implement substantial parts of the envisaged programs in the areas of
solid waste management and low cost sanitation, where ultimately, after long delays, even AMC
achieved a modest measure of success. The GWSSB component was, by the Credit's closing date,
implemented in a reasonably satisfactory way and some of the sanitation targets were even
exceeded. However, delays with respect to the 1989 time schedule were still substantial and
impeded the completion of several sub-projects by late 1995. See also Annexes 2 and 3.
10.   The institutional strengthening that resulted from the Project was modest, at best. This
applies especially in relation to the objective of full cost recovery in municipal services, which was
an ultimate objective in most areas touched by the Project (SAR, paras. 4.01 to 4.07). However,
success in this area implied the introduction of sweeping reforms in tax and tariff assessment as
well as in the collection of the corresponding dues, objectives that, during the Project, the executing
agencies achieved only to a very limited degree. Recently, some movement towards the above
goals seems to have set in, especially in AMC, where the prospects for improved financial
performance substantially improved. This progress was doubtlessly tied to IDA's efforts,
especially its relentless insistence during the post-restructuring stages of the Project on improved
financial performance by the beneficiaries and on their meeting the covenants agreed with IDA.
However, only a substantial change of focus and approach on the Borrower's side finally made the
turnabout possible, and this was long after the Project had de facto been completed. The extent to
which this change is directly attributable to IDA activities can only be a matter of speculation.
Nevertheless, in the strict context of the Project, TPVD benefited through its increased capacity to
help develop urban planning in the individual centers increased, and GMFB was able to support
several cities in improving their financial management, inter alia through helping introduce accrual
accounting. These are positive results, although they fall short of the corresponding Project sub-
objectives.
11.   The Project did not address GWSSB's institutional weaknesses until the last two years of
Project implementation, when it helped finance a study of the institutional strengthening of the
Board, which should strengthen the planning for and future development of the institution. During
the Project, though not directly related to it, some promising changes occurred in the sector, which
ultimately may also benefit GWSSB. Progressively, in Gujarat, in towns and cities of varying size,
branches of municipal government responsible for urban services were transfonned (partly after
aggregation) into municipal corporations. While no panacea, this may have helped lessen the direct
political influence on day-to-day management of such services, often pervasive before this.



- 5 -
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Generally not Subject to Government Control
12.   The main such factor was the series of droughts in Gujarat in the mid-1980s that severely
strained the financial and managerial resources of most implementing agencies, especially AMC. It
resulted in major drains on and reallocation of GOG resources otherwise needed for Project
activities. In particular, funds originally earnarked as couterpart contributions to the Project were
diverted to drought relief and could not be replaced, the more so as most municipalities, even under
normal circumstances, were then chronically failing to raise appropriate revenues and to collect
taxes, though the level of these had not been raised in a long time. Several major instances of civil
unrest in Gujarat also negatively affected Project outcomes. Another factor which, as in many other
projects, added a measure of difficulty to Project co-ordination, was India's federal setup and its
various effects on planning, project decision-making and accountability by and within any
individual state such as Gujarat. Last but not least, ownership by GOG and the implementing
agencies of various Project components, especially those aiming at institutional improvement, was
weak, especially during and after the droughts. GOG and the other implementing agencies
concentrated their limited resources during these periods of emergency on ventures considered
more urgent than the Project, with significant after-effects of overall progress.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
13.   To improve the Project's chances of success, the responsible authorities
should -- much earlier than was actually done -- have enacted legislation to empower the local
bodies to enhance tax structure and levels to meet at least the O&M expenses of the urban sector.
They similarly should have de-linked at the earliest stage possible fees for services such as water
supply and sewerage from property tax and rationally fixed the latter on the basis of market rents
rather than on outdated standard rents. An early and more generalized introduction of accrual
accounting would also have been possible and helpful. In more recent years, the creation of
municipal corporations to run urban services, though probably only loosely connected with any
impetus provided by the Project, helped improve the prospects for these services and thus for the
urban Project components.
14.   The SAR sets forth the creation of an Urban Project Cell to co-ordinate Project
implementation as desirable. However, GOG set up such a body only after Project restructuring, as
a result of substantial prodding by IDA,and even then, GOG support for the new body was initially
weak. It was the appointment, in 1991, of a senior person to head the UPC that finally got the
Project moving and led inter alia to: (i) much improved project monitoring and reporting; (ii)
generally satisfactory procurement measures and actions; and (iii) better coordination of and
support to the various Project agencies. Such strong guidance earlier in the Project would have
been particularly valuable, as it would have facilitated e.g., the adoption of unified design and
execution criteria, as well as standard procurement procedures which were in agreement with IDA's
Guidelines. However, it is worth noting that the very success of the UPC subtly shifted
responsibility (or at least the perception of such responsibility) away from the implementing
agencies, which may have weakened the Project's effect on the institutions.



- 6 -
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
15.   The institutional weakness of most implementing agencies led to delays in design,
procurement, and implementation. The outcome was further negatively affected by frequent
changes by these agencies of composition and specifications of Project components. The
implementing bodies themselves should have pressed for a stronger co-ordination of their
respective Project activities. Improved tax collection by the participating agencies (even within the
deficient prevailing framework) could have substantially improved Project success. Staff training
in general and, in particular, guidance towards a clear understanding of the Project and of the
various agencies' responsibilities in its context, were often keenly missed during Project
implementation.
E. Project Sustainability
16.   The Project brought improved solid waste management in various cities. In Ahmedabad,
AMC brought about belatedly yet finally, in a short time, notable improvements such as single
handling of the city waste and disposal by more efficient means (albeit mainly after Project
closure). The municipal bodies have in general increased the capacity of their mechanical
workshops to maintain the additional fleet provided under the Project. Thanks in part to the
training provided to municipal staff through GMFB and also the delegation of power from GOG,
tax and charges collection has improved. There still needs to be further progress, in particular
adjustments to the level of these taxes and charges to assure the longer term sustainability of the
benefits from the corresponding Project components. AMC's raising of the water supply and
sewerage rates by almost 300% over 2 years for major user groups is, however, highly encouraging.
It should lead to substantial improvements, provided collection of dues improves in a reasonably
commensurate and sustained way.
17.   GWSSB not only implemented the five water supply and sanitation schemes introduced
into the Project in 1989, it essentially also operated and maintained them once they are
commissioned. In view of its substantial experience, it has the technical know-how to do this
successfully. However, the financial prospects are less encouraging. GWSSB expects to meet
the O&M expenses by water charges collected from the users. At the end of the Project, these
revenues did not meet expenses and GOG was unable to fill entirely the gap. GWSSB plans to
gradually increase the charges, but actual adjustments, until Project completion, remained
limited. It also envisages handing over the completed village schemes to the corresponding
panchayats for operation and maintenance. The panchayats, under the guidance of GWSSB,
would then be responsible for collecting the charges from the consumers. GWSSB itself would
keep the responsibility for maintaining the production of the water and for its delivery to the
local systems.
18.   However, all these arrangements and especially the setting of new levels of the charges,
both on the part of GWSSB and of the panchayats, are not yet implemented, hence the
sustainability of the benefits to be reaped from this Project component is still uncertain. The
sustainability of the benefits from the low cost sanitation component, by contrast, seems likely as



- 7 -
the rural families own and operate these facilities to which they have contributed their share of
the capital costs and are therefore likely to adequately maintain these conveniences, (although
GWSSB occasionally may have to provide some guidance with respect to the cleaning of the
twin pit latrines). Similar conclusions apply to the water supply and sanitation components
executed in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Anand.
19.   Overall however, the wider sustainability of the Project's intended benefits must presently
be deemed uncertain (see COG comments in Annex 5).
F. Bank Performance
20.   In the first half of the 1980s, IDA appropriately identified an urban project as one of the
highest priorities for Gujarat state. During project preparation, it was imaginative and constructive
in assisting GOG and the municipalities develop a project that, at the time, must have seemed
promising. However, it appears to have grossly overestimated the technical and implementation
capability of the various institutions that were to carry out the components of the Project. While
GOG and the senior representatives of the main entities to be involved in the Project manifested
their agreement with the broad objectives, the Bank appears to have downplayed the lack of
ownership of the detailed sub-objectives by the bodies concerned. Therefore, while the resulting
Project addressed pressing issues and was in agreement with IDA's policies for the country, the
state, and the sector, the Project ultimately suffered from a substantial lack of realism that
exacerbated the effects of the partly interconnected natural and political difficulties that the Project
faced nearly from the beginning.
21.  In 1987, IDA correctly saw that the prospects for the Project were poor and started
considering the restructuring of the operation, together with that of the Gujarat Water Supply and
Sewerage Project. The overhaul took some 18 months of major efforts. Though the inclusion of
the rural water supply and sanitation component did not simplify the Project, it introduced a new
implementing agency, GWSSB, which at the time was showing improved capability to successfully
complete the the separate (and also restructured) Gujarat Water Supply Project. It therefore seemed
to be able to do the same in the context of the new rural water supply and sanitation component of
the Project. In 1991, IDA perceived that the urban component of the Project still had not progressed
satisfactorily and appropriately insisted with GOG to strengthen the UPC by: (i) enlarging its
authority in coordinating, centrally controlling and guiding the sector entities; and (ii) by placing a
senior technical official at the head of the cell.
22.   The Project was complex and IDA showed flexibility in adjusting components that did not
work or replacing them by more promising elements. During the entire implementation period, the
relations between IDA personnel and the officers of GOG, the Beneficiaries and the executing
agencies were cordial and cooperative. However, the various personnel changes in IDA's Project
supervision and management weakened the effectiveness of the institution's supervision, which in
the early stages might have benefited from an increased and sustained stress on policy issues and on
covenant compliance. This could have possibly been offset by less tight control of procurement,
which in any event should have been more streamlined from the start. In this respect, IDA, to some



- 8 -
extent, hampered itself by establishing an exceedingly low threshold for the value of the contracts
which it would review ex ante. Furthermore, IDA personnel involved in the Project felt that the
supervision budget, at times, failed to account adequately for the Project's complexity and
procurement-related supervision needs. The present ICR judges that, on balance, IDA's
performance qualifies as "unsatisfactory", mainly due to the basic flaws of the initial Project scope
and implementation framework, which the restructuring only partly corrected, and to the
insufficiently effective IDA project supervision during the early stages.
G. Borrower Performance
23.   The financial performance of the main municipal entities was poor before Project start.
Indeed, the Project aimed inter alia at improving this aspect of sector performance, especially with
respect to the tax collection and recovery of service charges. However, as no quick improvement
took place, from early on in the Project, counterpart funding was deficient, and became even more
alarmingly so, when the effects of the state-wide drought became increasingly evident. This and
the original Project's inherent weaknesses (complexity, lack of realism, and weak ownership by the
local entities) discussed previously and exacerbated by the municipal entities' lack of experience
with IDA procedures, led to the re-structuring of the Project in an effort to avoid outright
cancellation. Even after restructuring, overall performance, especially in the context of the Project's
remaining urban components, was less than satisfactory. It improved only after the UPC, at long
last, was strengthened. Then, at least some of the urban programs were carried out with reasonable
success, in Ahmedabad with the assistance of non-governmental organizations. The execution of
the rural water supply and sanitation component proceeded from the start under better auspices, in
part because the implementing agency, GWSSB, had previous experience with IDA. As already
mentioned, at the very end of the Project, the prospects for the financial recovery of the municipal
entities, especially AMC, substantially improved, as the latter was permitted to apply large tariff
increases. The corresponding sustained improvements in collection still need to take place.
24.   In summary, the Borrower's performance, which was clearly "unsatisfactory" under the
original Project, was better under the restructured operation but still rates as "unsatisfactory".
H. Assessment of Outcome
25.   For the original Project, it is obvious that the outcome must be qualified as unsatisfactory.
Though some progress was achieved toward the general goal of reducing deficits in urban
infrastructure and services, the sector reached only very few of the relevant sub-objectives and had
little chance to fare better without the drastic change that the restructuring brought. Even after the
restructuring had taken place, success on the urban components remained limited. (See COG
comments in Annex 5.)
26.   Nevertheless, solid waste management in Ahmedabad was enhanced, and water supply
facilities in East Ahmedabad have benefited some 40,000 people. In Surat, the completed storm
drains reduced flooding in areas inhabited by some 1.1 million people, the water supply component



- 9 -
provided an additional 50,000 people with safe water, area development made new living facilities
available to 2,000 families, and some 5,000 families enjoy improved living conditions due to the
slum upgrading programs. In Vadodara, new storm drainage provided flood relief to a population
of some 460,000, the strengthening of water supply will benefit some 80,000 people, and the slum
upgrading reached about 850 families. Rajkot and Jamnagar have enhanced their capabilities in
solid waste management towards a better urban environment. The essentially rural component,
once completed, which is expected to take place in 1996/97, will provide safe water in over 1000
individual villages with a total population of some 1.7 million. Further, over 70,000 low cost rural
sanitation units in 19 districts will benefit some 350,000 people and about 20,000 urban sanitation
units will improve the well-being of some 130,000 people in Ahmedabad. See also Annex 3.
27.   At GOG level, TPVD has improved its planning capability through acquisition of aerial
photography interpretation equipment to develop improved town planning schemes. The cities that
participated in the training through GMFB developed better accounting, in part by the adoption of
accrual systems and the use of computers acquired under the Project. Employing consultants under
the Project, municipal entities improved their planning and operational performance. There also
seems to have been in the latest stages of the Project an improvement in the attitudes of municipal
personnel concerned, promising improved ownership of endeavors similar to the Project's. In part
as a consequence of the training through GMFB included in the Project's institutional improvement
component, the municipalities have raised their financial performance.
28.   Even if the outcome of the restructured project was substantially better than that which the
original Project was on the way to achieve, it still rates all-in all as "unsatisfactory". The fact that it
is impossible, on the basis of the available information, to calculate ex-post economic returns on the
Project and/or its components, and to define satisfactorily whether the achievements are
commensurate with the invested IDA resources, both human and financial, is felt to re-inforce this
assessment.
-. Future Operations
29.   The implementing agencies have prepared operating plans for some important water supply
facilities to which the Project provided significant additions. Other agencies are still preparing
similar outlooks for Project items they operate. GWSSB, in particular, plans to set forth such plans
for the rural water supply schemes. The documents presently available are essentially rough
projections of the operations without concrete proposals for measures to assure that the assumed
goals are achieved. Therefore, they do not qualify as operation plans, as required by IDA for its
ICR. The validity of the submitted projections largely depends on the municipal bodies' ability to
raise the resources for appropriate O&M. Presently, GOG still (directly and/or indirectly) provides
subsidies to the cost of debt service, replacement, and future investment. There are encouraging
signs that, in the future, such subsidies will be substantially reduced and that the municipal bodies
will gradually improve their ability to sustain themselves. How fast this will be achieved depends
to a large extent on the continuation of the institutional improvements in part set in motion under
the Project and, last but not least, on the political will to achieve self-sustainability, which
invariably is at a high political cost.



- 10-
J. Key Lessons Learned
30.   The Project and its outcomes suggest the following main lessons, some of which are not
new but seem difficult to incorporate effectively in the preparation and implementation of the Bank
Group's projects:
(a)  The Project lacked realism, partly due to hasty preparation apparently related to IDA's
concern to have a large impact on the sector quickly. This fact is somewhat obscured by the
occurrence and consequences of the major drought, mostly identified as the main factor that
negatively affected Project implementation and forced IDA to restructure the operation.
However, even without this uncontrollable factor, the operation had little prospect for
success. A basic principle which should have been applied more firmly is that, at any point
in time, the Project implementing agencies must have the capability (if necessary, assisted
by consultants and other entities) to carry out the Project measures foreseen for that time. In
particular, the basic ability to implement the initial strategies and measures must be in place
already at the Project's start.
(b)   The Project should have had less components and objectives, to allow for the weakness of
the implementing agencies which were already evident at Project preparation. A
concentration on advancing reforms and institutional strengthening in "core" public urban
activities such as water supply, waste management and other crucial environmental aspects,
rather than allowing more diversified minicipal interests to be encompassed within the
Project, could have better fulfilled this condition, wherever such measures in "core" areas
were clearly identified as feasible (with appropriate early Technical Assistance and/or
supporting consultancy services) in the project environment prevailing at the time. The
earliest possible setting up of a strong Project coordinating body, like the Urban Project Cell
as it worked in the later years, would have substantially improved these prospects,
particularly if such a body is clearly tasked with unifying the approach to design,
procurement and execution of similar Project components in different places by different
executing agencies. However, such an entity should also be designed to progressively
transcend its initial role in the Project, to extend its expertise and demonstrated capacities
throughout the Project's institutional context. Otherwise the coordinating body tends to
disappear on project completion, thus reducing the longer-term institutional impact and
sustainability of the operation.
(c)    The implementation prospects for complex projects involving urban services and
investments would be strengthened if, at project launch, a strong intermediary capacity is
established. The role, mandate and authority of such an entity should considerably exceed
those of UPC, as they should include wide responsibility for: (i) project implementation
performance; (ii) developmental support to all implementing agencies; and (iii) a clear focus
on achievement of financial objectives and improvements to financial management in the
participating entities.
(d)   In complex projects, even if much less complicated than this Project, monitoring physical
progress and procurement should be more streamlined from the outset to ensure that the



- 11 -
Bank Group staff responsible for project supervision are better able to focus on the main
issues, which should only occasionally be in procurement. The monitoring framework
should be aimed at ensuring that supervision missions avoid spending excessive time
checking on procurement status and physical progress in many sub-projects, and can focus
on more strategic issues.
(e)  A project restructuring should address the core weaknesses that prompted the project
modification. In this case, the restructuring of the Project made it, if anything, more
complex, as more items were added than deleted, though the goals of the new components
were prima facie easier to achieve than those for the deleted items. Furthermore, the
addition of a rural water supply and sanitation component introduced an essentially new
type of specialty into the Project mix, increasing the difficulties for IDA's supervision.
(f) There is a need to take fuller account of the lessons learned from past urban projects during
preparation of future projects, particularly with regard to size and the impact of complexity
on project outcomes. Clearly, a tradeoff must be made between the desire for quick, large
scale projects with perceived major sectoral impacts, and smaller, more manageable, and
ultimately more sustainable projects that are more in line with the existing reality of weak
institutions and, in the case of municipalities, the slow pace of financial devolution.
(g)  IDA's budgeting for supervision should take more account of the complexity of a project
and the capabilities of the Borrower and Beneficiary agencies. The corollary is that IDA
should avoid committing itself to particularly complex projects which, in view of the
institution's budgetary situation (already tightening in the 1980s), are likely to be too costly
to effectively supervise.



- 12-
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table la: Summary of Assessments (for Original Project)
A.    Achievement of Objectives             Substantial          Partial              Negligible            Not Applicable
(x)                 (x)                   (x)                   (x)
Macroeconomic policies               ( )                 ()                    ( )                   (x)
Sector policies                     ( )                  ()                    (x)
Financial objectives                 ()                  (                     (x)                   ()
Institutional Development           ()                   (x)                   ( )                   ()
Physical objectives                  ()                  (x)                   ( )                   ()
Poverty reduction                    ()                  ()                    (x)                   ()
Gender concems                       ()                  ( )                   ( )                   (x)
Other social objectives              ()                  ()                    ()                    (x)
Environmental objectives            ()                   (x)                   ()                    ()
Public sector management             ()                  (x)                   (
Private sector management            ( )                 ( )                   ()                    (x)
B.     Proiect sustainabilitv               Likelv               Unlikely                                   Uncertain
(x)                 (x)                                         (x)
O)                  O)                                          (x)
C.    Bank Performance                      Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactor                               Deficient
(x)                 (x)                                         (x)
Identification                      ()                   ()                                          (x)
Preparation assistance              ()                   ()                                          (x)
Appraisal                           ()                   ()                                          (x)
Supervision                         ()                   ()                                          (x)
D.    Borrower performance                 HkighIy Safisfacor    Satisfactoyn                                Deficient
(x)                 (x)                                         (x)
Preparation                         ()                   ()                                          (x)
Implementation                      ()                   ()                                          (x)
Covenant compliance                  ()                  ()                                          (x)
Operation (if applicable)            ()                  ()                                          (x)
D.    Assessment of Outcome                 Higby satisfactorv    Satisfactory        Unsatisfactov         Highly
unsatisfactorv
(x)                 (x)                   (x)                   (x)
O)                  O)                    (x)                   O



- 13 -
Table lb: Summary of Assessments (for Restructured Project)
A.    Achievement of Objectives              Substantial          Partial               Negligible            Not Applicable
(x)                  (x)                   (x)                   (x)
Macroeconomic policies               ()                   ( )                   ( )                   (x)
Sector policies                      ()                   (x)                   ( )                    ()
Financial objectives                 ( )                  (x)                   (
Institutional Development            ()                   (x)                   ()                    ()
Physical objectives                  ( )                  (x)                   ( )
Poverty reduction                    ()                   ()                    (x)                   ()
Gender concems                       ()                   ()                    ()                     (x)
Other social objectives              ( )                  ( )                   ( )                   (x)
Environmental objectives             (x)                  ( )                   (
Public sector management             (x)                  ()                    (
Private sector management            ( )                  ( )                   ( )                   (x)
B.    Proiect sustainability                 Like(                Unlikely                                    Uncertain
(x)                  (x)                                         (x)
O   O                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(x)
C.     Bank Performance                      Highly Satisfactoa    Satisfactory                               Deficient
(x)                  (x)                                         (x)
Identification                       ()                   (x)                                         ()
Preparation assistance               ()                   (x)                                         ()
Appraisal                            ()                   (x)                                         C)
Supervision                          C)                   (x)                                         C)
D.     Borrower performance                  Highlv Satisfactory   Satisficto                                 Deficient
(x)                  (x)                                         (x)
Preparation                          ()                   (x)                                         ()
Implementation                       ()                   C)                                          (x)
Covenant compliance                  ()                   (x)                                         ()
Operation (if applicable)            C)                   C )                                          (x)
D.    Assessment of Outcome                  Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory        Highiy
unsatisfactorv
(x)                  (x)                  (x)                    (x)
O)                   O)                   (x)                    O



- 14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Tide and Nr.                  Purpose                                        Year of       Status
Approval
Preceding Operations:
1. Calcutta Urban Development             Improve the city's physical environment; strengthen    1973  Audited by
Credit 0427-IN                          Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority;                 OED in 1982
induce better planning and implementation of urban          (Report 4023)
development; support a broad investment program.
2. Madras Urban Development               Develop low cost solutions for shelter, water supply,   1977  Audited by
Credit 0687-IN                          sewerage, transport, and employment; promote full            OED in 1986
cost recovery; strengthen planning, provision of            (Report 6330)
sites, services, and infrastructure; and technical
assistance (TA).
3. Second Calcutta Urban Development      Continuation of previous Calcutta projects.    1977          PCR processed
Credit o756-IN                                                                                       by OED in 1987
(Report 15970)
4. Second Madras Urban Development        Increase provision of serviced sites to low income  1980     Audited by
Credit 1082-IN                          population; strengthen sector institutions.                 OED in 1992
(Rep. 10579)
5. Kanpur Urban Development               Help implement 4 1/2 year tranche of GOG's water    1981     Audited by
Credit 1185-IN                          supply and sewerage program, including TA.                  OED in 1992
(Rep. 10579)
6. Gujarat Water and Sewerage             Support provision of site infrastructure and slum  1982      Credit closed
Credit 1280-IN                          upgrading; TA                                                12/31/91; ICR
issued
7. Third Calcutta Urban Development       Continuation of previous Calcutta project.     1983          PCR processed
Credit 1369-IN                                                                                      in 1993
8. Bombay Urban Development               Improve the city's physical environment; strengthen    1985  Credit closed
Credit 1544-IN                          Bombay Metropolitan and Regional Development                 09/30/94; ICR
Authority; induce better planning and                       issued
implementation of urban development; support a
broad investment program.
Following Operations
Help institution building; support provide shelter  1987    Credit to be
1. Uttar Pradesh Urban Development        and urban transport; upgrade slums; TA.                     closed 03/31/96
Credit 1780-IN.
2. Tamil Nadu Urban Development           Support institution building and provision of shelter   1988  Credit closed
Credit 1923-IN                          and urban transport; TA.                                     09/30/96



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned                  Actual Date
Identification                                              11/83
Preparation                                                 01-10/84
Appraisal                                                   11/84
Negotiations                                                11/85
Board presentation                                          12/85
Signing                                                     04/86
Effectiveness                 07/86                         11/86
Project completion            06/92                         1996
Loan closing                  12/92                         03/95
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements; Cumulative (Estimated and Actual)
FY87   FY88   FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
Appraisal Estimate    3.10    11.78   21.08  31.00  42.16  55.80  62.00
(million US$)
Revised Estimate      0.00    5.01    5.38                       62.00
(million US$)
Actual (million US$)  0.00    5.01    5.38   25.88  32.27  34.30  43.07  47.33  52.2   64.67
Actual in Terms of    0%     43%    26%    83%   77%   61%   69%    76%    84%    104%
Appraisal Estimate
Actual (million SDR)  0.00    3.84    4.12   19.88  24.58  26.05  32.29  35.32  38.67  46.74
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not applicable as the Project predates the standard requirement for key indicators.
Table 6: Key Operators for Project Operation
Not available; only the larger implementing agencies have prepared operating plans for municipal
water supply services (see Annex 4).



- 16 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined      Status        Impact of Study
1. Urban Strategy for  To analyze existing  Completed         Report submitted by
State of Gujarat    urban growth patterns                     NIUA is utilized for
and suggest alternate                     various development
strategies of                             purposes.
development.
2. Urban Monitoring   To study the existing  Completed        Report submitted by
System              monitoring system and                     TCS is implemented
to suggest suitable                      for monitoring the
monitoring system for                     WB projects.
WB projects.
3. Financial        To study the prevailing   Report completed    SMC, VMC and
Consultancy         accounting system in                      JMC have
Municipal Corporations                    introduced the
and to introduce the                      accrual accounting
accrual accounting                        system and others
system.                                   are on process.
4. Mehsana Fluoride   To detect the excessive   Completed     On the basis of the
Study               fluoride concentration in                 finding of the study
Mehsana district, study                   GWSSB prepared
its impact and suggest                    Second Rural Water
suitable improvements.                    Supply Project.
5. GWSSB            To strengthen and      Completed          Report is under
Institutional Studies   improve the institutional             review by GOG.
capacity of GWSSB.
6. Mehsana Water    To provide potable     Completed          Report is under
Supply Project      drinking water to                         review by GWSSB.
villages affected by
excessive fluoride in the
existing ground water
supply.



- 17 -
Table 8a: Project Costs.
Item                                                               Estimate of     Actual /
Restructure      Latest
d Project /1    Estimate
/I L4
Local        Foreign         Total
Million US$   Million US$   Million USS   Million US$   Million USS
Area Development             9.3           1.3           10.6           8.1
Town Planning                9.2           1.3           10.5           4.9
Slum Upgrading               8.3           0.7           9.0            4.3      I
42.9 /5
Solid Waste                 10.3           1.8           12.1           6.6
Management
Urban Infrastructure        36.2           5.4           41.6          36.9
T.A. and Training            2.3          0.1             2.4           4.3      I
Rural Water Supply           ---          ---             ---          53.7         37.6
Total Base Cost             75.6          10.6           86.2         118.8 /2
Physical Contingencies       5.1           0.7           5.8
Design, Supervision, and     5.7           0.5           6.2
Management
Price Contingencies         28.3           4.0           32.3          11.9 /3
Total Project Costs        114.7           15.8         130.5         130.7         80.5 /
Notes:
ll Neither the documents on which the processing of the Project restructuring was based nor those available
at the time the present ICR was prepared, set forth a breakdown of costs in local and foreign components.
/2 The figures include physical contingencies, design, supervision, and management.
l3 The restructuring documents do not set forth price contingencies; the figures given here are estimated on
the basis of the SAR and the assumed time schedule for the modified project using the assumptions of the
SAR for the expected inflation rates.
/4 ICR estimate based on corresponding cost estimates in Rs. by Borrower.
/5 Sum of the first six items (for breakdown by cities, see Annex 2).
/6 Includes design, supervision, and management.
/7 Actual dollar amounts are based on conversion at an average exchange rate over the period of the project.
As the local component was high, project implementation late, and the Rupee weakening against the US$, the
total project cost in US$ resulted low even compared to the amount estimated at Project restructuring.



- 18-
Table 8b: Project Financing
Source                  Appraisal Estimate
(million US$)
Local    Foreign   Total    Restructured   Latest
Costs    Costs              Project      Estimate/
Actual
IBRD/IDA:                46.27    15.73     62.00    73.10         64.67
Cofinancing institutions:  0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00         0.00
Other external sources:   0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00         0.00
Domestic contribution:   68.50     0.00     69.50    57.65         15.84
Total:                   114.77    15.73    130.51    130.75       80.51
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
At the time of Project restructuring, project content was fundamentally changed, but no new EIRRs
determined. This applies in particular to the rural water supply and sanitation component, which
was a new component. Therefore, the ICR cannot set forth a re-evaluation of the returns.



- 19 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree- Section Covenant Present Original Revised  Description of                Comments
ment           type      status  fulfill-   fulfill-   covenant
ment    ment
date     date
Project 2.01(a) 3        C                          Gujarat shall relend funds  Complied with terms of loans. At
equivalent to $41.7 million out  restructuring costs of AMC
of the proceeds of the Credit to  components reduced by 1/2
AMC under a Subsidiary Loan  (covenant not changed). The loan
Agreement to be entered into    would have met 62% of SAR est.
between Gujarat and AMC.    costs & now after adjusting for XR
These funds are to be on-lent at & AMC component would meet
an interest rate of not less than   250% of AMC est. costs.
8.75% pa and repaid over a
period of 20 years, including a
4-year grace period
2.01(a) 4        C                          GOG shall provide, or cause to  GOG provides loans to urban
be provided, the funds,     agencies to meet 2/3 of project
facilities, services and other    costs, 100% grant funds for urban
resources required for the  inst. strengthening & for GWSSB
project by the implementing    Rural WS components. Urban
Agencies                    Agencies cannot meet counterpart
contributions; GOG from late 1991
agreed to provide funds.
2.01(b), 2       C       12/31/86           GOG shall ensure that       Last results for FY 1993/94 show
Sch.                                        beginning with financial year   compliance.
2(3)                                        1985/86, the Municipal
Corporations are able to meet
all expenditure chargeable to
revenue from local taxes and
charges, income from property,
and normal grants, and that after
financial year 1985/86, their
revenue accounts shall be kept
in balance.
2.0 1(b), 2      C       3/31/90            GOG shall cause AMC to
Sch.                                        apply, as appropriate, revenue
2(4)                                        increases and/or cost reduction
increases and/or cost reduction
(b);                                        policies so as to ensure that by
3.0(i)                                      March31, 1990, the cost of
operation, including
depreciation, and maintenance
are covered by user charges for
water supply and special taxes
for sewerage imposed and
collected from said users.



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agree  Section   Covenant   Present   Original   Revised   Description of                     Comments
-ment             type         status     fulfill-    fulfill-   covenant
ment       ment
date       date
2.01(b),  2            C          03/31/93             After 03/31/88, GOG shall cause AMC in consultation with
Sch. 2(4)                                              AMC to apply as appropriate,    GOG has implemented a
revenue increases and/or cost   time-based action plan to
(c),                                                   reduction policies so as to ensure achieve compliance.
3.0(iii)                                               that by 03/31/93 the cost of
operation and maintenance and
debt service, excluding
depreciation, are covered by user
charges for water supply and
special taxes for sewerage
imposed and collected from said
users.
2.01(b),  2            C                               Beneficiary selection criteria,    All but one Area
Sch. 2(5)                                              including price levels, the terms  Development Scheme has
and conditions of lease and of   been deleted from the
hire/purchase arrangements in   project. In Surat ADS an
Area Development Schemes      existing community of slum
shall be satisfactory to the  residents are the
Association and include, inter    beneficiaries. Cost recovery
alia, an interest rate of not less   is acceptable to the Bank.
than 12% pa to the beneficiaries.
2.01(b),  2            C                               GOG shall ensure that the cost of Cost recovery is acceptable
Sch. 2(6)                                              land and improvements shall be  to the Bank.
recovered from the beneficiaries
(in respect of slum upgrading)
and the terms and conditions of
sale or lease shall be such as
shall be satisfactory to the
Association which shall include,
inter alia, an interest rate of not
less than 12% pa.
2.01 (b),  2           C                               GOG shall ensure that water    Cost recovery is acceptable
Sch. 2(7)                                              supply and sewerage facilities   to the Bank.
provided on slum upgrading sites
shall be transferred to the local
municipal govermments for
management and the prevailing
water and sewerage rates shall be
charged to the beneficiaries with
individual connections.



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agree  Section   Covenant   Present   Original  Revised   Description of                  Comments
-ment             type        status     fulfill-    fulfill-   covenant
ment      ment
date       date
2.01(b),  10          C           12/31/86            GOG shall annually review   Action Plans prepared and
Sch. 2(9)                                             and update the Action Plan    provided in quarterly
(dated Nov. 6, 1985 which  progress reports.
indicates the series of
operational, financial and
administrative actions to be
undertaken under the project)
in consultation with the
Association.
2.01(b),  5           C           12/31/89            GOG shall strengthen the   Institutional strengthening
Sch.                                                 institutional capabilities of the components are included in
2(11)                                                 Implementing Agencies and   the project action plan noted
the PMC in accordance with   above and were
an action plan satisfactory to  implemented.
the Association. (A separate
letter of 10/06/89 lists those
elements of an action.
2.06      5           C                               GOG shall, upon receipt of the The Cell is operational and
consultant's report on     functioning quite
strengthening the UPC, inform  satisfactorily.
the Association of actions to
be taken.
3.00      5           C                               GOG shall cause the        None.
Implementing Agencies to
take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to
the Association for insurance
against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
3.04      1           C          09/30/88             The GOI shall have the      Received for FY1993/94.
Special Account for each
fiscal year audited and
furnished to the Association
not later than 6 months after
the end of each fiscal year (i.e.
by Sept. 30).



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Agree   Section    Covenant    Present    Original   Revised   Description of                      Comments
-ment               type           status       fulfill-    fulfill-    covenant
ment        ment
date        date
4.01       1              C            12/31/87               GOG shall cause the          None.
(a&b),                                                        Implementing Agencies to
Sch.                                                          maintain separate records
2(a&b)                                                        and accounts related to the
Project and to furnish to
the Association audited
copies within 9 months of
the end of each financial
year (i.e. by December 31).
The audit is to be in
accordance with
appropriate auditing
principles consistently
applied by independent
auditors acceptable to the
Association..
4.01(c),   I              C            12/31/87               Implementing Agencies to  None.
2(c)                                                          maintain separate records
and accounts of SOEs.
Such accounts are to be
included in the annual
audit of the project
accounts, but a separate
audit opinion is required to
the effect that such
expenditures have been
used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Credit  5.01        3              C                                   A Subsidiary Loan            Agreement executed Sept.
Agreement may be            12, 1986.
executed on behalf of
Gujarat and AMC.
Covenant types:                                           8. = Indigenous people
9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
I. = Accounts/audits                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from    11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
beneficiaries                                          allocation
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds            12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
4. = Counterpart fiunding                                    regulatory/institutional action
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing   13. = Other
agency                                          C    = covenant complied with
6. = Environmental covenants                          CD  = complied with after delay
7. = Involuntary resettlement                         CP   = complied with partially
8. = Present Status:                                  NC   = not complied with



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The ICR did not identify any deviation of substance from the relevant OMS.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned                Revised                Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks      1OOOUSS   Weeks       1OOOUS$   Weeks    1000US$
Through appraisal     n.a.        n.a.                              109.2     140.7
Appraisal - Board     n.a.        n.a.                               10.9      18.7
Board - effectiveness    n.a.     n.a.                               /I         L1
Supervision           n.a.        n.a.                              164.3     310.6
Completion            n.a.        n.a.                                5.0 a2    11.2 /2
Total                 n.a.        n.a.                              289.4     481.2
L. Included under Supervision.
12 Estimated.



- 24 -
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Stage of       Month/   Number of   Days            Specialized Staff      Performance rating                  Types of Problems
Project Cyde   Year       Persons      in Field     Skills Represented
hiyem-nt Stat   Develop.
us              Inpact
Through        09/82      6             15          ME,FA,UE,BIS
appraisal
06/83     5             12          AP,ME,FA,UD
11-       5             12          AP,ME,FA,UP,L
12/83
6            12          AP,ME,FA,UE,MF
05-
06/84      3            4           AP,ME
09/84
Appraisal       11/84     4             14          AP,ME,FA               --              --                  --
through
Board
approval
Board          05/86      3             9           FA,PM                 --               --                  --
approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision    02/87      4             12          AP,ME,FA,PM           2                3                   slow start
10/87     3             11          FA,PM                 2                2                   Continued slow progress,
a                                                                                              project restructuring
envisaged.
Restructuring mission.
01-       4             19          AP,FA,PM               2                2                  Progress slow.
02/88
a
1           4            AP                    2                2                   Progress slow on restructured
10/88                                                                                          project.
3            12          AP,FA                  2                2
02/89                                                                                          Progress slightly improved.
a                                                                                              Difficulties in design of slum
upgrading.
4            12          AP,FA,UP,RW            2                2
04/90                                                                                          Weak implementing agencies
a                                                                                              and central monitoring.
Progress on urban component
still slow.
3            15          FA,UP                  2                2
11/90                                                                                          (see above)
a
(see above)
3            11          AP,FA,UP               2                2
03-
04/91                                                                                          Cost recovery
(see above)



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions (cont'd)
Stage of      Month/    Number of         Days       Specialized Staff      Performance rating                  Types of Problems
Project       Year        Persons         in Field   Skills Represented
Cycle
IyplemenJStat   Develpo
us              Ir,ad
10-11/91    6              12          UP,PS,SW,FA           2                2
2/92        4              13          UP,SW,FA,RW           2                2
10/92      7               11          UP,FA,RW
2               2
UP,FA
06-07/93    2              8                                 2                2
FA22
02/94      2               4
FA
10/94      2
Completion    03/95       4               3           UP,FA                 --               -                  Funding of incomplete
project components.
/I Mission also supervising Gujarat Water Supply Project (Credit 1280-IN)
ME: Municipal Engineer                          FA: Financial Analyst
UE: Urban Economist                             Bl:  Buildings Industries Specialist
AP: Architect/Planner                           L:   Lawyer
RW: Rural Water Supply Specialist               PM: UNDP Project Manager



- 26 -
AnnexI
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Composition and Approximate Cost Breakdown of Original and
Restructured Project
Crores Rs.              Crores Rs.        Million USS             Million USS
Item                                Original            Restructured           Original             Restructured
Project                 Project            Project                  Project
Area Development
- Ahmedabad                             3.60                    0.00               3.00                     0.00
- Surat                                 1.92                    1.92               1.60                     1.47
-Gorwa                                  6.08                    7.27               5.06                     5.59
- Ankleshwar                            0.98                    0.00               0.82                     0.00
-Palanpur                               1.35                    1.35               1.13                     1.04
Subtotal                               13.93                    10.54              11.61                    8.11
Town Planning Schemes
- Ahmedabad                            10.77                    0.00               8.97                     0.00
- Surat                                 3.32                    3.32               2.77                     2.56
- Ankleshwar                            1.23                    0.00               1.03                     0.00
- Anand                                 0.00                    1.40               0.00                     1.08
- Petland                               0.00                    1.60               0.00                     1.23
Subtotal                               15.32                     6.32              12.77                    4.86
Slum Upezradone
- Ahmedabad                             7.37                    3.03               6.15                     2.33
- Vadodara                              0.34                    0.34               0.28                     0.26
- Surat                                 1.13                    1.13               0.94                     0.87
- Janinagar                             3.02                    1.10               2.52                     0.85
- Jetpur                                0.75                    0.00               0.63                     0.00
Subtotal                               12.61                     5.59              10.51                    4.30
Solid Waste Manaaement
- Ahmedabad                             5.47                    2.31               4.56                     1.78
- Vadodara                              2.64                    2.64               2.20                     2.03
- Surat                                 3.76                    2.61               3.13                     2.01
- Rajkot                                2.19                    1.06               1.82                     0.82
- Jamnagar                              1.33                    0.00               1.11                     0.00
Subtotal                               15.38                     8.62              12.82                    6.63



- 27 -
Annex I (con'd)
Urban Infrastructure
-Ahmedabad                              52/09                 35.16           43.41              27.05
-Vadodara                                1.62                  1.62            1.35               1.24
- Surat                                  4.01                  9.00            3.34               6.92
- Jamnagar                               0.00                  0.75            0.00               0.58
- Anand                                  0.00                  1.48            0.00               1.14
Subtotal                                 57.72                48.01            48.10              36.93
Institutionall StrEnoithning
-Ahmedabad                               1.47                  1.47            1.22               1.13
- Surat                                  0.04                  0.00            0.03               0.00
- Rajkot                                 0.02                  0.02            0.02               0.02
- Jamnagar                               0.02                  0.02            0.02               0.02
- GHB                                    0.04                  0.04            0.03               0.03
- GMFB                                   0.95                  0.95            0.79               0.73
- Survey/Photog./Mapping                 0.28                  0.65            0.23               0.50
- Unallocated                            0.00                  2.39            0.00               1.84
Subtotal                                  2.82                 5.54             2.35               4.27
Totl
- Ahmedabad                             80.77                 41.97           67.31              32.28
- Vadodara                               4.59                  4.59            3.83               3.53
- Surat                                 14.17                 17.98           11.81              13.83
-Rajkot                                  2.21                  1.08            1.84               0.83
-Jarnnagar                               4.37                  1.87            3.65               1.44
-Gorwa                                   6.08                  7.27            5.06               5.59
- Ankleshwar                             2.21                  0.00            1.84               0.00
- Palanpur                               1.35                  1.35            1.13               1.04
- Jetpur                                 0.75                  0.00            0.63               0.00
- Anand                                  0.00                  2.88            0.00               2.22
- Petland                                0.00                  1.60            0.00               1.23
- GHB                                    0.04                  0.04            0.03               0.03
- GMFB                                   0.95                  0.95            0.79               0.73
- Survey/Photog./Mapping                 0.28                  0.65            0.23               0.50
- Unallocated (Others)                   0L 11                                 gm0               192
117.90                84.74           98.25              65.18



- 28 -
Annex 2
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1643-IN)
Base Costs and Physical Contingencies
Crores Rs.     Crores Rs.     Crores Rs.      Million US$   Million USS    Million USS
Item                                   Original         Restr.         Actual          Original        Restr.        Actual
Project        Project      Estimated      Project (#I)   Project (#2)         (#4)
- Ahmedabad                               80.77         41.97           62.98            67.31         32.28          24.22
-Varodha                                   4.59           4.59          16.51             3.83          3.53           6.35
- Surat                                   14.17          17.98          22.62            11.81         13.83           8.70
- Rajkot                                   2.21           1.08           1.57             1.84          0.83           0.60
-Jamnagar                                  4.37           1.87            1.15            3.65           1.44          0.44
-Gorwa                                     6.08           7.27          - - - -           5.06          5.59           0.00
- Ankleshwar                               2.21           0.00          - -. - -          1.84          0.00           0.00
-Palanpur                                  1.35           1.35          - -               1.13          1.04           0.00
- Jetpur                                   0.75           0.00          - -. - -          0.63          0.00           0.00
- Anand                                    0.00           2.88           4.39             0.00          2.22           1.69
- Petland                                  0.00           1.60          - - . -           0.00          1.23           0.00
- GHB                                      0.04           0.04          - -. - -          0.03          0.03           0.00
-GMFB                                      0.95           0.95           1.01             0.79          0.73           0.39
- Survey/Photog./Mapping                   0.28           0.65           0.75             0.23          0.50           0.29
- Unallocated (Others)                     0.11           2.50           0.65             0.09          1.92           0.25
117.90         84.74          111.63            98.25         65.18          42.93
SAR                                      117.89                                          98.24           0.00           0.00
UPC Report                               117.88          84.76                           98.23          65.20           0.00
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
- GWSSB                                    0.00          69.75          97.70             0.00         53.65          37.58
Total Excluding Price Contingencies
117.89         154.49         209.33            98.24        118.84          80.51



- 29 -
Annex 2 (con1
Crores Rs.    Crores Rs.     Crores Rs.     Million USS   Million USS    Million USS
Original        Restr.        Actual         Original        Restr.       Actual
Project       Project     Estimated      Project (#I)   Project (#2)        (#4)
Price Contingencies              (#3)
38.72         15.49           0.00           32.27         11.91          0.00
Total Including Price Contingencies
156.61        169.97         209.33          130.51       130.75          80.51
1: I US$ = Rs 12 (as per SAR
2: 1 US$ = Rs 13 (as per restructuring documents
3: The restructuring documents do not set forth the price contingencies; the figures given here are
estimated on the basis of the SAR and the assumed time schedule for the modified project
using the assumptions of the SAR for the expected inflation rates.
4: ICR estimate based on corresponding cost estimates in Rs.



- 30 -
Annex 3
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1643-IN)
THE PROJECT, ITS RESTRUCTURING, AND THE BENEFITS ACHIEVED
1.    As mentioned under table 9, the ICR cannot quantify the benefits resulting from the
project. Therefore, the following discusses the main project items, how they were modified by
project restructuring, and roughly sets forth the results achieved, though it is difficult to relate
these to the quantitative goals of the project, both original and restructured. See also Annexes I
and 2.
Original Items As Modified At Project Restructuring
2.    Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) was expected to carry out a US$ 67 million
program covering area development, town planning schemes, slum upgrading, solid waste
management, priority urban infrastructure, and institutional strengthening. At restructuring, the
first two items were eliminated and the other ones roughly cut by half. Nevertheless, by 1995,
AMC was able, at least in part due to the project, to provide better water supply as well as
improved sewerage pumping and solid waste disposal. It also had made available 20,000 additional
latrines to individual low income families.
3.    Originally, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) was planned to implement a US$ 12
million program in the same six above main fields addressed by the project. At restructuring, the
program was increased by some US$ 2 million, whereby the area development, town planning, and
solid waste management components were slightly reduced, but the urban infrastructure items
about doubled. During project implementation, SMC laid 27 km of storm drains serving some 45
km2, considerably easing the city's water logging problems. It strengthened the water distribution
system benefiting about 50,000 people; 2000 families could be accommodated in newly developed
areas; some 5000 families benefited from slum upgrading; and solid waste management was
improved.
4.    For Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) the original project foresaw investments of
about US$ 3.8 million, mainly in slum upgrading, solid waste management, and urban
infrastructure. Project restructuring only slightly reduced this program. VMC carried out a storm
drainage component over 42 km2 which, improved to some extent the ambient conditions of some
460,000 people; some 80,000 people were reached by improved water supply services; about 850
families achieved improved living conditions under the slum upgrading program. Solid waste
management was also improved. This added up to investments of about US$ 6.5 million covering
a larger array of items than anticipated in 1989.
5.    The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) component of the project was expected to
cost some US$ 1.8 million mainly for solid waste management. Project restructuring reduced these



- 31 -
investments to less than half the original amount without changing the priority areas. RMC
apparently carried out a substantial part of this curtailed program with reasonable success. Total
cost was about 30% less than expected at project restructuring.
6.    In Jamnagar, the original project aimed at investments of US$ 3.7 million mainly in slum
upgrading and solid waste management. Project restructuring eliminated the latter and substantially
reduced the former. Ultimately a modest part of the slum upgrading benefiting some 7300 low
income families was carried out under the project at a cost some 30% of the amount expected at
project revision.
7.    Originally, Anand was not to benefit directly from the project. At restructuring, GOG and
IDA identified a US$ 2.2 million component, mainly in town planning and urban infrastructure,
that qualified for inclusion under the project. The actual investment in the approved items is
expected to amount to some US$1.7 million covering mainly the installation of 4 tubewells, which
aimed at improved water supply to some 42,000.
8.    The Town Planning And Valuation Department (TPVD) component of about US$ 0.23
at appraisal was doubled at restructuring, but ultimately carried out only to about the original scope.
It helped the department substantially increase its capability and provide several Gujarat cities with
bases for their urban planning.
9.    Training under the project assisted inter alia the Gujarat Municipal Finance Board
(GMFB). At project restructuring the originally US$ 0.8 rnillion component was about maintained,
but investments of only about half the planned amounts were implemented. These supported
GMFB in, inter alia, helping train personnel from various municipalities. In particular, accrual
accounting systems were introduced in several cities.
Rural Water Supply And Sanitation
10.   This component was added at the time of project restructuring. It was planned to cost some
US$ 54 million (Rs. 70 crores). Ultimately it is expected to cost some US$ 38 million (Rs. 209
crores). It was composed of items similar to those included in the earlier Gujarat Water Supply
project supported by credit 1280-IN. The lower cost seems due, in part, to delays in execution and
completion, postponing expenditures beyond the closing date of the project.
11.   The Una-Diu Regional Water Supply Scheme in the Junagadh District covering 37
villages with a design population of over 90,000 people was completed with exception of the
filtration plant. Thus, in 1995, the presently over 60,000 people living in these villages had at least
an adequate supply of raw water. The installation of the filtration plant was re-tendered.
12.   The Khadir Island Regional Water Supply Scheme was planned to cover 35 villages
with a design population of some 47,000. By mid 1995, only part of the project was completed, but
the remainder of the work was expected to be commissioned in 1996.



- 32 -
13.   The Bhadar Regional Water Supply Scheme was started in 1988, before project
restructuring. The project thus helped to complete it. It covered 36 villages and one town with a
design population of 85,000 rural and 35,000 urban dwellers. Successful operation of the scheme
has started.
14.   The Okhmandal Regional Water Supply Scheme also started in 1988, i.e. Before official
project restructuring. It covered 39 villages and two towns and targeted some 75,000 people. By
mid-1995, 20 villages were being served. Connection of the remaining towns and villages was
expected to occur by 1996, the delays being due to the contractors' slow progress.
15.   The Individual Water Supply Scheme covered about 1 000 villages with a population of
some 1.7 million. The UPC's report does not discuss the rate of success of this component, for
which the GWSSB has invested in excess of US$12 million.
16.   The Low Cost Sanitation Program For Rural Areas to be covered under the restructured
Project was originally to cover the installation of 20,000 latrines. Due to the success of the
program, it finally covered some 70,000 latrines in 2,300 villages and benefited some 350,000
people.
17.   The project component also included various Rain Water Harvesting Structures And
Consultants Services for several studies, which were reported as carried out successfully.



- 33 -
Annex 4
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1643-IN)
Operating Plans - Project Implementing Agencies
The following are the operating plans for municipal water supply only, prepared by the
four larger implementing agencies under this Project following project closure.
WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
OPERATIONALPERFORMANCE INDICATORS
AHMEDABAD MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Year      1994/95        95/96          96/97         97/98        98/99       99/2000      2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)             334101         347465        361364        378818         39081       406485       420196
Population Coverage (Percent)                     100           100            100          100            100         100           100
Population Covered (Nos.)                      334101        347465        361364        378818         39081       406485       420196
Water Produced (MLD)                              159           159           204            204          204          204          204
Water unaccounted for                                            25            25             25            25          25            25
No. of connections                              43000         45000          47000         49000         50000       53000        55000
House Service connections                         670           700            730           760           790         820          850
Standposts
Non-domestic                                     3300          3500          3700           3900          3900        4100         4200
Revenue collection                                 72            83             85            89            92          95           100
performance(percent)
Staff required for 0 & M (Nos)                     80            80            80             80            80          80            80
Trained 0 & M Staff                                22            22            22             22            22          22            22
Average no. of connections per                                   129           143           152            164         174          184
O & M staff
Net Revenue (Rs. lakhs)                           2948          3417          4784          5568           6454        7480          8669
Net expdr. 0 & M (Rs. lakhs)                      3545          4077          4688          5392           6200        7131          8200
Net income (Rs. laks)                             -597          -660             96           176           254         349           469



- 34 -
Annex 4
WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
SURAT MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Year      1994/95       95/96         96/97         97/98       98/99      99/2000     2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)           1816898       1923000      2028950       2235000       2350000   2456000       2559000
Population Coverage (Percent)                     66         67.6         73.93         80.5          89.36      97.71          100
Population Covered (Nos.)                    1200000      1300000       1500000      1800000       2100000   2400000       2559000
Water Produced (MLD)                             150    --- - 200           300          320           400         460         460
Revenue Water (Percent)
No. of connections                            115951       126000        150000       182000        225000     330000       370000
House Service connections                     109000       117180        139000       169000        202500    293700        333000
Standposts
Non-domestic                                   6951          8020         10500        12740         22500      36300        37000
Revenue collection                             38.76           40            42           45            50          55          57
performance(percent)
Staff required for O & M (Nos)                   764           830          1000        1197          1400        2171         2432
Trained O & M Staff                              193            209          270          300          377         580          610
Averageno.ofconnectionsper                        152           151           150          152         152         132          153
O & M staff
Net Revenue (Rs. lakhs)                          248            325          475           630         750         1000         1140
Netexpdr.O&M(Rs.lakhs)                         955.31           1070         1260         1450        1738         2034         238
Net income (Rs. lakhs)                         -707.31          -745         -785          -820       -988         -1034       -1098



- 35 -
Annex 4
WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
VADODORA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Year      1994/95       95/96         96/97        97/98        98/99      99/2000     2000/01
Population in ServiceArea(Nos.)              1174000      1213000       1259000      1291000       1329000    1368000      1404000
Population Coverage (Percent)                  61.75         64.2            67          68.2         69.5        70.5         79.5
Population Covered (Nos.)                    725000        779000       838000        881000        824000    964000       1004000
Water Produced (MLD)                             177          271           271          271           271         271         271
Revenue Water (Percent)                         9.68         10.64          11.7         12.87        14.15       15.56       17.11
No. of connections                            147000       158000        169000        182000       198000    222000        233000
House Service connections                     101000       121000        132000        144000       158000     181000       189000
Standposts                                      1000         1000          1000          1000         1000        1000        1350
Non-domestic                                   35000        36000         36000         37000        39000      81000        41000
Revenue collection                               76             77         77.5            78          78.5         79         79.5
performance(percent)
StaffrequiredforO&M(Nos)                         810           850           893          938         985         1033        1085
Trained O & M Staff                              453            476          500           527         553         581         610
Average no. of connections per                   180            185          189           194         200         206         210
O & M staff
Net Revenue (Rs. Iakhs)                        860.29        946.58       1041.23       1145.35     1259.88     1385.86     1524.44
Net expdr. 0 & M (Rs. lakhs)                   1903.64       2094.4       2533.74       2533.74     2787.11     3065.82      3372.4
Net income (Rs. lakhs)                         -1043.35      -1141.92     -1492.51      -1388.39   -1527.23    -1699.96   -1847.96



- 36 -
Annex 4
WATER SUPPLY SCHEME
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ANAND MUNICIPALITY
Year      1994/95       95/96         96/97        97/98        98/99      99/2000      2000/01
Population in Service Area (Nos.)            110000       115400        120000       126000        131000      137000      144000
Population Coverage (Percent)                    90           91           92             93           95         98           100
Population Covered (Nos.)                    99000        -Q5000        110400       117000        124000      134000      144000
Water Produced (MLD)                              8          8.4            9            9.2          9.5          10         10.4
Revenue Water (Percent)                           0            0            0              0            0           0            0
No. of connections
House Service connections                     16344        17510        18000          18800        19600      20400        21250
Standposts                                      130          135          142            150          155         162         170
Non-domestic                                     20           21           22             24           25          26          27
Revenue collection                               78           79           79            80            80          80          80
performance(percent)
Staff required for O & M (Nos)                   51           54            56           58            61          64          67
Trained O & M Staff                              26           28            29            30           31          32          33
Average no. ofconnections per                   323           340          355           370           387        404         415
O & M staff
Net Revenue (Rs. lakhs)                      1063.93          1200         1300          1400          1525       1650       1800
Netexpdr.O&M(Rs.lakhs)                       1030.28          1100         1200          1300          1400       1550       1725
Net income (Rs. laks)                        +33.65          +100         +100          +100          +125       +100         +75



- 37 -
Annex 5
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR
1.    In the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR), prepared by the consultants of the
Bank, the overall outcome has been rated as unsatisfactory (Para 18 & 21). The slow progress in
the project has been given the main reason for the above conclusion.
2.    It is true that the progress of the project was slow in the beginning due mainly to the
consecutive droughts in the state and some other reasons. But after restructuring of the project and
in particular after strengthening of the Urban Project Cell, the project has recorded fair rate of
progress which has been accelerated in the last couple of years.
3.    It seems that at the time of assessment, the financial and physical progress recorded in the
last four years is not given proper weightage. At the end of the credit, the achievement of credit
disbursement is more than 98%. Even the March 1995 mission felt that about 5 million SDR
would be required to be canceled due to non-utilization within credit life, but only 0.76 MSDR was
left undisbursed on the credit closing date. Against the total expenditure of the Rs.98 1 Million, Rs.
802 Million has been spent during the last four years of the project i.e., about 84%. This reveals
that though the progress was slow in the beginning, after strengthening of the Urban Project Cell.
Moreover, at no point of time did any Supervisory Mission from the World Bank express
"unsatisfactory" remarks on the project implementation.
4.    It has been stated in Para 2 of the Preface that 11 MSDR was canceled due to restructuring
of the project in 1989. This is not correct. At the time of restructuring only some new rural
components were added and some of the non-viable components were dropped. The original credit
of 58.5 MSDR was canceled due to exchange rate adjustment following the devaluation of the
Indian rupee.
5.    In case of the sustainability of benefits, it has been rated as uncertain. The benefit achieved
have been discussed in Annex 3 of the draft ICR. Considering the nature of the benefit out of
infrastructure development within the project, it is sure that the beneficiaries are definitely going to
enjoy the fruits for a long period.
6.    In case of economical sustainability, it is evident that in all implementing agencies the
revenue account have been brought in balance. This means all the recurring expenditure for
maintaining the civic services, including newly provided under the project, is being set by the
revenue income. As such, we cannot classify the sustainability as uncertain.
7.    In para 28 of the draft ICR, it has been stated that presently COG provides substantial
subsidies to the cost of O&M. This is not correct as no subsidy in any form is being passed on to
meet the O&M cost of the service.



- 38 -
7.    In para 14 of the draft ICR, it has been mentioned that the Urban Project Cell has been
dissolved by the Government. Here it is required to clarify that the Urban Project Cell has not been
dissolved, but considering the importance of its working Government is thinking to strengthen it.
Recently the Gujarat Urban Infrastructure Project has been identified and being implemented by the
Urban Project Cell. Rs. 380 Millions have been provided in the State Government budget for the
project in the current financial year.
8.    At the last but not least, some bold decisions taken by the State Government will reveal the
sincerity towards implementation of the project and convenant compliance.
a.     Amendment in Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949, to increase
the minimum water charges and sewer charges.
b.     Provided matching contribution to the implementing agencies for the speedy
implementation of the project.
c.    Ensured adequate funding to the project. This has helped a lot in achieving
physical progress during the last four years of the credit period.



- 39 -
Annex 6
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1643-IN)
FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION
MARCH 15-16, 1995
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. Ernst Huning (Institutional Specialist,
SA2EI), Chandra Godavitarne (Senior Operations Officer, New Delhi Office) and Shyamal
Sarkar (Water & Sanitation Engineer, New Delhi Office), visited Gujarat over March 14-16,
1995 to both carry out the 'final supervision' review of the Gujarat Urban Development Project
(GUDP), Credit 1 643-IN, and initiate the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) process for
this Project, in light of the Credit's closure on March 31, 1995. Mr. B. S. Bhavanishankar, local
Water & Agriculture Consultant engaged to assist the ICR process for this Project, participated in
all aspects of the mission and undertook further GUDP consultations in Gujarat until March 22,
1995. Miss Kim Cuenco (Urban Planning Specialist, SA2AW) and Mr. Karl Kleiner (Senior
Water & Sanitation Engineer, SA2AW), in India under separate Terms of Reference, joined the
mission to assist in the assessment of strategic preparatory studies financed under this Project for
a possible future Mehsana Region rural water supply (RWS) project.
2.    Although at this particular time, the relevant senior Government of Gujarat (GOG)
officials were necessarily pre-occupied with the post-inauguration needs of the newly-elected
State Government, the mission was able to hold valuable brief discussions with them and with
key representatives from the particular implementing agencies involved in this Project. A list of
the principal officials met is provided at Attachment 1.
3.    This Aide-Memoire is comprised of two substantive parts, being respectively the
summary of the Final Supervision Mission findings and an outline of the main issues/themes
arising during the forthcoming ICR. The first A-M part was outlined at meetings with the
respective GOG officials on March 16, 1995, where the operational requirements of the ICR
process were also discussed. The overall draft A-M (albeit with the ICR element still necessarily
limited to 'outline' coverage) was subsequently presented in draft form to the GOG's Additional
Chief Secretary and Secretary for Urban Housing & Urban Development, Mr. V. R. Subba Rao,
via Mr. Bhavanishankar prior to the mission's departure from India. A fornal communication
will be sent from the Bank's headquarters in due course to confirm key aspects covered in this A-
M.



- 40 -
4.    The mission wishes to record its appreciation of the cooperation and assistance extended
by all the participating GOG officials to the mission, given both the sensitive post-election
circumstances then prevailing and the compact mission timetable.
Background
5.    This project became effective on November 11, 1986 and was originally scheduled to
close on December 31, 1992. In 1988, following a major BanklGOG review of various
implementation difficulties, the project was significantly restructured and in particular, new
implementation management and coordination arrangements were agreed to and initiated by
GOG. Since then, five project Credit closing date extensions have been granted:
(a)   the first in late 1992, extending the Credit closing date to April 30, 1993;
(b)   the second in early 1993, extending the closing date briefly to June 30, 1993,
conditional on satisfactory implementation catch-up performance and evidence of
improved forward planning by the borrower;
(c)   the third extension, to 31 December 1993, based on preliminary satisfaction of the
June 30, 1993 'forward planning' conditions and to allow time for mutual
Bank/GOG consideration of the case for a more substantial extension;
(d)   the fourth extension, to December 31, 1994, was 'pre-agreed' to follow on from
full GOG compliance with conditions set by the Bank in determining the basis for
the June and December, 1993 extensions; and
(e)   the fifth, final extension until March 31, 1995.
6.   In both 1992 and 1993, against a background then of significant political and
administrative upheaval in Gujarat, the prime basis for the extensions being granted was to
enable: (i) completion of various procurement processes and physical works by the Gujarat
Water Supply and Sewerage Board (GWSSB) for regional needs and by municipal implementing
agencies for Ahmedabad, Anand, Vadodara and Surat under the Project; (ii) commencement of
effluent treatment studies and preparation of studies for a possible Mehsana Region RWS
project, being financed under this Project; and (iii) implementation of essential policy and
managerial reforms by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to improve its internal
resource generation capability in relation to water supply and sewerage services, alongside
agreed capital investments, to help ensure that the benefits from those investments under this
Project are sustainable. The final extension, to March 31, 1995, was granted primarily to enable
completion of the Mehsana Region RWS project preparation studies and of the few outstanding
'Priority (water & sanitation) Infrastructure' works and services by the participating municipal
agencies.



- 41 -
Summary of Main Findings
7.    At the time of final supervision, a number of works and services were still under
implementation by the AMC, the Anand Municipality and the GWSSB under this Credit. In
particular, the outstanding AMC works may take up to six months to complete. Some of these
are vital components of the sewage conveyance and treatment systems, equipment for sewer
cleaning, solid waste management processes and water distribution systems (particularly in East
Ahmedabad), which will require the GOG's (and AMC's) own funds to complete after this
Project's closure (e.g. a requirement of some Rs. 50 million for the East Ahmedabad works).
8.    Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation have improved their implementation performance
substantially over 1994/95. The AMC works include some that were transferred incomplete
from a previous Gujarat WS&S Project (Cr. 1280-IN), and even then were regarded as vital
components of the water, sanitation and waste management needs of the Ahmedabad area.
However, slow and excessively tentative procurement decision-making, procedural bottlenecks,
late completion of contract negotiations and slow contract payments were consistently evident in
AMC activity during this Project until 1994. Now, under changed IAS (non-political) municipal
management, the Corporation (i) has eliminated its long-standing financial overdraft and is
maintaining a significant funds surplus for plan-based investments, through improved rate
collections and tariff changes; (ii) is actively pursuing municipal water quality policies and
intervening in industrial pollution/environmental hazards, and (iii) is maintaining improved
delivery of basic municipal services throughout the Ahmedabad area. AMC has also now
constructed some 16,000 toilets in metropolitan Ahmedabad, with direct municipal benefits.
9.    Anand Municipal Corporation have completed all works except for the procurement of
some 4,000 water meters for the important pilot scheme for 24-hour water supply for a part of
Anand, involving a modest expenditure of some Rs. 12-15 lahks for local procurement of modem
domestic water meters. Although the Bank had advised GOG of some inconsistencies in the
proposed technical specifications for the procurement of these meters, this procurement is below
the threshold for prior review by the Bank. Accordingly, the mission advised that once these
inconsistencies are rectified, and provided the latest Bureau of India Standards (BIS)
specifications for water meters in India are specified, the GOG/Anand Municipality can proceed
quickly with local procurement action before Credit closure (as also discussed with the UPC
staff).
10.   The GWSSB has, in addition to a strong implementation record on regional and rural
WS&S investments during the Project, also completed implementation of about 70,000 low-cost
sanitation units in rural areas in an excellent effort. Some small works in regional water supply
schemes under this Project are, however, still to be completed. The training activities and
programs provided by the Jalseva Training Institute (JTI), administered by the GWSSB, are well
developed and the Institute's capabilities are well regarded, technically and managerially.
11.   The three main strategic studies, commenced over 1993/94 and financed under this
Credit, have been delayed through diversion of key professional and governmental resources
during the 1994 'plague epidemic' upheavals in Gujarat. However, they are expected to achieve



- 42 -
draft Final Reports by Credit closure and be fully finalized for GOG consideration within the
next 3-4 months. These are the AMC's 'common effluent treatment' study and the two studies
centered on the GWSSB, namely the Mehsana Region 'water supply strategy' study and the
institutional and financial management study of GWSSB. The latter two will both have
significant impact on the prospects for a proposed Mehsana Region RWS project, provided the
various component studies are now more strongly integrated and focused than previously
evident, in line with Bank comments made before and during this mission. For the GWSSB
'institutional and financial management' studies, the suggestion made by the Bank following the
last mission, that the GOG critically review the nature and scope of the Board's future role in
State-wide RWS facilitation, has apparently been referred to the study consultants for
consideration without a distinct indication of the GOG stance at this stage.
12.   Taken together, in the context of the overall Project, the amount of outstanding works and
services are relatively small, and have a very good chance of completion over the next few
months. The mission therefore recommended that GOG (and/or the applicable agency) continue
to make the necessary funds for these available even after the Credit's closure.
Credit Usage and Expenditure
13.   The original. revised and actual expenditure status across the various implementing
agencies in GUDP as advised to the mission is presented at Attachment 2. By the Credit closing
date of March 31, 1995, on indications at the time of the mission, the likely Credit utilization
may leave about 5 million SDRs unused and liable to cancellation. GOG will make every effort
to expedite final eligible expenditures before the Credit closing date and then the preparation of
applications for reimbursement of such expenditures, and to ensure that these are received by the
Bank no later than four months after the closing date (i.e. July 31, 1995).
Main Issues
14.   Municipal Finances: The improvement of the finances of participating municipalities
was a prime objective of this Project. While this has not been fully achieved, two important
changes have taken place.
15.   Firstly, GOG has amended the relevant legislation for the municipal corporations to
remove stipulations on minimum charges for WS&S services and to vest enhanced revenue-
raising powers in each municipal body. Secondly, the State's High Court has ruled that where
the authorities' property tax demand is to be disputed by property owners, 75% of the notified tax
demand must nonetheless be paid before court consideration of such a dispute.
16.   An action plan to improve municipal finances (taking also into account these two
measures) was agreed upon with all the GUDP participating municipalities some time ago,
however the actual situation is only just beginning to show substantive improvement. Further
improvement in tariff and tax settings and in collection perforrnance by the municipalities and
agencies, are required to achieve an ongoing match between revenue and outlays in discharging
their mandated municipal functions (inclusive of O&M), let alone to facilitate their intended
level of municipal investments in infrastructure and resources necessary to sustain these services.



- 43 -
17.   Adoption of New Accounting Systems/Methods: All six municipal corporations were to
participate in the development and implementation of new/revised accrual-based computerized
accounting systems for their financial management functions. Only Surat has completed the
process; however, four others have either partly completed the exercise or have both previous
and new systems running in parallel. AMC has only just begun to engage this exercise. GOG
needs to reinforce efforts to complete this exercise so that municipalities gain the planned
managerial and financial benefits as soon as possible.
18.   Municipal Governance: A larger degree of both autonomy and accountability is required
for the municipalities to enable them to be responsive to the needs of their clientele and
constituencies. Other than Ahmedabad, the larger towns still need (in practice) to be empowered
more widely across the municipal functions and operations covered by the 74th Constitutional
Amendment, and should be given more revenue-raising responsibilities and latitude to discharge
these, if genuine municipal reforms and development are to take place.
19.  Implementation Capacity: At least until 1993/94, the performance of the implementing
agencies in this Project (particularly AMC), demonstrated major weaknesses in their
implementation capacity and institutional strengths, due to various reasons. Efficient utilization
of revenue and of borrowed funds will continue to require significant improvement in both per-
agency and coordinated GOG-based capacity at:
(a)   planning, development/preparation and management of municipal projects;
cost-estimating, budgeting and monitoring for effective financial performance in municipal
works programs, with integral provision for the cost of funds;
development of comprehensive and updated schedules of rates for works that reflect realistic
market prices;
(b)   use of standardized procurement practices, and in particular bid documents, that
are tight yet are fair to both parties and provide for shared risk in procurement of works and
services;
(c)   application of open, objective methods for bid evaluation and contract awards, to
avert/reduce disputation and increase public confidence in procurement processes;
timely decision-making in contract awards and greater delegation of contracts responsibilities;
and
(d)   planning for and provision of counterpart funds for implementation of projects.
20.   Prospects For A Future GUDP-II: The GOG and implementing agencies queried the
mission about the possibility of Bank assistance for another Gujarat project along the lines of this
GUDP. The mission in response suggested that the revised lending priorities for the Bank in
India at present would go against such prospects for a large State-level multi-agency, multi-
faceted, integrated urban development project. In addition, the mission suggested that urban and
industrial land development schemes and tourism-development property investments, such as
those now proposed inter alia by AMC, would be best directed towards the private sector. There



- 44 -
is clearly a need for some further investment in Gujarat's municipal-level urban infrastructure,
however, and the mission suggested that this could be addressed by encouragement of in-India
(state or national level) private sector 'financial intermediation' capacity for the development and
financing of such investments. In parallel, the GOG should work with municipal agencies on
establishing the latter as eligible credit-worthy entities in financial and investment terms. The
most recent improvements in financial resources and institutional capacity across the GUDP
implementing agencies (especially on the part of AMC), if firmly sustained from now on, should
help significantly in such a strategy.
Overall Assessment
21.   The main highlights and problems evident at the closing stage of this Project are
summarized below.
Highlights
22.   The singular achievement by GWSSB, of providing nearly 70,000 low cost sanitation
units in rural areas through the use of an NGO, since the project was restructured in 1988, is
highly commendable and may be the benchmark for this type of initiative in India in Bank-
assisted projects. Similarly, the AMC's construction of some 16,000 toilets in Ahmedabad
metropolitan areas is an impressive (albeit somewhat belated) infrastructural effort. GOG should
undertake an evaluation of these two programs as a basis for future planning in this area.
23.   Training in financial and administrative skills and systems has been consistently funded
and conducted under the Project for various levels of staff of the participating municipalities,
with apparently strong results. GOG support for this training effort should include a review of
the aims and contents of the training modules to ensure they remain effective in meeting the
needs of the various target staff, in the context of actual and forecast municipal functions and
operations.
24.   Computerization of accounting systems and the introduction of 'annual accrual'
accounting methods has been embraced as a strategy by all the municipal corporations, albeit to
varying degrees of implementation and operation so far. The hardware and software have been
procured and the accounting process changes are being taken up gradually, initially in parallel
with the existing systems. GOG should require all the corporations to expeditiously complete
this program and should formally adopt the accrual accounting method as the only State-wide
standard for public finances.
25.   There are already major municipal cash-flow benefits evident from the application of the
recent State High Court decision requiring payment beforehand by property owners of at least
75% of municipal property tax determinations where a dispute of such a determination is
intended.
26.   The formal strengthening of the Urban Projects Cell (UPC) in 1991 (via appointment of
the Chief of the Cell) achieved solid improvement in implementation performance throughout



- 45 -
this Project. The enhanced capacity and contribution of the UPC in coordination and monitoring
of the many project implementation aspects has been well demonstrated since then.
27.   By Credit closure, on present indications, the Project's intended (post-restructuring)
WS&S works should have been mostly completed and be realizing the expected benefits from
these investments across several Gujarat municipalities and regions.
28.   Senior staff of the respective implementing agencies are now demonstrating a more
consistently strategic approach and planning orientation, and the net improvement in institutional
strengths in financial and general management appears significant.
Low Points
29.   In the larger corporations, and particularly in the case of AMC, the implementation
progress over the first half of the project's life was simply poor, for a combination of reasons.
The key grounds were poor financial and procurement performance, limited adoption of the
disciplines required under standardized competitive procurement processes, shortage of
counterpart funds, and slow decision-making by empowered municipal areas.
30.   The original project concept featured various ambitious 'urban development' components
(in slum clearance, urban land re-development and town planning, for example), where the
necessary prior technical capacity and administrative experience on the GOG's part actually did
not exist. Project-funded technical assistance for capacity building and institutional development
in these vital respects was, however, only scheduled for provision after these components had
already been engaged. The significant implementation setbacks in these components led to their
downsizing or even abandonment in the Project's 1988/89 restructuring.
31.   The lack of strong unifying commitment and participation by GOG earlier in the Project
weakened implementation performance until the UPC became effective in 1989/90. This was a
factor in the need for (at least two of the four) Project extensions and directly affected the poor
performance in particular in the management of procurement under the Project.
32.   Compliance with covenants has until recently been consistently delayed, and particularly
so in relation to auditing of project accounts for all the implementing agencies and the resultant
conveyance to the Bank of certification of audit compliance or otherwise.
33.   Even allowing for the acknowledged particular progress within the AMC recently, overall
the evidence of the development of significant planning capacity, of depth in management skills
and of modem financial management acumen suggests that this is still a vulnerable area among
the individual municipal corporations. This is a particular concern as the demands on their
financial and human resources, management capabilities and capacity for municipal leadership
are growing.



- 46 -
Implementation Completion Reporting (ICR)
34.  ICR Preparations/Approach: The GOG was advised by the October 1994 mission of the
ICR phase and its requirements, and provided with copies of the Bank's guidelines for the ICR
process. However, due to the combined effects of the recent State elections in Gujarat, the
subsequent change of State government and the 'end of financial year' workload impinging on
GOG over February/March 1995, by the mission's visit the relevant GOG areas had not
commenced on their aspects of the ICR process. In particular, no Operational Plans (at either
agency or overall Project level) were available for the mission's consideration.
35.   The mission therefore held further discussions about the ICR process with the UPC and
some staff of GUDP implementing agencies, particularly emphasizing the required Borrower's
contributions. These include the need for each GUDP implementing agency to prepare an
Operational Plan for the major components of the Project under their control, along with an
individual evaluation report. Additional copies of the Bank's ICR guidelines were provided to
these officials. Examples of recent typical Operational Plans were also provided and discussed,
particularly with the UPC staff, who will marshall the overall GOG efforts in this regard.
36.   The UPC has undertaken to compile and integrate the various resultant Operational Plans
and evaluation reports, for high-level GOG review and then forwarding to the Bank for inclusion
in the draft ICR materials. The mission agreed that Mr. Bhavanishankar will provide direct
assistance on the Bank's behalf to GOG and implementing agencies during these efforts at
various intervals over the March/April/May 1995 period. In the circumstances, the Bank's draft
ICR material should be available for GOG consideration by mid-June, 1995 and the GOG's
"borrower's evaluation" report should be forwarded to the Bank by June 30, 1995.
37.   Overall ICR Timetable: The proposed timetable for the respective ICR milestones, taking
into account the GOG's lack of prior ICR preparations, is (realistically) as follows:
* Operational Plans (OP) and evaluation summaries from individual GUDP
implementing agencies to UPC (GOG):-                April 30, 1995
* Compilation/integration of these by UPC and GOG high-level review, then
forwarding to the Bank:-                            May 12, 1995
* Final/revised project financial and economic data required from GOG and
implementing agencies, forwarded to the Bank:-      May 26, 1995
* The Bank's draft of the ICR Evaluation Summary forwarded to the GOG for the
Borrower's comments:-                               June 23, 1995
+ The GOG's own Evaluation Report on GUDP implementation, project performance
and 'sustainability' aspects are forwarded (with brief summary, if necessary) to the
Bank, together with any GOG comments on the Bank's ICR draft:- July 15, 1995
+ Final draft overall ICR is finalized by the Bank for internal circulation and review:-
July 31, 1995
* After any subsequently-necessary revisions, the ICR is printed and circulated to the
Bank's Board, the Bank's OED, the Borrower, all implementing agencies and GOI
coordination/oversighting agencies:-                 August 22, 1995



- 47 -
Attachment 1
INDIA
GUJARAT URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1643-IN)
FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION
14-16 MARCH 1995
LIST OF PRINCIPAL OFFICIALS MET
Government of Gujarat
Mr. V. V. Rama Subba Rao
Additional Chief Secretary &
Secretary, Urban Development & Urban Housing Department
Mr. R. M. Patel
Secretary, Water Supply Department
Mr. C. J. Thakkar, Executive Engineer
Urban Projects Cell, Urban Development & Urban Housing Department
Mr. K. S. Varma
Municipal Commissioner, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC)
Mr P. U. Asnani, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, AMC
Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage Board
Mr. P. M. Modha, Member/Secretary, GWSSB
Mr. H. D. Nagrecha, Chief Engineer (World Bank Zone), GWSSB
Mr. P.K. Shah, Officer on Special Duty (World Bank Zone), GWSSB
Mr. B. J. Vasavada, Executive Engineer, GWSSB
Mr. H.H. Pandya, Executive Engineer (World Bank Zone)
Mr. J. M. Barot, Director, Gujarat Jalseva Training Institute



- 48 -
Attachment 2
Projected & Actual Expenditure Per Participating Agency of GUDP
(Rs. in Crores)
Base Cost (Projected)            Actual Expenditure
Agency
Original  Restructured   Revised    As on   Expected    Residual
1985        1989        1995    2/28/95   at 3/31/95   at 3/31/95
1. Urban Components
AMC           80.77        41.97      62.98    36.31      25.00        1.67
SMC           14.17        18.01      22.62    20.00       2.62        0.00
VMC            4.59         4.59      16.51    15.03       1.48        0.00
RMC            2.21          1.08      1.57     1.45       0.12        0.00
JMC            4.37          1.87      1.15     1.04       0.11        0.00
BMC            0.00         0.00       0.15     0.15       0.00        0.00
ANAND          0.00         2.88       4.39     4.32       0.07        0.00
GMFB           0.95         0.95       1.01     0.43       0.07        0.51
TPVD           0.28         0.65       0.75     0.56       0.04        0.15
Others        10.54         12.76      0.50     0.40       0.10        0.00
F------------------------------------------------------------_
Urban        117.88        84.76     111.63    79.69      29.61        2.33
Total:
2. Rural/Regional Water Supply & Sanitation Components
GWSSB          0.00        69.75      97.70    91.46
________--______       --______ ___________        L i_____ t______________
Overall      117.88       154.51    209.33   171.15       29.61        2.33
Total:                                             .
AMC = Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation       JMC = Jamnagar Municipal Corporation
SMC = Surat Municipal Corporation           BMC = BhavnagarMunicipal Corporation
VMC = Vadodara Municipal Corporation        ANAND = Anand Municipal Corporation
RMC = Rajkot Municipal Corporation          GMFB = Gujarat Municipal Finance Board
TPVD = Town Planning & Valuation Department
GWSSB = Gujarat Water Supply & Sewerage Board






fr S   i  .     :  -, CI I,l
;:!..iI -r  .- V    "  ;



