CREDIT NUMBER 1643 IN
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Gujarat Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  /       , 1986


﻿CREDIT KUMBER 1643 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1986, between
INDIA, acting by its Presid   t (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Gujarat
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the State of Gujarat the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the State of Gujarat;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Gujarat" means the State of Gujarat acting by its
Governor, a State of India, and includes any successor thereto;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between tie
Association and Gujarat of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿-2-
amended from time to time, and such Lerm includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Implementing Agencies" means the Gujarat Housing
Board, the Municipal Corporations of Ahmedabad, Jamnagar, Rajkot,
Surat and Vadodara, the municipalities of Ankleshwar, Palanpur
and Jetpur, and shall include any Department of Gujarat respon-
sible for carrying out any Part of the Project;
(d)  "AMC"   means  the   Ahmedabad   Municipal   Corporation
established under the Bombay Provinical Municipal Corporations
Act, 1949; and
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between Gujarat and AMC pursuant to Section 2.02 (a)
of the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedulcs to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.   The  Association  agrees   to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty eight million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 58,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2


﻿-3-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as   the  Association  shall  reasonably   request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time, be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1996, and ending October 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause Gujarat to perform in accordance


﻿-4-
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
of Gujarat therein set forth, shall take and cause to be iaken
all  action,   including  the  provision   of  funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Gujarat to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Gujarat in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by Gujarat pursuant to Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Gujarat shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Gujarat will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this


﻿-5-
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been executed on behalf of Gujarat and AMC.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Gujarat, and is legally binding upon Gujarat in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Gujarat and AMC and is legally binding
upon Gujarat and AMC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date 20 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional r-.retary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrc!qer is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets fortti the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of tiie Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category               SDR 0quivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works                25,700,000          39%
(2) Equipment and              25,900,000          100% of foreign
materials                                     expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 39%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured
locally
(3) Home improve-               1,200,000          39%
ment loans
(4) Consultants'                2,900,000          100%
services and
training
(5) Unallocated                 2,800,000
TOTAL               58,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for


﻿-9-
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expendicures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 900,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (4)
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after September 1, 1984.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the management
and financing of urban growth and to strengthen the administra-
tion, planning and fin,ncial management of local governments and
state-level agencies in the urban sector of Gujarat.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Area Development
Development of about 14,400 serviced residential and small
business plots with shelter loans and community facilities,
totaling about 100 hectares.
Part B:   Town Planning Schemes
Carrying out of 6 town planning schemes for land readjust-
ment with provision for community facilities and infrastructure.
Part C:   Slum Upgrading
Upgrading of about 250 hectares of slums, including pro-
vision of tenure, improved infrastructure, home improvement loans
and community facilities.
Part D:   Solid Waste Management
Acquisition and utilization of equipment for the collection
and disposal of solid waste in five cities.
Part E:   Urban Infrastructure
Provision of storm drainage in Vadodara and Surat, a trunk
sewer and treatment facility and investments in water supply and
sewerage facility, and augumentations of the sewerage system in
Ahmedabad.


﻿- 11 -
Part F:   Institutional Strengthening
The strengthening of the Implementing Agencies through the
utilization of consultants' services, and the provision of
equipment, training and start-up cost.
The Project is expected to be com1leted by December 31,
1991.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 4.
FOR SECRETARY


