Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4,, 3Zo3Y ' y a/
Repont No. 6921-UNI
STAFP APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
-ttO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
September 1, 1988
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This dwocment has a reMticed dbutdffio and may be and by recpknl only In tbe pedonmance o
their offmic  dutes. Its cotents may nt othendrwe be dsdosed wiXK Wodd Dbnk authdofon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
US$1.00   N4.35
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
lm        =  1.09 yd.
1m2       =  10.76 sq. ft.
lkm2      -  0.38 sq. mi.
1 hectare =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBD    -  Community Based Distribution
CHA    -  Community Health Aides
CHC    - Community Health Committee
DRF    -  Drug Revolving Fund
EPI    -  Expanded Program on Immunization
FMOH   -  Federal Ministry of Health
HMB    -  Health Management Board
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IEC    -  Information, Education and Communication
IMSG   -  Imo State Government
ISEDS  -  Imo State Essential Drugs Service
LAC    -  Local Autonomous Community
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
LGA    -  Local Government Authority
MCH    - Maternal and Child Health
NGO    - Non-Governmental Organization
ORT    -  Oral Rehydration Therapy
Pr,U    -  Project Coordination Unit
PHC    -  Primary Health Care
PPF    - Project Preparation Facility
SEC    -  State Executive Council
SMLG   -  State Ministry of Local Government
SMOH   -  State Ministry of Health
SMWT   -  State Ministry of Works and Transport
SOE    -  Statements of Expenditure
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
WHO    - World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL U0 ONLY
FEDRAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO  EALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY ................. ...........    i-i1
DEFINITIONS .......................                                             iv
I .   INTRODUCTION ..1
II.  POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION IN NIGERIA            ........             1
A.  Sectoral Context                                                        1
B.  Health Sector                                                           2
1.  Organization .......... .* ........................                2
2.  Health Services ...........                                        3
3.  Health Expenditures and Financing ..................               4
C .  Sectoral Is sues  S                    **t0***#***0#09000.0
D.  Government Policies and Strategies  ...................                 6
1.  National ...........................................               6
2.  Imo gtate  .....................                                   8
S.  The Bank Group's Role                  .........                        9
112. THE PROJECT ....................10
A.  Project Objectives - State and Local ...................              10
B.  Summary of Proje;.t Composition .........................             10
Part A. Tmo State Activities ...........................              10
Part B. Federal Activities .............................              11
C.  Project Description ...................................               11
Part A. Imo State Activities   .......................                11
1. Institutional Development          ................               11
2. Improvement of Health Services .....................              15
Part B. Federal Support Activities .....................              19
D.  Project Costs and Financing ...........19
IV.  PROJECT IMPLDEMNTATION .................                                   23
A.  Process and Status of Project Preparation ..............              23
B.  Project Management and Coordination ....................              24
C.  Procurement .                                                         26
D.  Disbursements ..000....*06**..**#...0*                                27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nigeria in
May 1987. Mission members included S. Scheyer (mission leader), R. Skolnik
(financial analyst), H. Denton (economist), L. Domingo (demographer), and
E. Rosenberg (consultant, economist).
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their offlcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoution.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'dj                                           P^te No.
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ....... .. .....  ...................    29
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .....................       29
ANNEXES
2-1 Comparative Socio-Economic Indicators
2-2 The Ccmmon Causes of Morbidity and Hospital Admissions in Nigeria
2-3 Organization Chart, Federal Ministry of Health
2-4  The Health Sector in Imo State
2-5 Health Responsibilities of Various Government Institutions in Nigeria
2-6 Health Establishments - Nigeria and Imo State
3-1 Reorganization of SMOH Public Health Division Proposed in the Project
3-2 Indicative Format for Imo State Health Sector Financial Plan
3-3 Operational Committees
3-4 Recurrent Cost Recovery Targets
3-5 Modalities for Implementing the Matcning Grant Scheme
3-6 Proposed Standard Staffing Patterns
3-7 Imo State Essential Drugs Service (ISEDS)
3-8 Proposed Scheme of Imo State Essential Drugs Servire and Drug
Revolving Fund
3-9 lmo State Essential Drug List and Level of Use Designations
3-10 Provisional Locations of Private Maternity Homes to t4 Assisted by the
Project
3-11 Training Plan for Health Staff
3-12 Cost Estimates by Year and Components
3-13 Breakdown of Summary Accounts in Nairas
3-14 Project Costs by Component and Year
3-15 Summary Account by Project Component and Expenditure Category
4-1 Responsibilities for Project Implementation Activities
4-2 Organization of the Project Coordination Unit
4-3  Summary of Technical Assistance
4-4 Implementation Schedule for Civil Works
4-5 Implementation Schedule for Non-Civil Works Components
4-6 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4-7 Documents Contained in the Project File
Maps: IBRD 20673R Nigeriat Location of Imo State
9          20672 Imo State:  Location of Project Facilities



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IDO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers           Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiariest      Federal Ministry of Health
Imo State Ministry of Health
Loan Amounts        US$27.6 million equivalent
T_rmss              20 years including 5 years of grace; at standard
variable interest rate
Project
Descriptions        The project aims to assist the Government in its
efforts to improve the h alth of the people of Imo
State and to provide Ivaiuntary family planning
services. To achieve this, the project would help:
(a) strengthen the Imo State Government's institutional
and financial capacity to plan, implement, monitor, and
evaluate its policies and programs for health and
family planning; and (b) improve the quality,
effectiveness and use of state services for health and
family planning. In addition, the project would help
strengthen the Federal Ministry of Health's capacity to
prepare health and population projects and to assist
states to strengthen their health planning capacities.



- ii "
Summarv of Proiect Cost Estimates
Local        ForeLpn         Total
(in US$ 'OOOs)
Part A: Ino State Activities
Institutional Development                 2,225          1,906         4,131
Strengthening of Services                 3,437         13,524        21,961
Repayment of Project Preparation
Facility Advance                          340             356           706
Subtotal                            11,012        15,786         26,798
Part Bs Federal Activities
Health Planning and Project
Preparation                              3,798                        3,798
Total Base Costs                         14,810         15,786        30,596
Physical Contingencies                    1,600          1,562         3,162
Price Contingencies                       1,540          1.524         3.064
Total ProLect Costs 11                   17,950         18,872        36,822
Financint Plan
Local       Foreian       Total        x
(in US$ 'OOOs)
IBRD                               8,728       18,872       27,600      75.0
Federal Government                 4,290           -         4,290      12.0
Imo State and Local
Governments                       3,832          -          3,832      10.0
Local Autonomous Communities       1.100           -         1.'00       3.0
Total                        17,950       18,872       36,822     100.0
Estimated Loan Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994    1995
--------------------- (US$ million) ---------------------
Annual         0.6       3.0      4.0      7.0       6.0      4.0     3.0
Cumulative     0.6       3.6      7.6     14.6      20.6     24.6    27.6
1/ Net of duties and taxes.



- iii -
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable.
Proiect Benefits
and Risks           The project's suppc.t of institutional development
would improve the planning, implementation, and evalua-
tion of health and family planning activities in Imo
State. Comunity-based health activities would provide
appropriate and equitable distribution of services.
Cost recovery would generate additional revenues and
eventually help to stabilize financing of the sector.
The project would also increase awareness of the
consequences of rapid population growth and encourage
the use of voluntary family planning. Possible risks
includet ineffective management of cost recovery
schemes; lack of broad-based commitment to family
planning; and insufficient rationalization of health
personnel to correct the imbalance in the recurrent
budget and to ensure an adequate supply of trained
staff for project facilities. To minimize the risks,
the project takes advantage of Imo's relatively
stronger administrative capability and provides
training and technical assistance, logistical and
institutional support. In addition, a pilot project is
being launched to assess the systems and strategies
being introduced.
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
September 1, 1988



- iv -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rates           The percentage of persons aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Child Death Rates              The number of deaths among children 1-4 years
of age per 1,000 children in the same age
group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rates              The number of live births per 1,000 people in
a given year.
Crude Death Rate:             The number of deaths per 1,000 people in a
given year.
Incidence Rates               The number of persons contracting a disease
in a population during a specified period of
time, usually expressed as the number of
caves per 1,000 persons per year.
Infant Mortality Ratet        The number of deaths of infants under 1 year
of age in a given year per 1,000 live births
during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:     Number of years a newborn child would live if
subject to the mortality risks prevailing for
the cross-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate:       The number of maternal deaths per 100,000
live births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy and childbearing complications.
Morbidity:                     The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Rate of Natural Increases     Difference between crude birth and crude
death rates; usually expressed as a per-
centage of the total population in a given
year.
Total Fertility Rates         The average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if
she were to pass through her childbearing
years conforming to the age-specific ferti-
lity rates of a given year; serves as an
estimate of average number of children per
family.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The rapid growth of oil revenues during 1973-1980 enabled Nigeria
to undertake massive investment programs in health, education, manufacturing
and basic infrastructure. With the sharp decline in oil revenues in the
early 1980s, however, these programs were cut back, and many projects have
been abandoned in varying stages of completion. To help salvage these
programs and rehabilitate the economy, the Government has launched a struc-
tural adjustment program. Toward this end, several policy reforms have been
adopted includingt (a) establishing a foreign exchange market; (b) diversi-
fying the economy by developing non-oil sectors; (c) improving the efficiency
of the public sector; (d) further rationalizing the public expenditure
program and giving priority to rehabilitating and maintaining existi%ng
assets; and (e) strengthening resource mobilization measures. The proposed
project would advance this adjustment program by emphasizing efficiency in
the health sector, limiting unneeded expansion of health services, and
mobilizing additional resources through cost recovery. The project would be
a part of a coordinated package of financial and technical assistance to
Nigeria's population and health sectors.
II. POPULATION. HEALTH AND NUTRITION IN NIGERIA
A.   Sectoral Context
2.1       DemoaraDhy.  With an estimated 103 million people in mid-1986,
Nigeria is the tenth most populous country in the world and the most populous
in Africa. Population densities vary from 30 people per sq. km. in parts of
the northern states to over 600/sq. km. in parts of the south and over
700/sq. km in the eastern states. With a crude birth rate of about 50 per
1,000 population and a crude death rate of about 16 per 1,000, the population
is growing at an estimated 3.42 per year. At this rate, and with a youthful
age structure (about 47X are under 15 years of age), the population will
double every 21 years; such growth will seriously impair the country's
prospects for economic and social development.
2.2       Health status.  Despite improvements in the past two decades,
health conditions in Nigeria are poor by international standards. In 1986,
the average life expectancy was about 51 years, below the average for
countries with similar per capita income and close to the levels prevailing
among Nigeria's poorer neighbors. The infant mortality rate is estimated at
104 per 1,000 live births, and the child death rate (1-4 years old) at 21 per
1,000 children. More than half of all deaths occur among infants and child-
ren under five years old. Annex 2-1 provides the comparative socioeconomic
indicators for Nigeria.



-2-
2.3       Service statistics indicate that about 8O  of the recorded deaths
in 1984 were due to preventable diseases. The major causes of death are
pneumonia, diarrhea, measles, tetanus, malaria, diphtheria, tuberculoeis,
cholera and polio. The common causes of morbidity are infectious and para-
sitic diseases, respiratory diseases, and diseases of the nervous system.
Frequent pregnancies and closely spaced births are also causes of high rates
of mortality and morbidity among mothers and children. Annex 2-2 provides
information on the common causes of morbidity and hospital admissions in
Nigeria.
2.4       Nutrition status.  Despite its oil revenues which gave it a rela-
tively high per capita income compared to other African countries, Nigeria
may have extensive malnutrition. At some times of the year, calorie and
protein consumption may be below requirements for more than half of the
population. However, due to severe data limitations, the principal causes
and precise nature and severity of malnutrition in Nigeria are uncertain. A
health and nutritional pilot survey in 1982 showed that, in general, some
20Z-40Z of children under age five may be below 751 of the standard weight
for their age; 2Z-6X may be below 60X. Girls appear to have significantly
higher levels of malnutrition than boys. Sample State data collected in 1987
by the Federal Ministry of Health (FkOH) corroborates this indication of
severe malnutrition.  Low production levels, insufficient purchasing power
among large segments of the population, interactions between disease and
nutrition, traditions and taboos, infant feeding practices, changing social
and economic roles of women, lack of education and high rates of population
growth have all been widely discussed as factors contributing to the
nutrition situation.
B.   Health Sector
1.   Organization
2.5       Federal.  Health is a concurrent responsibility of the Federal,
state, and local governments. The FMOH, which has overall responsibility for
the sector, provides policy guidance and strategic support to the states,
coordinates state efforts in order to ensure a coherent nationwide health
system and, in collaboration with the states, monitors and evaluates the
implementation of the national health strategy. The FMOH has direct opera-
tional responsibility for: (a) training medical doctors; (b) operating
teaching, psychiatric, and orthopedic hospitals; (c) monitoring and control-
ling contagious and communicable diseases; and (d) controlling drugs and
vaccines. Annex 2-3 provides an organization chart of the Federal Ministry
of Health.
2.6       State.  In the 21 states, of which Imo is a typical example,
responsibility for health programs is shared by the State Ministry of Health
(SMOH), the Health Management Board (HMB), and the Local Government Authori-
ties (LGAs). The LGAs are coordinated by the State Ministry of Local Govern-
ment (SMLG). A State Commissioner of Health, responsible to the State
Executive Council, heads the SMOH, and reporting to the Commissioner, as the
senior-most civil servant in the SMOH, is a Director General.  The SMOH is
primarily responsible for: (a) planning and coordinating the state health
system; (b) operating and maintaining'secondary and nonspecialized tertiary
hospitals; (c) implementing public health programs; (d) training nurses,



- 3 .
midwives, and auxiliary staff; and (e) assisting the SMLG and the LGAs with
the management and operation of primary health facilities. The HMB adminis-
ters hospitals and, in some states, health centers and urban clinics. Its
main responsibilities include personnel administration and financing and
management of logistical support systems, including drugs, supplies, small
equipment and maintenance. The HMB is headed by a Chairman, who reports in
some statas to the State Commissioner of Health (as in Imo) and in others to
an independent board. Zhe HMB functions under the general supervision of,
and policies established by the SMOH, which maintains overall responsibili-
ties for the health services of the state. Annex 2-4 contains a detailed
description of the health sector in Imo State.
2.7       Local Government Authorities (LGAs).  Each LGA (of which there are
just over 300 in Nigeria) is responsible for operating the primary health
care facilities in its area, including the provision of basic outpatient,
community health, hygiene and sanitation services. These activities are
coordinated through the SMLG with technical support from the SMOH. Many
local governments lack the institutional and financial capacity to carry out
their mandate. To fill the gaps, until recently the state provided special
grants to the local governments or seconded state-level staff to primary
health facilities. In each local government the responsibility for health
falls to a Health and Social Welfare Councilor, whose unit is typically
divided into four sectionst (a) preventive health, including public health
and information programs and public sanitation; (b) curative health,
including the operation and supervision of health facilities; (c) leprosy
treatment; and (d) social welfare.
2.8       Local communities.  Local communities in many parts of Nigeria have
undertaken community health development activities. This is particularly
true in the southeastern states, such as Imo and Anambra, where most of the
existing primary health care facilities have been financed and built by the
communities. A more detailed description of the Federal, state and local
government responsibilities in health is £ound in Annex 2-5.
2.   Health Services
2.9       Health establishments.  Nigeria's health care delivery system
consists of a network of primary, secondary, and tertiary facilities. Primary
care is mostly provided through about 4,000 health clinics and dispensaries.
Secondary care is provided through 700 health centers and 2,670 maternity
centers and homes. Tertiary care is provided through 12 university teaching
hospitals with about 6,500 beds, 12 military hospitals with about 3,150 beds,
27 specialized hospitals with about 3,690 beds and 765 general hospitals with
about 48,150 beds (or about 1,600 people per hospital bed). Many of the
Government health establishments, particularly at the primary level, are
under-supplied, inadequately staffed anA in poor condition. Annex 2-6
summarizes the number of health establishments in Nigeria and Imo State.
2.10      About 802 of health establishments and 7o0  of bed capacity are in
the public sector. Generally, the urban population is better covered by the
existing health network and is provided with a wider range of health services
than the rural population. By 1982 there were over 1,700 private and church-
related health establishments in the country with a total bed complement of
over 21,000. Private health facilities are heavily concentrated in urban



- 4 -
areas, and the church-related facilities are concentrated in the southern
states. For example, private sector facilities account for 702 of the health
institutions and bed capacity in Imo State, but contribute less than 5S of
facilities and bed capacity in such northern states as Borno, Gongola, Niger,
and Sokoto.
2.11      Health manpower.  Nigeria has made rapid progress in training and
deploying health manpower in the last decade. The Federal Ministry of Health
reports that the number of doctors has increased from about 6,600 in 1979 to
16,000 by 1986. In 1986 the ratio was 1 doctor for every 6,250 persons --
somewhat below middle-income countries with similar per capita GDP (one
doctor per 4,800 people). Over the same period, the number of nurses also
increased, from 24,600 to 51,000 (one nurse per 1,960 people), and the number
of midwives from 26,000 to 42,400, representing percentage increases of 1072
and 632, respectively.
2.12      Nigeria's health manpower training capacity is well developed and
capable of producing more manpower than can be economically absorbed by the
sector preser.tly. In 1986 there were 14 medical schools (with about 800
annual graduates), 54 general schools of nursing (with about 5,200 annual
graduates), 46 specialized schools of nursing, and 63 schools of midwifery.
However, reflecting the over-supply of certain personnel, since 1984 the
intake of student nurses and student midwives has been cut sharply. The
school of health technology in each state trains community health super-
visors, assistants and aides. The Federal Government plans to upgrade the
quality of training in the schools of health technology to enable them more
adequately to meet the needs of the primary health care program.
2.13      Drust suDly.  The supply of drugs in Nigeria has fallen dramatic-
ally since 1980. Nigeria is totally dependent on imports of finished drugs
and raw materials for local drug production. From 1940-1984 the foreign
exchange allocated for these imports lecreased from N170 million to N76
million. The Nigerian pharmaceutical industry is operating at only about 202
capacity. As a result, public facilities are chronically out of stock and
drugs at commercial pharmacies are in short supply. Patients in public
facilities frequently have to purchase essential supplies and drugs required
for surgery from wherever they can be found and bring them to the hospital.
The short supply of drugs and the limited use of generics has also resulted
in prices in Nigeria being up to an average of six times world market prices
for pharmaceuticals. This situation has adversely affected the effectiveness
of the health care delivery system in the country.
3.   Health Expenditures and Financing
2.14      Total Fedtral health expenditures in 1985 were approximately 1222.7
million.  This figure includes recurrent and development expenditure of about
1177 million and 146 million, respectively. State and local recurrent
expenditures amounted to a roughly estimated additional N600 million, giving
a total of about N8.30 per capita from all sources. Public financial
resources for health are virtually all derived from budgetary resources, with
only nominal sums generated through user charges, sanitary inspections and
licensing fees.



2.15      Between 1981 and 1985 public expenditures for health declined in
real terms at all three levels of government as a result of high inflation
and the fall in oil revenues, upon which government budgets have depended.
The Federal Government's recurrent expenditures for health increased 16? in
nominal terms between 1981 and 1985, reaching N177 million, or about 3.2? of
the Federal Government's total recurrent expenditures. However, in real
terms, Federal health investment and recurrent expenditures in 1985 were
about one-third and three-fifths, respectively, of their 1981 values. With
these fiscal constraints, personnel costs have assumed an increasing share of
recurrent expenditures, particularly in the states and LGAs. However, in
1986 the Federal recurrent health expenditure rose to N246 million, repre-
senting a nominal increase of 371 over the 1985 figure and a jump to 4.3X of
the total Federal recurrent budget, including a one-time grant of N36
million, to states for drug purchases. Capital expenditure also rose, to
N131 million, an almost three-fold increase over the 1985 level and included
one-time grants to 52 selected LGAs for primary health care (PHC) totalling
N26 million.
C.  Sectoral Issues
2.16      National and State.  Presently four Issues characterize the health
sector throughout tht country, including Imo State: (a) institutional
constraints; (b) urban and curative bias of health care: (c) constrained
budgetary resources; and (d) limited efforts to expand family planning
services. In addition, while community support for health services is well
established in Imo State, this is not the situation generally observed.
2.17      Institutional constraints.  There are a number of institutional
constraints on development of the health sector. There is a multiplicity of
organizations at Federal, state and local levels with overlapping and often
conflicting areas of responsibility. Health and management data are almost
nonexistent. Planning, management, monitoring and evaluation capabilities
are weak, lacking both systems and staff skills. Imo State's limited plan-
ning, management and evaluation capacity, however, results more from a lack
of essential tools, such as an effective management information system and
requisite equipment, than from the lack of trained manpower. The FeOeral
Government has recently placed greater attention on the management of health
institutions, emphasizing streamlining organizational structures, functions
and responsibilities.
2.18      Urban and curative bias of health care.  While the thrust of health
policy in Nigeria since the mid-1970s has been toward preventive care,
curative care in urban and rural areas accounts for a disproportionate share
of public expenditures, with urban-based hospitals absorbing most of the
resources. More than 75? of all major health manpower and facilities are
concentrated in urban areas which account for abcut 30? of the country's
population, while only about 35? of the rural population has access to a
public facility. Where facilities are available, there are a number of
constraints includings lack of equipment, limited funds for maintenance,
shortage of essential drugs, and lack of adequately trained staff. Increased
efforts to reach villagers with priority preventive and health promotion
activities, such as Immunization, family planning, health education and
environmental sanitation are needed. In Imo State clinical health manpower
is adequate but maldistributed, with hospitals and urban clinics overs.affed



and rural clinics understaffed. While access to health facilities in Imo is
llot as serious a problem as in other parts of the country, the rapid deteri-
oration in quality of the public facilities and the increasing dependence on
private facilities have resulted in growing inequities of access to health
care, particularly in rural areas.
2.19      Constrained budgetary resources.  Since independence Nigeria has
provided largely free health services, financed almost entirely from budge-
tary resources. In the 19709 the combined Federal, state and local Govern-
ment expenditures were adequate to operate hospitals and basic health facili-
ties. Budgets were generally balanced between preventive and curative care,
service was adequate and the facilities were utilized. With the advent of
the economic crisis in 1980, resource allocation between wage and non-wage
costs became skewed, leading to shortages of drugs and other supplies,
deteriorated facilities and equipment, and demoralized staff. The quality of
services suffered, utilization declined and implementation of preventive
activities, such as immunization and control of communicable diseases, cut
back. With a reduced budgetary allocation, the Government now must determine
how best to meet the demand for more and better health care due to rapid
population growth and increased awareness of heal.h matters.
2.20      Llmited efforts to expand family planning services.  The Government
is concerned about the implications of high population growth for economic
development and has approved a national population policy with explicit
demographic objectives. Historically, the approach to family planning has
been cautious and limited tc encouragement and some financial support for
programs operated by non-governmental organizations (NGOs), with limited
family planning services provided by the private sector. Public facilitIes
have recently, but sporadically, included family planning. Current use of
contraceptives is low. According to the 1982 fertility survey, in Imo State
only 1Z of women were using modern contraceptive methods, while 4? were using
traditional methods.  Impeding the reaey acceptance of family planning are
cultural and religious traditions, high infant mortality, public ignorance of
contraceptive methods and the unavailability of services. The Government's
challenge now is to increase public awareness of the consequences of
continued high fertility, increase knowledge of contraceptive methods, and
provide adequate seLvices.
2.21      Limited mobilization of community support.  A centralized, top-down
distribution of services has generally failed to recognize and build on the
strong tradition of community self-reliance and development. The Government,
which has been able to provide only limited courage to the rural population
must now attempt to work with local communities in designing collaborative
approaches methods to reduce major health problems.
D.   Government Policies and Strategies
1.   National
2.22      Health policy.  The Governmant is committed to the objective of
achieving *Health for All by the Year 2000' and has identified primary health
care as the key to attaining this goal. The essential elements of this
prlicy are to:



(a) accord high priority to preventive and promotive measures by
strengthening maternal and child health (MCH) care, including
family planning; increasing the number of immunizations against
major infectious diseases; and promoting health, nutrition and
family planning education;
(b) strengthen the national health care system at all levels, and
ensuring that the PHC services are appropriately supported by an
efficient referral system by providing adequate supporting services
such as reliable and sufficient drug supply, diagnostic and labora-
tory services and staff supervision and training;
(c) encourage self-reliance among individuals and communities in
improving the health status of the people by involving communities
in the planning and implementation of health services, and using
the traditional system and community organizations in reaching the
people; and
(d) improve the efficiency of public sector services and put them on a
more solid financial footing by strengthening the delivery capacity
of the various institutions which provide services, and by intro-
ducing a cost recovery mechanism through increased involvement and
participation of the private sector, communities and individuals in
the financing of health care services, and strengthening the
capacity of Government facilities to generate funds internally.
2.23      The major responsibility for implementing PHC rests with the local
governments with the active support of the states. In order to assist LGAs
to implement PHC, the states need tot (a) make major investments in rehabi-
litating and upgrading existing facilities and services to restore public
confidence as a basis for instituting cost recovery; (b) improve efficiency
in the use of resources; and (c) strengthen supportive services, such as
technical supervision, in-service training, health education, laboratory
services and management information. To support the local governments in
developing more effective PHC programs, the FMOH began a major national
initiative in 1986, initially focussed on 52 LGAs located in all 21 states.
The FMOH's target is to cover all 311 LGAs in the country by 1990. The
program emphasizes the integrated planning and implementation of PHC activi-
ties being given national priority: maternal and child health/family plan-
ning, immunization, control of endemic diseases, treatment of common
diseases, health and nutrition education and provision of essential drugs.
Under this program, emphasis is placed on complete coverage of each LGA with
these PHC services, major involvement of local officials and communities in
program planning and Implementation, and cost recovery with special reference
to drug revolving funds. The program has mobilized technical specialists
from various FMOH directorates and the staffs of state ministries of health,
state schools of health technology and medical schools to support LGAs in
program formulation and implementation. Overall coordination is provided by
TAOH's Department of PHC Coordination, which was reorganized and strengthened
for this role in mid-1987. Within the next two years, however, FMOH expects
the state ministries of health to assume the major leadership role for the
program within their states. As each LGA's plan is approved, the Federal
Government is releasing a one-time-only grant of N500,000 for the first five-
year program. These funds are being complemented with external financing,



including resources to be provided under the present project in support of
PHC in Imo State.
2.24      Population Dolicy.  The national population policy approved by the
Armed Forces Ruling Council sets out ambitious targets for Nigeria. Major
policy goals includet (a) improving living standards; (b) preventing pre-
mature death and illness among high risk groups of mothers and children;
te) reducing population growth rates through voluntary family planning; and
(d) promoting a more even population distribution between urban and rural
areas. By the year 2000 the Government's goal is to reduce the annual rate
of population growth from 3.32 to 2.02 and the rate of infant mortality from
over 100 per 1,000 births to 30 per 1,000. To have a chance of achieving
these highly ambitious demographic targets, it will be necessary to expand
significantly the magnitude and scope of family planning activities currently
underway in the country.
2.2$      Easily affordable, safe and culturally acceptable family planning
services are among the most important strategies of the population policy,
along with health measures and better living conditions. Special social and
economic development programs involving women and young people and an inten-
sive communication campaign are also recommended. The Department of Popula-
tion Activities has just been established within the FMOH to coordinate the
implementation of the population policy at Federal, state and local govern-
ment levels. Special efforts will be made to encourage private and non-
governmental organizations to participate.
2.   Imo State
2.26      The Imo State health and population policies and strategies
parallel those of the Federal Government. The priorities are to:
(a) strengthen the institutional capabilities of the state and local govern-
ments to support the extension of preventive and curative primary services to
the rural areas; and (b) stabilize the financing of services at all levels.
In addition, Imo State places a strong emphasis on building on the long
history and tradition of successful self-reliant community development
activities. Future health development in Imo State will be based on a close
partnership between state and local government institutions and the communi-
ties for the implementation, management and financing of health activities.
Strong emphasis is placed on increasing financial self-sufficiency at all
levels of health facility operations. In contraet to many other parts of
Nigeria, Imo State has a widespread private network of maternity homes. The
Government intends to build on these private resources to extend public
services rather than to compete with them. This applies also to the delivery
of family planning services. Imo State will be one of the first states in
Nigeria to establish its own population council ted program. The objective
of the population and family planning program is to educate the public
concerning the individual and family risks of continued high fertility so
that each family would make an informed voluntary choice to control its own
fertility. Modern effective methods of contraception would be available and
accessible to all who choose to use them.



-9-
E. The Bank Group's Role
2.27      Current and proposed operations in health and Population.  The
Bank's health and population strategy in Nigeria is focused on the national
policy and program initiatives identified in para 2.22 and 2.24. Specifi-
cally, the five Bank-assisted health and population projects under implemen-
tation or preparation have the following emphases: (a) increasing access to
PHC services and improving their quality, with special emphasis on materna'
and child healthifamily planning services; (b) developing the institutional.
and human resource base required to implement the new national population
program at all levels, including development of effective public and private
sector linkages; (c) mobilizing the support of local leaders and the active
participatiorn of beneficiaries in health and population programs through
various educational and communication channels, including the formal educa-
tion system; (d) assisting the health sector in adjusting to the country's
new economic circumstances by introducing equitable and well-managed cost
recovery and emphasizing more efficient use of existing resources; and
(e) rationalizing and consolidating institutional capacities, especially at
state level in support of LGA health programs (especially drug supply), in
such areas as planning, in-service training, management information, and
logistical support.
2.28      The Bank's involvement in the sector is relatively recent, with
only one project under implementation: the Sokoto Health Project
(Loan 2503-UNI for US$34.0 million), which became effective in January 1986.
While basically a state-level project, it has a Federal component (Part B) to
strengthen FMOH's capacity to assist state and local health programs and to
prepare new projects. FMOH is preparing two other projects: the proposed
National Population Project, which would help launch the population efforts
of FMOH and about four other Federal agencies, including the Ministries of
Education and of Information; and the proposed Health Systems Fund Project,
which would use merchant banks as intermediaries for on-lending funds to the
states and their LGAs to support priority health programs.
2.29      The Bank's sectoral dialogue with the Government has emphasized two
urgent needs -- to undertake a strong population program and to address key
health financing issues. With support from the Bank, FMOH took the lead in
developing the new national population policy (para 2.24). The Bank's
efforts to encourage health officials to focus on health financing issues
have also begun to have visible results (e.g., the guidelines urging the
states to reduce recurrent expenditures on personnel). PHOH and several
states have commissioned health financing studies with Bank assistance. To
help ensure effective use of these studies, the Bank is preparing a sector
report on health financing -- focussing on costs, utilization and efficiency
of health services, especially from the user's perspective.
2.30      Rationale for Bank involvement.  The Federal Government, with Bank
assistance, recently launched a structural adjustment program. The Bank's
strategy is to help the Government to raise production in key sectors,
improve economic efficiency and develop human resources. The proposed
project would follow the key features of the Government's structural adjust-
ment program by emphasizing efficiency in the health sector, limiting un-
needed expansion of health facilities, rehabilitating existing assets and
mobilizing additional resources through cost recovery. The project would



- 10 -
complement other donor activities in the health field, including cooperation
with USAID on the supply of family planning services.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Proiect Obiectives - State and Local
3.1       The proposed project aims to assist the Government in its effort to
improve the health and nutritional status of the people of Imo State, and to
provide voluntary family planning services. To achieve this, the project
would help tot
(a) strengthen the state and local governments' institutional and
financial capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate their
policies and programs for health, nutrition and family planning;
and
(b) improve the quality, effectiveness and use of state and local
services for health and family planning.
In addition, the project would help strengthen the FMOH's capacity to support
states and LGAs in developing strategies and plans of action to implement the
national health and population policies, and to prepare health, population
and nutrition projects for internal and external financing.
3.2       A complete description of the health sector in Imo State is found
in Annex 2-4.
3.   Summary of Proiect Composition
Part A. Imo State Activities
3.3       In Imo State, the project would support institutional development
at the state and local levels through:
(a) strengthening the capacity of local and state orgAnizations to
plan, implement and monitor community-based health, family planning
and nutrition actipities, and to improve their financial management
and resource mobilization by providing equipment, vehicles,
training, materials and funds for operating costs; and
(b) establishing a population program by providing vehicles, equipment,
fellowships and funds for studies, training, incremental salaries
and operating costs.
3.4       The project would also strengthen health, nutrition and family
planning services through:
(a) supporting PHC activities, including family planning, by providing
equipment, vehicles, training and funds for operating costs;
(b) improving the access to and quality of health services in rural
areas by constructing and equipping about 40 new primary health



- ,l -
clinics, upgrading about 60 dispensaries and maternity homes to
enable them to provide MCH services and providing a facility main-
tenance fund for the renovation and upkeep of approximately 190
existing facilities;
(c) improving drug suiply and distribution by providing essential
drugs, including vaccines and contraceptives; medical supplies;
vehicles; equipment; consulting services; training; vehicle and
equipment maintenance; establishing a drug revolving fund; and
rehabilitating medical warehouses;
(d) establishinm a disease surveillance and diagnostic service to
support PHC by constructing and equipping a public health labora-
tory, providing vehicles, consulting services, fellowships and
funds for incremental salaries and operating costs; and
(e) supporting information, education and communication (IEC)
activities related to health, population and nutrition by providing
equipment, vehicles, fellowships, funds for materials' development
and production, seminars and operating costs.
Part B. Federal Activities
3.5       The project would also strengthen FMOH's capacity (i) to support
states and LGAs in developing strategies and plans of action to implement the
national health and population policies, and (ii) to prepare health and
population projects for internal and external financing, by providing tech-
nical assistance and funds for project preparation.
C.   Proiect Description
Part A. Imo State Activities
1.   Institutional Development
3.6       Concurrent with the improvement of health services, the project
would strengthen the management capability of the local governments and the
SMOH to support PHC activities.
3.7       Strengthening the local governments.  The LGAs have a key role in
implementing PHC. However, few of the health staff have been trained in
planning and management. The project would: (a) establish in-service
training programs in supervisory methods; and (b) provide logistical support
including equipment, vehicles and training materials.
3.8       Strengthening the State Ministry of Health.  To support the LGAs
and Local Autonomous Communities (LACs) in implementing PHC services, the
capacity of SMOH to coordinate, plan, manage and monitor activities needs to
be developed. Initially, to improve coordination, the project would assist
SMOH to implement a reorganization of PHC activities under the Putlic Health
Division. The reorganization would reduce the number of decision points in
the system, and bring together PHC activities in a new PHC Section Unit which
would provide increased assistance to LGAs and LACs and coordination of
inter-sectoral preventive health activities. During negotiations, the



- 12 -
Government provided assurances that a structural reorganization of the PHC
support activities of SMOH, acceptable to the Bank, would be carried out
within three months of effectiveness. Annex 3-1 shows the proposed reorgani-
zation of the SMOH Public Health Division. The project would provide the
Division with vehicles, equipment, training, materials and funds for
operating costs.
3.9       The project would further strengthen the institutional development
of the public health sector by developing systems and procedures for stra-
tegic planning, which would be coordinated by building on the mechanisms
developed during project preparation, in the form of the two committees
described in paras 3.10 and 3.11.
3.10      The project would assist SMOH to strengthen its financial planning
and management capability through development of an annual financial plan for
the health sector. The plan would show the sources and uses of state funds
for the health sector for the past year and projected over the next three
years. It would include estimated revenues from Federal, state and local
allocations, cost recovery, external assistance and other sources of funds.
It would be in a format suitable to monitor progress in meeting intermediate
targets including cost recovery, implementation of the Imo State Essential
Drugs Service (ISEDS), wage to non-wage recurrent expenditure ratios, central
budget availability and rationalization of staff. The Government provided
assurances that the financial plan would be prepared in an appropriate format
to review these issues, and would be reviewed with the Bank by June 30 of
each year during the project period, beginning in 1989. A consultancy in
financial management is included in the project which would provide assist-
ance in drawing up the financial plan format. An indicative format is shown
in Annex 3-2. The SMOH would prepare the annual finance plan with assistance
from the project coordinator and in consultation with the State Health
Finance Steering Committee. This Committee was established during project
preparation, and would be institutionalized in a permanent advisory capacity
to SMOH. The responsibilities of the Committee are shown in Annex 3-3.
3.11      The project would assist SMOH to strengthen its plannina capability
through development of an annual work plan for the health sector.   The
project coordinator would prepare the annual work plan, to be discussed and
agreed with SMOH, and in consultation with the Interministerial Project
CoGrdinating Committee. This Committee, formed during project preparation,
would be expanded and institutionalized in a permanent advisory capacity to
SMOH. The responsibilities of the Committee are shown in Annex 3-3.
3.12      To support the planning activities, the project would provide
office equipment (including microcomputers), technical assistance, training
and funds for operations research. The project would also provide SHOH's
accounts and audit units with appropriate microcomputer facilities, staff
training, furniture and office equipment. The consultancy in financial
management (para 3.10) would assist SMOH in improving accounting procedures
and financial reporting, monitoring and evaluation, in establishing and
managing a drug revolving fund, and in organizing a comprehensive in-service
training program on accounting and inventory control management for accounts
staff, pharmacists, storekeepers and other health personnel. Workshops on
cost recovery for the staff of public health facilities would be held. In
addition, the project would assist SMOH to develop and institute an



- 13 -
evaluation system for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the
overall project.
3.13      Cost recovery - drugs.  To increase financial resnurces available
to the sector, Imo State Government (IMSG) has started to test approaches to
cost recovery. Both drug and service fees have been introduced in public
facilities and drug revolving funds established in several urban hospitals.
Although revenues have increased slightly, use of services has been declining
in the absence of improvements in their quality, particularly the supply of
drugs. Building on this initial experience and concurrently with the planned
improvement of health services, the project would further improve cost
recovery efforts by assisting SMOH to recover the full cost of drugs.
Generic drugs would be procured from an agreed list of essential drugs at
significantly lower costs than brand name drugs (para 3.26). The Government
provided assurances that the price of drugs would be set according to a price
formula, and would be agreed upon annually with the Bank by June 30 of each
year. The formula would take account of the cost of goods and services,
revenue targets, market prices, affordability and equity. The prices would
follow a published schedule and be uniform throughout the state in all public
facilities. Private vendors would not be regulated by this policy.
3.14      A Drug Revolvint Fund (DRF) vwuld be established under the Imo
State Essential Drugs Service (ISEDS), which itself would be established
under the project (para 3.26). The objective of the DRF is to guarantee the
provision of drugs in public health facilities by raising sufficient funds
through drug sales to cover the full cost of drugs, as well as the adminis-
trative costs (including supply and distribution) of the fund's operation.
Private channels would continue to provide for the drug needs of the private
sector. The fund would be capitalized by: (a) proceeds of the loan made
available for drugs and medical supplies; and (b) continued Government budget
allocations. Fees paid by patients for drugs and medical supplies would
accrue to the DRF as income. The ISEDS would be on a financially self-
sustaining basis. To facilitate this objective, purchases of drugs would be
on a 'cash and carry' basis. IMSG would ensure subsidization of those
patients exempt from payment. The establishment of the DRF, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement of
funds for the procurement of drugs.
3.15      As a means to support the cost recovery efforts, the project would
provide funds for a study of the drug market. It is expected that this would
be completed by March 1989. This would provide baseline data and assist in
developing the level of drug charges and phasing their implementation.
3.16      Cost recovery - health sector.  The SMOH would continue to charge
users for health services other than drugs. During appraisal, possible
targets for the recovery of service costs were reviewed. The Government
provided assurances that SMOH and LGAs would seek to recover recurrent costs
(excluding drugs, and including wages, benefits, maintenance, and transpor-
tation) that by 1992 would reach 26-28Z for hospitals and 16-18! for PHC
facilities. As a means to determine appropriate fee schedules and the
phasing of implementation, the project would provide funds for a study of the
price elasticity of user fees. It is expected that this would be completed
by March 1989. Understandings have been reached on initial and intermediate
targets for both hospitals and PHC facilities, as shown in Annex 3-4. The



- 14 -
targets and the fee schedule would be reviewed and adjusted annually as
mutually determined during the annual financial review. Assurances were
provided that efforts would be made to improve the balance between wage/non-
wage recurrent costs, with a target to be reached by 1992, if not earlier, of
65Z-351 wagelnon-vage costs. To provide maximum incentives for cost-recovery
and to insulate the non-wage budget of the facility, the Government provided
assurances that it is developing a system that will make at least 65Z of the
fees collected for services available at the point of collection, to be used
for non-wage goods and services.
3.17      Establishing a i,onulation Program.  The project would assist Imo
State in establishing the institutional framework for a population program in
line with the national population policy. An interministerial State Popula-
tion Council would be formed to provide overall direction to the program.
The Council would be composed of representatives of thte Governor's Office;
the State Ministries of Finance and Economic Planning, Health, Education,
Information, and Local Government; the Population Studies Center at Imo State
University; and the private health sector. The Council's terms of reference
would be agreed with the Bank. The Population Council would have a Secre-
tariat consisting of two or three professional staff plus support staff. The
Secretariat would prepare the statewide population program and coordinate its
implementation. The project would provide the Secretariat with equipment,
staff, supplies and operating costs. The Government provided assurances
that: (i) a State Population Council would be established and the head of
its Secretariat appointed within three months of loan effectiveness; and
(ii) a state population program would be prepared and submitted to the Bank
within nine months of effectiveness. The program would specify planned
activities, program components, and include targets for expanding family
planning services and awareness.
3.18      The Family Planning/MCH Unit in the SMOB Public Health Division
would be strengthened to enable it to coordinate the effective implementation
of family planning activities through PHC (paras 3.21-3.22). To undertake
service delivery, IEC and training, three assistant coordinators (for public
PHC, hospitals and private facilities) would be appointed to augment the
present staff. The project would provide the unit with vehicles, equipment,
training, supplies and operating costs. The unit would oversee the develop-
ment of the community-based contraceptive distribution system (para 3.30),
streamline the registration system for family planning acceptors, develop a
monitoring system, oversee the production of IEC materials, coordinate a mass
media campaign and develop and supervise an IEC training curriculum for SMOH
personnel.
3.19      A Population Studies Center at Imo State University would be estab-
lished to undertake policy-oriented research, evaluation, and specialized
training in population and demography, and to provide policy guidance to the
State Population Council. The initial focus of the center would be to:
(a) conduct baseline surveys, operational research and impact studies;
(b) provide guidance to policymakers; and (c) conduct research, training and
orientation programs on population and demography. The project wotuld provide
vehicles, equipment, technical assistance, fellowships and support for incre-
mental salaries and operating costs for three years on a declining basis.



- 15 -
2.   Improvement of Health Services
3.20      To assist Imo State to improve access to and quality of health
services, the project would support: (a) development of community-based
health, nutrition, and family planning activities; (b) upgrading, renovation
and construction of PHC facilities; (cj improvements in drug supply and
distribution; (d) establishment of a disease surveillance and diagnostic
service; (e) information, education, and communication activities; and
(f) staff training.
3.21      Supportina community-based PHC activities.  Building on the strong
tradition of successful community development in Imo, the project would
assist local governments in establishing a Community Health Committee (CHC)
in each LAC.  The CHC would report to the Local Government Health Committee
which is chaired by the Councilor for Health. The CHC would be responsible
for: (a) identifying the highest health risk groups in the community;
(b) developing commun.ty health projects; and (c) establishing and main-
taining a fund to finance community health projects. The CHC would be
composed of representatives of the traditional ruler, women's organizations,
schools and the LGA.  The health staff of the LGAs would provide technical
support to the CHC (para 3.30).
3.22      To assist the community in implementing these activities, the
project would provide in-service training for health center staff, vacci-
nators and community leaders in nutrition, infant feeding, oral rehydration
therapy, use of essential drugs, child spacing, record keeping, use of growth
charts, prevention of infectious diseases and basic planning and finance.
Training would be provided by LGA health staff, with technical support from
SMOH. The SMLG's community development inspectors, who are posted in the
LGAs, would provide technical advice to the communities to ensure judicious
use of resources. The project would provide for an annual evaluation of the
component.  The procedures that would be adopted for undertaking these
activities and the roles and responsibilities of the project agencies were
worked out with State and LGA officials in close consultation with the
communities.  Annex 3-5 describes the modalities for administering the
community matchsing grants.
3.23      Improvement of health facilities.  The project would provide for:
(a) upgrading and maintenance of selected existing primary health care
facilities, MCH clinics, maternity homes and dispensaries; and (b) constrac-
tion and equipping of Pew primary health clinics in under-served LACs. The
project would help introduce regular MCH and family planning services in
about 60 existing dispensaries and maternity homes by providing for the
construction and equipping of MCH annexes.  A building maintenance fund would
be provided for minor renovation and maintenance of approximately 190
existing PHC facilities. Assurances were given that in selecting the faci-
lities to be upgraded or renovated, the following criteria would be followeds
to the extent possible, the renovation program would be equitably spread
among LGAs, the facility would be adequately staffed (para 3.24), unmet
demand for services exists, and the LACs are able to mobilize 10? of the
estimated cost. The Bank and the Government have agreed that rural communi-
ties with a population of at least 5,000 and having no other health facility
(public or private) within a radius of 5 km, would qualify for the matching
grant program to support the construction and equipping of new health



- 16 -
centers. Approximately 40 communities meet these criteria. The renovation
and upgrading of existing facilities would be undertaken first, to be fol-
lowed by construction of new PHG facilities. It is expected that new con-
struction would therefore be initiated during the third year. Preparation of
plans and tender documents, and supervision of the construction and upgrading
of PHC facilities, would be undertaken by the State Ministry of Works and
Transport (SMWT), which is fully capable of handling this work.
3.24      The Government provided assurances that the SMOH and SMLG would:
(i) staff all the primary health care facilities in accordance with the
agreed standard staffing patterns; (ii) adopt an overall staffing plan
satisfactory to the Bank with six months of effectiveness; and (4.ii) review
the implementation of this plan annually with the Bank. The plan would
address quantitative annual targets of adequate staff levels at project-
assisted facilities; quantitative annual targets of reduced staff levels at
hospitals which would continue to provide adequate staff relative to the
demand for services; and the projected increase in budgetary savings that
would accrue to the hospital sector, as a result of rationalizing hospital
staffing. To encourage the acceptance of assignments in rural areas, the
project would provide selective retraining in community health and upgraded
housing for nurses and midwives. Annex 3-6 provides information on the
standard staifing pattern for the PHC facilities.
3.25      Vuen appropriately equipped, staffed and upgraded, these facilities
would provide MCH care including pre- and post-natal services, family plan-
ning, immunizations and health and nutrition education. They would also
offer identification and treatment of chronic and communicable diseases and
first-line curative services.
3.26      Improving drug supply and distribution.  To address the shortage of
drugs (para 3.14), the project would support the essential drugs program
developed by the State Government, with assistance from the World Health
Organization (WHO). A list of essential drugs for each type of facility has
been adopted, and drugs would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) using generic names (para 3.13) and financed through a Drug
Revolving Fund (DRF) (para 3.14). The existing central pharmaceutical
services of the SOH and HMB would be reorganized and strengthened into the
Imo State Essential DrAg Service (ISEDS). The reorganization involves
combining drug management functions of the pharmaceutical units of the HMB
and SMOH, both of which are now part of the SMOH.  The new ISEDS would be
part of the SMOH.  The ISEDS would have a separate Management Advisory Board
consisting of representatives from the S1OH, SMLG, State Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning, relevant private organizations in Imo, and the Project
Coordinator. The ISEDS would set policy guidelines for drug procurement,
distribution and use and manage the DRF. To help establish ISEDS, the
project would provide vehicles, equipment (including microcomputers),
supplies and funds for implementation and operating costs. Technical assist-
ance and training would be provided for ISEDS and hospital staff, and PHC
facilities involved in the administration of the Essential Drug Service and
DRF, for monitoring and forecasting of the demand for and supply of drugs,
for developing a therapeutics manual and formulary, and for improving
accounting and inventory control management. It is expected that only a few
new personnel would be required for ISEDS as most of the staff positions
needed initially are currently filled within the SMOH and the HMB.  The



- 17 -
Government provided assurances that the ISEDS would be established with the
timely appointment of the Director. Adoption by the Imo State Government of
an Essential Drug Policy satisfactory to the Bank, which would include the
creation of ISEDS and designation of the Director, would be a condition of
effectiveness. TUiEn policy statement would include an approved essential
drug list, procelures for its periodic revision and modalities for drug
purchases not on the list, the procurement of essential drugs through ICB and
generic denominations, and the pricing policy with the principle of full cost
recovery of drugs.
3.27      The project would also provide for the renovation of the phar-
maceutical stores at the hospitals, the central pharmaceutical store, and the
LGA stores. Moreover, the project would provide essential drugs, and
vaccines as needed, to improve drug supply and to serve as a base from which
to develop cost-recovery. Annexes 3-7 and 3-8 provide recommendations for
the proposed organization of ISEDS and its implementation. An initial
essential drugs list agreed by the SMOH and satisfactory to the Bank is given
in Annex 3-9. The Government provided assurances that the essential drugs
list would be amended not more than once annually, except in cases of extreme
urgency.
3.28      Establishing a disease surveillance and diagnostic service.  Imo
State does not have an epidemiological surveillance service to monitor
priority health problems. The project would support the establishment of a
public health laboratory which would perform: (a) antigen and antibody
testing to monitor the effectiveness of the immunization program; (b) water
testing; (c) blood screening, including for AIDS; (d) drug testing;
(e) testing to identify drug resistance; (f) microbiological and parasite
testing; (g) toxicological testing; and (h) support for the monitoring of
high-risk endemic and epidemic diseases. The project would support the
construction of a new facility for the laboratory and provide equipment,
technical assistance, training, supplies, reagents and funds for incremental
salaries and operating costs. Fees would continue to be charged for services
priced to recover initially the cost of reagents and supplies and in the long
term a larger portion of the program's recurrent cost.
3.29      Family planning in the public hospitals and Private sector.  In
addition to providing family planning services at the community level and in
Government health facilities (para 3.18), the project would also support
development of family planning services in the private sector by providing
about 300 private maternity homes and private sector providers with family
planning supplies and IEC materials. These inputs would be phased over the
first three years of the project. The FP/MCH Unit would be responsible for
selecting maternity homes and private sector providers to be included. The
criteria for selection of maternity homes would include the maternity home's
reputation, midwife qualifications and the number of deliveries. Contra-
ceptives would also be supplied by the SMOH to supplement those provided by
USAID and other external agencies through the Federal Government. Further-
more, the midwives would be provided with technical training in family
planning techniques. The maternity homes would pay SMOH for the supplies and
contraceptives at subsidized rates and charge a standard fixed subsidized
rate (for each type of family planning serv.ce) throughout the state. Family
planning services in the 19 HMB-managed hospitals would also be strengthened
by providing family planning equipment and undertaking minor rehabilitation



- 18 -
in the hospitals to provide needed privacy and space for family planning
activities. Annex 3-10 gives the location, by LGA, of the private mater-
nities as provisionally worked out by SMOH.
3.30      In addition, a community-based distribution (CBD) system for
contraceptives would be developed in the LACs. The CBD system wouid rely on
traditional community groups which exist in both urban and rural settings,
such as women's groups. Each LAC, through its CHC, would maintain a register
of family planning acceptors and their contraceptive usage, to develop a
monitoring and built-in evaluation system. CBD groups would be linked with a
maternity home or facility. The Community Health Aides and Assistants
(CHAs), who are presently under-utilized, would be trained as supervisors for
the CBD component (para 3.32). This force of about 250 CHAs would provide
the local commitment which is essential for effective community-based
programming. Supervision and replenishment of contraceptives would be
provided by the health facility to which the CHAs are linked. In order to
facilitate their work, each CHA would be given a bicycle.
3.31      Supnorting information, education and communication (IEC)
activities. The project would support the implementation of an integrated
IEC plan which SMOH developed during project preparation. The plan aims tot
(a) increase the practice of preventive health care, family planning and
better nutrition in the home; (b) increase demand for key MCH services, such
as immunizationt and (c) increase the awareness of and demand for family
planning. The project would introduce family life education in schools and
strengthen motivation and communication activities through the use of the
mass media, indigenous group media snd seminars. Specifically, the project
would proiide the SMOH's Health Education Unit with IEC equipment and
materials, vehicles, training, funds for materials development and production
and operating costs. The project would also provide the health units at the
LGAs and the CHC with equipment, educational materials and training.
3.32      Staff trainint.  Various levels of health staff, including the CHC
members, would be provided with in-service training in order to carry out the
health and population activities: (a) Primary Health Care - about 600
nurses, midwives, and CHA would be trained in primary health care (EPI, ORT,
nutrition, family planning and health education); about 20 nurses would be
trained as family planning trainers to augment the number of trainers; about
250 nurses would be trained as family planning clinicians to augment the
existing 70 clinicians; about 250 community leaders (from the CHC) would be
trained as family planning motivators; about 50 nurses would be trained as
health educators; about 10 staff from the FP/MCH Unit would be trained in
health and family planning statistics; about 250 community-based health
workers (CHAs) would be trained in contraceptive distribution; about 300
midwives would be trained in family planning. The curricula and training
material developed by the University of North Carolina and Johns Hopkins
University would be adopted for the above training; (b) Community health -
about 120 nurses would be trained at the Imo State School of Public Health
Nursing to qualify them to become community health officers. The training
would include basic management and motivation techniques; (c) Drugs - about
70 staff consisting of pharmacists, store officers, storekeepers, accounting
officers and ancillary staff and about 300 doctors would be trained on the
essential drugs program; (d) Laboratory Staff - about 50 laboratory tech-
nicians would be trained in modern laboratory practices. The project would



- i.; -
provide for a consultant to develop and implement the training program and
funds for operating costs. Annex 3-11 outlines the various types of training
for health staff, the responsibility for preparing, conducting and timing.
Part B. Federal Support Activities
3.3i      The project would enable the FMOH to strengthen its own project
preparation capability as vell as co facilitate health planning by the states
and their LGAs through two subcomponents:
(a) The Directorate of National Health Planning in the FMOH would
undertake a program of training and other technical assistance to
help strengthen the managerial process and nascent health planning
and statistical units in state ministries of health. These plan-
ning units would unify and build up the fragmented and weak plan-
ning capacities of public sector health institutions in each state.
The first phase of this effort has already been launched under Part
B of the Sokoto Health Project (Ln. 2503-UNI), which, during late
1986 and early 1987, supported preparation of the states' and LGAs'
five-year health plans. To follow on, a rolling three-year work
program to be submitted to the Bank by October of each year is
envisaged, which would focus on more intensive training activities
and on the provision of technical support to the states through
consultants and preparation of guidelines to rationalize annual
planning and budgeting. The basic requirements of this scheme are
based on an assessment of planning needs carried out recently among
state health officials;
(b) This component would provide project preparation funds for two or
three new national-level health and population projects to be
prepared by FMOH itself. A modest amount of assistance for project
preparation was included in Part B of the ongoing Sokoto Health
Project, but it has nearly been exhausted in face of the growing
interest in the tederal Government and in various states to develop
health and population projects.
D.   Proiect Costs and Financing
3.34      Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated at 1218.5 million
(US$36.8 million), net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component
of US$18.9 million, or 512 of the total project cost. Estimates are based on
May 1987 prices including provision for physical and price contingencies.
Project costs by component and by expenditure category are summarized below
in Tables 1 and 2. Detailed cost tables are presented in Annex.es 3-12 -
3-15.



D10 lEarni AS SPWIATII ElCt
IECt COST _30
(863  'US)                                  mUs teoo
I Tota                                  3 Tosal
o  w                            I Fvt.lm til
Local   Foreib  ToUtl   Excfa    tosts   Lod   Fooim   Tota   Eofta     to is
A* 1A  TAill
1. IW11UTlUK 11JR
LOCM. UITUNl_ cIUUITB                                                  130.4             130.4        -      0     30.0       -    30.0        -      0   "
LUCA InEUT   UIIURIM E                                               1,372.9  3,167.6  4560.7        70      3    315.6  732.8 1,049.4        70      3        IN
STlIE 31103S13 OF IEUJN                                              71110.4  4952.6 11,60.0         3?      9  1.639.2 1,041*3 2,680.5       39      9
PPInAT      a6                                                       1,048.3   57.9  1.620.2         35      1    241.0   131.5   372.5       3S      1
Sub-Toal DISTIIJTIIIL IEWLT                                             92.0  8W239,4 17t71.4          46      14  2,225.8 1905.6 4,131.4      46    14          E
2. SMIEN       IE lIN * 3112T    *AN FMlY FlAIIIMS   *3
CUBUIIUT - NM  FIME MTIT                                            4U614.3  3ta699  8,254.2        44      6  1°00.    836.6 1,9.5                  A
UIIIl FIIC IEINICES                                                 26,67t.3 26,863.  53,50.9        SO     40  6132.7 6175*5 12,30.3         50    40
STINSTIENINS 3    StilL? UI  D11STRIUIIT                              2,73.5 26P182,0 28B932.S       90     22    632.3 60168 6.651.2         90     22         t
IUSSW    WRLUI Me DRAINhC SERVICE                                      657.3  I1S5766  2,2449        71      2    151.1   365*0   516.1       A       2        CI
FMKILIIIB 1E1MC                                                        217*2    227.1    444.2       51      0     49.9   52.2   10.l         51      0        0
InUTIO     , EUTIC     AS ClCUTII   ACTIMES                          1.762.7    332.0  2,114.6       16      2    409.6    76*3   486.1       16      2        rr
SbTotal STMNIIINS NEA  IN MITNIN  *1A F. L  ftLAINO SERVICES        3669.3 53.632.1 959531.4        62      72  09436.6 13,24*6 21,*2        62      72
3. WEAMT If PROJCT      101ATIU FAMtt                                   1S21.8  1t549.1  3,070.9       SO      2    3496   356*1   706.0        5D       2
tlu-Totl IN STATE                                                         47903*1 466o.6& 1 7.7           59     U  11.1012.2 15786.3 267*6        59     B
0. FEUIL N11l OF EALTH                                                                                                                                              p
1.L B PLANlNING US PROJECT "swim ACTIVES                               16.5-224       - 12.4           -      12  3,796.3      - 3.796.3        -      12        0
Sh-Totl FEEIL 1 1S1? IF lEWN                                             6I5h22.4        - 16,522.4        -     12  379*3         - 3.798.3        -      t2
Touat JMINE CSTS                                                            64.425.5 69670.6 133,09*61      52    tOO 14,310.5 1S5786.3 30,596.6     52    tOo
Piew  CDomin       ,                                                      69960.3  6,79.3 13,751*6       49     10  1,60.t 1   561.2 3,61.3       49      10
Pies Cetlo4 sis                                                          35,603.1 3S.B7S.3 nw1 .1        50     54  193*.6 1,524.6 3.0642         50      10
TOoal    T F l5 c                                                          107189.6 111337.2 216,528.6      S1    164 17.950.1 16,672.2 36,322.3     St    120
Augut 25g 1908 161S



- 21 -
Table 2t Estimated Project Costs by Expeuditure Category
13106113ilII MLS 9111*31 IIJECT
(133  'U)0                      'U   1 00)>
ST toal                                     St
1 foreli  Due                               z Jaw.    .
Lam     fo,ela   TtaXl   bikii   Cts    hecal   hoel   Ttal   f_hu    Cat
inm          m nnn  am F
sinsw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k Isi
t. OI'IL 1IE
1.      Nol3I  UVI                          D         2106.0   14106         .1.         0       3    484.6   392.9   813.5         40 a
2.MlUTI                                              229,1641  101.*6 37ta5.            40      28  5,52  3A47.8  3t.W.0             40      2
Ttl CIc I IE                                            2427.t1 16,4722  40,443            40      31  S5,59.   W7.  936.5              40      31
t. fI l                                                 2W.0         43.6  2P121*3         3       2    43.o       146   417.7          3       2
c. _HNT                                                    4n.6  10522.6  1099.2           96       0    10.9  2419.0  25.9             96       0
so 0    .11                                              102.2  5ll91.0   7,2.3            76       6    420.5  1.3544  1774.8          76       6
E. 113111 *SSISTIU
1. IJCII C_TNM                                          515,2        -    515.2          -       0    116.4        -   119.4          -       0
2. F       COILTUS                                      69,7   1460.*6  2.156.3    64            2    159.9   33.3   495.7        A4          2
WTIol 1I01CIL MSSTmI                                     1,210.9   1460.   2.671.5         S        2    27.4   3=.8   614.1 .          S        2
F. 1"11
1.to Bl wINI                                          2213.*6         *  2,21.6         -        2     No0.t       -   503.9          -       2
2.0 f13FUL3UH1                                              -    491.       491.3     0t         0         -    112.9   112.9       1O0       0
i. LlOCL FLUGH                                          537.0         -    537.0         -       0    123.4        -    123.4         -       0
4. SU  TM                                                   -      11.1      11.1      1o        0         -     2.5      2.5       1to       0
Tte! 161                                                 270.5    502.4  3a252.9           15       2      32.a3   115.5   74.0         Is       2
0. M                                                     111  1142    453.7   1W6.9        29       1    236.1   100*3   360.4          29       1
. 361331IUMB                                             61166    19006.9   7175.7         14       5   1,410.1   231*5  1649.6         14       5
t. "Ml fit  llY                                          1,5       1549.1  3,070.9   a      0       2    3096    356.1   706.0          50       2
J. 36411 PRUMII M  POC  FIIDW             ICO    US     16M.4           -  16502#4          -      12  30733          - 39.3             -      12
Toda IR          CUM                                       57t921.3   .922,2  9 3             40      72 13152  s717.?22,033.0             *0      72
Ptss CU Ai fmia                                          6#960.3  69791.3  13,751*6        4       10  1,6t0.1  1,561.2 3161.3          4       10
Prim  toCasti_                                          31697.6 J 19,V.6  54.2             39      39  1,345.7   5270  2,175.7           3       7
to l DIUIIIIU WTIEC                                        96.5192  644671.0 161,250.2        40    1l 16,264.0 11106.0 27370*0            41      8
u~~-- -E111 a-rl
no. irml   01M
As NM   aS WIS                                                - 30,164.6 30,164.6        100      23         - 6144 61914.4           1O0      23
L 3*A33                                                 2,957          -  2,995.7                  2     all?        - 260.0                    2
t  FIEL                                                   733.5 5#33.0  1,317.3           44       t    16.6   134.2   302.8           44       1
3. WWTIIUCTN   S 1c112.0                                               -   14112.0         *       1    2U556        -    255.6         -       I
to #ISm                                                 11191.6        -   1119.6          -       1    257.4        -   237.4          -       I
Ft no1I"I                                                 543.5               -3                   0    12*9              124.9         -       0
tal K IR     t col                                          6504.3  30,746.4  37,252.7        83      a   1,495.2  7,068.6 8s634           es3    2
Price cmtl l                                             4,106.2  15.917#7 20023.9         79      IS    190.9       96   U1.S          79       3
Towl1E                                                     10.610.5  46,4.2   7276.6           1      43  1t636U1  7766*2  942J3           62      31
tOWl 303E1   cum                                           649425.5 468670.6 134096.1         S2    100  14O 110.l 5 I&1 3 330596          S2    100
dsa C        _ntsin                                       6.96.3   6791.3  13751.6          N       1  IOO1  1#561#2 3U1.3               4       tO
mtes Csstil8wim                                          35303L4  3575.3 769.1              So l     4  1t9W*6  1,524.6 3,04.2           50      1O
Talo   IET CUTS                                            10M7O.6 111,37.2 213,526.6          S1    164 V790.11 MM72.2 6,322.3             Sl    in
*st 25. 1913 16:1S



- 22 -
3.35      Contingencies.  The contingency allowance of US$6.2 million
includess (a) physical contingencies of 202 on the base cost of civil works,
equipment and vehicles, and (b) price contingencies obtained by applying the
following annual inflation rates: for domestic prices, 15? in 1989 and 1OX
in 1990-1995; and for international prices: 3Z in 1989-90, and 4? in 1991-
95. The exchange rate is expected to adjust to reflect differences between
the international and domestic rates of inflation.
3.36      Proiect financing.  The financing plan for the project is based on
proposed agreements among the Federal Government, Imo State Government, and
the Bank, whereby project costs would be shared in the following manner:
Financing Plan (in USS millions)
IMSG
Federal      &                      IBRD
Proiect Comm.'ent     Government    LGA            LAC       LOAN     X  TOTAL
Amt.     2  Amt.   X    Amt.   X  Amt.   I           Amt.
Part A. - Imo State   3.2      10   3.8   12    1.1   3   24.5  75  100  32.6
Part B. - Federal      1.1     26    -     -      -    -    3.1  74  100   4.2
Total                  4.3     12   3.8   10    1.1   3   27.6  75  100  36.8
The Federal Government and Imo State Government provided assurances that they
would make &dequate budgetary provisions through specific line items, for
their contributions to the project.
3.37      The proposed Bank loan of US$27.6 million would be made to the
Federal Government. Of this amount. up to US$24.5 million equivalent would
be or.-lent by the Federal Government to IMSG on the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan under a subsidiary loan agreement between the Federal
Government and IMSG. The Imo State Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Imo
State and the Federal Government satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of effectiveness. Bank loan and other project funds would be made
available to LGAs and LACs as grants.
3.38      Sustainability.  To ensure the project's sustainability, the
project was designed to keep incremental operating costs to a minimum by
focusing on rehabilitating existing facilities and increasing the efficiency
of the health system, while simultaneously devising cost recovery measures
and budgetary policies which would enable the Government to effectively
deliver services. The rationalization of staff, with shifts from hospitals
and urban facilities to rural facilities rather than hiring additional staff,
would also keep incremental recurrent costs to a minimum. Furthermore, the
decision to exclude from the project the rehabilitation of large compre-
hensive health centers and the construction of new community hospitals makes
the project less expensive and more affordable to the IHSG. The extent of



- 23 -
rehabilitation and equipment standards were closely scrutinized for possible
cost savings, taking into account the conditions under which the health faci-
lities would be operating. It is estimated that the incremental annual
recurrent cost burden to IMSG corresponds to about 182 of the 1984 state
level recurrent expenditures on health. These increases in recurrent expen-
ditures are reasonable, even under conservative projections of Nigeria's
likely resource availability. Furthermore, through the introduction of
improved financial control and cost recovery mechanisms, it is anticipated
that by 1992 about 2OZ-252 of total recurrent expenditures, excluding drugs,
would be recovered, compared to annual cost recovery of about 1OX in 1985.
J
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Process and Status of Proiect Preparation
4.1       Project preparation was organized so as to maximize understanding
of and commitment to the project as it emerged. Representative implementers
and beneficiaries were involved, starting with focus group interviews with
users and providers of health services to diagnose basic constraints in the
health system prior to project identification. Subsequently, to develop
concrete proposals for the project, the SMOH organized six task forces. In
view of the inter-sectoral nature of the project, most of these task forces,
besides staff from the SMOH itself and the HMB, also had members from other
relevant ministries, including Finance and Economic Planning, Local Govern-
ment, Education, Information, Works and Transport and representatives of key
NGOs. Local government officials and traditional leaders actively partici-
pated particularly in helping design the community-based elements including
the matching grants scheme. A special high-level group was organized,
including representation from the Governor's Office, to focus on health
financing issues. The overall responsibility for project preparation was
assumed by the Director General for Health, who chaired an inter-agency
steering committee, to which the chairmen of the individual task forces
reported. SMOH established a small preparation secretariat to support the
overall effort. Workshops were held with each task force during the first
preparation mission, at which time work programs, timetables, and resource
requirements were spelled out. Project preparation has had an impact on
policy: responding to the financial constraints of the sector, the SMOH
analyzed the health needs and problems of the state and over the course of
project preparation, shifted direction away from expansion of capital invest-
ments and toward consolidation of the primary health care system, utilizing
community support. It is the continued improvement and strengthening of this
system that the project would support.
4.2       All the studies undertaken by the project preparation task forces
have been completed and were the basis for project appraisal. Eleven key
SMOH staff have been trained in the United Kingdom (with Overseas Development
Administration financing) in management, accounting, family planning, and
demography. Mapping of the existing PHC facilities, including assessment of
the extent of rehabilitation required, has been undertaken. A utilization
study has been undertaken which will provide a baseline against while project
progress can be monitored. A plan for the essential drugs program has been
prepared and an essential drugs list acceptable to the Bank agreed. Agree-
mer,t has been reached with SMOH, SMLG and SMWT on the modalities of



- 24 -
implementing the civil works component. The Imo State Executive Council
(SEC) has approved N500,000 for pre-project implementation activities. The
SEC has also approved the project for state borrowing and the Federal
Government has included the project in its 1987 national borrowing program.
4.3       In order to develop the management capability required for success-
ful implementation of a project of this scope, SMOH has agreed to launch a
pilot implementation effort, in one LGA, with due consideration given to the
PHC model LGAs (para 2.15). In order to support the pilot effort, resources
of $400-500,000 would be required. The size of the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) approved is $700,000. After the pilot project the balance
would be used to finance the establishment of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) and to provide materials and supplies needed for project
implementation.
B.   Project Management and Coordination
4.4       The SMOR would have major responsibility for implementation of Part
A of the project, and the FMOH for Part B. With a major focus on helping to
strengthen and expand a number of ongoing health activities, Part A would be
largely implemented by existing permanent organizations at the state and
local levels, which would promote sustainability. In several cases, notably
the Public Health Division of the SMOH and the ISEDS, the project would first
assist in streamlining the implementing bodies through organizational con-
solidation and rationalization. In the case of population, which is a
program being developed under the project, a newly created structure, the
State Population Council and its Secretariat, would have major implementation
responsibility. Vital family planning services are being integrated into the
Public Health Division, which would also be responsible for PHC and other key
project-financed activities such as IEC (through the Health Education Unit),
disease surveillance and public health laboratory services. Parts of the IEC
program would be carried out by other ministries -- Education and Infor-
mation. While ultimately the leadership in the community-based activities
would come from the SMOH, responsibility for the day-to-day implementation
and technical support for these activities rests with the health staff of the
individual LGAs in cooperation with the CHCs in the communities. In addi-
tion, the SHLG LGA-based community development inspectors would help facili-
tate these community-based activities. The civil works component would
receive major support from the SMWT, especially its field staff based in the
LGAs. The roles of all agencies with major implementation responsibilities
are presented in Annex 4-2.
4.5       Several mechanisms have been agreed with IMSG to facilitate project
implementation. Overall, senior-level policy coordination would be achieved
through the establishment of a new Interministerial Project Steering Commit-
tee (similar to that established for the UNICEFfunded Imo Rural Water and



- 25 -
Sanitation Project). 1/ This Committee would be chaired by the State Commis-
sioner of Health and would consist of representatives of the SMOH, SMLG, and
the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, along with a representative of
the Office of the Military Governor, and the Project Coordinator. The
responsibilities of this Committee are outlined in Annex 3-3. Reporting to
the Director General of Health, the Project Coordinator would head the PCU,
which is building on the existing project preparation secretariat. The
relationship between the PCU and the rest of SMOH is shown in Annex 4-3. The
PCU would oversee day-to-day project implementation being carried out by the
various implementing agencies, ensure proper coordination of all project
components, prepare withdrawal applications and maintain the project
accounts. In addition to the Project Coordinator, the PCU would consist of
an architect (to be seconded from the SMWT), a community development officer
(to be seconded from the SHLG and who would be responsible for mobilization
of the LACs), a senior accountant/financial comptroller and support staff.
The appointment of the three key PCU staff -- the accountant, the community
development officer and the architect -- would be a condition of effective-
ness.  The project would provide the PCU with vehicles, equipment, supplies
and funds for incremental salaries and operating costs. Two coordinating
meclaanisms in the form of committees were developed during project prepara-
tion. These will be institutionalized with advisory roles to SMOH as
followss the project coordinator would prepare an annual work plan for the
project in collaboration with the Interministerial Coordinating Committee
(para 3.31) and review it with the Bank; he would also assist the SMOH in
preparation of an annual financial plan, in collaboration with the State
Health Finance Steering Committee (para 3.10) and review it with the Bank.
The PCU would also be responsible for providing the Bank with quarterly
reports on the implementation status of all project components. The Govern-
ment would produce a project completion report within six months of the
project completion date.
I/   The UNICEF-funded project now comprises more than 600 boreholes for
rural water supply and sanitation drilled in Imo State since 1982.
The institutional arrangements suggested for the proposed project
reflect the lessons learned during implementation of the UNICEF
project, with respect to policy coordination by the involved
ministries.



- 26 -
C.   Procurement
4.6       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Method by ExDenditure Category
(US$ millions)
PROJECT ELEMENTS                      ICB      LCB      OTHER    N;A   TOTAL
Civil Works                                   12.2                      12.2
(8.3)                    (8.3)
Technical Assistance, Training                           1.9            1.9
and Studies                                            (1.3)           (1.3)
Vehicles, Furniture and Equipment    4.7       1.3       0.2             6.2
(4.7)    (0.5)    (0.2)           (5.4)
Drugs, Supplies and Materials         6.5      3.0       0.3             9.8
(6.5)    (2.0)    (0.3)           (8.8)
Fuel, Salaries, Seminars,                                1.8            1.8
Materials and Operating Costs
Project Preparation Funds                                4.2            4.2
(3.1)          (3.1)
Repayment of PPF                                                0.7      0.7
(0.7)   (0.7)
TOTALS                               11.2     16.5       8.4    0.7    36.8
(11.2)   (10.8)    (4.9)  (0.7)  (27.6)
in          -   .m.,
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the proposed
Bank loan.
4.7       Civil works.  Civil works contracts amounting to US$12.2 million
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) conducted
according to current Government practices, which are acceptable to the Bank,
and include advertising in local newspapers and public bid openings. Foreign
bidders would not be precluded from participation in LCB. All civil works
contracts are small and widely scattered geographically and over time. The
average value of the contracts would be about US$20,000. It is estimated
that only one contract, the Public Health Laboratory, would exceed
US$100,000.
4.8       Goods.  Equipment, vehicles, drugs and medical supplies would be
procured through ICB following Bank guidelines. Items would be grouped to
encourage competition and bulk procurement. Domestic manufacturers would



- 27 -
receive a margin of preference of 15X of c.i.f. value or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation. Procurement of items
and groups of items estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of quotations invited from at least three eligible suppliers itl accordance
with the guidelines, or by direct purchase where Justified by the need for
standardization. Such local or direct shopping would not exceed US$500,000
in aggregate. Procurement of items and groups of items estimated to cost
less than US$200,000 but more than US$50,000 per contract equivalent may be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, and would not exceed
US$2.5 million in aggregate. LCB would be used for small packages of simple
equipment for PHC facilities with timing of procurement linked to the
renovation program; reagents and supplies for the Public Health Laboratory;
production of training materials for over 2,000 personnel, including
handbooks, manuals and films; and IEC materials for use in the mass media.
Prior Bank review would be required for awards of all contracts above US$0.5
million. Recurrent cost items would be procured following regular Government
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
4.9       Technical assistance.  Approximately 7.8 manyears of consulting
services would be required in specific areas where skills are unavailable
within the Government. The project would rely, as much as possible, on local
consultants. The Government, however, recognizes that certain critical
skills required by the project are not readily available in the country.
Thus, a limited number of international consultants would be required under
the project. The selection and appointment of consultants would be in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The list of required technical assistance
is found in Annex 4-4. Annexes 4-5 and 4-6 describe the implementation
schedules for the civil works and the non-civil works components of the
project.
D.   Disbursements
4.10      The Nigeria profile used to project disbursements provides for an
eight-year disbursement schedule. However, it may be possible for the Bank
loan to be disbursed over a seven-year period (between 1989-1995) taking into
consideration the project design. The loan would be disbursed against the
following items of costs, net of taxess
(a) 80X of the cost of civil works in Part A;
(b) 1001 of the cost of technical assistance, foreign fellowships, and
studies under Part A;
(c) 1001 of the cost of vehicles, equipment, drugs and supplies;
(d) 75? of the cost of project preparation and health planning assist-
ance under Part B; and
(e) repayment of the Project Preparation Facility advance.
4.11      Withdrawal applications to the Bank would be grouped into packages
of at least US$50,000 equivalent and would be fully documented, except for
expenses related to studies, matching grants, fellowships and contracts of



- 28 -
less than US$25,000 equivalent. These expenses would be reimbursed against
certified statements of expenditure (SOEs) for which documentation would be
retained by the PCU for inspection by Bank supervision missions and by the
project auditors. The estimated schedule of disbursement is provided in
Annex 4-7.
4.12      Proiect accounts.  Two project accounts would be opened and main-
tainedt (i) The IMSG would establish in a commercial bank a separate replen-
ishable project account in local currency for Part A of the project and make
an initial deposit into the account of the equivalent of US$100,000. The
opening of the project account and depositing the initial amount would be a
condition of effectiveness. The IHSG and the Federal Government would each
pay their contributions into this account, monthly and quarterly respec-
tively, in accordance with the approved annual project budgets. During the
annual review of the financial plan (para 3.10) an estimate of the counter-
part funding for the year ahead would be made. To facilitate the receipt by
the project of timely funding from IMSG, IHSG will maintain writter, instruc-
tions to the Central Bank of Nigeria to pay the IMSG counterpart contribution
from amounts standing to the credit of Imo State; and (ii) The FMOH would
establish in a commercial bank a separate replenishable project account in
local currency for Part B of the project. FMOH would deposit, quarterly, the
counterpart contribution for Part B of the project.
4.13      Special account.  To avoid the need for the Government to pre-
finance expenditures eligible for financing from the Bank loan, two Special
Accounts would be opened and maintained. For the purposes of Part A of the
project, an amount of US$500,000 would be advanced to a Special Account, and
for the purposes of Part B of the project, US$100,000 would be advanced to a
Special Account, these accounts to be maintained in US currency in local
commercial banks on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. These
accounts would be used to meet the eligible percentage of both foreign and
local expenditures. All direct payments of less than US$50,000 would be made
from the Special Accounts. Replenishment of the accounts would be subject to
submission of appropriate supporting documents. Replenishment applications
would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when amounts withdrawn were equiv-
alent to one-third of the amount deposited. Replenishment by the Bank would
also be conditional on the Federal Government's and IMSG's release of their
required quarterly contributions.
4.14      Accounts and audits.  The drug revolving fund (para 3.14), the
project account (para 4.12), the special account (para 4.13) and all project
accounts to be maintained would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to
the Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts would be forwarded to the
Bank for review within six months after the end of the Government's fiscal
year. A separate opinion as to the proper use of all amounts withdrawn on
the basis of SOEs would be included. Quarterly written reports on the
progress of project implementation would be submitted to the Bank, and a
project completion report would also be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the project closing date. The Government gave assurances that it
would appoint an independent auditor with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank to annually audit all the above mentioned accounts.
4.15      Monitoring and reporting.  The PCU would monitor project execution.
Detailed project monitoring targets have been discussed with SMOH, to be



- 29 -
included in the quarterly reports by the PCU (para 4.5). The project would
support technical assistance for the preparation and carrying out of mid-term
and final project evaluations. These evaluations would cover progress in
institutional development, particularly on the establishment and operation of
the Community Health Committees, ISEDS, cost recovery measu:ss, redeployment
of health personnel and strengthening of the accounting syst3ms. These
reviews would also cover progress in the development of the population
program and general project implementation and disbursemen..
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1       Benefits.  The project's location in Imo State reflects a desire to
diversify Bank assistance to health and population to another of the four
major zones into which FMOH divides the country, the commitment of the State
and local government authorities, and Imo State's relatively stronger admin-
istrative and manpower situation. The project's support of institutional
development would improve the structure -- for financial planning, essential
drugs and population. The focus on community-based health and the provision
of facilities in areas without either government or private services would
provide a more appropriate and equitable distribution of services and a
closer link between priority problems and resource allocation. The matching
grant program is an innovative way to extend health services to the local
level, building on local community commitment which is strong in Imo. Cost
recovery would generate additional revenues and eventually help stabilize
financing of the sector. The project would increase public awareness of the
consequences of rapid population growth and improve access to voluntary
family planning services, with the goal of reducing fertility. Project
components, such as the essential drugs service and state population program
are designed to serve as pilots for other states and for national programs.
The extensive private activities in the sector would continue, and selected
private sector providers would receive family planning supplies and training,
to complement the public services.
5.2       Risks.  Community-based activities are risky.  They require the
full commitment of the community and the Government. They also require
adequate training of staff and village leaders and adequate supervision and
support from higher ups. There is little doubt, however, about the commit-
ment of the Tmo State Government and the community leaders to this new
approach to health. They support it fully, and they are eager to make it
work as they have done recently with other sectoral activities in the related
area of village water supply. In addition, to minimize the risk, the project
would provide a large amount of training and logistical and institutional
support.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       The Imo State Government provided assurances that it woulds
(a)  carry out a structural reorganization of SMOH's PHC support
activities acceptable to the Bank within three months of effective-
ness (para 3.8);



_ 30 -
(b) review its financial plan for the health sector with the Bank by
June 30 each year during the project period, starting in 1989
(para 3.10);
(c) set drug prices to achieve full cost recovery, the prices to be
agreed annually with the Bank by June 30 of each year (para 3.13);
(d) establish the Drug Revolving Fund under the Imo State Essential
Drugs Service, as a condition for disbursement of funds for the
procurement of drugs (para 3.14);
(e) reassess its essential drugs list not more often than once a year,
except in cases of extreme urgency (para 3.27);
(f) seek to recover (and cause its LGAs to seek to recover) recurrent
costs including wages, benefits, maintenance and transportation,
and full cost recovery of drugs, by hospitals of at least 262 and
PHC facilities of at least 16? by 1992 (para 3.16);
(g) improve the balance between wage and non-wage recurrent costs, to
reach a balance of 652-35? wage/non-wage costs by 1992 (para 3.16);
(h) make available at the point of collection, at least 652 ef the fees
collected for services, to be used for non-wage goods and services
(para 3.16);
(i) establish a State Population Council including representatives of
specified institutions and appoint the head of its Secretariat
within three months of effectiveness (para 3.17);
(j) prepare a state population program and submit it to the Bank within
nine months of effectiveness (para 3.17);
(k) cause SMOH to staff all PHC facilities in accordance with the
agreed standard staffing pattern, to adopt a staffing plan satis-
factory to the Bank within six months of effectiveness, and review
implementation of the plan annually with the Bank (para 3.24);
(1) make adequate budgetary provisions for its contributions to the
project (para 3.36); and arrange for timely payments (para 4.12).
6.2       The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) adoption by the Imo State Government of an essential drug policy
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.26);
(b) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Federal
Government of Nigeria and the Imo State Government satisfactory to
the Bank (para 3.37);
(c) appointment of a senior accountant, a community development officer
and an architect to the PCU (para 4.5); and



- 31 -
(d) open an Imo State Government project account and deposit an initial
US$100,000 equivalent (para 4.12).
6.3       Subject to the preceding terms and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$27.6 million to the Federal Government of
Nigeria for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
September 1, 1988



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
COMPARATIVE SOCIO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS 11
Oil Exporting
Cote     Burkina            Developing
Niaeria     Cameroon       Ghana  d'Ivoire    Faso      Kenya    Countries
Total Population                     103          10.5         13.2       10.7        8.1    21.2       538.3
Urban Population (Z) (1985)           30            42         32         45          8      20          41
Crude Birth Rate                      50            48         45         49         47      52          37
Crude Death Rate                      16            13         13         14         19      12          10
Average Annual Growth,
Population (1980-1986, in Z)          3.3           3.3        3.1        3.6        2.9     3.9         2.7
Total Fertility Rate                   6.9           6.9        6.3        7.1        6.5     7.7         4.9
Infant Mortality Rate               104             96         89         96        140      74          62
Child Death Rate (1985)               21            10         11         15         29      16          11
Life Expectancy at Birth              51            56         54         52         47      57          59
Population Per Physician (1981) 12,000         13,900 31   6,680          --    55,760  10,120        7,020
Population Per Nurse (1981)       2,420         1,950 3/      630                3,070      990       n.a.
Access to Safe Water (1985)           --            26         35         19         25      17          42
Daily Per Capita Calorie Supply
as Z of Requirement (1981)          86            102         66        112        85       83         109
Adult Literacy Rate (1) (1985)        34           --           --        35          5      47          58
Per Capita Income                    640 2J        910        390        730        150     300         930
Average Growth GDP 1965-1986 (2)       1.9           3.9       -1.7        1.2        1.3     1.9         2.5
Health Expenditure as Percent
of Central Government
Expenditure (1983)                  __              3.7        5.8      __           6.8     7.0         3.7
11 For mid-1986, unless otherwise indicated.
21 Per capita income 1987t $370.
31  1980
Sov=ce:  World DeveloDment Revort, 1988.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2-2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
THE C0MKON CAUSES OF MORBIDITY AND HOSPITAL ADMISSIONS IN NIGERIA
(in percentages)
1984
A.   Morbidity
1.  Infectious and parasitic diseases .........       38.2?
2.  Nutritional and metabolic diseases .......         1.82
3. Respiratory diseases        .....................  12.7?
4.  Ill-defined conditions       ...................   9.22
5.  Skin diseases ..    ........ ..................    8.4?
6.  Diseases of the Digestive system .........         4.7?
7. Accidents .......       ...     ..... .........     3.1?
8. Muscles and skeletal diseases ............          2.9Z
9.  Genito-urinary diseases ..................         2.72
10.  Blood diseases - anaemia, etc. ...........         2.5?
11.  Diseases of the nervous system ...........         9.92
12.  Others ........................................    3.92
B.   Hospital Admissions
1.  Infectious and parasitic diseases.........        31.3?
2.  Nutritional and metabolic diseases .......         2.8?
3. Pregnancy and child birth ................         23.12
4. Respiratory diseases .....................          9.8?
5.  Genito-urinary diseases ..................         5.8?
6. Accidents ........................... ... ..**.     5.32
7.  Digestive system diseases ................         5.0?
8.  Diseases of the nervous system ...........         3.3?
9.  Blood diseases ...... ................... ..       3.0?
10.  Ill-defined conditions ...................         3.2?
11.  Skin diseases .......................... ..*       2.4?
12.  Others  ..................................         5.0?
Sourcet Federal Ministry of Health



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
OrganIzatlon Chart, Federal Ministry of Health
Minber                         Natioal 
r~  liiib  
Of Heal                      Nthe  Council
l              ~~~~~CommIsonr
of Heam
General
Dirctora D             irectat             Food and Du
of National              of                 Admnistrion            Heaf C
Heath              Pharme                 and Laboty             Cooratg
Planning              Servcese                                       Unit
D ales of D-  .orate of                       faotev of
Medkri Sers'        'Public H      'slh      I      n
and Trainiv             Swvbes              and ance
Nobt: lbs FMOH Is bmy baen reowgzd
w40157
I.1
w



- 35 -                    ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 12
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
THE HEALTH SECTOR IN IHO STATE
1.        Demoaraphy.  Imo State, with less than 1.52 of Nigeria's land and
around 7? of the population (officially estimated at 6.6 million people)
with an average density of more than 750 persons per sq. km. is one of the
most densely populated regions of Nigeria and of West Africa. Imo has 21
Local Government Authorities (LGAs) and 371 Local Autonomous Communities
(LACs). The LACe were established in Imo State in 1981 (under Law No. 11,
which defines an Autonomous Community as "a group of people inhabiting an
identifiable geographical area or areas, comprising one or more communities
and bound by a common traditional and cultural way of life with a common
historical heritage and recognized and approved as an autonomous community
by the Government". Imo has a traditional society with a pronatalistic
view of fertility. As in the rest of Nigeria, Imo's population is growing
rapidly. The World Fertility Survey in 1982 estimated a Total Fertility
Rate of 6.5. About 47Z of the population are under 15 years of age,
providing extremely strong momentum for continued rapid population growth.
Without a substantial decline in fertility, Imo's population will double in
just over 20 years. Efforts to reduce population growth are urgently
needed to forestall an inevitable decline in living standards. (Table 1 of
this Annex provides data on area, population and population density of Imo
State by LGA.)
2.        Health status.  Morbidity and mortality patterns in Imo follow
the country pattern. A 1984 health and nutrition survey revealed that
illness rates in urban areas of Imo were noticeably higher than the
national average, and the injury rates in rural areas were more than double
the national average. The number of cases of malnutrition have also
increased about 401 since 1981. (Tables 2 and 3 of this Annex describe the
leading causes of inpatient admission and hospital attendances in Imo
State.)
3.        The infant and child mortality rate (DMR) is high, particularly
in rural areas, with the estimated IM4 at about 113 per 1,000 live births.
Despite a relatively high proportion of institutional deliveries (82?
according to the World Fertility Survey), maternal mortality remains high
in Imo (estimated at about 18 per 1,000 live births).
Health Sector Organization and Services
1.   Organization
4.        The organization of the health sector in Imo is similar to that
of other states. Effective functioning of Imo's public health system is
hindered by a complex and inefficient management system. Currently, the
operation of primary health care services has 24 independent decisionmaking



- 36 -                      ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 12
points:  the SMOH, the HMB, a health unit within the SMLG, and 21 LGAs.  No
clear strategy exists for planning, management or financing, and health
programs are often duplicated and fragmented. (Pages 8 and 9 of this Annex
provide organigram charts of the Imo State Ministry of Health and local
government authorities and communities.)
2.   Health Services
5.        Health establishments.  Basic health services in Imo are provided
through a network of health centers, maternal and child health (MCH)
clinics, rural maternity homes, and dispensaries. In the public sector,
the HMB operates 21 general hospitals, and the LGAs operate a network of
over 221 maternity homes, health centers, and dispensaries. The private
health sector in Imo is more developed than in most of the country. In
1986, 702 of the hospital beds were in private or church-related hospitals,
with the remaining 302 in Government hospitals, and 882 (or 378) of the
maternity homes are private and church-related, with the remaining 122
owned by the Government and the communities. While there has been a proli-
feration of private health facilities in Imo, they are mostly hospitals and
maternity homes located in urban areas which do not generally provide
preventive and promotive care. With the exception of one privately owned
health center and two dispensaries, all 86 health centers and 86 dispen-
saries are operated by the LGAs. There are also over 100 LACs in which
private facilities are unavailable. According to a 1985 survey, under-
utilization of Government health facilities is severe both in rural and
urban areas because of: (a) chronic drugs and medical supply shortages:
(b) lack of equipment and dilapidated facilities; (c) unsatisfactory
service; (d) increased costs for drugs and services with no corresponding
improvement in quality; and (e) poor staff attitudes and motivation.
6.        Coummunity support.  Imo State is well known for communal self-
help efforts undertaken by the LACss membership in community associations
is virtually universal extending to people who have left their villages.
Participation in association activities and adherence to rules are enforced
through sanctions, including fines, penalties and the threat of social
ostracism. Each community has a development committee, usually headed by
the traditional ruler or a community leader, which mobilizes the community
in planning, financing and implementing development activities, such as
building hospitals, health centers, schools, water supplies and bridges.
About 902 of the health facilities in Imo were built by the communities.
Completed health facilities have subsequently been turned over to the local
governments, which are responsible for their operation and for supplying
equipment and staff.
7.        The economic recession has made it difficult for communities to
raise funds for development activities and for local governments to staff
and equip and supply facilities with drugs. Many projects are incomplete
and existing facilities have not been adequately maintained due to lack of
funds. In many communities, a precipitous decline in health services has
been accompanied by the physical deterioration of the facilities, further
discouraging utilization. Those who can afford the higher fees go to
private practitioners, while others turn to traditional healers or resort



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 12
to self-diagnosis and treatment, creating a situation which leads to
neglect of preventive and promotive health. Government officials and local
leaders believe it is possible to reverse this trend if communities are
given financial and technical assistance in implementing health development
activities. This approach would build on the successful Imo State Rural
Development Program, which operates a system of matching grants for com-
munities to undertake development projects for water, roads, cooperatives
and electricity. Under this system, the communities select and partially
finance projects. In the proposed project the LACs would be responsible
for 3Z of total project costs. (Page 10 of this Annex describes the
Community Organization for Development in Imo State.)
8.        Population initiatives.  Imo began a modebt family planning
program in 1985. Activities were slow to start because of cultural and
religious traditions favoring large families. The number of contraceptive
users is small and found mostly in urban areas. Contraceptive knowledge is
lacking in most communities, particularly in rural areas. Yet, little has
been done to increase awareness and create demand for family planning.
Educational sessions at clinics are handicapped by the lack of materials
and personnel trained in communication skills. Community mobilization for
family planning education is almost nonexistent at the grassroots level.
However, once information on family planning is made available there is
interest, and recently demand for family planning services has started to
grow. Presently, family planning services are provided in 45 of the
Government health facilities, giving each LGA at least two facilities. The
SMOH aims to make family planning services available in all health
facilities over a seven-year period. While oral pills, injectables, intra-
uterine devices (IUDs) and condoms are available, supplies are sparse and
sporadic, and many clinics are minimally equipped. Services are
coordinated by five zonal family planning coordinators with support from
SOH's Family Planning Coordination Unit, which has only two staff. While
they are able to handle the current program they would require additional
staff, equipment, vehicles, training and supplies for a more extensive
program. The private sector, which has a well-developed health infrastruc-
ture, could play a greater role in providing family health services in Imo.
Of partieular interest is the network of maternity homes which are broadly
distributed and more accessible than the 49 government mate -nity homes.
The family planning services which they now provide, however, are limited
by a lack of equipment, contraceptives and midwives specifically trained in
family planning techniques and motivation.
9.        Health manpower.  In the past 20 years the number .f modern
medical practitioners in Imo State has increased ten-fold. By 1986 there
were 503 doctors (1 for 13,300 people), of whom 257 were in the public
sector. The population-doctor ratio ranges from 343,000sl in Mbano to
1,800:1 in Aba, a major urban center. The ratio of population to nurses
improved from about 16,000:1 in 1965 to 1,300:1 in 1984, a ratio that also
varies widely throughout the state. Imo has eight general nursing schools
(three government-owned and five NGO-run), one specialized nursing school,
seven midwifery schools, a school of public health nursing, and a school of
health technology which trains public health superintendents, medical
laboratory technicians, and community health supervisors, assistants and



-~ 38 -ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 12
aides. These schools produce more graduates than can be absorbed and,
consequently, their intakes are being cut.
10.       Important manpower problems facing Imo are the mix of skills and
the distribution of health workers. There is a surplus of nurses in
hospitals and urban clinics, and a shortage of nurses and nurse midwives in
rural PHC facilities. There is also a shortage of nurses trained in PHC,
preventive and community health activities. In the short term, existing
nurses and midwives in community health must be retrained and their employ-
ment expanded in the rural PHC facilities.
11.       Drut SupDlY.  A 1985 study revealed that one of the major reasons
for the low efficiency and low utilization of health services is the acute
shortage of essential drugs and medical supplies. Drug shortages occur
because oft (a) poor drug selection; (b) lack of foreign exchange;
(c) inaccurate estimates of needs; (d) inefficient procurement practices;
(e) low budgetary allocations; and (f) wastages and losses which occur in
the logistic system. Some drugs are currently procured locally at up to
five times their international prices. While progress has been made in
improving drug supplies by initiating pilot drug revolving funds in urban
hospitals, these efforts are hampered because the existing cost recovery
system is undercapitalized, fragmented and inadequately managed. Treatment
charges are considered relatively high given the limited services and lack
of drugs, leading patients .,i seek lower cost treatment at patent medicine
stores or unlicensed practitioners. (Table 4 of this Annex provides a
comparison of drugs purchased by Imo State to world market prices in 1985.)
3.   Health Financing
12.       Imo State's health sector expenditures increased from N22.5
million to N28.5 million in nominal terms from 1980 to 1985, corresponding
to a 371 decrease including adjustment for inflation. The share of the
state's total budget allocated to health rose from 6.2Z in 1980 to 8.8? in
1984, due to an increase for health in the recurrent budget from 8.6? to
9.42. Capital expenditures declined sharply, from N2.8 million to N0.1
million, representing a fall from 2.1? to 0.4? of the state's total capital
budget. The budgetary squeeze led to an increase in the proportion of the
recurrent Mudget allocated to personnel. Within the MOH, personnel costs
rose from 361 in 1980 to 742 in 1986, after reaching a high of 88t in 1983.
The Health Management Board spent a higher proportion of its budget on
personnel, reaching 82? in 1986.
13.       As a result of government efforts to increase cost recovery,
revenues from government hospitals increased from N1.9 million in 1980 to
13.7 million in 1984. Despite this increase, revenue as a percentage of
hospital expenditures has remained at about 16?. Cost recovery figures for
PHC facilities are estimated at 42. (Table 5 of this Annex describes HMB
cost revenues (coat recovery) and expenditures from 1979 to 1984.)



-39 -                       ANNEX 2-4
Pase S of 12
TABLE 1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
AREA. POPULATION AND POPULATION DENSITY OF IMO STATE BY LGA
1984
Population
Area                                 Density
LGA                 (sg km)         Population            ver ea km
ABA                             18              220,439            12,247
ABOH-MBAISE                    315              318,506             1,011
AFIXPO                         855              285,406               344
ABIAZU-MRAISE                  107              198,327             1,854
AROCHUKWU/OUAFIA             1.161              348,509               300
BENDE                          679              188,962               278
ETITI                          207              399,589             1,930
IDEATO                         626             281,447              1,074
IKWUANO/UKWAHIA                681             261,421                384
ISIALA NOVA                    578             287,163                497
ISUIRWATO/OKIGWE             1,190             419,732                353
HBAITOLIIIKEDURU               376              352,827               938
MIANO                          352              430,019             1,222
NKWERREIISU                    212              342,622             1,616
3BIOMA NGOA                    790              241,236               305
OHAJI/EGNEHA/OGUTA           1,378              280,868               204
OIAOZARA                     1,090              306,356               279
ORLU                           202              245,096             1,213
OVERRl                       1,114              399,474               359
UKMA                           925              154,634               167
TOTAL                       12,689           6,168,590                486
Sources   Ministry of Health, "1MO Health Bulletin", December 1985,
IMO State, Nigeria



- 40 -                      ANNEX 2-4
Page 6 of 12
TABLE 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
LEADING CAUSES OF INPATIENT ADMISSIONS BY AGE GROUP, IMO STATE
1984
CASES PER 1,000 ADMISSIONS
<5 Years  >5 Years  TOTAL
1 Malaria                                               24.1       71.3   95.4
2  Delivery without complications                        0.0       93.0   93.0
3  Diarrhoeal Diseases (other)                          43.5       38.5   82.0
4  Appendicitis, Peritonitis                             2.2       67.4   69.7
5  Hernia, Intestinal Obstruction                        1.4       36.7   38.1
6  Pneumonia, Bacterial & Other                         26.8       25.4   52.3
7 Measles                                               27.9       15.1   43.0
8  Transport accidents                                   3.3       35.8   39.1
9  Anaemias                                              7.8       20.8   28.6
10  Other accidents, injuries, poisonings                 0.4       27.7   28.1
11  Infectious hepatitis                                  1.2       23.2   24.4
12  Symptoms & other ill-defined conditions               7.3       16.7   24.1
13  Cirrhosis of liver                                    0.2       21.2   21.3
14  Complications of Pregnancy, Other                     0.0       19.2   19.2
15  Hypertensive Disease                                  0.0       16.6   16.6
16  Digestive System Disease, Other                      10.2        5.9   16.1
17  Kwashiorkor                                          14.0        1.3   15.2
18  Bacillary Dysentery                                   5.6        6.6   12.2
19  Other viral diseases (mumps, rabies, etc.)            1.1       11.1   12.2
20  Bronchitis, Asthma                                    3.0        8.6   11.7
21  Other diseases of genito-urinary system               0.3       10.7   11.1
22  Other forms of heart disease                          0.4       10.4   10.9
23  Pyschosis                                             0.0        9.9    9.9
24  Diabetes Mellitus                                     0.0        9.6    9.6
25  Abortion                                              0.0        9.2    9.2
26  Acute Respiratory Infections                          3.6        5.5    9.0
27  Peptic Ulcer                                          0.4        8.5    8.9
28  Other abortion                                        0.0        8.8    8.8
29  Inflammatory diseases of the eye                      1.4        6.9    8.3
30  Other Respiratory Disease                             3.8        4.1    8.0
Sources Ministry of Health, 01140 Health Bulletin", December 1985,
Imo State, Nigeria



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 7 of 12
TABLE 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
LEADING CAUSES OF HOSPITAL ATTENDANCES, TMO STATE
1984
RANY.                  CAUSE                     -CASES PER 1.000 ATTENDANCES
InDatients OutDatients  Total
1   Malaria                                       35.2       163.8      199.0
2   Symptoms & other ill-defined conditions        9.6        57.0       66.6
3   Diarrhoeal Diseases (other)                  24.4         27.0       51.4
4   Acute Respiratory Infections                   8.7        42.4       51.1
5   Mental retardation                               0        40.3       40.3
6   Tapeworm, other helminthiasis                  7.2        31.8       38.9
7   Other Respiratory Disease                      4.8        28.5       33.3
8   Anaemias                                      12.0        17.6       29.6
9   Measles                                      20.5          8.9       29.4
10   Other accidents, injuries, poisonings          0.9        28.1       29.0
11   Pyschosis                                        0        26.0       26.0
12   Hypertensive Disease                             0        25.3       25.3
13   Other Digestive System Disease                 6.1        18.9       25.0
14   Pneumonia, Other                              14.2         8.5       22.6
15   Appendicitis                                   0.4        20.7       21.0
16   Other diseases of genito-urinary system        0.2        18.2       18.4
17   Other viral diseases (Mumps)                   2.1        15.7       17.8
18   Hernia, Intestinal Obstruction                 0.4        14.8       15.2
19   Filarial Infection                             2.7        11.4       14.1
20   Transport accidents                            0.7        12.5       13.1
21   Chronic and Other Skin Diseases                2.3        10.5       12.9
22   Bronchitis, Asthma                             2.3         9.2       11.5
23   Infectious hepatitis                           1.2         8.5        9.8
24   Diabetes Mellitus                              0.2         9.0        9.2
25   Skin and Related Infections                    1.9         7.0        8.9
26   Neoplasms                                      0.7         8.1        8.8
27   Arthritis, Rheumatism                            0         8.7        8.8
28   Bacillary Dysentery                            2.8         5.8        8.6
29   Peptic Ulcer                                   0.2         8.0        8.2
30   Other diseases of nervous system               0.1         8.1        8.2
Sources: Imo State Medical Records tabulation of monthly returns from all
hospitals for 1984.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Organizational Chart, imo State IlnIstry of Health
Miistry ot Locac      Mhistry of             Iuisot ryf MtnisoM
*Government               :eih                 rr                 E     0             Informaton
Comuisor
Healt
Board
Director    |
General                                                                              1
Admhiistrative         Finance           Pharmaceutical        Pubic Health            Mdcal           Nur4sin  Servie
Division             Division             Division             Division             Division             Divsion
Envirorwnental  HealthPubicHealth                           School
IE*.enta|            Health    |        MCH/fP           La P bii   el   
Service         Education         MunitLb                               eat
Eplde  y   ~ Services          Statistics                           Hat
Unt"             Unitt             Unit                           orlt U| 
Notw. In Une wIUh fie ceuren reaator n of the F0 OK the                                                     k40167e   0
State Minlstries of Health re alo being rearganze



ANNEX 2-4
-43-                   ~~~~~Page 9 of 12
~~~~~ J...m   p§ 
I. 
I.



ANNEX 2-4
Page 10 of 12
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION FOR DEVELOPMENT
14.       The State Directorate for Ilural Development is only the apex of
the organizational structure for carrying out (the Imo State rural)
programe. More important are the organizations at the grassroots because
it is through such organizations that we can meaningfully involve the rural
majority with whom we must work as partners. Therefore, there shall be
established in each Local Government Area of the State a Rural Development
Committee (RDC). In each Autonomous Community there shall be a Development
Committee. I have already referred to Co-operative Associations' member-
ship as voluntary and integral parts of the overall framework for rural
development. The Development Committees of each Autonomous Community will
comprise representatives of co-operatives, women's groups, social clubs and
town union/associations. This structure is important because it comprises
the direct recipients of any effort we are able to make.  What they think
and how they evaluate our rural development effort is critical to our
success. Traditional Rulers, Chairmen/Administrators and Councillors of
all the Local Governments should therefore give every assistance necessary
for the formation of these Development Comuittees.  It will be necessary to
ensure that the Committees at this level are representative of the various
groups in the community.
15.       The Rural Development Committee at the Local Government level
will comprise Chairmen/Administrators, Councillors, Heads of Units of Local
Government Councils, Community Development Officers and the Area Engineers.
The role of the Committee is to scrutinize, prioritize and pass on projects
emanating from the Development Committees of the Autonomous Communities,
with comments, to the State Directorate. It does not initiate projects.
That role is played only at two levelss at the level of the Autonomous
Communities and that of the State Directorate.
Source: A Statement by the Military Governor, Lieutenant Commander Amadi
Ikwechegh, on the Organization of the Imo Rural Development
Program, January 28, 1987.



~ 45 -                          ANNEX 2-4
Page 11 of 12
TABLE 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
COMPARATIVE PROCUREMENT COSTS FOR DRUGS, IMO STATE AND WORLD MARKET
1985
Price per Unit Pock        Ratio
Unit Pock             World        108S lo*      Ino/
Drum Nbme and Dosage                             Description            Market        Tender        World
AVERAOE                                                                                              2.7
se tyloalicyllc acid 89W-26 mg tab             1000 tab bottle           2.66         2.50           0.9
amoxylIlIn 250mg cap/tab                      1000 eap/bottlo          67.00        56.00           1.0
ampicililn 126mg/Sal oral susp               6-10O ml  hottle            1.00         2.80           2.6
amplellin sodium 600mg tnj                      600 mg  lp               0.80          1.37          4.6
ascorbic acid 109 o tab                        1900 tab bottle           8.78          6.C0          1.8
atropine 1 mg/ml inJ                              1 ml  amp              9.10         0.22           2.2
beniylpenici lin 1MU/0.9.m inJ                  0.8 GM  ap               0.16         0.18           1.2
chlormph enicol 0.4 X eye drops                   S ml bottle            0.44          1.40          8.2
chloroqune 4X inj, 5 ml                           6 ml amp               9.09         9.68           9.7
Chloroqui n  phoo/cul 1659m  base tab         1M9 tob bottle           18.94         12.00        069
chloroquine phosphate 56mg/Sa1 syrup              1 L   bottle           2.06         6.16           8.0
Chlorphe ane malo t  ltg/ml  nJ                   I ml  amp             20.6         09.4             .0
chlorph  Inaon ma lete 4 mg tab               10W  tab bottle          83.            8.88          1.2
clofazine 100 mg cap (Lamprene)                 100 cap bottle          106.5         19.00          1.6
co-trimoxa"ole 299.40mg/Sal                     100 ml  bottle           1.26         2.06           2.1
co-trlmoxazol* 400b6bm tab                     109 tob bottle           82.00        64.30           2.6
dirazpam 6 .g tab                              100 tab bottle            4.00         9.80           2.8
diazea m Smg/ml(lg/2m1) Inj                       2 ml  amp              0.19        0968            2.8
digoxin 8.2-0.2Smg tab                          1ZO tab bottlo           1.97          1.64          1.6
epinephrine HCL Um/ml Inj                         1 ml  amp              9.15          0.25          1.7
ferrous salt 290m  = 6m  1ron tab              1999 tab bottle           1.97         5.a0           2.C
folIc acid  mga tab                           10 tab bottle             2.16         4.0*           1.|
furo s de 19mg/mI 2m1 tnJ                         2 ml  Mp               0.10         0.18           1.4
furoc mnde 45mg tab                            1000 tab bottle           8.48        02.8           7.4
gentamicin sulfate 8Go/2ml  InJ                   2 ml amp               0.20         0.60           1.9
glucoae SX tsotonic Sol. InJ                    6O  ml  bottlo           0.07         1.59          2.2
haloperndol 2 mg tab                          10M  tob bottle           9.09        61.00          S.4
hnloperldol 5mg/ml Inj                            1 ml  amp              0.46         0.25          0.6
aethyldopa 2W5 mg tab                          1000 tab bottle          47.60        17.00          0.4
metronidasole  296-250 mg tab                 10M  tab bottlo          11.40         12.00          1.0
per c-tamol 129  g/S l syrup                    100 ml bottle            O.01         9.66          1.0
paraCetmol NW mg tab                           1999 tab bottle           6.72         5.00          0.7
pothIdine HCL W9 m    I m nl                      1 ml  amp              0.16         0.21           1.8
procalne bensylp ncllin 8$U Inl                   8 g   amp              9.86         0.63          2.2
prometheaino HCL 25 mg tab                     1999 tab bottle           6.09        21.40          8.5
promethazine NM 2fmg/1ml lnj                      2 ml amp               0.09         0.62          7.7
pyrimethamine 26 mg tab                        1000 tab bottle           2.68        20.62          9.9
reserplne 0.26 mg tab                          19  tab bottle            6.01        12.65          2.1
salbutamol sulfate 4 mg tab                     100 tab bottle           0.01         5.90          8.2
sultedimidine Nw  ag tab                       1009  tab bottle         12.80        10.84          0.6
sulfdoxIne.pyrIetohmine 5/2S9ml                1999 tab bottle         112.00       189.00          1.0
tetracycline HCL 260 mg cap/tab                1099  cap bottlo         16.16        12.24          0.8
vitamln B complox (or yneat) tab               1000 tab bottle           1.79         6.80          8.1
Sourc: UO Report, Septomber 1980.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 12 of 12
TABLE 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IHO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES OF THE IMO STATE HEALTH MANAGEMENT BOARD
1979-1984
(in Naira 000s)
Revenues as a Percentage
Year         Revenues          Expenditures               of Expenditures
1979          1,880               10,346                      18.2
1980          1.480               10,806                      13.7
1981          2,135               16,782                      12.7
1982          2,971               26,321                      11.3
1983          2,738               29,130                       9.4
1984          3,721               21,453                      17.3
Source: Imo State Ministry of Health.



- 47 -                    ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
HEALTH RESPONSIBILITIES OF VARIOUS GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS IN NIGERIA
Federal Ministry of Health
1.        The Federal Ministry of Health is responsible for health care
services and for training institutions or other services of common usage
among the States or of national concern or character. Such services and
institutions include:
(a) Special hospitals (orthopaedic, eye, neuropsychiatric)
(b) Teaching hospitals
(c) National laboratories
(d) Coumunicable and Endemic Diseases Control (designated as National
Programme)
se) International Health and Quarantine
(f) Regulation and surveillance of standard training of health
personnel
(g) Regulation, control and surveillance of health care standards
(s) External health relations
(i) Drugs and poison control
(j) National intersectoral health care linkages
(k) Primary health care support (national planning, training,
technical assistance, program support)
State Ministries of Health/Health Manaxement Boards
2.        The State Ministries of Health and Health Management Boards is
responsible for the health care system and training institutions as
required for the well being of the people of their States. To avoid
overlapping of responsibilities, the State Government providess
(a) Special care in wards of general hospitals especially for acute
service
(b) General hospital services, including outpatient care
(c) Training institutions especially for sub-professional levels such
as technologists, technicians, assistant and aide levels
(d) Public health programs
(e) Intersectoral health care linkages at State level
(f) State public health laboratories
(g) Any health programs of particular relevance to the State
(h) Primary health care support (State planning, training, financial,
programming and operational support)
Local Governments
3.        With the support of the State Ministry of Health, the Local
Government is responsible fort



- 48 -                       ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 2
(a) Community organized health and health-related services
(b) The provision and maintenance of infrastructure to provide health
services
(c) The involvement of the local community in support of primary
health care
Local Autonomous Communities
4.        In many parts of Nigeria, local autonomous communities have
undertaken community health development activities. This is particularly
true in the southeastern states, such as Imo and Anambra, where most of the
existing PHC facilities have been financed and built by communities.
Sources   Federal Ministry of Health, "The National Health Policy and
Strategy to Achieve Health for all Nigerians', Lagos, Nigeria,
December 1986.



- 49 -                        ANNEX 2-6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IHO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
HEALTH ESTABLISHMENTS - NIGERIA AND IMO STATE
(1986)
Nineria*                    Tmo State
Type of Facilities            No.           Beds            No.          Beds
Hospitals/Clinics*
- Government                857          63,179           21         2,221
- Private                  n.a.            n.a.          259         5,316
Maternity Homes
-Covernment               2,670          18,495           49            232
-Frivate                   n.a.            n.a.          378         1,797
Health Centers
-Government                 705           5,757           86            628
-Private                   n.a.            n.a.            1              8
Dispensaries
-Government               3,934                0          86              0
-Private                      0               0            2              0
Total Beds
-Government                              87,431                      3,081
-Private                                  n.a.                       7,121
Sourcess Federal Ministry of Health
Imo State Ministry of Health
*Excludes Armed Forces Health Centers and Clinics
Includes 41 leprosy centers with 1,723 beds



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Reorganization of SMOH Public Health Division Proposed In Project
I  Divi won   l
I  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E sc Z ~~~~~~~~~r Afd/olaft
Health         Coordination         EC                and
a          ~~~~Unit            lPubtc -Healtho
EPIIORT       Grmoup          and Public
Nutrition          ms                ul
.                        ~~~~~~~~~Commrdeabe
FP/MCH                              Dlseae
.                       ~~~~~~~~~Control 
|Public P8   Private     Hospitals
kNW40157d



- 51 -                               ANNEX a-2
Paeg 1 of 8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NICERIA
IUO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
INDICATIVE FORMAT FOR IMO STATE HEALTH SECTOR FINANCIAL PLAN. 1980-1990
(Figures re, lllustrativ only)
REVENUES (MIL)   1960   1981   192  1983  1994  1985  1998   198   1988  1989  1990
IMO STATE
IUOH
CAPITAL        1.68   1.03   0.17  0.27  6.15  0.15  0.16  0.20  0.20  0.60  6.69
RECURRENT      6.10   5.90  5.40  4.10  5.18  5.18  6.24  5.40   .80  5.890  5.90
HMB
SUBVENTION    22.00  21.40  17.60  12.560  6.6  17.90 17.18 18.860 16.00 15.50 18.70
SUPPLEMENT                   1.76  5.40 11.24
OTHER          0.00   0.00   6.00  0.00  6.00  0.25  0.25  0.75  1.59  2.60  2.60
FEDERAL PROG.
EPI            6.95   6.10   0.15  0.20  0.20  6.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  6.20  0.20
TB/LEP         0.02   0.08   0.04  0.06  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.0S  0.06  0.05  0.05
MALARIA        0.02   0.02   0.01  0.01  9.91  6.91  6.61  9.61  0.01  9.91  9.01
PHC            6.19   0.10   0.05  9.60  0.10  0.20  0.50  1.50  8.60  4.60  8.00
FAMILY PLAN.    0.00   O.6    9 . 00 .6W  0.10  0.20  0.890  0.40  O.5O  9.80  0.70
COST RECOVERY
SERVICE FEES
HOSPITALS      2.97   2.70   8.70  5.20  5.860   .20  7.90  9.40 11.66 14.00 17.60
MOH            6.89   0.89   0.84   .70  0.890  0.90  1.29  1.60  1.70  1.90  2.20
DRUG SALES                           0.80  0.40  0.40  0.90  2.00  4.00  6.60   8.00
VEHICLE PROG.   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  9.00  0.19  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.80
OTHER          0.00   0.00   0.9   9.00   0 .00   0 .00   0 .00   0 .0690  0.00  0.00  6.6
PROFIT (ENT.)    6.66   0.60 .  .0   0.00 0.66   0.90  0.00  0.00  O.W   0.00  0.00
HEALTH TAX      0.00   0.00   o.66  0.00  0.00  0.00 6    .00  0.00  0.00  09.6  0606
EXTERNAL
WORLD BANK     0.00   0.00   0.00  6.10  0.26  0.80  2.00 11.22  0.   6.00  5.00
USAID          0.10   0.20   0.80  6.50  9.59  0.60   0.60  0.40  0.80  0.80  0.80
UNICEF         0.40   6.50   6.60  1.20  9.70  0.80  6.60  9.40  0.86  0.20  0.10
OTHER          9.00   6.6    0.00  9.16  0.10  0.10  9.16  9.16  0.10  0.10  0.10
TOTAL          82.78  81.77  29.48 80.88 82.02 88.12 87.08 60.88 51.88 59.88  59.10
INFLATION
TOTAL (CURRENT
33 *   =3= =sa==3=                                   non=
TOTAL STATE    27.10  26.70  24.10 22.00 28.06  23.31 22.66 22.75 28.80 28.80 21.66
X TOTAL (STATE) 87.66  86.96  82.6 72.59 72.46 79.70 81.40 45.40 45.80 41.19 89.9.
TOTAL COST REC.  8.86   8.99   4.04  8.20  6.80  7.50 10.10 18.10 1S."9  22.16 27.w0
X COST RECOVERY 10.860  16.16  1.80  20.40 21.890 22.70 27.46 28.19 88.66 88.20 47.06



- 52 -                                         -
52~~~~~~~~P -               ANX o?a
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IlO HEALTH AND POUATION PROJECT
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED EXPENDITURES 1982-192
(Figures see Illustrativo only)
EXPENDITURE       1902   1983  1884  19865  1996   197   108S  1999  1890  1091   1092
CAPITAL
PHC              9.90   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   1.25   1.95  4.26 10.81   9.80  4.80
HWSPITALS        1.56    1.98  9.17  0.27  0.15  9.15  0.16  1.20  0.90  1.56  2.C0
1TRAINN          9.06   0.06  9.06  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  9.89  1.06  9.06
DRUG REV. FUND   0.06   0.90  0.00  0.06  0.00  0.00  0.90  6.00  0.00  0.00  0.06
MON PH PROGRAMS  0.06   0.00  0.00  0.00  O.9f  0.00  0.25  0.75  9.60  9.5W  0.06
SUB-TOTAL         1.56   1.08  0.17  0.27  0.15  1.40  8.16 14.20 12.10 12.80  7.40
R&D
OPERATIONS RM.  9.0W    0.00  0.00  0.10  0.26  0.10  0.19  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.00
POLICY RES.      0.00   0.00  0.00  9.00  0.00  0.05  0.00  9.02  O.06   0.00  0.00
SYSTEMS DEV.     0.00   9.06  9.o0   o.06  9.0  0.15  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.20  9.06
SYSTEMS IMP.     0.00   0.00  0.00  0.06  0.00  9.06  0.25  0.75  0.20  0.20  0.00
OTHER            0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  9.0   0.00  9.0W   0.19   0.00  0.10  0.00
GU-TOTAL          0.00   0.00  0.06   0.10  0.25  0.80  0.46  0.97  0.40  0.60  0.00
RECURREN
MON
WAGE            4.70   4.90  5.06  4.00  4.74  4.74  4.74  4.90  5.19  6.20  5.80
NON-WAGE        0.40   0.40  0.40  0.10  0.82  0.42  0.560  0.560  0.70   0.60  0.80
HBM
WAGE            16.00  16.40 17.70  17.00 17.90  17.90 17.W0  17.64  16.00 16.60 16.70
NON-WAGE        4.00   8.00  1.00  0.90  0.90  6.50  7.16  7.18  6.00  6.60   .560
DRUG             0.00   0.00  9.W   0.00  0.00  9.06   .060  1.56  8.06  4.560  6.00
SPECIAL PROG.    9.69   0.95  1.15  2.18   1.66  0.96  1.29  1.46  1.56  4.96  6.46
SWB-TOTAL        27.79  27.66 25.25 24.16  24.61  89.52  82.16  88.86 86.86 42.26 47.56
-        -    _      -       -      -      -     Guu_am       gl_oom
TOTAL            29.87  29.06 26.42 24.58 26.01  82.22 U.76 46.58 46.80  65.06  54.96



- 53 -                                 on  8E2
Poo 8 of S
FEDERAL REPWULIC OF NILGEIA
IUD WEALTH AND POPUTION PROJECT
ANNUAL EXPENDMTUR  BY SOURCE OF REVENU   10M
(Flgur ar I lluutuotiv. only)
STATE   , FEDERAL             SALES                  EXTERNAL
FED/ FED/  FED/                VEH/ WORLD
EENDITURE          IMS  PHC   FP  OTHR  FEES DRUGS OM   BANK USAD  UNICEF OTHR  TOTAL
CAPITAL
PKa              0.g  0.20 ae.o   0.oo o.oo  e.0  0. .    e.M. w    .,,   0.40  0.91   1.25
HOSPITALS        0.16 0.a6  e.W0  o.uo 6.0  *.00  e.g.  o.a   o.ao   e.eo  O.OD  O.1C
TRAININGO        e.W  o.a  o.w   0.0 a .6  6  0.0 9    o.aa  e.            e o.ao  8.00  e.m0
MON PH PROGRAS  o.ao o.eo o.so  e.g. e.ao  o.ao  o.ao  e.g.  o.eo   o.ao  e.g.  e.a
SUB-TOTAL         0.40 0.20 6.6w   0.00 0.00 .    N.g   S.IM   o.ao  0.80   0.40  0.10  1.40
R&D
OPERATIONS RES.  6.66                                       e.i0                        0.1
POLICY RES.      0.00                                       o.a5                        0.65
SYSTrES  MEV.    9.ao                                       0.15                        0.16
SYSTEMS W.       e.ao                                       e.g.                        o.a
oTHER            e.ao                                       o.ao                        e.g.
P3-TOTAL          e.ao e.ao o.oo  i.00 o.ao  e.ao  e.ao  0.80  0.00   o.ao  o.o   0.80
RECURREIT
MMN
WAE             4.74 o.ao                                  S."                         4.74
NON-WAGE        0.42 o.ao                                  e.ao                        6.42
NOV
WAGE           17.tO 0.                                     e.oo                      17.00
NON-WAGE        6.66 6.ao               6.20  0.80  0.00  0.00                         $.W
SPECIAL PROt.    6.16 6.eo 0.20  0.28                       o.ao  0.20   0.20           0.06
SUB-TOTAL        25.16 6.66 0.20  0.2  8.20  o.sa  o.6w  06.1   0.20   0.20  o.ao U.62
TOTALMm        Mum 0,2  m u0.20o"=         ama  mum 00m..   0    sU.
TOTAL            28.56  0.20 6.26  0.28  6.29  6.30  6.66  6.86  6.56    6.66  6.16  82.22



- 54 -                      ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
OPERATIONAL COMMITTEES
(1)  Institution:  IM0 STATE HEALTH FINANCE STEERING COMMITTEE (Already
exists).
Objective: Strengthen institutional development of the SMOH through
the implementation of an interministerial planning process focused on
financing of the health sector in Imo State. The Committee will
provide advice to the Director General of the SMOH.
ResponsibilitY for Development: SMOH creates the Committee and the
following Ministries (or bodies) appoint its members: SMOH (Chair),
SMLG. SMFin, HMB, Budget Department of the Governor.
Terms of References Provide support to SMOH in its development of an
Annual Financial Plan. Meet quarterly.
(2)  Institutions  IMO STATE INTERMINISTERIAL PROJECT COORDINATING
CONM¢TTEE (Formerly the Interministerial Committee for Project
Preparation).
Objectives Strengthen institutional development through the
implementation of an interministerial planning process at all levels
of the public health sector in the State to secure an adequate
management, monitoring and evaluation system. The Committee will
provide advice to the Director General of SNOH.
Responsibility for Development: Joint declaration by the SHOH, SMLG,
and LGAs, to create the working level committee (building on the
existing planning process developed during process preparation), to be
composed of representatives of: SMOH, HMB, SMLG, some LGAs, SMEd,
SMInf, SMFin, SMWT, community leaders, FMOH.
Terms of Reference: Collaborate with Project Coordinator on
preparation of annual work-program for all institutions involved with
provision of health services and conduct of the population program;
assist with the monitoring and evaluation system; review the
implementation of the staffing plan; coordinate strategy for
undertaking civil works; and define mechanisms of interaction for
effective, planning and coordination of all health activities in Imo
State. Meet quarterly.



-55 -                      ANWEX -3
Page 2 of 2
(3)  Institutions  TMO STATE INTERMINISTERIAL PROJECT STEERING COMHITTEE
Obiectives To strengthen institutional development of the health
sector through coordination of project policy.
Resyonsibilitv for Developments Imo State Government creates the
Coumittee, to be chaired by the State Commissioner of Health,
consisting of representatives of the SMOH, SNLG, SMPin, along with a
representative of the Officer of the Governor, and the Project
Coordinator.
Terms of References Provide senior-level health policy coordination
to facilitate the implementation of the components of Part A of the
project. Meet about three times a year.



- 56 -                        ANNEX 3-4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
RECURRENT COST RECOVERY TARGETS
.                   .
Facilities             Existing       1989       1990       1991        1992
State Hospitals(HMB)
Drugs l/             n.a.           100        100        100         100
Services            16  (ext.)    18-20      22-24       24-26      26-28
PHC (LGA's)
Drugs                n.a.           100        100        100         100
Services              4  (est.)     6-8      8-10        12-14      16-18
1/   Cost recovery on drugs would include cost of goods, administration,
and cross-subsidization of those vho do not pay the full cost of
drugs.



- 57 -                      ANNEX 3-5
Page I of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
MODALITIES FOR IMPLEMENTING TEE MATCHING GRANT SCHEME
1.        The project vill be prepared to provide the Local Autonomous Com-
munities (LACs) with matching grants, representing 902 of the estimated
cost of any of the following activitiess (a) construction of new primary
health centers in selected communities that meet the agreed criteria; (b)
upgrading dispensaries and maternity homes to enable them to provide MCH
services; (c) renovationlmaintenance of existing primary health and MCH
centers; (d) construction of water boreholes in selected schools which
presently do not have any access to safe water supply; and (e) development
of health promotion activities, such as identification of high risk mothers
and children, safe motherhood, and nutrition activities. The communities
which can raise the remaining 102 of the estimated cost of an agreed
activity will be eligible for receiving the grant. The modalities for
implementing the matching grant are outlined below.
2.        The Development Committee of the Local Autonomous Community will
establish a Sub-Committee on Health (SCH) comprised of representatives of
the traditional leader, womens organizations, churches, the
business/professional community, and the health sector, as well as the
community development officer of the LGA. The Chairman of the SCH will be
appointed by the community and would automatically become a member of the
Development Committee's Executive Council. The SCH will be responsible for
mobilizing the community to raise funds, plan, and implement the agreed
activities.
3.        The SCH will submit to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) a
project proposal to undertake one or more of the activities mentioned above
(para 1). The proposal should indicate the estimated cost of the activity
and the date by which the SCH could raise the required funds. The PCU will
review the proposal based on the following criteria: (a) new health centers
will be constructed only in communities which do not have access to any
health facility (public or private) within a 5 km. radius, and with a
population of at least 5,000; and (b) the upgrading of dispensaries and
maternity homes will be undertaken in accordance with the agreed standard
design. Upon approval of the proposal, the SCH will deposit its contribu-
tion (10? of the estimated cost) into the PCU's project account and a
contract stipulating conditions and responsibilities of all parties con-
cerned would be concluded between the PCU and the community. The adequacy
of the initial deposit will be reviewed after the bidding, when an accurate
cost estimate would then be available.
4.        For construction and renovation activities, the State Ministry of
Works and Transport (SMHT), in consultation with the SMOH and the Local
Government, will survey the facilities and prepare the working drawings,
specifications, quantities, estimated costs, and tender documents.
Tendering will be done in accordance with existing Government procedures.
The SMOH, in consultation with the SHWT will issue the invitation to bid



- 58 -                       ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 2
and will open and evaluate bids. The LAC, the Local Government, and the
bidders will be represented during bid opening. Direct labor may be used
for minor renovation work (such as repainting, patching of cracks,
replacement of windows, doors, locks, etc.).



- 59 -
am 8-6
FEUWL 1LIC OF NwIO
urn HLIM PM PiTlltM  mi.R
W#TD WTAIW  PATtS
Touts                                   Tot I       Add'nl
Sftff           NWC    Total  R PlC I Total  MIN   Tol I 0KW  I Toal  N iW  IC   ToIll STA        AcUal   Add'nl    Salarlie    Selarie.   Amnt
HeIltl Seotar     1       8      l                                  097   01   0 0 0  0  a  0  I0    108         s        604      8O4         441870
Hor.Sltur    9           66 51         127  0        05    05       01        01    051               89       184       6a04      18O86      107686
S.N. i"d          9      S            28411         IIS   1  13     09        11401   06               S       801        8994    1988644   19894
Tobal Nurm        a      1685    4     8069 21    6          1     *01        1     40    6N        1I9       S690      19992    462148    848480
c HAe.st          2       o    2    284 101          0      1  s605          1   405   490          190       290        8174     1388060    78000
Of Aides                  6611        127 10         00 1          s            1  40    29S         180       lS         2418      70874    894184
Orderly           I      a     81   8  1  21    66 2       1   605           1    405   600         801        99        180       916000     151470
Total            10      8M60      1 1270 1 4       1725    4    2405         4 109 2172             990      1182       2n14      7781100   47M84
Abbreviations
:4 Commnity Health
Disp : Dispenaary
NC   : Helth Center
NW4  * naterl &ChlId *altb Center
6   :   aterinty  ome
PHC: Primary Health Center
SNHid  : Senior Mre*eiduif*



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROPOSED IMO STATE ESSENTIAL DRUGS SERVICE (ISEDS)
coordntn
Tender3   }               Z;-H|MB;    S bLG            Dr.g
j    COK Mmitteecomtt
,              | ~~~~~Executive|   
Diretor
ComlIc..omputing
:                                                      :
Deputy DD rector
Adrmrstainl                                           Du  Diechnkoa
Affairs                                                Affairs
|Procurement        Porsonnel     AccoLutthg                               an |TmsOttol|C bR   central
*                         Computi~~~~~~ng  ovsdy       Pamcuia
Procurement  PersonnelTranporatioAccotintinore
*Committee Members will include representatives from the Ministry of Health Management Bcard,
Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of Finance, and relevant Private Organizations.
tkW4015T7



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
Schem of Proposed Imo Stat Essental Dug Serlce and Drug RevoMng Fund
18EDS       _       SUPPUEM
* Pmocursmsnt
 CPS.. 
* Accourts
* DMu fnfor.mato
*A 
-HOSPITALS    .'                      HO$
* PrescrIbe,
PaU
PHC FacIie
* PrescrIbr
____ *      _soaie Guidan'
-  RSwofO pw Pau
.....11. 1..w of FbwdFun
patIents7



-62 -
ANNEX 8-9
Pase 1 tf 6
FEDERAL REPUIC O NIGERIA
I10 HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
IM0 STATE ESSENTIAL DRUG UST AND LEVEL OF USE DESIGNATIONS
1997
DRUG PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                                      PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE
elop. H.C. "oep. Spec.
1.00 ANESTHETICS
1.10 GENERAL ANESTHETICS AND RELATED DRUGS
Ether *naenth,tic                                                              X
Hleot4ano 269 el lnhalatlon                                                    X
Ketamine 19 mg/mi 20  l   iX
Thlopental  toogpw      ; for  1nj l.                                          X
Neost~i OIno 6tl I soI to .t 9. m/I m.X
Su      onIum CL 100 os/2 ml ilj.                                              X
1.20 LOCAL ANESTEICS
Lidocaine HCL 2X lnj.                                   X      X       X       X
2.00 ANALGESICS ANTIPYREnICS AND NON-
STEROIDAL WNTI-IHFLASMUARY DRUMS (NSAID)
2.10 NON-OPIOIDS
Acety leeIls c I   acid 85-M82 o9 tab                   X      X       X       X
Ibuprof e      g 200 m  tab                                            X       X
Parae taol 100 mg tab                                   X      X       X       X
Par etol 120 mg/S 1 syrup                                             X       X
Par etamol SW mg tab                                    X      X       X       X
2.29 OPIOID ANALGESICS AND ANTAGONISTS
morphine HtL/uifate 119 mg/mi I.j.                                     X       X
Naloxone Hx L 0.4 mg/"ml Ini                                           X       X
Pethidino HCL U mg/mi inJ.                                             X       X
8.00 ANTIALLERGICS
ChlorphenaMinoeleste 10smg/m lInj.                             X       X       X
Chlorph n min, mleat 4 *9 tab                           X      X       X       X
Epinephrino HCL I mg/el nJ.                             X      X       X       X
4.00 ANTIDOTES AND RELATED PRODUClt
Charcoal, activated oral powder                                        X       X
6.90 ANTIEPILEPTICS
Dlazep*a 5mg/mi (19 ma/2 mi) tnJ.                                      X       X
Ethoawdumidee   a mgtab/cap                                                    X
Phenoberbital 809 as tb                                                x       X
Phenobarbital     *mg tab                                              X       X
Phenytoin In a9 tab                                                    X       X



- 63 -
ANNEX 8-0
Pago 2 o 5
DRU PROWJCT DESCRPTION                                       PROSED LEVEL OF USE
Dip. HN.C. "op. Spec
6.0  ANTI-IFECTIVE
6.10 ANTHELMINTIC
MbWndszol 100   tab                                    X      X      X       X
P1p.ra:in. cin . S 0g (bns/ t ml p.                    X      X       X      X
Ptp erain. atr tr/adipate tO mgtnb                     X      X       X      X
Thabeonsadol S0 mg chewablb tab                                      X       X
6.20 ANTIAMOESIC
Metronidazols 2W-260 g tab                                    X      X       X
6.8e ANTIBACTERIAL
AmoKyciliIn 2tO mo a/tab                                             X       X
AimpIlliI a 125 mg/S mor l *u p                                       X      X
AmpiciliIn sodium  0 mg lnJ.                                         X       X
BenzyIp nic li n IU/0. OM I nj                                       X       X
hlormph nicol 125 mg/$ ml oral *usp                                 X       X
Clormphnleol 20 mg cap                                             X       X
Chloram1hhenI col sod. succ. 1tm InJ                                 X       X
Cloxnel11tn siut.W 2W mg cap                                         X       X
Cloxac ilin sodium Us  mo tnJ                                        X       X
Erytbhomiycn 2W mg cap/tab                                           X       X
=entaicin sulfate 80 m92 ml InJ                                      X       X
Nitrofurantion 1  m tib                                      X       X      X
Ph.noxymWthylpenelIn 2S0 mg tab                        X      X      X       X
Procnt bnzylp.nicil tin 8 MU tnJ                       X      X      X       X
SulfaimidineS0      tab                                X      X       X      X
Co-trimoxazol, 1W.2  m ta                              X      X      X       X
Co-trimoxazol, 4W.W m tab                                            X       X
Co-trl0moxaol. 20.40 mg/m                                            K       X
Tetracyclin no   2WC   c p/t                           X      X      X       X
0$.8  ANTILEPRO
Clofisain. 10 so cap (Lsmpr.)                                        X       X
Dapsone 10 mg tab                                      X      X       X      X
Suramin sodium 1go inJ                                                X      X
6.84  ANTITUERCULOSIS
Isonlazid (INN) 100   tab                              X      X      X       X
Ritfapicin U0 m   tabocap                                            X       X
Str.ptomyci a su eela   n                                            K       K
Thioactaone                goNH1W/8Wg tab              X          x x        X
0.40  ANTIFILARIAL
bletbylcarbauazine citrate o  og tab                                  X      X
6.W  ANTIFUNGAL
Oriesofulvin 126 M1t b%cap                                           X       X
Nysttiln peccry 1      IU                                            X       X
0.70 ANTIMALARIAL
Chloroquln 4X in], S ml                                X      X      X       X
Chloroquin phos/sul 1W  g base tab                     X      X      X       X
Chloroquine phosphateU   m g/S ml syrup                X      X      X       X
Pyrlmethamine 25 o tb                                                        X
qunine dthydrochloride B0 mg inJ                                     X       X
ulnine sulfate U  0g tab                                             X       X
Sultadoxine + pyrimetlhaine C0/26 mg T                                X      X



- 64 -
ANNEX 8-9
Peg. 8 ot 6
DRUA PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                                     PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE
Diep.  H.C.  Hbp.  Spc.
6. 890 ANTISCHISTOSOMAL
Mstrlfonto 160 mg tab                                                X       X
Prrxlquantel 60 mg tab                                                X      X
8.U0 ANTINEOPLASTIC AND IMUNOSUPPRESSIVE
Sloomycin sulftnt 16 mg lnj                                                  X
Cyclohonphomid  60So mgtab                                                   X
Methotrexato sodium 2 Smg tab                                                X
Methotrexrte sodium 60 mg lnj                                                X
Mhrcaptopurin. tablets n8 mg                                                 X
10.U BLOOD$ DRG  AFFECTIN  THE
10.10 ANTIANAEMIA
Ferrous oluconntr tab                                  X      X      X       X
Folio scid 6     tab                                   X      X      X       X
Iron dextran 10 mg (FE)/2 ml tnj                                     X       X
10.20 ANTICOAUWlS AND ANTAMONISTS
Heparin S,WIU   I ml tnJ                                                     X
Ph$anadton. 60mg/S of inj                                                    X
11.ao BLOOD PRODUCTS AND BLOOD STITUTES
Dextran 70 OX InJ                                                     X      X
12.00 CARDIOVASCULAR
12.19 ANTIANGINAL
Glycorl I trinitrate 0.6 mg SL tab                                   X       X
leosorbid. dinitrat. 5 mg SL tab                                     X       X
12.80 ANTIHYPERTENSIVE
Hydralazine HCL SO   tab                                                     X
Methyldopa 260 9 tm                                    X      X      X       X
Propanolol HCL 40 mg tab                                             X       X
R.r.rppin  0.26 mg                                                   X       X
12.40 CARDIAC OLYCOSIDES
Dlgoxin 0.2-0.2 omg tab                                                      X
Digoxin 0.6 mg/2 ml inJ                                                      X
18.09 DERATOLOGICAL
18.10 ANTIFUNGAL
Beasol 5-6X + el icylic acid 8% olnt                  X      X      X       X
18.20 ANTI-INFECTIVE
Ba:oin tincture                                        X      X      X       X
Clotrimazol, 1X crem                                          X      X       X
Gentian violet                                         X      X      X       X
Neceycin 5 mg/bacttrcin SOIU/gm oint                          X      X       X
18.80 ANTIINFLAMATOY  AND  NTPRURITIC
Betamethasono  valerate 1.1X olnti                            X      X       X
Calamine lotton                                        X     X       X       X



- 65 -
ANNEX 8-0
Page 4 of C
DRUG PRODUCT DESCRIPTION                                     PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE
DiOp.  H.C.  Hoop.  Spec.
18.60 SCABICIDES AND PEDICULICIDES
enzyl benioat. 25X lotion                              X      X      X       X
1t.00 DISINFECTANTS
Chlorhexidine gluconteo 5X Sol                         X      X      X       X
Iodine 2-2.6X1 so topical                              X     X       X       X
16.56 DIURETICS
Sendrotluassin. C m  tab                                      X      X       X
Furooemld  100 mg/mI 2 em  lnj                                       X       X
Furoomid. 40 mg tab                                                  X       X
17.05 EAR, NOSE AND THROAT
Antazollne + naphazolins nasal drops                   X      X      X       X
10.50 GASTROINTESTINAL
18.10 ANTACIDS AND OTHER ANTIULCER
Aluminium hydroxide S6W mg tab                         X      X      X       X
Cioetidine 25 mg tab                                                 X       X
Magneium hydroxide SW m9/10 ml susp                    X     X       X       X
10.20 ANTIEMETIC
Metaclopramlde HCL 19mg tab                                          X       X
Promstazlne HCL 25 mt                                  X      X      X       X
PrOmethazin HCL2  m/1 ml in]                           X         X           X
Prometh alne HCL          s mgS l *yrup oral                         X       X
10.40 ANTISPASMODIC
Atropln  1 mg tab                                            X       X       X
Atropine 1  /mi llnJ                                                 X       X
16. W CATHARTIC
isoacodyl t mg tab                                                   X       X
10.50 DIARRHOEA, DRUGS USED IN
Oral r hydration *slts, 650 ml pk                      X      X      X       X
Oral rehydration salts, 6 liter pk                                   X       X
19.00 HORMONES
19.10 ADRENAL HORMONES AND SYNTHETIC
begistwone 9.5 g tab                                                      X
Hydrocortisone suc*w  anat  1  Ng  in                                X       X
Prednlsolone 5 mg tab                                                X       X
19.80 CONTRACEPIM
to be supplied per ULFPA & USAD comdiltios lists       X     X       X       X
19.50 INSULINS AND OTHER ANTIDIASETIC
Chlorpropam)d. 2CO s tab                                             X       X
Glibenclamide 5mg ~  tab                                             x       x
Cllinclald C9 t b                                                X       X
Insulin 40 U/ml Inj                                                  X       X
InsulIn zinc sup UlU/el mni                                          X       X



- 66 -
ANNEX S-
Pp .  of 5
DRU0 PRODUCT DESCRZPT ON                                      PROPOSED LEVEL OF USE
Dlep.  N.C.  Hoop.   ipea.
20.00 IMNLOOICALS
Tub.rcutlnpurprot.ln d riv (PPD  lnj                                   X       X
Antirable  hyperim. serum 1MIU/6 *II                                  X       X
Antivenin n ere lnJ                                                    X       X
21.00 OPTHALMOGICAL
Occulnr ¢hloraaphonl¢ol IX sol (drop.)                  X      X       X       X
8liver nitrate 1S sol (drop)                                   X       X       X
Ptlocarpine 2% and 41 sol (drops)                                      X       X
24.00 PSYCHOTHERAPEUTIC
AmltriptDllno .HCL) 25    and 6 up tab                                         X
Chiorpso2azine 26  nd U                                                        X
Hatpriodol 1  p e9nd Sp In*2and6mp/l                                         xK
Pare  tho  * ut                                                                X
27.00 VITAMINS AND INEtALS
Vitin   complex tab and lnj                             X      X       X       X



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-10
PEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
PROVISIONAL LOCATIONS OF PRIVATE MATERNITY HOMES
TO BE ASSISTED BY THE PROJECT
Local Government Authority              Number
Aba                                       37
Aboh-Mbaise                               20
Afikpo
Ahiazu-Mbaise                              10
Arochukvu/Ohafia                            *
Bende                                      *
Etiti                                      6
Ideato                                    20
Ikwuano/Umuahia                           11
Isiala Ngwa                               17
isuikwuato/Oklgwe                          4
Mbaitoli/lkeduru                          37
Mbano                                      13
Nkwerre/Isu                               20
Obloma Ngwa                                9
Ohaji/Egmema/Oguta                        13
Ohao:ara                                   3
Orlu                                      34
Oru                                       12
Owerri                                    38
Ukwa                                       6
Total                                    312
* Not yet identified.



- 68 -                              am   ak11
FEDERAL RERU8LIC OF NIGERIA
I2O HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
TRAINING PLAN FOR HEALTH STAFF
Number                                Number
Of                                    of       Class
Staff                 Students             SubJect           Couroes    Siz     Duration   Tralnors
Nure                    120      Com unity Halsth              5          24    1 year    SPN
Nurse/Midwives          o0       Prlmry Health Cars          1i           0      2 weeks   PHD, NSD &
Paramedical Staff                                                               SDC Staff
PP Trainers              20      Family Planning               1          20    2 weeks   SUCH Staff
FP Clinician.           2 W      Family Planning               5           0    0 weeks   SUCH FP Tutor
fM   tlv ntore          20W      FP Motlvatlon Techniques      5                 1  week    FPC Staff
Health Eductor           W       FP   Health Educatlon         2          25    1 week      NSD
PPC Staff                1       Health A FP Sttistice         1          10    Wee         NSD A FC
Coomunity-Slsed         2W       Contraeptive Distrlbution    5            W    1 week    FPC
Health Workors
Private                 so       Fmily Planning                0           0    2 weeks    SUCH FP Tutors
Mi1dwive
Store Offlers,
Storekeeper
Accountlng Officers,
A Ancillary Staff       70      Essentiel Drugs Proramme      4         6-25   2 weks    ISEDS
Offlcore
Laboratory               Be      Laboratory Practices          2          25                Consulitnt
Technisiens
Doetors                 80       Essenltl Drugs                                  8 days    ISI
IPC       a    Family Planning Coordinating Unit
ISED8     a    I. State Esentlal Drugs Service
NSD       a    Nursing Services Divislon
P1D       *    Pubile Health Division
SOC       a    Staff Devlopeent Center
SH        a    ho State Minastry of  ealSth
SPH       a    School of Public Hoelth Staff



13 KIEIJW IS FWATIS 1WM
pvohct CONWimmS by in?
TOWSl miatidig  Cumtiaium,io                    TOtaIS TImeld   C.oatIaift.
(am 61W)                                          M. '00)
aM   IM   Im   M92  IM  rTot                      a    am  am  1992  am  Tod
-          -       -       -      -   m auunsm  zm   w    m                    . -    m
A. 11I TIltE
1. m             mINBIT
UO1A  TJTIN      C OSIIT                                                56.1    43*0    693        -       -    18A4    10.4    10.8   11.1         -      -    32.4
L.Ul   1IhINT     UTI                                                3vaw.S   171.3 3732.2   352.4   37.7  ,m.aD    59.4    29*3   99.3   2.6    55.7 143.3  
STATE I131313  OF 111.3                                              7,466*3 2#.373 2,34.8 4196.t 2,957.9 19.346.5  12t.0   45.1  13.3  63.   425.0 3240.7                     @
FWUATI  PlURO  1_354.5   421.2   463*3    93*5   102.9  2.435.5    252.4   72.0   74.5   14.2   14.8  4@7.
9gb-Totl   UTIIIU. UEWLWIENT                                           124067.4 3W026,6   6,615.6 4,642.1 3448.5 29,620.5  2242   511t  06    705.5  4955 5.0514
2. MTEIINIU *1  t   TMITU M. FUMY HAIW    ERWt3
C011n  - SDE PC ATITIES                                              1294.  4139A  5,1.4 31833.0 2W229.? 14,512.3    241.2  W7.2  86.2  23.6  320.4 2W 6
I FNC IEhCE8                                                        201459.1 34.118.7 V4464 10 2297 1.9740 94.P222  3,811.7 Srm.9 4412.1 tt1554.9  2? 158n91.0
STRsNSTIEIII        Y 1m   m Sy A TnoTIO                            14M319.1 lIt974.0 4t8*3 4645.  5,30.3 43,327*6  2,67.7 2t7*3  M1.0    3.5  765*.9 733.5
ISIIE    EflIIE  S  IMIENIC sECE                                     2,115.8 1.067.0    82.1    "03    994  3.474.6    34.2   15.7   13.2   13.7   14.3   6211
FM IIIIIS S C                                                          226.9   206.6   3005        -       -    734.0    42.3    35.3   4.3         -      -   125.9
DFn TIN     EATI  NS CO CATIN AIVES                                    929.1t  517.0     87    25.6   6.2  333.6    173.1    80.3   91.4   "5.1  "99   546.8
S-Toul SI         IEIILS R . NIRITISE . IA FMIULY P1AIINB SERVICES     399344.9 54,042.3 33,271.6 17M424.4 10321.6   65.2   710.2 9,33.6 652.3 2.63.6 1,43*2 26.376.9
3. EAYIIT SF PMJECT  F TO  FACILITY                                     3.961.5       -       -               -  3961.5    73.1         -      -       -      -   7331
r    n-Tsu  KU STAT                                                       55373.8 57M069.6 44,907*i2U2M65 13770.1 t93,372  10,316.5  974.6 7.219A0 3X184.2 1I9*. 3      !2643.
3. 1E0K. N111313 SF 111N
t. I N PLIEII to  PUET PESnT    cTivT                                   5.328.5 5 95.2 6,5833*8  M242.1       - 25,136    "2.7 1,02.51,05    1.100*.7         - 4,174.3
Ssh-tal   K m.  111? SF NIN.                                              51328.5 5M905.2 658   7,242.1         - 2516    9.7 1t022.5 1 A4 1.07                 - 4,174.3 
ro.l MC  6Oac7n                                                            67.3a354.3 51491,0 29,503.7 137St1 2135263 1           *92 10712.2 l8217.4 494OL9 1WM  36k2.3
hail 25, 1t8   6S



IE II. F   _0
nfm      I  ,1 o ne)
Amtca t        _tUmct               PFas Cut       bsnae                                                 fk*iml
UN cots                                                                                                    tOl IMtl. Ct. Ct-. Pie   kwm t.t .
Loutl                             Load                                                             P"to Cu. Prim Cook.
Lol (ol. bun S                          (fntl.  Mb. £                     (fac. Stmes I                       Led (fot. Sou   a             Ca Phldal   goa
Fat. E3oo.   tms)    ts   totl   For. Ex. TIo)  lamt    Tdtl   for. Ebd. TaO   tan    t.W    FTor. fEt.   TOsFt    tam                        TOalW      1 .         Cuts
1.      Ctam887
A. cmVI mS
1. OmllS me6SIE                                       328.9        484.6       -   813.5       *5.S   96.9        -  162.7        33.2   4.9        -   82.2         427.9       630.5       - 1*83           176.4        S1S.9
2. C1IUCtUlT                                        31457.8      5.95.2        - 8*so3.       69".6 *I1.          - 1710.4       357.2  56.4        -  882.6       4.586.6     6640.6        - 11014.2      157.9        9429.3
S    d-Tot  Ct  l EMS                                    73.7       5.5798        - 90366.5      757.3 1*116.0       - 1*83.3       390.4  575.3       -  965.7       4934.5      7*2.1         - 12.8s        2*934.3       *171.3
D. FINIM                                                  14.6       473.0        -   487.         2.9   94.6        -   97.5         0.8   47.4       -   48.2          38.3       615.        -   635.3        16s.6          e.8
C.   IHUUT                                              2*419.0       10.9        - 2*527.9      4831.   21.5        -   s0.6       219.1    7.1       -  226.2       31.21.9       137.7       - 3*259.6        543.3      2*716.4
D. 51110.1                                              1*354,s      429.5        - 1774.8       270.9   84.1        -  355.0       132.5   41.1       -  173.6       1*757.6       545.7       - 2*383.3        33.9       1*91.4
E. tIECO       MSISt41                                                                                                                                                                                                               o
1. L1CSL  IlTS                                            -        118.4       -   118.4          -       -       -       -          -    6.9        -    6.9            -       125.3       -   12.3             -         15.3  1
2. MI  ClMTI                                           335.8       159.9       -   495.7                                  -       17.2   19.2        -   36.4        353.0   *    79.2        -      1.1          -        532.1
Sotb-Tol 111lI9CI  I1 Em                                 335.0        278.4       -   614.1          -       -       -      -        17.2   26.1       -   43.3         353.0       304.5       -   457.s            -
F. 1131118
1. INKPOM TRININ                                          -        508.9       -   U6.9                   -       -       -          -   W5.0        -   55.0            -       563.8       -   S53U.            -        563.
2. FORD    F mLLNU                                     112.9          -        -   112.9          -       -       -       -        6.1      -             6.1        139.0           -            119.0          S- U1.0
3. LOCIL FP±M -1                                          -        123.4       -   123.4          -       -       -       -          -   14.0        -   14.0            -       137.5        -   13.5            -         117.5
4. SW TM                                                2.5           -        -     2.5          -       -       -       -        0.1      -        -    0.1          2.7           -       -      2.7           -          2.7
S-t.t.I t1i*11                                            115.5       62.3        -   747.8          -       -       -      -         6.2   6P.0        -   75.2        121*7       70M.3       -    23n.            - *.D
8. STUDIES                                                104.3       256.1       -   3U0.4          -       -       -       -       11.5   26.6        -   38.1        115.8       2J.7        -   3.s              -         398,5
H.  1tER9L.                                               231.5     1.418.        - 1*69.6         46.3  283.6       -  329.9        33.1  164.2        -  197.3        310.9      I*.9         - 2*176.8        362.e       1*914.0
1. FROECI FACILItY                                       356.1       349.8        -   706.0          -      -        -      -        16.2   1.         -   32.1         372.3       345.7       -   738.1                     73L.
J. .K1tN FtIIS   n   CT PR9t16  ACTMIIES                     -      3799.3        - 3.790,3          -      -        -      -           -  36.o        -   76.0             -     4.174.3       - 4174.3             -       4*174.3
Total INMESTlIS  COStS                                    8*17.7       UM315.2      - 22433.0    1*561.2 1*60.1         - 3.161.3      827.0 1*348.7      - 2*175.7     11*106.0    16*26.0        - 27*370.0     3*429.8     23,940.2
it. 3* aS Tm
A.  tMS AO SW9LIS                                      6*934.4          -        - 6*934.4          -       -       -       -      680.2      -        -  681.2      7*614.6                   - 7*614.6            -       7*614.6
8. 51tS                                                     -        688.7       .   688.7          -       -              -       -I- 9.3               -    3.3          -       782.             782.0           -         72.0
C. FtI.                                                 t34.2        168.6       -   302.8          -               -      -        17.4   22.3        -   39.7        151.6       190.. -   342.5                            30.5
3. 0913*ilt CtS                                             -        255.        --6  -   2.6               .       -                      30.2       -   3e.2             -       25-.        -   285.8            -         265.e
C. SWAMiIS                                                  -        257.4       -   2-.4           -       -                          -   30.7        -   30.7            -       2a8.0       -   2S8.0            -         21.0 
F. NiMnui                                                   -        124.9       -   124.9          -       -       -      -           -   14.5        -   14.5            -       139.4       -   139.4            -         138.4
_ _           .._          __    ___--                                                                                                                             -       _. __ 
Total  iE4t COSTS                                         7*048.6      1*495.2      - 8*63.8            -      -        -      -       697.6  190.9       -  838.5       7.766.2     1*686.1       - 9*452.3            -      9*543M
total                                                       5,7t66.3    141O-S       - 30*596.8    1.61.2 1*00.1         . 3*161.3    1*524.6 1539.4       - 3*064.2     18a872.2    17*950.1       - 36*022.3     3,429.8     31i26.5   "
k*nt 25. 1988 16:15



Boo   EIAtW by Tm
Ttes twig"  C bartl_                            TWAS Itolui    CwAin  Aida
amI  '600)                                       CaS OM
sm     ao    am        199     299    Tota       193    199    191   1992   199    Tota
m   -   m       m       -        -      -       -       -       --im     t      ma f
I*~__ M___ _I
1. DETII COST
i. Ce,L OM
SllS   CE,I                                      14985 2661.*3 1,256.4   3062         -  6,42.4    279.2   454*7  262.0  122.5       - 1,53.2
2. CUINTWll                                     14o,98.6 24S96  19600.1 &5.9           - 65,794  2,*62.  4.2      1 2,150.6 1011      - 11,147.2
Iqh-TOtel CIVL 1li16,424.1 2723.1 2XAU.5 746.                                            - 7201.3  3,061.8 4#4567 3,352,1 1,234.3        - 12265.5
I. FREIIII                                          1,9.1  13.6 l.013.8   320.2          -  3,703.7    193.6   22.23  1a.    43,7        -   6232.
C. EIII                                             7K2.8 536.O  4,87.4   665.6   15.3 13732.2  1,359.1 1,014,1   83.1  101.2    2.2 3,259,6
3. 93.3                                             632.3   257.7 3929.9 2,024.2   309.6 1M37*05  19M,3    44.0    24  209.2   44.5 2303.3
t. 1TUICAL UITIIE
1.  CML CUTMIS                                     265.4   302.4      -       -        -    697.8     73.7   51.        -      -      -   12.3
2. I     C TLUIS                                 17m.l 516*4   22t.8   2439   268.3  3,041.6    320.7   100.2  35.7   37.1   3.6   532.1
ToWt UTIC.L ISMNCE                                  24116.5   W38.3   221.8   242.9   2t6.3  3.739.4    394.3   151.8   35.7   2t.1   31.6   65751
Is    111      *                                   755.0   727.   713.8   632.7  6122  3441.3    140.7   124.3  114.7   96.2  83.0   528                         1
2. FOEZ  FELUMH                                    502.4  109.0    42.3        -       -    653.      93.6    13*6    6.8      -      -   119*0
Is LOCAL FEULLOO                                   1542   1723.3   1767   t791   t3.5    846.9        23.7   29.6   X,4   27*2   23.5   I37.S
4 gm  TO                                            14.       -       -       -        -     14.2      2.        -      -      -      -     2.?
totaI 1D111                                         1*425.9  tlO   929   81t*.    M?7  4,95.2    25.7   1n.s  t15.0  t23.4  1t1.5   32so
.  111                                                M2.4   291.7   670.5  t52.3   591.t  2,418.5  t12.7    4.3  107.3  23.2   84.9   M93.5
1. 31TE1                                            1.851.6 4309.9 4.70.9 105.3 1,182.9 13146.6   345.0   726.3  762. 1 4634  170.0 20176*.
1. FUEtl  FACIIMT                                  3S961.s       -       -       -       -  3261.5    75.1         -      -       -      -   738.t
J. £1EAT PLAMUMO AGD FMElECTETIU ACTItITES    5,328.5 59t5*2 6582,3  7,242,1            - 25,129.6    92.7 1M0225 1,053*4 1,100.7       - 4174.3
Totl t911iE11    COSTS                                46995.3 47,267.9 43,8363 20094 3,143.2 161250.2  8,755,2 890752 706.8 3.041.1  451.7 27,370.O
II.     'a  COus
A. gm  ASND   L31                                 12.115.5 14,025.7 5S572.8 652.7 7,432.4 45709.0  2,257.2 2396.1  85.0  99.4 1t043.0 7614.6
3. WAEM                                              583.3   655.2   720.7 1.436. 1,580.6  49976.3    108.7   111.9  115.9  218.4  227.1   M2.0
C. FIUL                                              249.8  274.3   446.3   56.0   614.0  2166.5    50          46*9   71.7   65.1    e.s   342.5
3. W31t3l  CSIS                                      295.9   33223   365.6   333.1    96.2  1M77.1    55.1    56.8  583*    3*2   56.9   265.
E. EIWUS                                             294.5   3308   263.8   31.2  419*3  1t79.5    54.9    56.5   58*5   57.9  60.2  238.0
F. Nu_ Ul                                            150.0   163.5   165.4   175.2   182.4    361*7     23.0   28.3   29.3   26.6   26.2   19.4
Totl E         OT 011                                 13,709.0 15.73.9 7654.6 9499.2 14S26.9 57276.6  2,53*1 26.0 1220.5 1443.7 1t527.0 9,452.3
.in    m   m      m     mmm  ui~~~~mn= mannm                            m.
Total "AMCt COSTS                                     60,7M2.3 43054.3 51491*0 29,5037 13770.t1 218526.8   1209*2 10,M.2 827.4 4,484,1,9t87* 36322.*3
m  _um                             m,_, _          _m              _m    - _  _           m



otoft~
3M £S-LTA .0 930 . UEf
3Mm -       '008 caow
to=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  IEKT
I-  D103                                             011101D? OF
Bumi                     WSATiU  fowSIS   OF  IAMII USbs
tLa.       urn        SiAut               Caom -                   sin I awI     OUaiU                        a t IIFTM       PBIC              NMBIC                 Cat±rnbs
inM iis  s3MUBF I      1hN 030?   P095*10K        W    Mt103  ~ 4*1    Un OSUPLY  IS    091366M  FOIL1PW36  CUKIICTI  93613*33                   "DoPiOU
win mI    MUsliM         "To        I        fa m  tE EC    imi otsta   um             m nu                       acttnlm       r0MM               3t31        tou tota   z
-              -          -t  -11  -I a_1.                             t            T Int          mEW                                                      IE -   f    -    -E  
S. CIVA3IM 363
6. ai wx
. S        m  i-A 31.3                                                                                                                -          27.4             -            -             -                 -    *529.? 20.0   707.7
2. wgimti                                                   -           -      320.4          -           -    35,000.3           354.7         567.6         345.6            -             -                 -  37.205.?  20.0  7,441.1
*-T"   cm 'V                                                               - -  -  3204                            399320.6          354.7         59.9           145.6                  -                        -  40n4.3  20.0 014.9
3. F E3                                                        -           -       106.5      tO.9           -      1090.3            63.6          se.              -            -- -                                 2121.3  20.0   424.
C.   P3T                                                       -       311.2    1,011.6      357.4           -      9396.0           503.5         46.3          16.2             -             -                 -  1O96.2  20.0  2,199.2
0.                                                             -    3723.0    2019.6    133.5            206.6           -           60.           221.5             -            -                               -   7,720.3  20.0  1544.1
f. nTEU *S=u
1. 3u*   cosiams                                            -           -       417.4               -                   -            -              -                        97.                                      51.2  0.o       0.0
2. FsI     e3Ts                                              -          -       69.7                -     -        132.0          533.1         531.1                       265.6                                   2 6.3  0.0        0.0 .
Sirtotl tEwOIC   365t1                                                     -    I13. I                                 t132.0        53.1          531.1             -         363.4            -                 -   21.5  0.0          0.0
F. nISISIN
3. IN 1   tIUIlIilS                                      130.4          -    1#413.           - -                  434.8           83.0          21.7         130.4             -            *                      2 .6  0.0         0.0
2. fl3t10  FEILIIPS                                          -             -    I05.9     146.1           -            -           26.6          132.6             -            -                              -      4931   0.0      0.0
1. 3W.t  lt      0                                           -          -       537.0         -           -            -              -             -             -             -            -                 -        7.0   0.0     0.0
4. RVtOus                                                    -          -           -       t.1           -            -                            -             -             -            -                 - M1.1  0.0            0.0
Si.ot.1 t111                                                13e.4          -    2*136.0      157.3           -        434.9          109.6          154.5         MA0.4            -            -                 -   322. 0.0           0.0
0. $118311                                                      -          -       89.3      342.4           -            -          326.1                           *             -            -                 -     57      0.0      0.0
U. A1M As                                                       -       115.0    340.2        07.6      4*515.4       109.5          320.4          165.4             -        164.2            -                 -   7175.7  20.0  1,435.1
1. 3*SCT FAM1                                                   -          -          -          -           *            -              -             -             -             -      3070.9                  -   3070.9   0.0       0.0
J. WAIN PAMIS MD M*1             3*flm  ALt-WIT                                             -   -                         -              -                                         -            -          36522.4  1.322.-4  00         0.0
total IMEILSI   COSTS                                          330.4    3*05.2      05.0   1,009.9         4.72.o    50,23.9          2*903.2       2,105.7          404.2        527.6      3,0704.           16S22.4  95,043.4  34.3 13751.6
it. wIltw amm
A. W       mm S WfPfs                                          -          -           -         -      3,402.3     2,394.0       24-,28.4             -                                        -                     30364.6  0.0        0.0
8. 5AR6*1                                                      -                  407.6     393.5           -        963.0        3*331.6             -             -             -            -                 -   2,9 5.7  0.0       0.0
C. FX                                                          -      701.6       449.7      23.6           -            -           83.3          59.1              -            -            -                 -   1*337.3  0.0        0.0
8. w91*1t36 C                                                             -       269.6      32.6                                   326.1                                     403.7            -                 -   1*132.0  0.0       0.0
1. M an                                                        -          -           -      32.6           -            -              -                            -      1*007.0            -                  -   1*11.6   o.0       0.0
F.   *Mj                                                       -          -       470.3      40.9                                                     -                        16.3            -                        543.5  0.0       0.0
tol    WIE3t COSTS                                                -       70.6    1*605.2       531.3     3*482.3      3*257.0       264029.3          59.1             -       1,587.0            -                 -  37.252.7  0.0       0.0
rteol 80ll  CUTs                                                1230.    4*560.7    l*660.0   1*620.2      0*254.2    5340.9          20.932.5       2.244.0          444.2      2,114.6      3070.9            I6.52.4  133*006.  10.3 134751.6
P91it.l Cmt'tt                                                   -      771.0    1*101.3        7.9        954.4     9943.3           3W7.3          300.0          62.0         32.9            -                  -  I3M751.6  0.0       0.0   K
PFe Cmtn                                                      s0.0    2,47.6    6,525.2       697.4      5*303.7   320744.0         14*407.0        929.7          227.0      1l1t8.1         090.6             617.2  71,679.1  9.0  6*420.
tOt   Fl.   Co1w                                                180.4    7.B30.1   19,566.5   2*4n.5    14.-s2.3    94*220.2          4*327.6       31474.6           734.0      3*320.6       3#963.5         25*139.6  218526.J  9.2 20*72.5   9
s- ...ss n__ _s .,...a.......  as.        a  ma sfh a.,.a                                            .t...t l.tf. .........          OSn      S _     SU    fl E
FoMr 1 t3                                                             5,479.3    7.3n.1       0546       6264.1    46924.2          3t0,73.7      2b4t.2           370.3        470.3       10.                     * 1lI3WJ   0.9 9*095.2
a.t 20. S   6  36:35



- 73 -                     ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
INO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
Activities                               Agency Responsible
Part As Imo State Activities
A. Institutional Development
Procurement                                             PCU
Training                                                SNOH and LGA
Establishment of SCHs                                   SMOH and LGA
Preparation of financial plan                           SMOH
Establishing drug revolving fund                        SNOH
Price sensitivity and elasticity study                  SMOH
Establishing State Population Council                   SEC
Establishing Population Studies Center at ISU           PC
Preparing population plan                               PC
B.  Comunity-Based Activities
Mobilization of communities                             SMOH and LGA
Review of project proposals                             SMOH
Contract between communities and project                PCU
Training                                                SMOH and LGA
C.  Upgradina Services in PHC Facilities
Preparation of plans and tender documents               LAC, LGA and SMWT
Tendering                                               SMOH and SMWT
Award of contracts                                      SMOH
Payment                                                 SCH
Supervision                                             SNLG and SMWT
D. Improving Drug Supply and Distribution
Procurement                                             SMOH (ISEDS)
Renovation of medical stores                            SMOH and SMWT
Training                                                SMOH
Selection, recruitment and payment                      SMOH
of consultants
E. Disease Surveillance and Diagnostic Service
(Public Health Labortory)                              SMOH
Part B: Federal Government Activities
State Planning                                          FMOH with states
Project Preparation                                     FMOH and states



- 74 _                       ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 2
Abbroviationst
DMO      Federal Ministry of Health
IOU Wmo State University
LAC       Local Autonomous Comunity
LA        Local Government Area
PC        Population Council
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
SLC       State Ezecutive Council
SCM       Sub'committee for Health
1OWN      State Ministry of Health
8MLH      State Ministry of Local Government
8MWT      State Ministry of Works and Transport



- 75 -
ANNEX 4-2
nS§}  |~~~~~~
'wz HCS   §}~~~~
S'



- 76 -                      ANNEX 4-3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUMHARY OP TECRNICAL ASSISTANCE
(in manmonths)
Year
Description                 1      2     3     4     5   Total
Cold Chain Operation                       3                              3
Management Monitoring and Evaluation       3     1     3      1     3    11
Financial Management                      12    12                       24
Therapeutics, formulary quantification    3      3     3                  9
Monitoring and forecasting of demand       3     3                        6
Audit                                      4     4     4      4     4    20
Development of IEC Plan and strategy       3                              3
Epidemiologist                            12                             12
IEC                                        6                              6
Total                                                              94



- 77 -
ANNEX 4-4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
1               2                3                 4 YRS
Survey.
C-W Documents
Centrsl Medical Store
LWA Store,
Public health Labor_tor=
PriaryMt*h Center.
BaijT H"iTI clinics
IMC
MaterniyHm/o
Disgen ary A
DIpensary B_
BIDING
Central Medical Store
LOA StoreC
Public Health Laboratry
Primary Health Centers
Basic Helt"I" 110
Detern.t
COSRUCTON
Central Medical Store                       ----                 
LOA StoMe
Pub!i Health Laboratory
Pr mar Health Center.                                                                            
Basic Hea th lnics
pis vnary A
EWJIPMENT
Dsesry A
Mternit   oeM
WUA Stores. PH Lab. qCIIrSi                                         



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR NON-CIVIL WORKS COMPONENTS
Activities                            Year   Year   Year   Year  Year  Year
0      1      2      3      4     5
Project Management
Training abroad of
key project staff                     xxx
Establishment of
Project Coordination Unit               xx
Appointment of
Project Coordinator                     xx
Signing of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
between FMG and ISG                     xx
Accounts
opening of project
and special accounts                    xx
Institutional Development
Establishment of a PHC
Coordination Unit                       sx
Establishment of State
Population Council                      xx
Drug price sensitivity
and price elasticity study              xx
Establishment of a drug
revolving fund                               xxxi
Preparation of a
population plan                                xx
Purchase of equipment                        xxxx



- 79 -                   ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 2
Activities                            Year   Year   Year   Year  Year  Year
0      1      2      3     4      5
Community-Based PHC Activities
Establishment of SCHs                        xxxs   xxxx   xxxi
Training of community leaders                  xx   sxxx   xxxs   3x
Uparadina Services in PEC Facilit.
Study on staff redeployment           xxsx
Redeployment of staff                        xxx    xsss
Drum Supply and Distribution Serv.
Estimation of needs                   xxx
Setting of price schedule               xs
Purchase of drugs                              xi    xs      xi   xx   sx
Training of staff
on essential drgus                             x2            xx   3x
Disease Surveillance and Diagnostic Services
Appointment of incremental staff               3x
Purchase of equipment and reagents                          xxxZ
Information. Education, and Communication
Procurement of equipment                              xx
Materials development                                 xx
Appointment of consultants                            xx
Abbreviations:
PMG   Federal Military Government
ISG   Imo State Government
SCH   Sub-Committee for Health
PHC   Primary Health Care



- 80 -                        ANNEX 4-6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ millions)
Proportion Disbursed
Bank Fiscal Year      Semester    Cumulative    Estimate for    West Africa
and Semester                                   this Proiect        Profile
1989         2nd        0.6           0.6               2               0
1990         1st        1.5           2.1               6               5
2nd       1.5           3.6              13              11
1991         1st        2.0           5.6              20              17
2nd       2.0           7.6              28              24
1992         1st        3.5          11.1              40              33
2nd       3.5          14.6              53              42
1993         1st        3.0          12.6              64              50
2nd       3.0          20.6              75              61
1994         1st        2.0          22.6              82              70
2nd       2.0          24.6              89              77
1995         1st        1.5          25.1              91              84
2nd       1.5          27.6             100              89
Assumptions:
Board Dates December 1988
Effective Dates April 1989
Completion Date: December 1993
Closing Dates June 1995



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref.                                                                   Document
No.                                                                      Code
1.     World Bank, 'Report of the World Bank Food and Nutrition         D17736
Reconnaissance Mission to Nigeria', October 1981.
2.     Federal Ministry of Health, "Nigeria Fertility Survey,           D17737
1981/82, State Level Report, Imo State", July 1986,
Lagos, Nigeria.
3.     Imo State Ministry of Health, 'Health Bulletin', December    D17738
1985, Imo, Nigeria.
4.     Federal Ministry of Health, *The National Health Policy          D17739
and Strategy to Achieve Health for All Nigerians",
December 1986, Lagos, Nigeria.
5.     WHO, 'Essential Drugs Programme and Drug Revolving Fund',    D17740
Report of a Mission, September 30, 1986, Imo State,
Nigeria.
6.     Holly Sims, 'Consultant's Report on Community Self-Help          D17741
Efforts in Imo", Nigeria.
7.     Sung Hee Yun, 'A Draft Tmo State Five-Year Population            D17742
Communication Plan", (March, 1986].
S.     David Pyle, 'Service Delivery Strategy/Plan for Family           D17743
Planning Program in Imo State", March 1986.
9.     E.8. Attah, 'Underutilization of Public Sector Health            D17744
Facilities in Imo State, Nigeria', January 1986.
10.    N.F.C. Bowman,  lamo Health and Population Project,              D17745
Nigeria Consultant's Report on PHC Facilities", October
1985,



NOTES



NOTES



NOTES



NOTES



MAP SECTION



NIGiERIA                           CHAD
IMO STATE HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT  
~~~~PROJECTr LOCATION  
B URK r<A                               N I G E R
FASO                                                      e R .
07\ | ¢SOKOT'O              rft>
{  X   \       F    w   @ tO   </   \   ~BORNO             
BENIN                           D 1   r mUNA    8\
onji? NIGEa     UH< 
OO                                             G GOLAOLA I I 
P%NVPI BENUE                                       11(
d <~~~~~~N                                                   Prjet  ste
\            s X~~~ENDELJ)'ABV2Rz@  eCw
2  .CuM  of  Gezinca <3tx ~~~~~~~~~~~sundare    ii
v                -             A          .E °, 4S,~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~ 410 so0 tp  t
a  :  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kCAE-TBOv t tp   *    o  .& 
*~~~~~~~~KA1 



J          t'    ~~~~N1C3ERIA             ( \               
IMO STATE HEALTH AND
41  POPULATION PROJECT                                                             z
com                                    M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~batiany Moine
At-lc  eVmOve           jw   AL0 \oCare Conter
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tf c  _ w o             apita
Locnl \bov\ernatent
#CWf1,4AfV ooo           ~~~~~~Area Bourndaries
eV                                        State f\ounderles
AKWAE               NIGERIA
RIVERS             z                  OM
z            *o 20  so A_IM
<       0     t10  20  0 
R __ ________ _CAMEROON
9 - w <,1020                                              .9TA_T,



