Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17251
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(Ln. 3034-UNI)
December 22, 1997
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(October 31, 1997)
Currency Unit       =      Naira
US$1                 =     N81.90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASEDS        Abia State Essential Drugs Programme
DRF          Drug Revolving Fund
EDP          Essential Drugs Programme
EDS          Essential Drugs Services
FMOF         Federal Ministry of Finance
FMOH         Federal Ministry of Health
FP/MCH       Family Planning/Maternal and Child Health
HMB          Health Management Board
IEC          Information, Education, and Communication
ISEDS        Imo State Essential Drugs Programme
LGA          Local Government Authorities
MBHP         Minimum Basic Health Care Package
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
PHC          Primary Health Care
SMOH         State Ministry of Health
TBA          Traditional Birth Attendants
VHW          Village Health Workers
WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib (AFR)
Country Director:    Yaw Ansu (AFC12)
Sector Manager:      Helena Ribe (AFTH3)
Task Team Leader:   Shiyan Chao (AFTH3)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
[Ln. 3034-UNI]
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                           .         .................................1
I. INTRODUCTION ...................................................1
A. Macroeconomic Setting ...................................................1
B. Bank's Role in the Sector ...................................................2
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...................................................2
A. Project Objectives and Components ...................................................2
B. Loan Covenants and Special Agreements ...................................................3
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives ...................................................3
III. IMPLEMENTATION  EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS .................................................4
A. Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability ...................................................4
B. Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements ...................................................6
C. Implementation Schedule ...................................................6
D. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives ...................................................        6
E. Assessment of the Borrower's and the Bank's Performance ..................................................8
F. Assessment of Project's Outcome ..............................................8
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED .............................................9
A. Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience .............................................         9
B. Future Operations and Sustainability .............................................9
C. Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector ............................................                       10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
APPENDIXES:
A. Missions' Aide-memoires
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPIJBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
[Ln. 3034-UNI]
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Imo Health and
Population Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 3034-UNI in the amount of US$ 27.6
million was signed on May 2, 1989 and made effective on December 15, 1989.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997 after two extensions from the original
closing date of June 30, 1995. As of December 18, 1997 there was a balance of US$3.5
million. A small number of outstanding payments and special commitments totalling
about US$5,000 require correction or finalization. Final disbursement is expected in
January, 1998, at which time the undisbursed balance will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Hong Chen with Shiyan Chao and David Peters, assisted
by Ross Pfile (AFTH3), and reviewed by Irene Xenakis (AFTH3), Hazel Denton (SECBO)
Helena Ribe (Technical Manager for AFTH3), Jerome Chevallier (Acting Country Director
for Nigeria), and the Nigeria Country Team. Both Imo and Abia States, as well as the
Federal Ministry of Health provided their own reports which were summarized and appear
as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in June
1997. It is based on mission's discussions with the project staff and on materials in the
project file. The Borrower helped to prepare the ICR by contributing its Implementation
Completion Report and the views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and
commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
[LN. 3034-UNI]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction. The Imo Health and Population Project (IHPP) was the Bank's second
project in the health, nutrition, and population (HNP) sector in Nigeria, and came at a time
when the Bank's portfolio in Nigeria was expanding rapidly. Agreements for a loan of US$
27.6 million for IHPP were signed on May 2, 1989, and became effective on December 15,
1989. The IHPP was similar to a previous US$ 34 million Sokoto Health Project (Ln. 2503-
UNI), which became effective in 1986. Both of these projects were designed to assist the
State Government in improving health, nutrition, and family planning services, and in
improving the Federal Ministry of Health's (FMOH) ability to help State and local health
programs prepare new projects.
2.    The Bank approved three other HNP projects in Nigeria after the IHPP. The National
Essential Drugs Project (Ln. 3125-UNI, effective 1991, closed 1997) supported the
establishment of Essential Drugs Programs (EDPs) in seven States and the FMOH. The
National Population Project (Cr. 2238-UNI, effective 1992) provided funds for population
activities mainly at the national level, but this project experienced significant implementation
difficulties, and steps are being taken to cancel the loan. On the other hand, the Health
System Fund Project (Ln. 3326-UNI, effective 1992), which provides support to sixteen State
Ministries of Health to improve service delivery, is achieving good results on the ground.
3.    Project Objectives and Components. The Project was comprised of Part A,
covering Imo State, and Part B, covering FMOH activities. The original objectives for Part A
of the project were to assist the Government in improving the health and nutritional status of
the people of Imo State through:
(a)   strengthening State and local government institutional and financial capacity
to plan, implement, monitor, and evaluate policies and programs for health,
nutrition, and family planning; and
(b)   improving the quality, effectiveness, and utilization of State and local services
for health and family planning.
4.    Each of these objectives involved a broad variety of activities. In 1993, when Imo
State bifurcated into Imo and Abia States, Part A of the project carried over to both States in
its entirety.
5.    The objective for Part B of the project was to strengthen the capacity of FMOH to:
(a)   support State and local governments (LGAs) in developing strategies and
plans of action to implement national health and population policies; and



(b)   prepare health and population projects for internal and external financing by
providing technical assistance and funding for project preparation.
6.    Because of very slow implementation over the first five years of the project (only
17% of the loan was disbursed by March 1994) and a recognition that the project was too
ambitious, a mid-term review (MTR) was conducted in June 1994 in order to simplify and
restructure the project. The number of activities included in Part A of the project was
reduced, and the project focused on delivering a Minimum Basic Health Care Package
(MBHP) in each State through: (a) training and retraining primary health care personnel; (b)
procuring and distributing essential drugs; and (c) upgrading health facilities. Part B of the
project then concentrated on providing technical assistance to the two States to carry out
project activities.
7.    Loan Covenants and Special Agreements. Several Loan covenants and agreements
were included to help the project achieve its objectives. Imo State established a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) and reorganized the State Ministry of Health's (SMOH) Public
Health Division. The State was also expected to establish a State Population Council and
Population Program, prepare an overall standardized public health staffing plan, and annually
review with the Bank the financial plan for the health sector. Neither the staffing nor the
financial plans were implemented. This failure was partly due to a new national health policy
that made Local Government Areas (LGAs) rather than States responsible for staffing and
financing primary health care facilities.
8.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Although the project aimed to address HNP
development issues in Imo State, the original objectives were too broad. Most of the detailed
implementation objectives were input based and too ambitious. During the MTR, a number
of activities, where there was little or no implementation, were dropped, such as establishing
the population program. The revised objectives remained somewhat ambitious, but they were
more manageable and helped focus activities for the remainder of the project.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
9.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. Although the project was able
to meet the broad objective of providing support for Government efforts in Imo State, the
project met few of the specific objectives of the project prior to the MTR. By the time of the
MTR, the project had achieved limited success in improving the quality of services by
initiating the renovation of 97 PHC clinics and 36 LGA drug stores, and initiating the EDP,
but little else among the Part A components. The successes in Part B were even more
limited. The project had provided minimal technical assistance to States through training in
essential drugs programs, and through fellowships.
10.   More substantial successes were achieved after the project was restructured at the
MTR. The MBHP was introduced in targeted LGAs in both States: three LGAs in Imo State
(these later became five LGAs) and nine in Abia State (Abia later expanded the MBHP to all
17 of its LGAs). The MBHP enabled the health providers and clients agree on a "floor"
ii



package of services that each facility should provide. This was aided by bringing together
community representatives and health care providers to assess local health problems and plan
strategies. The planned training to support the MBHP was also accomplished. The project
conducted intensive training of 838 Village Health Workers (VHW) and Traditional Birth
Attendants (TBA) to ensure the provision of health services at the community level. The
essential drugs programs were established in both States. Drug Revolving Funds (DRF) were
set up at the State level and in health facilities. The DRFs in both States were able to sustain
their capital stocks, though the sales of drugs were small, particularly in Abia State.
Upgrading of health facilities was also completed. 119 PHC facilities were renovated and
constructed under the project, and all 36 LGAs had pharmacy stores built or repaired.
Medical equipment and drugs were supplied to some LGA facilities. In Imo State, the Public
Health Laboratory was also built and equipped.
11.   The sustainability of the project is uncertain. The basic infrastructure built under the
project, such as the constructed and equipped health centers, pharmaceutical stores and the
public health laboratory will continue to be used to provide health care services. The
essential drugs programs will continue to provide drugs, and are operating with little
decapitalization of drug stocks, and indicator of financial sustainability. The trained health
workers should be able to provide a better quality of services and be able to supervise better.
However, due to the late introduction of the MBHP, its long-term effects on service delivery
and on people's health is not yet known. Although Imo and Abia States are planning to carry
on with the MBHP activities, the sustainability of the project depends on continued financial
and political support from the State and local governments, as well as support from local
communities. This support has proved unreliable during the project period. Under the
current institutional arrangements, the State's supervisory role in primary health care is very
weak, because LGAs are financially independent from the State. The success of these
primary health care activities will also depend very much on how active and how far each
LGA fulfills its responsibilities.
12.   Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. The total project cost of the
project was estimated at appraisal to be US$ 36.82 million with the Government contributing
US$ 9.22 million. Cancellations prior to closure of the Loan amounted to US$ 11.74 million.
Total disbursements of the Loan by December 18, 1997 were US$ 12.35 million, leaving an
undisbursed Loan balance of US$ 3.50 million. At the time of the writing of the ICR, a few
outstanding payments valued about US$5,000 are being corrected. The undisbursed balance
of the Loan will be canceled in January, 1998, when the final payments will have been made.
Government contributed US$ 2.07 million to the project.
13.  Implementation Schedule. Identification to Negotiations took only nine months, but
two years passed between Negotiations and Project Effectiveness. Implementation was also
very slow during the first five years of the project life. The mid-term review was held in
June, 1994. The closing date was extended twice for a total of two years.
14.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. A number of constraints
hindered the project from achieving its major objectives. The new national health policy
iii



changed the roles for the federal, State, and local governments, weakened the State role in
primary health care, whereas the project design did not adequately adapt to this and the
federal government demanded that the project continue to address primary health care largely
through the State structures. The project design was rigid in other ways, limiting LGA
involvement when they were not able to pay the matching grants, and preventing local
training until counterpart funds were released (this was amended after the MTR). Other
factors under government control included: (a) the unavailability of counterpart funds for key
project activities during much of the first five years prevented key State project activities
from occurring, and remained a constraint for the FMOH; (b) constant turnover of
government political leaders -- Health Commissioners changed almost annually, and they
either misdirected counterpart funds and blocked project implementation, or ensured that
particular project activities were completed; (c) the bifurcation of Imo State into Imo and
Abia States, which distracted administrative efforts of the State Government at a critical point
in project implementation. Weak project and financial management, particularly in Imo State
also hampered implementation. Relevant factors generally not specifically under government
control included: (a) poor communications and transportation infrastructure, which seriously
hampered project implementation, particularly procurement activities, despite the
appointment of a procurement agent; and (b) the significant currency devaluation and
inflation, which made procurement and essential drugs program management difficult.
15.   Assessment of the Borrower's and Bank's Performance. The Borrower's
performance, which was not satisfactory during the first five years of project life, improved
during the last two years. The federal and State governments did not use counterpart funds as
required to undertake key project activities, which seriously disrupted project
implementation. In the first five years, project management in Imo State did not improve
despite training, and there was an apparent lack of commitment in the PCU and the Ministry
to undertake the project activities. Nonetheless, after the MTR, the PCUs in both States were
able to carry out the majority of their revised planned work programs. Imo State started to
improve financial management and reorganize its financial unit towards the end of the
project. However, the performance of the FMOH remained weak throughout the project.
The overall performance of the Bank was not satisfactory. The project as designed was
difficult to implement and did not sufficiently address the difficult and uncertain country
conditions. The Bank did not change the project design in response to the change in policy.
Frequent turnover of Bank staff did not ensure consistent supervision and implementation.
When supervision visits occurred, they resulted in improved implementation, particularly in
the later years. The Bank team's efforts to downsize and refocus the project at the MTR were
critical in enabling the project to achieve some successes. The project would have benefited
from fundamental restructuring shortly after the policy change.
16.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. Few of the original objectives of the project
were met prior to the MTR. Although much of the post-MTR objectives were achieved, on
balance, the project did not achieve its overall objectives. Of the original objectives under
Part A, little was done to improve State health management capacity, establish a population
program, disease surveillance system, or conduct IEC activities. The PCU distracted the
SMOH, rather than help to build its capacity. After the MTR, the project developed and
iv



began implementation of an appropriate MBHP. The training provided to the health care
workers enhanced their understanding of PHC services at the community level. The project
constructed/renovated health facilities which improved the physical access of the facilities.
The Part B objectives were clearly not achieved. The project was ineffective in building up
FMOH's capacity to help States and LGAs develop health strategies. Support to States
virtually collapsed during this time, and it is only more recently that the FMOH, supported
by the Health System Fund Project, is restarting its support to State health planning. The
sustainability of the project is uncertain, and its outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
17.   Key lessons learned from the project experience are summarized below.
(a)   Project design should be more adaptable to major changes in health policy,
and to respond to rapidly changing political environments. Between project
appraisal and loan effectiveness, the Government published the National
Health Policy, which had major implications for the project which should
have been addressed earlier.
(b)   A project that largely takes a supply approach needs strong capacity to
administer and utilize inputs, or other policy objectives and activities will be
difficult to achieve. Given the unstable environment and limited
implementation capacity in Nigeria, project design should be focused on
supporting relatively few activities until implementation capacity is
demonstrated. Fewer inputs should be provided for a smaller range of
activities, and more effort placed on the management of these inputs toward
achieving more specific results.
(c)   When Project Coordinating Units are established separately from the main
Ministry, ownership by the Ministry can suffer. Technical staffs of the State
Ministries of Health and Local Governments need to be part of the project
implementation if their support is needed during implementation. In Nigeria,
a more active role of States in supervision of PHC is needed.
(d)   Community involvement in formulating policies and strategies for PHC
development is important if they are to be accepted and implemented.
(e)   Restructuring of the project was beneficial. The MTR should be done early in
the project. The project design should be more adaptable to major changes in
health policy, and to respond to the political environment.
(f)   The appointment of a procurement agent does not necessarily solve all
procurement problems or speed up implementation. The communication
between the agent and the project staff needs to be very constructive to
accomplish the complicated task of procurement.
v






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
[Ln. 3034-UNI]
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. INTRODUCTION
A.   MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.1   Nigeria has about 110 million people, by far the most populous country in sub-
Saharan Africa; about one in every five people in the Region is a Nigerian. The country is
poor despite its large and enterprising population and its considerable natural resources,
including oil. The 1996 per capita income of $240 is below the level at the time of
independence 37 years ago, and is only a fifth of what it was in the early 1980s. About 34
percent of the population falls below the poverty line. Basic social indicators now place
Nigeria among the 20 poorest countries worldwide. Political instability and economic
mismanagement explain a large part of the poor economic performance.
1.2   The project period (1990 to 1997) witnessed numerous policy and political changes in
Nigeria that influenced the implementation. Nigeria's increasing fiscal indiscipline and
progressive shift away from the structural adjustment policies adopted in 1986 culminated in
the return to a regime of heavy controls in the foreign exchange and credit markets by 1994.
The resulting rapidly worsening economic conditions (inflation peaked at 77% in 1994) led
to a re-assessment of the policy direction. In January 1995, the government introduced a
policy of "guided deregulation" and began to re-establish control over fiscal and monetary
policy, evidenced by a remarkable stability of the market exchange rate to date and rapid
disinflation. In 1996 Government continued the process of gradual liberalization, resulting in
a small economic rebound of 3.1 percent growth.
*1.3   The absence of a credible restructuring of federal expenditure priorities and of
programs necessary to produce a structural fiscal balance leaves unresolved the sustainability
of the macro-stabilization program initiated in 1995. Government still fails to move towards
privatization. Budgetary transparency and accountability is limited (some 40 percent of
federal expenditures occur off-budget). Budgetary allocation priorities were unchanged in
1996 and 1997 and continued to support wasteful expenditures. There is no demonstrated
commitment to poverty alleviation or to rectifying a substantial deterioration in the quality of
essential social and infrastructure services. Neither macro-economic, social, nor political
stability is assured over the medium term.
1



B.   BANK'S ROLE IN THE SECTOR
1.4   This loan financed the Bank's second project in the HNP sector in Nigeria. It was a
State-level project, with a Federal component (Part B) to strengthen FMOH's capacity to
assist State and local health programs and to prepare new HNP projects. At project
preparation, the Bank's sectoral dialogue with the Government emphasized two critical
needs: i) to undertake a strong population program, and ii) to address key health financing
issues. With the support from the Bank, FMOH developed a new national population policy,
and along with several States commissioned health financing studies.
1.5   Prior to this project, the Bank financed the Sokoto Health Project (Ln. 2503-UNI) for
US$ 34.0 million which became effective in January 1986. Three other projects were
approved subsequently by the Bank in the health, nutrition, and population (HNP) sector.
The National Population Project (Cr. 2238-UNI, effective 1992) provides funds for
population activities, initially through activities at the federal level, but implementation has
been poor, and steps are being taken to cancel hte loan. The National Essential Drugs Project
(Ln. 3125-UNI, effective 1991, closed 1997) was used to establish Essential Drugs Programs
(EDPs) in seven States and the FMOH, creating a system for the long term supply of safe,
affordable and effective drugs. The Health System Fund Project (Ln. 3326-UNI, effective
1992) provides support to 16 States to build up the institutional capacity and infrastructure of
State health services, and to finance core State programs.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
2.1   The project was divided into two parts: Part A for State activities; and Part B for
Federal activities. The original objective for Part A was to assist the Government in its effort
to improve the health and nutritional status of the people of Imo State through:
(a)   strengthening the State and local government's institutional and financial
capacity to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate their policies and programs
for health, nutrition and family planning; and
(b)   improving the quality, effectiveness and use of State and local services for
health and family planning. Support for institutional development involved
funding for equipment, materials, training, studies, and operating costs to plan
and monitor HNP activities, and to establish a population program.
2.2   Support for improving the quality of HNP services included funds for equipping,
training, and operating costs for family planning; renovating, constructing, and equipping
primary health care (PHC) clinics; improving drug supply and distribution through
establishment of essential drugs programs; establishing a disease surveillance and diagnostic
service; supporting information, education, and communication (IEC) activities. In 1993,
2



Imo State was bifurcated into Imo and Abia States, and Part A of the project was carried over
with the same components to both States.
2.3   The objective for Part B of the project was to strengthen the capacity of FMOH to: (a)
support States and local government authorities (LGAs) in developing strategies and plans of
action in order to implement the national health and population policies; and (b) prepare
health and population projects for internal and external financing by providing technical
assistance and funds for project preparation.
2.4   Because of very slow implementation (only 17% of the loan had been disbursed by
March, 1994), a mid-term review (MTR) was held in June 1994 to simplify and restructure
the project. Part A of the project was re-focused on the delivery of a Minimum Basic Health
Care Package (MBHP) in each State by: (a) training and retraining primary health care
personnel; (b) procuring and distributing essential drugs; and (c) upgrading health facilities.
Part B of the project was changed to concentrate on providing technical assistance to the two
States in order to carry out the project activities.
B.   LOAN COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
2.5   Several Loan covenants and agreements were included to help the project achieve its
objectives. Imo State established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and reorganized the
State Ministry of Health's (SMOH) Public Health Division. The State was also expected to
establish a State Population Council and Population Program, prepare an overall staffing plan
for public health facilities in accordance with a standard staffing pattern, and annually review
with the Bank the financial plan for the health sector. None of the latter agreements were
implemented, partly because under a new national health policy, Local Government Areas
(LGAs) became responsible for staffing and financing primary health care facilities.
C.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.6   Though the project intended to address issues relevant to the development of HNP in
Imo State, the original project objectives were overly broad. The majority of the more
detailed project implementation objectives were input based, and the activities outlined were
too ambitious. During the MTR, the project was restructured by reducing the number of
activities, where little progress had been made, including the population program. The new
objectives remained somewhat ambitious, but were more manageable, and helped focus
activities for the remainder of the project.
3



3. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
3.1   The project only partially met a few of the original objectives of the project prior to
the MTR. By 1994, the project had achieved limited success in improving the quality of
services by initiating the renovation of 97 PHC clinics and 36 LGA drug stores, and initiating
the EDP, but little else among the Part A components. The successes in Part B were even
more limited. The project had provided minimal technical assistance to States through
training in essential drugs prograrns, and through fellowships. Only 17% of the Loan was
disbursed by March 1994.
3.2   The Mid-term Review was conducted in June 1994, which was a critical point for the
implementation of the project. The MTR simplified and restructured the project objectives
and components in order for the project to concentrate on the activities that were essential to
the main objectives and were achievable in the remaining life of the project. The project
adopted a new approach to strengthen primary health care -- the development of the
Minimum Basic Health Care Package (MBHP) for PHC facilities in the LGAs. The primary
objective of this approach is to involve local communities in defining and implementing a
package of primary health care services that meets the minimum requirement of the
community. The project focused on the delivery of MBHP through: (a) training primary
health care personnel; (b) procuring and distributing essential drugs; and (c) upgrading health
facilities. Theproject was extended for eighteen months to try out this approach. In the end,
the project was able to substantially achieve most of these revised objectives.
3.3   The MBHP was introduced in targeted LGAs in both States: three LGAs in Imo State
(these later became five LGAs) and nine in Abia State (Abia later expanded the MBHP to all
17 of its LGAs). Both States conducted detailed assessment of the health facilities by
collecting data on the prevalent diseases, services provided, personnel, material and
equipment, drug situation, patient flow, and training provided. The MBHP enabled the
health providers and clients agree on a "floor" package of services that each facility should
provide. This was aided by bringing together community representatives and health care
providers to assess local health problems and plan strategies.
3.4   The planned training to support the MBHP was accomplished. The project developed
a training manual for each LGA based on the curriculum provided by the FMOH and
integrated field visits into the training programs. Various training was conducted for trainers
at LGA level. The trainers would train health workers in village health facilities. Due to the
fact that LGAs were facing budget constraints, the project was not able to carry out as much
training as required. States are preparing to use the staff from these model LGAs and
continue to train other communities. Staff from the State Ministries of Health and PCUs in
the two States also benefited from overseas training (Imo State-13 staff; Abia State-10 staff).
The project conducted intensive training of the 838 Village Health Workers (VHW) and
Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA) to ensure the provision of health services at the
community level and also equipped them with simple tool kits. The State projects also
4



provided various local training to different cadres (doctors, pharmacists, nurses, accountants,
policy makers, etc.) at the State level. The total of 1,240 health staff in Imo State and 749 in
Abia State received training. The overall impact of the training provided is mixed, however.
A significant number of staff left the sector or did not use the trained skills.
3.5   The essential drugs program was established in both States. The project succeeded in
adopting the National Drug Formulary, developing an essential drugs list, introducing the use
of generic drugs. The Imo State Essential Drugs Program was able to procure drugs through
International Competitive Bidding. Drug Revolving Funds (DRF) were set up at both State
and health facility levels. The DRFs at the State levels were able to sustain their capital
stocks, though the sales of drugs were small, particularly in Abia State. The Abia State
Essential Drugs Program (ASEDS) started late and only received the majority of ICB
procured drugs in the last year of the project. Nevertheless, ASEDS develop its essential
drug list and conducted a market survey on drug pricing. The project constructed
pharmaceutical stores for each LGA and provided vehicles for drug distribution.
3.6   The planned upgrading of health facilities was completed. 119 PHC facilities were
renovated and constructed and 36 LGA pharmacy stores were built under the project. The
PCU buildings and the Central Pharmaceutical Stores were also constructed. Medical
equipment and supplies were procured. Some are yet to be distributed to the facilities
because lack of security or non-payment of matching grants by the LGAs. In Imo State, the
Public Health Laboratory was also built and equipped.
3.7   The achievement of the Federal Component (Part B) was very limited. Before the
MTR the major activities in Part B were overseas training. Some funds were provided to
assist the development of new projects: The Population Project and Health System Fund
Project. Due to the low impact from overseas training, (many trained staffs left their original
jobs after the training), the MTR ceased foreign fellowships for the Federal component. Part
B focused on provision of technical assistance to the States for preparation of health projects.
Tlhis subcomponent was not implemented.
3.8   The sustainability of the project is uncertain. The basic infrastructure built under the
project, such as the constructed and equipped health centers, pharmaceutical stores and the
public health laboratory will continue to be used to provide health care services. The
essential drugs programs will continue to provide drugs, and are operating with little
decapitalization of drug stocks indicating some financial sustainability. The trained health
workers should be able to provide a better quality of services and be able to supervise better.
However, due to the late introduction of the MBHP, its long term effects on service delivery
and on people's health are not yet known. Although Imo and Abia States are planning to
carry on with the MBHP activities, the sustainability of the project depends on continued
financial and political support from the State and local governments, as well as support from
local communities. This support has proved unreliable during the project period. The
performance of the project was highly dependent on the key managers' commitment and
capability, which was unstable in Nigeria situation. Under the current institutional
arrangements, the State's supervisory role in primary health care is weak, because LGAs are
5



financially independent from the State. The success of these primary health care activities
will also depend very much on how active and how far each LGA fulfills its responsibilities.
B.   SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
3.9   The total project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$ 36.82 million with the
Government contributing US$ 9.22 million. Cancellations prior to project closing amounted
to US$ 11.74 million. Total disbursements of the Loan by December 18, 1997 were US$
12.35 million, with an undisbursed balance of US$ 3.50 million. There are a number of
outstanding payments totalling about US$5,000 that will need to be made by January, 1998,
at which time the undisbursed balance will be canceled. Government contributed US$ 2.07
million to the project.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.10 The loan was signed May 2, 1989, and became effective December 15, 1989.
Implementation was very slow during the first five years of the project life. At the mid-term
review in June 1994, it was agreed that the project scope be reduced. Project implementation
improved significantly in both States and prospects for future progress in achieving
development objectives seem likely. The original closing date was June 30, 1995, and was
first extended to December 31, 1996. The project received another 6 month extension to
complete delivery of the goods which were procured through ICB.
D.   ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING MAJOR OBJECTIVES
3.11  There were several factors that affected the project in achieving its major objectives.
Key factors that were under the control of the government include:
(a)   The bifurcation of Imo State into Imo and Abia States in June 1993. It caused
institutional changes and slowed down implementation.
(b)   The change in the roles and responsibilities of the federal, State and local
governments made the project design obsolete. The LGAs became financially
and managerially autonomous from the States. The role of the State
governments on primary health care was weakened, making it very difficult
for the States to plan, supervise, and monitor PHC activities.
(c)   The lack of support from the government hampered project implementation at
the beginning of the project. According to the original design of the project,
local training was to be funded by counterpart funds; however, there was no
counterpart fund provided from the federal and State governments for these
purposes, and local training was not carried out. The problem of insufficient
funds was later solved by deducting at source for State funds, and the Bank
revising the Loan Agreement to provide resources for training. However, the
6



federal Government never fulfilled its obligations on counterpart fund for this
project. It has only contributed less than 3% of its expected counterpart funds
to Abia State project, and 1.3% of its expected counterpart funds to Imo State
project. The LGAs and communities also found it difficult to pay the required
10% matching grant for the civil works, equipment, and supplies that were to
be handed over to them.
(d)   Constant turnover of State government (about once every year), LGA
government, and project staff greatly affected project performance.
3.12 The factors that affected implementation and were subject to implementing agency
control were as follows:
(a)   Poor ability to manage procurement within the PCU. At the mid-term review,
it was recommended that a procurement agent would be used. However, the
ICB procurement carried out by the procurement agent was also less than
satisfactory. There were major delays on the part of the States, and the
procurement agent was not able to provide the needed assistance to them.
Twenty four percent of Imo State's goods and twenty seven percent of Abia
State's goods procured by the procurement agent were not delivered.
(b)   Weak financial management in Imo State. There were serious
mismanagement of the Special Account and record keeping was not up to
standards. The Bank tried to assist the State in improving its management by
recommending them hire financial consultants. It was only towards the very
end of the project that the State started take actions and reorganized its
financial unit.
(c)   Lack of involvement of Ministry of Health officials, or conflict between the
Ministry and the PCU impeded implementation.
3.13  There were other factors which affected the project achieve its objectives. The
significant currency devaluation and inflation, particularly between 1991-1996, made normal
procurement difficult. The huge price variations of civil works complicated the normal
execution of construction contracts. There were civil disturbances and strikes during the
project period. The poor communications and transportation infrastructure in the country
seriously affected project activities. Serious fuel shortages made project supervision and
implementation very difficult.
E.   ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S AND THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
3.14  The performance of the Borrower should be evaluated in two stages: (a) project start
to mid-term review, (b) mid-term review to project completion. Project implementation was
not satisfactory during the first part of project life. The federal and State governments did
not release counterpart funds, which seriously disrupted project implementation, particularly
7



training activities and civil works. Little effort was put into establishing a population
program. Project management in Imo State was not focused, suggesting a lack of
commitment by the PCU and the State, particularly in comparison with Abia State, where
performance was much better. Financial management performance was weak, especially in
Imo State. After the mid-term review reduced the project scope, project implementation
improved, most notably in Abia State. The PCUs in both States were able to carry out the
majority of their revised planned work program. Towards the very end of the project, Imo
State started take actions to improve its financial management and reorganized its financial
unit.
3.15  The Bank's overall performance was deficient. The Bank appropriately identified
primary health care as a critical area for support in the sector. However, the project design
was far too complex, given circumstances. There was a lack of appreciation for the weak
capacity and future constraints for the project. Between appraisal and effectiveness, a new
national health policy removed State responsibility for most primary health care activities
included in the project, yet the project design remained unchanged. The much needed mid-
term review was carried out with to much delay. The project scope was reduced then and
implementation improved. The supervision visits conducted by the Bank proved to be
beneficial to the project. States benefited a great deal from regular Bank visits and project
implementation improved towards the end of the project. However, the project suffered from
frequent change in task managers.
F.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME
3.16 Few of the original objectives of the project were met prior to the MTR. Although
many of the post-MTR objectives were achieved, on balance, the project did not achieve its
overall objectives. Of the original objectives under Part A, little was done to improve State
health management capacity, establish a population program, and a disease surveillance
system. The PCU became an implementation agency rather than assisting the SMOH to
carry out the project activities. The successes in improving service quality were limited to
beginning the renovation of health facilities and starting the essential drugs programs. The
original Part B objectives were clearly not achieved. The project was ineffective in building
capacity in the FMOH to help States and LGAs develop health strategies. Support to States
virtually collapsed during this time, and it is only recently that the FMOH, assisted by the
Health System Fund Project, is providing help to State health planning. The second Part B
objective was also not met, as the FMOH did not make any significanrt contribution to the
preparation of subsequent HNP projects. The project was, however, mostly satisfactory in
meeting the revised objectives of the MTR. The project developed and began
implementation of the MBHPs. The training provided to the health care workers enhanced
their understanding of PHC services at the community level. The project constructed or
renovated health facilities, which improved the physical access of the facilities. However,
the project was not effective in strengthening the institutional capacity at the State and LGA
levels. The sustainability of the project is uncertain and its outcome unsatisfactory.
8



4. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS
AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.   IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.1   The performance of the Imo and Abia sub projects varied significantly. The project
management in Imo State was weak for almost entire project period. Project managers and
the Commissioners for Health in Imo State we constantly changed. The Imo project did not
have a strong leadership until the end of the project, when the project was finally assigned a
dynamic manager and was able to carry out more activities in a short period of the time. On
the other hand, the Abia sub project started later but was able to accomplished much more
than the Imo sub project. One of the reasons for the achievement was that the Abia sub
project had a stronger management team and was supported by their Commissioner for
Health. When the Bank Quality Assurance Group visited the Abia Project, they specifically
commended the Abia project's achievement and recommended that the project should be
extended. The commitment and capability of the project managers proved to be essential in
achieving project results. The political support from the State government was also very
critical to the success of the sub project.
4.2   The project was designed based on a supply approach. The project emphasized the
delivery of inputs, though this required a level of administrative capacity which was lacking.
With little attention during project preparation to the assessment of the institutional capacity
in the project preparation, the project ended up with too many components and inputs to
implement effectively, particularly in a high risk environment. Enormous efforts and
resources from the Borrower and the Bank were spent on handling procurement and
disbursement problems, leaving little energy left for other aspects of sector development.
B.   FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
4.3   Provision of primary health care in Nigeria is deteriorating. Strengthening the
primary health care is much needed. The project improved some basic structures for the
provision of primary health care in two States. The State governments expressed their
commitment to the project and were willing to provide continued support (including financial
resources) to the project, particularly for training activities. The States and the federal
government prepared operational plans outlining their strategies to carry on the work initiated
by the project. Committees have been established in each LGA to monitor and supervise the
PHCs and carry out any future work. Imo State is planning to promote health services
delivery from LGA to community level and extend the MBHP to the LGAs not covered by
the project. Abia State will continue to mobilize communities in health care, and promote the
MBHP in the health facilities. Both States are going to implement the Drug Revolving Fund
in all LGAs. The federal government will provide support for the introduction of Minimum
Health Care Packages in all LGAs in the two States. However, the sustainability of the
project depends on policy and financial support from the Federal and State governments.
The LGAs will have to play an active role in improving the services and maintaining the
9



infrastructures. Their resources are severely constrained, however, and they rely heavily on
transfers from the federal Government.
4.4   There are no plans for lending to Nigeria. Bank support to the health sector continues
through the ongoing Health System Fund Project. Some promising results are being
achieved in several Sates concerned with this project.
C.   LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR
Lessons for Project Design
4.5   The project design should be more adaptable to major changes in health policy, and to
respond to rapidly changing political environments. Between project appraisal and loan
effectiveness, the Government published the National Health Policy, which had major
implications for the project which should have been addressed.
4.6  Identifying indicators at the project outset is critical for project monitoring and
evaluation. Only at a later stage performance indictors were added later and proved useful in
monitoring the progress. For a project that lasts more than 5 years, particularly in a
frequently changing political, social, and economic enviromnent, it is fundamental to review
and re-plan the activities; good monitoring indicators are useful in this process.
4.7   The PCUs were designed to oversee project implementation carried out by various
implementation agencies. In reality, the PCUs became implementation agencies and took
over some responsibilities from the SMOH. A large-sized PCU in Imo State consumed
substantial amount of project counterpart funds in the beginning of the project, without
showing real progress in project implementation. The existence of the PCU actually
undermined capacity building in the SMOH and weakened its ownership of the project.
4.8   Given the unstable environment and limited implementation capacity in Nigeria,
project design should be simple and focused on supporting relatively few activities until
implementation capacity is demonstrated. Understanding institutional capacity is critical to
the project design. In particular, a project that is designed to primarily provide inputs needs
to better ensure that administration of these inputs can be handled smoothly, or the majority
of efforts by the Borrower and the Bank are spent on procurement and disbursement matters.
If the capacity is weak, fewer inputs should be provided for a smaller range of activities, and
more effort placed on the management of these inputs toward achieving more specific results.
Realistically the institutional capacity can not be simply built through short-term training.
Project Implementation
4.9   The MTR provided an opportunity to revisit the project design and evaluate
implementation results against the project objectives. The MTR restructured the project and
simplified the project components and activities. It proved to be highly beneficial. It should
have been much done earlier.
10



4.10  Community involvement in formulating policies and strategies for PHC development
is important if they are to be accepted and successfully implemented.
4.11  The appointment of a procurement agent does not necessarily solve all procurement
problems or speed up implementation. Weak capacity in handling procurement hampered the
whole project implementation. At the MTR, using a procurement agent to handle the
procurement through ICB was recommended as a solution. The experience with a
procurement agent in this project was not positive. Numerous mistakes and delays were
made by both procurement agent and the project. There were communication difficulties
among the procurement agent, the two State offices, the commercial banks, and the suppliers.
On the other hand, the use of a procurement agent allowed the project management to shift
some of its attention from procurement to the development of MBHP.
11



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 6A:    Project Costs
Table 6B:    Project Financing
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligble       Not applicabl
Macro Policies                                     El               Ef
Sector Policies                     5              E5                                 El
Financial Objectives               E                o                                 o
Institutional Development           =              r                                  E]
Physical Objectives                                                  5                5
Poverty Reduction                  E               E                El
Gender Issues                        i              z                 l              rI
Other Social Objectives                                              :i               5 
Enviromnental Objectives           El              E                El
Public Sector Management           E                0               E                 E
Private Sector Development         E               E                E                 0
Other (specify)                    E               E                E                 0
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                     n                                                  E l
Preparation Assistance             E                                                  El 
Appraisal                          E                        El                        0
Supervision                        [                        El
D. Borrower Performance                Satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                        E                                                  El 
Implementation                                              E E                       0
Covenant compliance                E                        E                         0
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory         Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
13



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                 Purpose              Year of approval     Status
Preceding operations
Ln. 2503                 Sokoto Health                      1986            Closed
Ln. 2925                 Urban Infrastructure               1988
Ln. 2963                 Highway Sector                     1988
Ln. 2985                 Lagos Water                        1988           Ongoing
Following operations
Cr. 2517                 Lagos Drainage & San               1993           Ongoing
Cr. 2485                 State Roads II                     1993           Ongoing
Cr. 2481                 Development Communication          1993           Ongoing
Cr. 2431                 Economic Management                1993           Ongoing
Cr. 2415                 State Roads                        1993           Ongoing
Cr. 2372                 State Water I                      1992           Ongoing
Cr. 2353                 Environmental Manage               1992           Ongoing
Cr. 2261                 Agricultural Research              1992           Ongoing
Ln. 3451                 FADAMA                             1992           Ongoing
Cr. 3483                 Agriculture Tech.                  1992           Ongoing
Cr. 2238                 Population                         1991           Ongoing
Cr. 2191                 Primary Education                  1991           Ongoing
Ln. 3322                 Water Rehabilitation               1991           Ongoing
Ln. 3326                 Health Fund                        1991           Ongoing
Ln. 3183                 National Seed                      1990
Ln. 3238                 Oyo State Urban                    1990           Ongoing
Cr. 2139                 Federal Univ. Development          1990            Closed
Ln. 3125                 National Essential Drugs           1989            Closed
14



Table 3: Project Timetable
J        Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned            latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                               3/20/87
Preparation                                                               7/87
Appraisal                                                                 5/87
Negotiations                                                          12/14 - 18/87
Board presentation                                                       3/30/89
Signing                                                                  5/2/89
Effectiveness                                   7/31/89                 12/15/89
Project completion                              12/31/93                 6/30/97
Credit closing                                  6/30/95                  6/30/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90    FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96              FY97          FY98
Appraisal          3.6      7.6   14.6       20.6     24.6      27.6
estimate
Actual             0.85      1.08    1.58     2.97     4.66      6.18      6.76    10.31      12.40
Actual as % of    24%       14%    11%       14%      19%       22%      24%        37%      45%
estimate
Date of final                                                                             January, 1998
disbursement'
I As of December 21, 1997, a small number of outstanding payments and special commitments totalling require correction or
finalization. This should be done by January, 1998, and the residual balance of the Loan canceled.
15



Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Year                Study                     appraisal/redefined           Status               Impact of study
-       ~IMOl
1992     Training needs Assessment for  Skill and Health service         Completed   Requisite training needs and types were
health staff State/LGA/facility  improvement.                                identified for each category of health
level health workers.                                                       staff, three training committees set up
leading to training planning meetings
and action plan.
1993     Distribution system for      To design the distribution system for   Completed   Effective contraceptive distribution
contraceptives in the public    contraceptives in Nigeria - Part of          system nation wide for easy accessibility
Health sector of Nigeria.   National population activity program.            of contraceptives down to the grass
roots.
1994     Comparison of cost of        To ensure price competitiveness,   Completed   To ensure Project drugs are not
os                   communtiy used drugs at      affordability of drugs to the people            overpriced and prices are competitive to
Government facility and     especially at the grass roots level              avoid expiration of drugs
private retail shops (informal   (uniform pricing)
study)
Market study for price      To provide requisite data to develop   Not
elasticity and user fees.   drug charges guidelines to determine  Implemented
appropriate fees to be charged at
government facility.
1995     Assessment of functional     To detect problems in DRF          Completed   Improved DRF operations and skill at
status of DRF at            sustainability and records, systems              facility level.
LGA/facilities level (field visit and on the spot correction of problem
- informal study)           areas affecting sustainability of DRF.



Purpose as defined at
Year                Study                    appraisal/redefined          Status               Impact of study
ABIA
Development of minimum      (1)    To obtain inventory of health   Completed   Easy identification of number of PHCs
Health service package in Abia facilities in the state.                   in each LGA and their individual needs
State                                                                      for effective and more efficient guide to
(2)    To develop minimum health               ICB procurement of Hospital
service package for each level of              equipment.
PHC.
(3)    To know what is available
and obtainable facility by facility.
(4)    To know additional input
needed to get the facilities to be able
to deliver the MHSP.
(5)    To determine cost of the
input.
(6)    To determine the time needed
to get the input in place.
(7)    To obtain manpower/training
need of each facility



Purpose as defined at
Year                Study                     appraisal/redefined           Status               Impact of study
ABIA (continued)
Minimum package service     (1)    To determine an individula   Completed   The project used it as a checklist for the
delivery: Facility by facility   plan for each health fcility in the        distribution of equipment to the various
inventory in the PHCs.      LGAs indicating the tasks, materials,           PHCs.
equipment and personnel
requirements of the facilities.
(2)    To serve as a guide ot the
distribution of resources i.e. Hospital
equipment to these facilities to
actualize the utilization of the
minimum Health service package.
00
FEDERAL
1989     Baseline Demographic social,  To obtain baseline information on  Completed   Obtained imortant background
statistical health survey of  demographic characteristics,                   information on disease pattern types of
Ohaozara and Onicha LGAs    economic and social information,                treatment sought, knowledge and use of
for pilot project.          health practices, use of private vs.            ORT and EPI coverage of extensive use
Public Health facilities.                       of TBAs. The nurses, midwives training
programs of rht epilot program included
key issues identified in the survey.
1989     Inventory on PHC facilities as  To determine the trend in patient  Completed   The information was shared with the
part of the baseline survey in   utilization of health facilities and       nurses, midwives, during the training
Ohaozara and Onicha LGAs.   operation cost for three consecutive            programs for the pilot project.
years. The data complemented the
report of the baseline survey.



Purpose as defined at
Year                Study                    appraisal/redefined          Status               Impact of study
FEDERAL (continued)
Study of drug market       To provide baseline data and assist in   Study was
developing the level of drug charges  not
and phasing their implementation.  undertaken
Study of Price elasticity of  To determine appropriate fee    Study was
user fees                   schedule and the phasing             not
implementation for both Government   undertaken
hospitals and PHC facilities.
%O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 6A: Project Costs
Item                 Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (US$)
1. Civil Works - Part A 8                    9.37                          0.46
I-A. Abia Civil Works                                                      2.15
I-B. Imo Civil Works                                                        1.96
2. Consultant Services Fellows               1.72                           0.26
2-A. Abia Consultants, Training                                             0.85
2-B. Imo Consultants, Training                                              0.95
3. Vehicles, Equipment Part A100             4.30                           2.07
3-A. Abia Vehicles, Equipment                                               1.52
3-B. Imo Vehicles, Equipment                                                0.86
4. Drugs & Supplies Part A                   2.14                           0.32
4-A. Abia Drugs & Supplies                                                  0.37
4-B. Imo Drugs & Supplies                                                   0.78
5. Preparing Future Projects                 3.79                           1.00
6. Refund PPF 128-UNI                        0.71                           0.35
7. Recurrent Costs                           8.57                           0.52
7. Total Base Costs                          30.60
8. Contingencies
Physical                                  3.16
Price                                     3.06
TOTAL                            36.82                         14.42
Source: Project Files, Borrower's Completion Reports, and Bank Staff estimates.
Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source
IBRD                                27.6                              12.35
Federal Government                  4.29                              0.54
State & Local
Governments                         3.83                               1.46
Local Autonomous
Communities                          1.1                              0.07
Total                               36.82                             14.42
Source: Project Files, Borrower's Completion Reports, and Bank Staff estimates.
20



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                          COVENANT                          C = In Comp.           COMMENTS
CREDIT/LOAN                                                               CD = Compliance
AGREEMENT                                                                after Delay
CP = Comp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
NYD = Not yet
due
3.01 (a)              Imo Sate shall with respect to Part A of the Project maintain or  C     None
cause to be maintained a separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices, its operations and financial conditions.
3.01(b)               Imo State shall
b (i)                 i) have the accounts and records referred to in paragraph 9a) of  C     None
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)                  ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not  CD   None
later than six months after the end of each year: (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)                 iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said  C      None
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
______________________  thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.   = _=_=_=



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                            COVENANT                            C = In Comp.            COMMENTS
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                  CD = Compliance
AGREEMENT                                                                    after Delay
CP = Cornp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
NYD = Not yet
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   d u e
c                      (c) for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals form  C          None
the Loan Account were made for part A of the Project on the
basis of statements of expenditure, Imo State shall:
(i)                    i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with        C          None
paragraph a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)                   ii) retain until at least one year after the Bank has received the  C       None
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
form the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)                  iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;  C          None
and
(iv)                   iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the    C          None
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                         COVENANT                          C = In Comp.           COMMENTS
CREDIT/LOAN                                                             CD = Compliance
AGREEMENT                                                               after Delay
CP = Comp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
NYD = Not yet
due
Schedule 2.A          Imo State shall reorganize SMOH's Public Health Division in  C         None
a manner satisfactory to the Bank
Schedule 2.B          Imo State shall review with the Bank by June 30 each year   NC         LGAs now are responsible for
State's financial Plan for the health sector                          primary health care. the funds
are directly channeled from
the Federal to the LGAs. the
state does not have enough
financial information for
N.)                                                                                                   primary health care activities
w       Schedule 2.E (i)       Council to be established under part A (4) (A) of the Project  C       None
Schedule 2.E (ii)    Imo shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a state population  CP        None
program satisfactory to the Bank
Loan 3.01 (c) (i)     Borrower shall under specific sub-head estimate in the budget  C       None
provide amounts sufficient to cover the Borrower's counterpart
contribution to the costs of the Project.
Loan 3.01 (c) (iii)   Borrower shall open and maintain a project account (the     C          None
FMHSS Project Account) to be used exclusively to meet
expenditures for Part B of the project and thereafter promptly
pay each quarter of the year into Imo State Project Account,
the borrower's counterpart contribution to the costs for that
quarter of Part A and into FMHSS Project Account, Part B of
the Project.



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                           COVENANT                          C = In Comp.              COMMENTS
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                CD = Compliance
AGREEMENT                                                                  after Delay
CP = Comp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
_NYD = Not yetJue
Loan 4.01 (a)          (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals     C          None
form the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditures, the Federal Government shall:
(i)                    (i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with      CP         A financial specialist has been
sound accounting practices;                                               hired to assist IMO in cleaning
up its accounts.
r   (ii)              (ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,  C       None
-PI                               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures
are retained until at least one year after the Bank has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)                 (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.  C        None
4.01(b)                (b) The Federal Government shall:                              C          None
(i)                    (i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)  CD        None
(i) of this Section and those for the Special Accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptabie to the Bank;



STATUS
SELECTION NO. OF                             COVENANT                            C = In Comp.              COMMENTS
CREDIT/LOAN                                                                   CD = Compliance
AGREEMENT                                                                     after Delay
CP = Comp. with
Partially
NC = Not in
Compliance.
I_________________________________________________ _NYD = Not yet due
l (ii)                 (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not  CD        None
later than six months after the end of each such year the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, whether the
statements of expenditure, together with the procedures, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
(iv)                    (iv) furnish to the Bank such other infornation concerning said   C          None
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
U' 



Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                               Actual
Project Cycle
Staff Weeks                 US$
('000)
Preparation to appraisal           32.8                     60.9
Appraisal                          35.2                     69.7
Negotiation through
Board approval
Supervision*                       291.2                   550.5
Completion*                         4.4                      6.1
TOTAL                            363.6                    687.2
*Planned information is only available for FY96, FY97, and FY98, and comparison with actual is not meaningful.
26



Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
__________________   _________   ______                       ~R ating
Stage of        Month/   Number    Days              Specialized        Implementation
project cycle      year         of        in           staff skills            Status
persons    Field         represented
7/86        4         10
Through appraisal       5/87        6         14
9/87        5         21
Appraisal through       2/88         1        14
Board                   6/88        5         11
10/88        1         2
2/89        1         2
8/89        1                SPE
Board through           5/90        1         3
effectiveness           6/90        5                SPS,Ph, HP,     SPE,            2
PHS
4/91        5               A, SPE, AOO, PRS, PHS            3
Supervision             3/92        4                SU,AOO, A, Ph                   3
6/93        2               HP                               3
11/93       6                A, HP, PRS, PO                  3
3/94        3                HE, PO, DC                      2
6/94        5                DC,HE, HP,AOO, PRS
12/94       2                PO, HE                          S
4/95        4                PO, PRS, HE, Hpl                S
3/96        4               PRS, E, HE, Hpl                  S
6/96        3                HE, PRA, E                      S
6/97        2                HE, PRA                         U
Com pletion          _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
A=Architect
AOO=Asst. Operations Officer
DC=Division Chief
E=Engineer
HE=Health Economist
HP-Health & Population Specialist
HPI=Health Planner
Ph=Pharmacist
PHS=Public Health Specialist
PO=Project Officer
PRA=Procurement Analyst
PRS=Procurement Specialist
SPE=Sr. Project Economist
SPS=Sr. Population Specialist
SU=Surveyor
27






AIDE MEMiOIRE
NIGERIA: IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT (LN.3034-UNI)
World Bank Completion Mission
June 22-27, 1997
Introduction.
1.    A World Bank completion mission to the Imo Health and Population
project was undertaken from June 22 - 27, 1997 by Ms. Hong Chen (Procurement
Analyst) and Ms. Anne Okigbo (Operations Officer). Mrs. 0. Omosaiye from the
Federal Ministry of Health participated in the mission. The main objectives of the
mission were to assess the overall achievements and shortcomings of the project
through a review of the current status, impact, problems encountered,
sustainability/next steps and lessons learnt of each component of the project.
2.    The mission wishes to thank the Military Administrator of Imo State
Colonel. T.K. Zubairu for his support. Recognition is also due to the Project
Coordinator and her staff for the timely completion of the Project Completion
Report and to colleagues in the project coordinating unit for the many useful
reference materials provided.
Project Overview.
3.    The primary objective of the project was to improve access to basic health
care services to all communities in Imo State through the provision of (a)
renovation and construction of primarv health care centers and pharrnaceutical
stores; (b) training of health care providers of all cadres; (c) provision of safe and
affordable drugs and (d) to strengthen the state ministry of health institutional
capacity to plan and implement their policies for health, nutrition and family
planning.
PROJECT ACTIVITIES:
Civil Works.
4.    The mission was informed that all 63 primary health care centers planned
for renovations/constructions have been completed and are distributed in all the
21 local governnents. (LGAs). Similarly, construction of pharmaceutical stores
in each LGA have been completed. The mission visited the public health
laboratory which is 85% completed and is expected to be finished before June 30,
1997.



S.   Impact: The newly constructed maternity wards, staff quarters. hospital
beds and cots and trained personnel provided not onlv improved access to health
care services but also improved the quality of service delivery. Site visits were
conducted to 5 completed primary health care centers. The mission was pleased
to note that in one of the newly constructed 12 maternity facilities, all the beds
were occupied. With the provision of staff quarters. nurses/midwives now live on
the premises of the health centers. This has had the effect of (a) an increase in the
number of live-in health care providers and (b) increase in the number of patients
encouraging utilization of these facilities.
6.    Problems: Due to the slow take off of the project. undue emphasis was
placed on the civil works component to the detriment of service care delivery.
This was corrected in 1995 with the introduction of the Minimum Basic Health
package. A major problem has been that of matching grants expected to be paid
by the communities. At the time of project design, the exchange rate was N4.35
to the US$1. Due to the fluctuation of the exchange rate, the communities have to
pay more in Naira than originally calculated, and the communities are finding it
difficult to pay the revised amount. As a consequence, it has delayed the hand
over of the pharmaceutical stores by the project. Another problem has been the
minimal involvement of communities at the beginning of the civil works. The
mission was informed that communities would have liked to have been consulted
on the location of the health centers, involved in the bidding processes etc.
7.    Sustainability: Each LGA is responsible for the maintenance of their
respective primary health care centers and pharmaceutical stores. Committees
have been establishes in each LGA to monitor and supervise the PHCs and carry
out any essential repair work. A vote has been made out for this purpose.
Meetings are to be held regularly and minutes taken. Each committee has a set of
written instructions on their roles and responsibilities. The test of the success of
these committees would be how active and how far each takes up it's
responsibilities.
8.    Lessons Learnt: (a) the need to involve communities from the beginning
which will create a sense of ownership; (b) the need to re-examine the
requirements of community matching grants in cash; (c) the importance of
building into the project design, a component/mechanism for maintenance and (d)
the importance of good planning for civil works taking into account seasonality.
For instance, despite contract awards, it was not possible in some cases to
mobilize contractors due to the fact that the rainy season had just commenced.
This delayed work considerably.
9.    Next Steps: (a) The project unit in conjunction with the local
governments will request that professional engineers are seconded to the works
units in the LGA to further strengthen the unit. (b) The Petroleum Trust Fund
(PTF) is planning on constructing one health center in each LGA. The project
2



unit is working with them to direct them to place these in areas that do not have
any PHCs.
Training.
10.   A total of 13 staff from the State Ministry of Health and PCU have
benefited from overseas training while 1,240 health care providers of different
cadres have benefited from various local training.
11.  Impact:       The mission was informed that the overall training has
been very beneficial as the knowledge and skills learnt have been put to practical
use. The state adopted the training of trainers approach. which provided benefits
to more health workers at local levels. Technical skills acquired enabled the PHC
Coordinators develop strategies for PHC implementation.
12.   Problems Encountered - The selection of individuals for training courses
overseas was not always based on need. As such people who should have
benefited from this component did not receive adequate training. A second
difficulty was the lack of information about courses i.e. what was being offered
and the location. Post course reports which were to be sent to the Bank were not
submitted. Initially, there was no category in the Loan Agreement allocated for
local training. It had originally been expected that this training would be paid for
with local counterpart funds. The delays in receiving counterpart from the state
and federal governments delayed this activity considerable. This was rectified at
the MTR in 1995.
13.   Sustainability/Next Steps. As the training of public health laboratorians
was not undertaken during the project life, the PCU will contact other agencies to
solicit fund for this training. The consultants, ASPHALT will also be contacted
to inquire how they can be of assistance. Similarly, local training for junior cadre
of staff for the PHL will be sought locally with the assistance of the Federal
Ministry of Health. Local training will be continued using state funds. Funding
for foreign fellowships will similarly be sought from other donor agencies and
NGOs.
Imo State Essential Drugs (ISEDS).
14.  ISEDS is a semi-autonomous unit under the project established to procure,
distribute and set prices for essential drugs in the state.
15.  Institutional Sustainability: After the project closes June 30, 1997, ISEDS
will continue to operate as a semi-autonomous agency under the SMOH and will
continue to procure and distribute drugs for Imo State. As such they will report to
the Commissioner for Health in the state. ISEDS already has an independent
budgetary allocation from which it receives funds directly from the state
government.
3



16.   To further ensure its institutional sustainability. ISEDS will request the
state govenirnent to establish it as a parastatal. The mission was informed that
ISEDS already has Executive Council approval for its establishment as a separate
entity and thus all that would be required would be to obtain same approval for
an edict creating the agency as a parastatal.
17.  In terms of staffing, ISEDS requires an additional pharmnacist. The
mission was informed that there is a shortage of pharmacists in the public sector
and therefore suggested that a pharmacy technician if available be given on the
job training.
18.   Drug Revolving Fund: ISEDS will continue to provide drugs for the 27
LGAs in the state on a cash and carry basis. They will also sell to community
hospitals, NGOs, private practitioners through the Nigerian Medical Association,
the Health Management Board of the state, the police and tertiary institutions.
19.   Problems Encountered: The project faced constraints such as the
inadequate amount of liquidity of the LGA DRFs and frequent change of
executives who are signatories to the account at the LGA level. In order to isolate
drug service delivery from executive responsibility and to ensure the sanctity of
LGA funds and constant access to the account, it has been agreed that no elected
officer will be signatory to the account. The signatories are to be any of the
following two persons: head of the health department, treasurer of the local
govemnment or head of personnel.
20.   Also,
- Six of the newly created LGAs do not have the seed capital for a DRF
although all the operators have been trained. Agreement was reached with these
LGA chairmen that votes for health would be released to ensure the start off of the
DRFs.
- None of the pharnaceutical stores have been handed over to the
communitieslLGAs because some have not paid up their matching grants in full
and others have not collected the keys. The mission stressed the urgency of
handing these stores over as drugs are shortly expected and would need to be
safely stored.
- The mission learnt that some of the LGAs have lost a considerable
amount of money which had been placed in now distressed banks.
- Finally, there has been a large influx of PTF drugs into the LGAs which
were found to be inappropriate to the state. These have been retumed to the PTF.
21.   Lessons Learnt. The use of ICB as a procurement method assures cost
effective, safe and affordable drugs when procuring in bulk. However, because of
4



the length of time it takes from advertisement to shipment. there should be a better
planning of a mix of procurement methods. The use of ICB has offered exposure
to the international drug market which has proved to be useful knowledge.
22.   Next Steps: (a) Request the state government to pass edict establishing
ISEDS as a parastatal: (b) Request the SMOH to second a pharmacist or
alternatively, train a pharmacy technician: and. (c) To enable ISEDS continue to
procure through ICB. they will need to change Naira into international currency
for payments. ISEDS will seek the advice of the Federal Ministrv of Finance in
support of this endeavor.
Mfinimum Basic Health Package.
23.   A Minimum Basic Health Care Package was introduced and developed in
3 LGAs. These were modified to suit the requirements of each LGA. The
introduction of the package was combined with intensive training of the village
health workers and traditional birth attendants to ensure understanding of the
package. Kits for these cadres of health worklers were provided and tits use was
demonstrated during the training. It is intended that this package will be
introduced in all the LGAs in the state.
Sustainability of Project Activities - Thze Project Coordinating Unit.
24.   The project coordinating unit's status as a World Bank assisted project
unit will cease June 30, 1997. Proposals will be made to government to maintain
the project unit as a secretariat. Terms of Reference have been drawn up for the
proposed secretariat as well as its workplans- As the formulators of the Basic
Minimum Health Package, the secretariat will work with the SMOH and LGAs to
implement the package in all LGAs. They intend to continue to monitor the
implementation PHC activities, conduct local training, perform community
mobilization activities, ensure the distribution of medical equipment and supplies
as well as sourcing for external funding for PHC activities for the state from other
donors and liaison with the private sector interested in health issues.
25.   Funding for the secretariat is expected to come from the state government
and will be sought from the PTF, FMOH, FMOF and National Planning
Commission with whom this has already been discussed. To generate revenue,
the secretariat will contract out its services in areas of specialization.
Immediate Next Steps:
26.  (a) PHL: The PCU will work with the SMOH and immnediately identify
the staff to be seconded to the laboratory. They will also identify those that
require local training and source the appropriate courses for them. They will also
identify the higher level cadre of staff for overseas training. The technical
committee working on the establishment of the PHL had recommended that the
5



PHL be established as a parastatal. The PCU is to work with the committee
towards the final status of the PHL. The PCU will contact the consultants
ASPHALT to inquire if there are any alternative sources of funding available to
complete the consultancy on the installation of equipment as well as studies
proposed.
27.  (b) Distribution of medical equipment: The equipment meant for the
PHCs have yet to be distributed. It was agreed that this would commence
immediately. The PCU is to ensure the timely distribution of these equipment.
28.  (c) LGA Stores: The completed pharmaceutical stores is yet to be handed
over to the LGAs. This is to be done immediately and the PCU will ensure the
handing over.
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE MILITARY ADMINISTRATOR AND
AGREEMENTS REACHED.
29.  (a) Distribution of equipment. The mission stressed the urgency of
distributing the equipment purchased for the PHCs before June 30th. This
equipment was apparently not distributed due to the ongoing investigation into the
theft of some of the equipment. The Military Administrator assured the mission
that this would be done immediately.
30.  (b) Handing over of the LGA pharmaceutical stores to the respective
LGAs. Similarly, LGA pharm stores have not been handed over to the LGAs
because some of the LGAs have been unable to pay up their matching grants. The
mission again stressed the importance of having a functional store to house the
drugs expected to arrive shortly. The mission requested the state government to
hand these stores over to the LGAs. On the issue of matching grants, the mission
explained that when the project was designed, the matching grants of 10% at the
exchange rate in 1988 was far below what it is today. The mission suggested that
the matching grant contribution be reduced and allowance made for the LGAs to
pay installments or devise other means for LGAs to pay in kind. The Militarv
Administrator assured the mission that the process of handing over the stores
would also begin immediately.
31.  (c) Counterpart Contribution. The state government's counterpart
contribution which is deducted at source monthly terminated December 1996
when the project was due to close. However, the project was extended for an
additional 6 months but the counterpart was not renewed. The Military
Administrator said he would ensure that the money owed to the project from
December 1996 to June 1997 was paid.
32.   d) ISEDS. The mission informed the Military Administrator that ISEDS
will be seeking the status of a parastal for institutional stability. It already has an
6



Executive Council Memo establishing it as an autonomous body and receives a
direct budgetary allocation from the government.
33.   e) PCU Secretariat. The mission informed the Military Administrator that
he would shortly be receiving a detailed memo from the PCU proposing the
retention of the PCU as an entity to continue the work not completed by the
project. Terns of Reference and work programme will be attached. The Military
Administrator was informed of the importance of the project to sustain the efforts
already achieved by under the project and would look favorably at the proposal.
7



AIDE AfEMOIRE
NIGERIA: ABIA HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT (LN.3034-UNI)
World Bank Completion Mission
June 22-27, 1997
Introduction.
1.    A World Bank completion mission to the Imo Health and Population
project was undertaken from June 22 - 27, 1997 by Ms. Hong Chen (Procurement
Analyst) and Ms. Anne Okigbo (Operations Officer). Mrs. 0. Omosaiye from the
Federal Ministry of Health participated in the mission. The main objectives of the
mission were to assess the overall achievements and shortcomings of the project
through a review of the current status, impact, problems encountered,
sustainability/next steps and lessons learnt of each component of the project.
2.    The mission wishes to thank the Military Administrator of Abia State
Colonel. M.O. Fasanya and all staff of the project coordinating unit for their
support.
Project Overview.
3.    The primary objective of the project was to provide access to basic health
care services to all communities in Abia State through the provision of (a)
renovation and construction of primary health care centers and pharmaceutical
stores; (b) training of health care providers of all cadres; (c) provision of safe and
affordable drugs and (d) to strengthen the state ministry of health institutional
capacity to plan and implement their policies for health, nutrition and farnily
planning.
PROJECT ACTIVITIES:
Cvil Works.
4.    The mission was informed that all civil works have been completed. A
total of 56 primary health care centers planned for renovations/constructions have
been completed and are distributed in all the 17 local governments. Similarly, 14
pharmaceutical stores in each of the old LGAs have been built. The PCU
building, the central pharmaceutical store, and inflammable drug store have been
finished and are now in use.
S.   Impact: The main project inputs under this component - newly constructed
matemity wards, staff quarters, hospital beds and cots, and trained personnel
provided not only improved access to health care services but also improved the



quality of service delivery. With the provision of staff quarters, nurses/midwives
now live on the premises of the health centers. This has had the effect of: (a) an
increase in the number of live-in health care providers, and (b) an increase in the
number of patients encouraging utilization of these facilities.
6.    Problems: It was found that undue emphasis was placed on the civil
works component to the detriment of service care delivery. This was corrected in
1995 with the introduction of the Minimum Basic Health Care package. A major
problem has been that some of the health centers are not fenced. The mission
urged the state to fund the fencing of these facilities and improve its security,
because lack of security was given as the reason that these facilities have not been
handed over to the communities. Inflation led to delays in completing renovations
as contractors were seeking variations. This was dealt with in 1995 by a World
Bank mission. Contractors and project staff complained of long payment delays
using the direct payment method. The mission explained that these delays were
often not from the Bank's side but had frequently been found to be the result of
delays in informing suppliers banks by the Central Bank. Another problem has
been the minimal involvement of communities at the beginning of the civil
works. The mission was informed that communities would have liked to have
been consulted on the location of the health centers, involved in the bidding
processes etc.
7.    Sustainabilit/Next Steps: The Military Administration is interested in
sustaining the programme. As such, counterpart will continue to be paid till
December 1997. The mission was informed that there is interest to fence the
already constructed facilities pending the availability of funds. The project unit
would also like to construct LGA pharmaceutical stores in the 4 newly created
LGAs. Communities are to be mobilized to maintain the facilities through the
establishment of community committees.
8.    Lessons Learnt: (a) the NCB procurement method for civil works
resulted in good prices; (b) there is need to involve communities from the
beginning which would create a sense of ownership.
Training.
9.    A total of 11 staff from the State Ministry of Health and PCU have
benefited from overseas training while local training was provided for various
cadres of health care providers.
10.  Impact:       The mission was informed that the overall impact has
been very beneficial as the knowledge and skills learnt have been put to practical
use. The local training created awareness and health care providers who
benefited from the initial training have subsequently been used as resource
persons for other training.
2



11.   Problems Encountered - The selection of individuals for training courses
overseas was not always based on need. As such people who should have
benefited from this component did not receive adequate training. A second
difficulty was the lack of information about courses i.e. what was being offered
and the location. The local in house computer training proved not very useful as
there were no computers to practice on afterwards.
Abia State Essential Drugs (ASEDS).
12.  Institutional Sustainability: ASEDS is currently under the project and the
Director reports to the Project Coordinator. After the project closes June 30,
1997, the mission was informed that there were no plans to make separate
arrangements for ASEDS. The mission reminded the PCU staff that ASEDS was
designed to be a semi-autonomous body that would out live the project and as
such, the state would have to decide what the status of ASEDS would be and
informn the Bank. Agreement was not reached on whether ASEDS should be
established as a parastatal or a division in the SMOH.
13.   Drug Revolving Fund: A DRF has been established in all LGAs who are
expected to buy from ASEDS on a cash and carry basis. These have not been
tested yet as drugs are just arriving.
14.   Problems Encountered. The mission was informed that the LGA
pharmaceutical stores have not been handed over to the LGAs because they do not
want the LGA to use these to store the PTF drugs. The mission reiterated that
these stores are meant for drug storage from any source and belong to the LGAs
once completed. The mission urged that these stores be handed over immediately.
As the project has not received any drugs, the HMB currently buys it's drugs from
the private sector.
15.   Lessons Learnt. The use of ICB as a procurement method assures cost
effective, safe and affordable drugs when procuring in bulk. The use of ICB has
offered exposure to the international drug market which has proved to be useful
knowledge. However, because of the length of time it takes from advertisement
to shipment, there should be a better planning in the mix of procurement methods.
Minimum Basic Health Package.
16.   A minimum basic health care package was developed and introduced in all
17 LGAs instead of 9 LGAs as original planned. The packages were modified to
suit the requirements of each LGA. The introduction of the package was
combined with intensive training of the village health workers and traditional
birth attendants to ensure better use of the package.
17.   Problems Encountered: There has been irregular supervision from the
SMOH due to transport difficulties. There is an inadequate level of manpower for
3



the health facilities. Currently, there is an embargo on the emplovment of higher
level cadre of staff. The mission was also informed that there is a high attrition
rate as some of the women trained at the lower level quit their jobs after getting
married.
18.   Next Steps: 1). The handing over of all facilities and pharmnaceutical
stores. 2). Meetings with the LG/PHC Coordinators to assess the PHC system
development. 3). Develop a plan to organize more training for the PHC
coordinators to implement the various minimum basic health packages. 4). The
establishment of a disease surveillance and notification system.
Sustainability of Project Activities -The Project Coordinating Unit.
19.   The project coordinating unit's status as a World Bank assisted project
unit will cease June 30, 1997. Proposals will be made to government to maintain
the project unit as a secretariat for an extra 2 years. The mission was informed that
the secretariat would liaise with the SMOH to ensure the smooth running of the
facilities constructed as well as liaise with the local communities to ensure the
maintenance of the facilities. Funding will be sought primarily from the state
govermnent and it is expected that the Project Coordinator will report directly to
the Military Administrator.
20.  Immediate Next Steps: 1). The PCU will immediately hand over the
health facilities and LGA pharmaceutical stores to their respective communities.
Equipment and vehicles purchased will also be immediately distributed . 2). The
Project Completion Report should be sent to the Bank before June 30, 1997.
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE MILITARY ADMINISTRATOR AND
AGREEMENTS REACHED.
21.   The Military Administrator in Abia State commended the efforts
undertaken by the project so far and requested the Bank for an additional 12
month extension. The Bank informed the Military Administrator that this could
not be given due to various reasons.
22.  (a) ASEDS. The mission requested the Military Administrator to look
into the sustainability of ASEDS by ensuring its creation as an autonomous entity.
23.  (b) Distribution of vehicles/equipment. The mission strongly urged that
the vehicles and equipment meant for the LGAs are distributed before June 30th.
The mission was assured that these would be done before the closing date.
24.  (c) Handing over of PHCs and LGA pharmaceutical stores. The mission
requested the Military Administrator that the PHCs as well as the LGA stores
were meant to be built for the communities and therefore they should be handed
over to the them immediately to enable the communities have access to basic
4



health care which is the primary objective of the project. The Military
Administrator informed the mission that this would be done.
25.  (d) Matching grants. The mission brought up the issue of matching grants
to be paid by LGAs and communities. The mission explained that when the
project was designed, the matching grants of 10% using the exchange rate in 1988
was far below what it is today. The mission suggested that the matching grant
contribution be reduced and allowance made for the LGAs to pay installments or
devise other means for the local communities to pay in kind. The Military
Administrator assured the mission that he would follow up with this issue.
26.  (e) Fencing. Some of the health facilities are not fenced and to ensure the
safety of the staff and equipment, the mission strongly urged the state governnent
to provide the necessary funds for the construction of fencing for those facilities
that require this.
5



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
IMO HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT'S REPORTS*
As a result of the sharp decline in oil revenue in Nigeria in the 1980s, the Government was forced to
cut back or abandon many of the Health programs which were started during the oil boom of the
1970s. The project under review was identified through a Structural Adjustment Program. Its aim
was to improve health care delivery by emphasizing efficiency in the health sector, cutting off
unnecessary expansion of health services, and mobilizing additional resources through cost recovery.
The proposed project was to serve as a part of a coordinated package of financing and technical
assistance to the Nigerian population and health sectors. The overall objective of the project was to
assist the Government in improving the health and nutritional status of the population and to provide
them with voluntary family planning services. Specific objectives included: (i) to assist in the State
and Local Government institutional development and the financial capacity to plan, implement,
monitor and evaluate health policies and programs; (ii) to assist the Govermment in the improvement
of the quality and effectiveness of community-based primary health care activities; and (iii) to assist
the FMOH's programs which support the state and LGA in the development of strategies and plans of
action to implement the national health and population policies, and to prepare health, population and
nutrition projects for internal and external financing.
In summarizing the completion of the Imo Health Project, the Government reports (Federal, Abia,
and Imo) give positive reviews of the overall implementation of the project, and rated the project as
"satisfactory". All parties are confident of the sustainability of the progress attained, and report that
the project has aided in reaching the national goal of good health for all by the year 2000.
Quantitative progress reports on reaching project objectives range from 54.4% in Imo State to 75% in
Abia Sate. However, all reports note the short timeframe of the project as one hurdle to full project
implementation. The reports differ on their view of the complexity of the project, with two citing its
complexities, and the other (Abia) stating that the project objectives "were neither complex, nor
risky".
Other common difficulties included:
* Bureaucratic delays within the country which were often linked to changes in Government and/or
policies leading to "undue delays in obtaining approvals for the implementation of articulated
programs in the project".
*  Lack of anticipated funding at the local and Federal levels--local funding was, until very recently,
non-existent in some states and the Federal Government contributed less than 3% of its expected
counterpart funds. Some of this shortage may be linked to drastic changes in the foreign
exchange rates; at project onset the rate was 4 Naira to the Dollar, at project completion it was 80
Naira to the Dollar.
*  Procurement delays due, in part, to a lack of understanding of procurement guidelines of the
World Bank, and, in part to the appointment, at the insistence of the Bank, of a crown agent as
the sole procurement agency for both states.
In evaluating the World Bank's performance, a mixed message can be drawn from the reports. On
one hand, the Federal report states that the Bank officials were "impressed with what they saw" and
* Full reports are available in the Africa infornation Services Center.



all three reports state that the Bank's preparation, supervision, and performance was at least
"satisfactory". However, all reports were extremely critical of the Bank's ICB procurement policies
and their impact on the outcome of the project, with one report calling for a review of the
procurement procedures by the Bank and more decision-making authority for the Bank's local
representative. Another hindrance to the successful completion of the project was the frequent
change in the Bank's Task Manager, which hampered timely and effective project implementation.
Borrower performance also gives a mixed message: The states rate themselves and the implementing
agencies' performance as "satisfactory" while the Federal Govermuent's performance is rated as "not
very satisfactory" due to the difficulties in complying with its counterpart fund contribution. As for
the Federal Government's report, it is less critical of its performance and insists on its assistance in
overcoming obstacles to project implementation.
Project achievements include:
*  Strengthened drug supply and distribution system and the establishment of an Essential Drugs
List and Drug Revolving Fund.
*  Personnel training and development which has led to enhanced service delivery and community
participation.
*  Construction and rehabilitation of some health facilities, including equipment and materials, has
restored user confidence.
*  Capacity building at the state Ministries of Health.
*  Establishment of Population and Family Planning Programs.
*  Support for community-based PHC activities.
*  Improving cost recovery in the Health Sector.
Key lessons learned are summarized below.
ABIA
. Early community mobilization must be encouraged in the future.
*  Intensive IEC Programs should be encouraged.
*  Bureaucratic bottlenecks must be drastically curtailed.
*  The use of procurement consultants must be de-emphasized in future.
IMO
*  Reviews help to assess the progress and identify bottlenecks...and will ensure better fund
utilization and time over-runs.
*  Community/private participation is encouraged at every stage.
*  Organize short-term seminars and workshops to emphasize the potential benefits of sound project
execution.
* Prudency and accountability in the management of resources irrespective of source.
* Accord the management of internationally financed projects sufficient latitude to operate devoid
of undue influences.
*  Administrative support plan is very essential for effective completion of a project.
*  Each party should demonstrate a measure of flexibility during project implementation while not
breaching the provisions of the agreement already entered into.
*  Stage payment method should be retained and strictly adhered to.
*  Use of competitive bidding is recommended for adoption by the Local, State, and Federal
Govermnent.
*  Training improved the job performance of the beneficiary and manpower development of the
State.



FEDERAL
*  Provision of supervisory and technical assistance in the form of training, development and duty
exemption waivers helped in increasing high level of achievement.
*  Timely payment of contracts would have reduced the constant requests for price adjustments
which resulted in delays.
*  Expeditious disbursement by the Bank in future projects will remove delays.
*  ICB procedure should be reviewed to be more flexible; the limit of local shopping should be
increased to allow the project to benefit from many items which, if procured locally, would have
been more cost effective.
*  The use of one ICB procurement agent did not prove beneficial and should be avoided in the
future.
*  Annual work plan preparation and one-time approval aided timely implementation.
* Joint Bank/Government supervision missions proved highly beneficial.



