Page  1
                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3034 UNI
                (Imo Health and Population Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                       IMO STATE OF NIGERIA
                         Dated May 2, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3034 UNI
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 2,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Imo STATE OF NIGERIA
(Imo State).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Federal Republic of  Nigeria  (the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to  twenty seven million six hundred
thousand dollars ($27,600,000),  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but  only on condition that Imo State
agrees to undertake such  obligations  toward  the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower  and  Imo  State,  the  proceeds  of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement  will be relent to Imo State
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS Imo State,  in  consideration  of the Bank's entering
Page  2
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Imo  State  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and,  to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part  A of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial,  public health management,
nutrition and family  planning  practices,  and  shall provide, or
cause to be provided,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a)  of  this  Section,  Imo  State  shall:  (i) under a
specific  sub-head  of  estimate  in  its  budget  provide amounts
sufficient to cover  Imo  State's  counterpart contribution to the
costs of Part  A  of  the  Project;  (ii)  open  and maintain in a
commercial bank a project account  (the Imo State Project Account)
to be used exclusively  to  meet  expenditures  for  Part A of the
Project; (iii) pay into the  Imo  State Project Account an initial
amount of  $100,000  equivalent;  and  (iv)  issue, and thereafter
maintain during the course of the Project, written instructions to
the Central Bank of Nigeria  to  pay, from amounts standing to the
credit of Imo State at  the  Central  Bank of Nigeria into the Imo
State Project  Account,  on  a  monthly  basis  one-twelfth of Imo
State's counterpart contribution to  the  costs  of  Part A of the
Project as assessed on the  basis  of the annual financial plan of
Imo State's Ministry of Health (SMOH).
     (c)  Imo State shall maintain  the Imo State Interministerial
Project Steering Committee  (PSC),  the Imo State Interministerial
Coordinating Committee  (ICC)  and  the  Imo  State Health Finance
Steering Committee  (HFSC),  each  in  a  form  and with functions
satisfactory to the Bank.
     (d)  PSC's  membership   shall   include:   (i)  Imo  State's
Commissioner of Health  as  chairman,  (ii)  the Director Generals
of Imo State's  Ministry  of  Health  (SMOH)  and  the Ministry of
Finance and Economic  Planning,  (iii)  a  representative of local
governments,  (iv)  a  representative  of  the  Secretary  to  the
Military Government and  Head  of  Service  of  Imo State, (v) the
Project Coordinator,  and  (vi)  a  representative  of the Federal
Ministry  of  Health.   ICC   and   HFSC   shall  have  membership
satisfactory to the Bank.
     (e)  Imo State  shall  establish  and  thereafter  maintain a
Project Coordination  Unit  (PCU)  in  a  form  and with functions
satisfactory to the  Bank.  PCU's  staff  shall  include a Project
Coordinator, an  architect,  a  community  development  officer, a
senior accountant and  an  adequate  number  of support staff. PCU
shall (i) oversee the  day  to  day  carrying  out, and the proper
coordination, of the various components  of Part A of the Project;
and (ii) be responsible  for  (A)  the preparation and review with
the Bank of  an  annual  work  plan  for  Part  A  of the Project,
(B) assisting SMOH in  the  preparation  and  review of the annual
financial plan for the health  sector,  (C) submission to the Bank
of quarterly reports on progress made under Part A of the Project,
Page  3
and (D) the preparation of withdrawal applications and maintenance
of project accounts under Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 2.03. Imo State  shall  carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04. Imo State  shall  duly  perform all its obliga-
tions under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Imo State  shall  not take or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  Imo  State  shall,  at  the request of the
Borrower or the Bank,  exchange  views  with  the Borrower and the
Bank with regard to  progress  of  the Project, the performance of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Imo State shall  promptly  inform  the  Borrower and the
Bank of any condition  which  interferes or threatens to interfere
with the  progress  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment  of the
purposes of the  Loan,  or  the  performance  by  Imo State of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Imo State shall carry out the actions described
in Schedule 2 to this  Agreement  to the satisfaction of the Bank,
said Schedule being subject to  modification  from time to time by
agreement between Imo State and the Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Imo State  shall  with respect to Part A of
the Project maintain or  cause  to  be maintained separate records
and  accounts  adequate  to   reflect  in  accordance  with  sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  Imo State shall:
          (i)  have the accounts and  records referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year: (A)  certified copies of its finan-
               cial statements for  such  year  as so audited, and
               (B) the report of  such  audit  by said auditors of
               such scope and  in  such  detail  as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  4
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made  for  Part A of the Project on the
basis of statements of expenditure, Imo State shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section  and  that  the  report  of  such audit
              contains a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during such fiscal  year,  together  with the proce-
              dures  and  internal   controls  involved  in  their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Imo State thereunder  shall  terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify Imo State thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
Page  5
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Imo State:
          The Director General
          Ministry of Health
          PMB 1123
          Owerri, Imo State
          Nigeria
          Cable address:
               MINHEALTH
               Owerri
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Imo State, or by Imo State on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
Director General,  Ministry  of  Health  or  such  other person or
persons as Imo State  shall  designate  in  writing, and Imo State
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    IMO STATE OF NIGERIA
                    By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders of the works included  in  Part  A of the Project and
supplies of essential drugs under  said  Part of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Page  6
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to  cost  an  amount  equivalent to less than
$200,000 but more than  $50,000  per  contract, up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding $2,500,000  equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Goods estimated to cost  an  amount  equivalent to $50,000 or
less  per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not exceeding
$500,000 equivalent, may  be  procured  under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.   For the purpose  of  standardization  additional equipment or
items of  spare  parts  and  accessories  compatible with existing
equipment may be purchased by direct contracting from the original
supplier of such existing  equipment  in accordance with paragraph
3.5 (b) of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to  cost an
amount equivalent to $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are  to  be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant  to  paragraph  2  (d)  of  said  Appendix  shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding subparagraph, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to  be  made  out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agree-
ment.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  7
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower and Imo State in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower  and  Imo State shall employ consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                Actions Required under Section 2.06
A.   PHC Support Facilities
     Imo State shall  within  three  months  of the Effective Date
reorganize SMOH's Public Health  Division in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
B.   Health Sector Financial Plan
     Imo State shall as from June 30, 1989 and until completion of
the Project review with the Bank  by June 30 each year Imo State's
financial plan for the health sector.
C.   Essential Drugs
(1)  Imo State shall, until  the  completion  of the Project, each
year: (i) prepare and furnish to the  Bank no later than June 30 a
price list  for  essential  drugs  satisfactory  to  the Bank, and
(ii) publish a schedule  of  drug  prices which shall be uniformly
charged for  drugs  supplied  to  patients  at  all  public health
facilities of Imo State. Imo State shall set essential drug prices
at a level that will allow for full recovery by Imo State.
(2)  Imo State's list of essential  drugs shall be agreed with the
Bank and, except in cases of  extreme urgency, the contents of the
said list shall not be varied more than once every year.
D.   Hospital, Primary Care Facilities and User Fees
(1)  Imo State shall by January  1,  1992: (i)  recover, and cause
the local government authorities to  recover  at least: (A) 26% of
recurrent costs (excluding cost  of  drugs) for all hospitals, and
(B) 16% of said costs  for  all  primary health care facilities of
Imo State and the local government authorities; and (ii) limit (A)
its wage costs to not more  than  65% of the said recurrent costs,
and (B) its non-wage costs to  not less than 35% of such recurrent
costs.
(2)  Imo State shall within  6  months  of  the Effective Date and
until completion of  the  Project,  take  all  action necessary to
retain, or  cause  to  be  retained,  at  the  point  or points of
collection at least 65% of the fees collected for health services.
The fees so retained shall  be  used to procure non-wage goods and
services  required  for  the  hospitals  and  primary  health care
facilities.
E.   State Population Council and Population Program
(1)  Imo State shall appoint  the  head  of the Secretariat of the
State Population Council to be established under Part A (4) (A) of
the Project no later than three months after the Effective Date.
(2)  Imo State shall prepare and furnish to the Bank no later than
nine months after the  Effective  Date  a state population program
satisfactory to the Bank.
F.   Staffing Plan
Page  8
     Imo State shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank no later
than six months after the  Effective Date an overall staffing plan
for public health facilities satisfactory  to the Bank; (ii) staff
all primary health care facilities in accordance with the standard
staffing  pattern  required  under  the  said  staffing  plan; and
(iii) review with the Bank  annually progress made in the carrying
out of the said plan.
