Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18095
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAI, ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit No. 232 1-MOG
June 29, 1998
South East Asia and Mongolia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =  Tugriks
US$1.00           =  Tug 40 (September 1991)
US$1.00           =  Tug 819.52 (May 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -  Asian Development Bank
BOM         -  Bank of Mongolia
CGA         -  Customs General Administration
CMEA        -  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
GTZ         -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit
MOF         -  Ministry of Finance
MOJ         -  Ministry of Justice
MOP         -  Memorandum of the President
MTI         -  Ministry of Trade and Industry
NDB         -  National Development Board
PHRD        -  Japanese Population and Human Resources
Development Fund
SSO         -  State Statistical Office
TA          -  Technical assistance
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Program
UNOPS       -  UN Office of Project Services
USAID       -  United States Agency for International
Development
Vice President:        Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director:               Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Task Manager:           Natasha Beschorner, EACSM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................. O .i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTA'TION ASSESSMENT .1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT 0]3JECTIVES            .2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ... 4
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                       7
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.                                         7
F. IDA PERFORMANCE.                                              8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME.                                        9
H. FUTURE OPERATION .10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessmrents .12
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
TABLE 3: Project Timetable .13
TABLE 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual . 14
TABLE 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
TABLE 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .14
TABLE 7: Studies Included in Project .15
TABLE 8a: Project Costs .17
TABLE 8b: Project Financing .17
TABLE 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .17
TABLE 1O: Status of Legal Covenants .18
TABLE 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .19
TABLE 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .19
TABLE 13: Bank Resources: Missions .20
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTR1[BUTION TO THE ICR .21
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE M[EMOIRE .29
ANNEX C: SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT .30
ANNEX D: JAPANESE PHRD GRANT .38
ANNEX E: UNOPS: SERVICES PROVIDED UNDER THE
MANAGEMENT SERVIiCES AGREEMENT .40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.         -_                  -     _.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2321-MOG
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Assistance
Credit Project in Mongolia, for which Credit No.2321-MOG in the amount of SDR3.7
million (US$ 5.0 million equivalent) was approved on December 19, 1991 and made
effective on March 12, 1992.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997, 18 months beyond the date
originally envisaged, i.e., June 30, 1996. Final disbursement took place on March 20,
1998. Upon recovery of US$2,425.00 firom the Special Account, US$ 260, 272.87 will
be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Carolyn Meyer Johnson, EACSM, and reviewed by
Guy Darlan, Acting Director, EASCM. The Borrower provided comments that are
included as an annex to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR 'by reviewing the draft and preparing its own
contribution to the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. 2321-MOG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
(i)     The objectives of the project were (a) to help Mongolia develop its institutional
capacity for macroeconomic management in its transition to a market economic system;
and (b) to help define strategies for sectors/subsectors key to Mongolia's economic
development, and demonstrate or confirm the feasibility of selected public investments.
Implementation Experience
(ii)    Implementation progress was generally satisfactory, but erratic, throughout the
project period. The enthusiasm of the government officials was evident. However, there
were a number of key issues which affected overall implementation. For a first project in
a country of such weak implementation capacity, the project design was too complex, and
the expected outcomes were too ambitious. Implementation arrangements for the project
were complicated and administration of funds differed according to their source. There
were seven beneficiary agencies, each responsible for implementing the IDA-financed
activities within their own agency, coordinated by the Ministry of Finance. Portions of
the IDA credit was administered by the UN Office of Project Services (UNOPS) and by
the IMF. UNDP and Japan were cofinanciers. The amount of coordination necessary to
implement these arrangements was underestimated, and required highly intensive
supervision efforts on the part of the Mlinistry of Finance and IDA. Management of the
project was uneven, mostly as a result of the frequent turnover of the project coordinator
in the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and a major reorganization of governmental agencies.
Technical assistance increased as Mongolia began to move toward a market economy,
and as support from the former Soviet Union and the Council for Mutual Economic
Assistance (CMEA) waned. This resulted in the overtaxing of the Government's ability
to carry out its role as coordinator of grant funds and led to a lack of coordination in the
placement of expatriate advisors, which was a matter of concern to Government and IDA,
given their joint interest in using the funds efficiently and in view of the Government's
limited absorptive capacity.



- ii -
Achievement of Development Objectives
In spite of implementation/management problems, the project substantially met its
development objectives. It has contributed to developing the institutional capacity of the
core ministries and agencies of the Government. Provision of short and long-term
advisory services to staff in the beneficiary agencies, particularly to the MOF, Bank of
Mongolia (BOM), State Statistical Office (SSO), and National Development Board
(NDB) has contributed transfer of skills and facilitated the development of indirect
macroeconomic management. Locally based training courses and seminars have reached
a wide audience of high-level professional and technical staff. Overseas training in
international trade, foreign investment, budget planning, national accounts, project
management and coordination have met the evolving developmental priorities of the
Government. All of these components have been aimed at improving government
capacity, but it is not possible to measure in the short term exactly to what extent
macroeconomic management has been strengthened as a direct result of the project.
Developing institutional capacity for macroeconomic management is a long term goal,
and subsequent IDA projects are continuing to help the Government to move toward its
fulfillment. On the sectoral side, the project financed the preparation of sector studies on
mining and environmental impact of oil production on the existing fields, agriculture,
environment, housing, petroleum and accountancy development. The studies were
successful in helping to lay the technical, institutional and legal strategic foundation for
development of priority sectors in Mongolia. The studies have also provided a guide to
help the Government define its public sector involvement, and foster the development of
the private sector.
Sustainability
(iv)     Sustainability of the project is likely.  The project concentrated on the
development of sustainable skills and capacity, and the forrnulation of viable sector
strategies. Institutional strengthening of all beneficiary agencies will have a permanent
effect on the capacity to design and implement development programs. The project has
supported the efforts of the Government to move from a centrally planned system to a
market-based system, and it appears that the Government will keep moving in that
direction. The Fiscal Technical Assistance Project approved June 2, 1998 will continue
to support the Government's efforts to increase its efficiency and accountability.
Findings and Lessons Learned
(v)     There are significant lessons to be learned from this project, which was one of
the two Mongolia projects presented to the Board on December 19, 1991. First,
government commitment is central to implementation success. The enthusiasm of the
Government proved to be a critical factor when project objectives were met. However,
when the agencies concerned did not consider the advisory service relevant to their needs,
implementation was less successful. Second, the coordination of technical assistance
efforts by a central ministry is essential where a number of beneficiary agencies are



- 111 -
involved. Difficulties arise when turnover in project coordinators is frequent, or when the
post is vacant for a period of time. Third, the capacity of the Borrower must be taken into
account. Umbrella-type projects require careful assessment of the Borrower's capacity to
implement. Also, the involvement of many international agencies may make project-
related budget plans too complicated for the capacity of the borrowing country. Finally,
while reliance on agencies to make their own work plans makes the process demand-
driven and participatory, it may not always be appropriate or relevant for fulfilling the
objectives of project.



IMPLEMENTATIOPN COMPLETION REPORT
MCONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASiSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. :2321-MOG)
PROJECT IMPLEM]ENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    From 1924 to 1990 Mongolia's political structure and economic development
were influenced by its close relationship with the former USSR. It developed a centrally
planned economy, and remained in virtual isolation from the international community.
Political and economic reforms initiatecl in the second half of the 1980s culminated in
Mongolia's first multi-party elections in July 1990, followed by the formation of a
reformist coalition government that was determined to construct a market oriented
economy. The Government began to move ahead with comprehensive reforms as quickly
as possible. As aid from USSR and its iformer CMEA partners was abruptly terminated,
the Government became cognizant of the need for funding and advice from the
international community, and to develop the capacity to plan and implement
comprehensive reforms under a new economic framework. The Government therefore
requested technical advice and assistance from IDA during IDA's first reconnaissance
mission to Mongolia in late 1990. The project was developed as a result of this request.
Subsequently, Mongolia joined the Bank Group in February 1991.
2.    The Technical Assistance Project was the first IDA credit for Mongolia; it was
approved by the Board on December 19, 1991.
3.    The total project cost was US$6.8m.  The IDA credit provided SDR 3.7m
(US$5.0m equivalent). Additional cofinancing was secured for project implementation in
the form of a grant from the Government of Japan for Y 170.1 m (US$1.2m equivalent), a
grant from UNDP of $300,000, and a Government contribution of $350,000 in kind. In
addition, a grant from the Japanese Population and Human Resources Development Fund
(PHRD) for Y33.7m (US$250,000 equivalent) was obtained in 1991 for project
preparation.
Project Objectives
4.    The objectives of the project were: (a) to help Mongolia develop its institutional
capacity for macroeconomic management in its transition to a market economy; and (b)
to help define strategies for sectors/subsectors key to Mongolia's economic development,
and, as appropriate, demonstrate or confirm the feasibility of selected public investments.



-2 -
5.    The project was conceived as an umbrella-type operation. It provided flexibility to
meet the changing needs of the Government during its reform and had two components.
The first component provided advisory services, training and equipment to support the
Government's efforts to develop a market-oriented macroeconomic management
capability by selected interventions designed to strengthen the institutional capacity in
seven key ministries/agencies charged with economic management in Mongolia, i.e.,
MOF, Customs General Administration (CGA), BOM, NDB, Ministry of Trade and
Industry (MTI), SSO, and Ministry of Justice (MOJ). Funds for activities were to be
allocated to each ministry on the basis of annual work programs to be prepared by each
agency and coordinated by the Ministry of Finance, providing flexibility to change
according to changing priorities.
6.    The second component provided for strategic studies in sectors which were key to
long-term economic development, and for feasibility studies for public investments.
Flexibility was provided for adding studies as sector strategies were developed under the
strategic studies. At the time of appraisal, five key sectors were tentatively identified:
mining and minerals, education, electric power, transport and health. Four other major
studies were identified: (a) expenditure study in education and science; (b) power sector
master plan review; (c) transport study; and (d) livestock sector review. The project also
included five small reform-oriented studies relating to energy policy; coal pricing;
petroleum demand and supply; agricultural supply and distribution; and export promotion
and development.
7.   Impact Indicators. While Schedule 1 to the MOP provided the expected
results/impacts for each project activity, key performance indicators were not included as
this was not the standard practice at the time of appraisal. By virtue of its closing date, the
project was not required to be retrofitted.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
8.    Despite implementation and management problems, the project substantially
achieved its development objectives, and was rated as such throughout the project period.
9.   Institutional Development Objectives. The project contributed to developing
the iinstitutional capacity of the core ministries and agencies of the Government of
Mongolia. Provision of short and long-term advisory services to staff in the beneficiary
agencies, particularly to the MOF, BOM, SSO and NDB, has contributed to transfer of
skills and facilitated the development of indirect macroeconomic management. Locally
based training courses and seminars have reached a wide audience of high-level
professional and technical staff.  Overseas training in international trade, foreign
investment, budget planning, national accounts, project management and coordination
was provided to meet the evolving developmental priorities of the Government. Annexes
C 1 to C 7 provide details on the support to each of the ministries and the development
impalcts.



-3 -
10.   All of these components have been aimed at improving government capacity, but
it is not possible to measure in the short term exactly to what extent macroeconomic
management has been strengthened as a direct result of the project.  Developing
institutional capacity for macroeconomic management is a long term goal, and
subsequent IDA projects are continuing to help the Government to move toward its
fulfillment.
Sectoral Objectives.
11.   Sector studies were far more successful than expected. The project financed the
preparation of sector studies on mining and environmental impact of oil production on the
existing fields, agriculture, environment, housing, petroleum and accountancy
development. This laid the foundation for the development of priority sectors in
Mongolia. These studies have provided a guide to help the Government define its public
sector involvement, and foster the development of the private sector. Some of these
studies have led to IDA lending operations, and others may do so in the future. Support
to the Ministry of Trade and Industry (before it was abolished in the major governmental
restructuring of 1996 and the transfer of its various functions to Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, ancl Ministry of Foreign Affairs) also brought about
substantial improvements in the foreign investment law and opened opportunities for
private sector companies to conduct foreign trade on an equal footing with the SOEs.
12.   An important step for Mongo]ia's transition to a market economy was a
successful oil/gas and mining sector investors conference held in June 1997 and co-
sponsored by the Government and the WVorld Bank. The conference was prepared and
held with project funds. This markecl the first time these sectors were opened to
investors. As a result, the Government has signed twenty-five contracts with investors.
Building on the success of the first conference, a second conference, focusing on the
agro-industry and tourism held in June 1 998, was prepared under the PHRD grant.
13.   The development objectives were appropriate and relevant. They were consistent
with the Government's strategy. There had been no CAS written on Mongolia at the time
of the design of the project. However, IDA's assistance strategy at that early stage of
involvement in Mongolia was to: (a) provide financial assistance for critical imports
needed to lessen the impact of moving from a centrally based economy supported by
USSRICMEA to a market-based economy, (b) provide technical assistance to help the
country create the institutions required by a market-oriented economy and to assist the
authorities design appropriate policies in key sectors (mining, agriculture, trade, public
investments, etc.); and (c) help coordinate broader bilateral and multilateral efforts to
assist Mongolia. The project objectives were broad enough to cover the changing
development priorities of the Government as they evolved during the course of the
project.
14.   The development objectives of ithe project were relevant for a first technical
assistance project in a new IDA member country, in transition to a market economy. The



project design, however, was not the best for achieving these objectives. While it was
appropriate in that it was expressly to be a "learning by doing" project, with intermittent
semi.-resident experts, rather than long-term, resident ones, it was very complex for a new
borrower with limited implementation capacity, complicated still further by the number
of donor agencies involved. On the positive side, the umbrella design provided for
flexibility and responsiveness to changing government needs. On the other hand, it put
too nmuch burden on the Borrower. Not enough of the larger components were clearly
defined at the time of appraisal. The expected outputs were too ambitious. Financing
plans were complicated by the involvement of more than one international donor.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.  Implementation progress was generally satisfactory, but erratic, throughout the
project period. The enthusiasm of the Government officials was evident. However, there
were a number of key issues which affected overall implementation. First of all,
implementation arrangements for the project were very complex and administration of
fiinds differed according to their source. The beneficiary agencies were responsible for
implementing the IDA-financed project activities (SDR3.2m) within their agencies,
coordinated by the Ministry of Finance, whose First Deputy Minister was designated to
act as Project Coordinator. A portion of the IDA credit was administered by the UNOPS
under a management services agreement between the Government and UNDP until
termination of the contract in February 1995. The PHRD fund (YI 70m) was administered
by the Government and the IMF under an agreement between the Government and the
IMF dated February 14, 1992. The IJNDP grant was administered by UNDP. The
amount of coordination necessary to implement these arrangements was underestimated,
and required highly intensive supervision efforts on the part of the MOF and IDA.
Management of the project by the Government was uneven, mostly as a result of the
turnover five times of the project coordinator in MOF and a major reorganization of
governmental agencies.
16.   The budget allocation process was further complicated by the funds having to be
distributed among multiple beneficiary agencies. Some of the agencies were slow to
develop and submit work programs. Others submitted work programs which were in
excess of their original allocation of funds. In order to enable implementation to proceed
in agencies with satisfactory work programs and to facilitate administration, in May 1996
IDA recommended, and the Government agreed, that all of the remaining credit funds
would be consolidated into three funds -- Central Equipment Fund (equivalent to
Catelgory 1 of the Development Credit Agreement), Central Advisory Services Fund
(equivalent to Categories 2 and 4) and Central Training Fund (equivalent to Category 3).
The consolidated funds were available to all the agencies, subject to approval of
satisitactory work programs by IDA. The new arrangement also provided the Ministry of
Finance with broader discretionary powers with regard to subproject approval, so that it
could be assured that the subprojects closely met the objectives of the project.



17.   The management contracts with ILJNOPS and IMF were an additional source of
frustration. The contract with UNOPS was terminated by the Government due to its
discontentment with UNOPS' failure to provide timely reports, its lengthy bureaucratic
procedures, unnecessarily stringent language requirements and intellectualizing which
conflicted with the project objectives.  The IMF administered the Japanese funds for
which it was responsible, with little or no coordination with IDA. Later on in the project,
IMF/IDA coordination improved.
18.   Risk Assessment. Risks were not realistically assessed. While the Memorandum
of the President pointed out that the project presented more risks that are usual in an IDA-
assisted Technical Assistance Project in Asia because it was the first IDA-financed
operation in Mongolia, some risks which had a major effect on the project were not
anticipated. The risks identified in the MOP and the mitigatory measures were: the fluid
institutional context (mitigated by formal review of the project's underlying design
during the annual work program review); difficulty in finding experienced and effective
trainers/advisors willing to live in the country's isolated and difficult living conditions
(mitigated by supplementing a small core of long-term resident advisors with short-term
visiting specialists); and the Governnent's inexperience with management and
administration of technical assistance (mitigated to a degree by the IMF and UNOPS
assistance). The risks not anticipated at appraisal were the large influx of grant TA from
other donors, and the frequent turnover of counterpart staff.
19.   Selection of Legal Covenants. The selection of legal covenants was appropriate.
However, given the number of beneficiary agencies, the complexity of budgetary
allocations to each of them, the number of executing agencies, and the extent of
budgetary modifications requested during supervision, it might have been useful to have
included in the Credit Agreement provisions for reallocation of funds based on evolving
priorities. Although there were no problems with compliance with legal covenants, staff
turnover caused some delay in compliance, especially with audit covenants.
20.   Quality of Advisory Services. The quality of expert advice and training provided
under the project was of generally good quality, and was relevant to the Government's
goals and the project's objectives. There was some unevenness in quality and the short-
term advisors were more effective than the long-term ones. Advisory services also
should have focused more on the training of counterparts, as there is still a lack of well
trained Mongolian counterparts at the conclusion of the project to continue the activities
previously carried out by the consultants.
21.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation .The main factors adversely affecting
project implementation were the reorganization of the public administration structure
affecting beneficiary agencies, the limited absorptive capacity of the Government
agencies, and the difficulties in coordlination resulting from a greatly increased
availability of grant funds from other donors. A key factor benefiting the project was the
PHRD grant, as it helped pinpoint areas where more specialized training was needed for
financing under the project.



-6 -
Factors Subject to Government Control.
22.   Changes in Project Administration and Beneficiary Agencies. Following the
election of a Democratic Coalition Government in July 1996, there were some structural
chanLges in public administration which affected the overall project coordination and
implementation of individual subprojects. In September 1996, in an effort to delineate
responsibilities more clearly and improve accountability, the civil service was
restructured into nine policy ministries, and associated implementing and regulatory
agencies. Two of the seven beneficiary agencies of the project, the NDB and the MTI,
were abolished and their functions transferred to other ministries.  The project
coordinator changed five times over the implementation period (three times between
September 1996 and March 1997), as a result of staffing turnover in MOF. These
developments led to delays in submission of subproject proposals by participating
agencies and in approval by MOF. Delays in preparation of consultants contracts and
completion of procurement procedures resulted from the uncertainties in the decision-
making process after the restructuring. This ultimately slowed down the disbursement of
fundLs. However, the situation recovered quickly and project coordination subsequently
improved. The reorganization was a positive step in public sector reform and will benefit
Mongolia, so that the consequent delays in this project are insignificant when viewed in
the country context.
Facitors Not Subject to Government Control
23.   Proliferation of Donors. Since 1994, as Mongolia moved toward a market
economy and support from former Soviet bloc countries waned, increasing amounts of
grant technical assistance were made available to Mongolian institutions from other
donors. The Government's ability to carry out its role as coordinator of grant funds was
overtaxed and led to a lack of coordination in the placement of expatriate advisors.
Coordination among donors became an increased concern to IDA also, given Mongolia's
limited absorptive capacity, and its equal concern along with the Government that the
funds be used efficiently. A good deal of effort by IDA and the beneficiary agencies was
expended on ensuring that project-financed activities were coordinated with those
supported by other donor agencies, particularly ADB, GTZ, UNDP, USAID, and IMF.
Agencies began to request more overseas training from IDA funds rather than expert
services due the availability of foreign experts funded by other donors.
24.   The ready availability of grant funds had a major negative effect on disbursements
which had proceeded expeditiously in the first two years after effectiveness, with 60% of
the credit proceeds disbursed by the end of FY94. With Mongolia's limited absorptive
capacity, and its preference for grant funds, some of the work programs developed under
the project experienced delays and disbursements slowed significantly in FY95 and
FY96. As a result of the need for a longer period to utilize credit funds, the Government
requested and IDA approved an 18-month extension of the credit closing date from June
30, 1996 to December 31, 1997.



-7 -
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   Sustainability of the project is likely. The project concentrated on the
development of sustainable skills and capacity, and the formulation of viable sector
strategies. Institutional strengthening of' all beneficiary agencies will have a permanent
effect on the capacity to design and implement development programs. The project has
supported the efforts of the Government to move from a centrally planned system to a
market-based system, and it seems that the Government will keep moving in that
direction. The Fiscal Technical Assistance Project which was approved in June 1998,
will continue to support the Government's efforts to increase its efficiency and
accountability.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   A good start was made to gettingr the project underway immediately after Board
approval. The credit documents were signed on December 31, 1991, eight days after
approval. Special conditions of effectiveness were the following: the signing of the
agreement between Mongolia and the ][MF under which the IMF provided advisory
services to the Bank of Mongolia and the Customs General Administration; and the
signing of the management services agreement between Mongolia and UNDP for
advisory services under the project. Effectiveness was declared on March 12, 1992. The
initial supervision mission was held in February/March 1992 with a focus on review of
the work plans for each agency, discussion of disbursements, procurement, training,
reporting requirements and project coordination. By that time each participating agency
had already named a project component coordinator to work as a member of the
committee under the chairmanship of the national Project Director from MOF.
27.   The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory despite having to face a
number of issues during implementation. many of which have already been described.
As a result, monitoring of project activities declined. The beneficiary agencies also
monitored activities less well without the guiding influence of the project coordinator.
Evaluation of project activities and of advisors was often not done and standard reports
were often submitted after delays. There were some delays in counterpart funding. There
was unevenness in performance of agencies related how important they considered the
support they received. When advisory services were considered useful by the agency,
work went smoothly.
28.   The use of the Special Account was problematic. Firstly, the choice of banks in
which the Special Account was established caused difficulties. The initial choice of bank
for establishment the Special Account was flawed as, inter alia, it failed to pay interest to
the Government. The Account was moved to another bank which failed to provide
regular statements of account. Secondly, the concept of a revolving fund was not one



-8 -
easily understood by the government counterpart staff. IDA disbursement staff made
repeated efforts through seminars and missions to assist the Government in using the
Account. The Special Account was inactive for several periods during the project period.
After some months of inactivity when IDA expressed its intention to recommend closure
of th-e Special Account if it were not used, the Government began to use it. However,
there were other lapses.
F. IDA PERFORMANCE
29.  IDA Performance.  The first preparation mission was held in April 1991,
appraisal in October 1991, followed by negotiations in November (which was, in fact,
done on the basis of an exchange of telexes, since agreement had been reached on all
points during discussions during appraisal), with Board presentation on December 19,
1991. The credit was signed almost immediately, on December 27, 1991.
30.   The quality of preparation and appraisal was good. At the pre-negotiations stage,
the Acting Regional Vice President commended the project for its responsiveness in
supporting the Government's reform agenda. Project risks were not completely
anticipated, but some important risks were identified and the project designed to mitigate
them. IDA assisted the Borrower in securing assistance in administration and
management of the TA, through the IMF and UNOPS contractual arrangements, in view
of Mongolia's unfamiliarity with procurement of experts services in a market system in
general and IDA procedures in particular.
31.   The project necessitated an intensive supervision, as a result of the coordination
efforts inherent in the design, the lack of administrative capacity of the government, and
the reorganization of the government agencies. The project was supervised about four
times annually, with formal supervision missions including Form 590 reporting about
twice a year. Work plans for each participating agency were discussed annually during
supervision. The project also required a good deal of supervision work carried out from
headquarters to coordinate activities among the beneficiary and donor agencies. There
were three IDA task managers between appraisal and the credit closing date. Both times
when the new task manager came on board, care was taken to include the old and new
task managers in a supervision mission, thus ensuring a smooth transition and giving a
clear signal to the Government that the Bank was intending to preserve as much
continuity as possible.
32.   The project objectives were stated broadly which allowed for many different
activities to be financed under the credit. One most successful component was the
ASYCUDA system for customs which was not envisaged at appraisal. Generally,
however, there was too much flexibility built into the design, which lacked a clear
identification of the programs to be financed, and the guidance to assist the Government
in choosing what to finance. The project would have benefited from a redesign to
promote capacity building as implementation problems arose.



-9 -
33.   IDA  demonstrated flexibility in interpreting the legal documents during
implementation. When the Government's priorities changed, IDA was able to encourage
the MOF and participating agencies to review the allocation of funds, and afterwards to
reallocate the credit proceeds. IDA provided additional support in areas such as the extra
seminars and missions by disbursement staff to train counterpart staff on the Special
Account.
34.   One area in which IDA's input was especially effective and timely was in
financing office equipment, such as copiers, fax machines, and PCs to help improve the
Government's business efficiency.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   Despite some delays in implementation, the project outcome is satisfactory. The
project made a major contribution to strengthening the Ministry of Finance and other
agencies involved in realigning the economy to a market-based one. It supported
Government in its efforts to strengthen macroeconomic management and stabilization
through improved treasury management, banking reforms, and the introduction of a
harmonized customs system. It can be credited with wide coverage of technical skills
improvement in the public sector. The larger subprojects, for example, the investors
conference and the introduction of the new customs system with new tariffs and
administrative laws, were the most successful overall.
36.   The full development impact of technical assistance is difficult to assess. It is
easier to measure the outputs, i.e., the number of persons trained, number of fellowships
completed, etc. but this would only present a small part of the picture. For a country like
Mongolia which has been virtually isolated except for contacts with the Former Soviet
Union, overseas fellowships, which provide exposure to international institutions and
practices, exercise a powerful demonstration effect. Development under the project of
specialist skills in areas relevant to economic transition will enable Mongolia to meet the
development challenges which lie ahead.
37.   Persons who received fellowships and training under the project have assumed
high level positions where their expertise is being utilized. One example is the current
Governor of the Central Bank (who also serves as Alternate Governor for the IMF). Nine
out of ten persons who received overseas training have returned to Mongolia and serve in
civil service related positions. In-coLntry training with EDI assistance has also been very
successful. Staff trained under the project in train-the-trainer programs have been given
the responsibility to train those in their departments, widening the effects of the training.
Staff who have been sent for training are required to sign contracts to work for 3-5
consecutive years after the completion of their training, but often move to positions
within the Government other than the ones for which they were trained. It should also be
noted that because the training was extended to an inter-institutional audience of



- 10-
professional and technical staff, it indirectly supported a great degree of inter-institutional
cooperation.
38.  In terms of physical inputs, government research indicates that computer and
other office equipment provided under the credit has improved the efficiency of personnel
in the participating agencies.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
39.   Ongoing operations in Mongolia which have already benefited from the assistance
provided under the TA credit include the Mongolia Coal Project (Cr.2854-MG) which
was prepared on the basis of studies done under the TA credit, and the Banking,
Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit (BELTAC)(Cr. 2948) which built on
the advisory assistance and training in macroeconomic management, installation of
accounting systems and software at BOM in support of BOM's conversion to
international accounting standards, provision of essential computer equipment for the
Banki]ng Supervision Department and a training course for legal professionals at MOJ.
The newly approved Fiscal Technical Assistance Project, which aims to increase the
efficiency and accountability of the Government through establishment of a transparent
core government financial system and improvements in the Government's accounting
practices and procedures, is in part a follow-up to the TA project. It will build on the
advisory support and training on budget management, treasury management, tax and tax
administration reform and central bank accounting for the MOF and BOM. Other future
operations include an energy sector project, which will be designed according to the
energy studies done under the project.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.   The key lessons learned are the following:
(a)   Government commitment remains central to implementation success. The
enthusiasm of the Government was a critical factor in meeting project
objectives. However, when the respective agency did not consider the
specific advisory service relevant to its perceived needs, implementation
was less successful.
(b)   Coordination of TA efforts by a central ministry- in this case, the
Ministry of Finance- is essential where a number of beneficiary agencies
are involved; difficulties arise when turnover in position of the project
coordinator is frequent, or when the post is vacant for a period of time; and



(c)   Umbrella-type projects with their high degree of flexibility require careful
assessment of the Borrower's capacity to implement. Involvement of
many international agencies may make project- related budget plans too
complicated. While reliance on agencies to make their own work plans
may make the process demand-driven and participatory, it may not always
be appropriate or relevant in fulfilling objectives of project.



- 12 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial         Partial    Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                       X
Sector policies                              X
Financial objectives                                                                          X
Institutional development                                    X
Physical objectives                                                                           X
Poverty reduction                                                                             X
Gender issues                                                                                 X
Other social objectives                                                                       X
Environmental objectives                     X
Public sector management                                     X
Private sector development                   X
B. Project Sustainability                      Likely               Unlikely               Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                         Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                                              X
Preparation assistance                                                      X
Appraisal                                                                   X
Supervision                                                                X
D. Borrower Performance                     Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                                X
Implementation                                                             X
Covenant compliance                                                        X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory         Highly
Unsatisfactory
x



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                      Purpose                             Approval       Status
Preceding Operations
None
Following Operations
1.  Mongolia Coal                           To reverse the decline in Mongolia's  1996       On-going
coal production. Project would also
provide model for management reform
of key energy sector companies.
2.  Fiscal TiA                              To increase efficiency and            1998       Approved
accountability of Government through
establishment of transparent
Government treasury management
system and improvements in
Government accounting practices and
procedures. To set up a system of
government revenue through
introduction of value added tax (VAT)
on goods and services
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                     Date planned               Date actual
Identification                                                                           4/91
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                                      10/91                     10/91
Negotiations                                                                             11/91
Board presentation                                             1/92                    12/19/91
Signing                                                                                12/27/91
Effectiveness                                                 3/26/92                   3/12/92
Project completion                                           12/31/95                   6/30/97
Loan closing                                                  6/30/96                   12/31/97



- 14-
Table 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
(US S million)
FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97      FY98
Appraisal estimate            0.2       0.7       2.4        4.2       5.0        5.0       5.0
Actual                       0.4        1.4       2.9        3.6       4.2        4.8       5.0
Actual as % of adjusted    200%       200%      121%        86%       84%       96%       100%
estimate
Date of ]Final Disbursement March 20, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not Applicable
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations
Not Applicable



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined                          Status
Study                            at Appraisal/Redefined                                            Impact of Study
Mining and Coal Studies
1. Mining and Minerals Sector Study   Recommend environmentally appropriate and          Completed           Studies 1-4 formed the basis of preparation for the Mongolia
(Present and Potential Mining Operations    economically competitive strategies for development of            Coal Project(CR.2854), approved May 7, 1996.
in Mongolia)                           all Mongolia's mineral resources, including coal
2. Coal Pricing                        Study production costs and pricing; recommend pricing    Completed
reforms
3. Engineering Review of the Coal      Preliminary review of coal mining industry,       Completed
industry of Mongoiia                  recommendations to improve productivity and reduce
costs
4. Mongolian Coal Mining Industry -    Review the planning, operations and management    Completed            Management information system installed and accountancy
Organizational and Management Review   practice of existing coal mines, identify opportunities for            developed at Baganuur coal mine;
improved management practices to ensure security of the
coal supply, particularly to the central electricity grid
system.
5.Modemization of the Mining Legal and    Establish a basis for continuing mining reform in  Completed       New mining law (which is the first of its kind) has come into
Institutional Framework                Mongolia; design new legal and institutional framework                force, modernizing the legal and institutional framework for
for development of private sector led mining industry;                mining, as part of a program to promote foreign direct
restructure of MAI's mining and geology division;                     investment.
establish a cadastral system and cadastral office to
administer mining rights.
Energy Assessment                      Investigate pricing, energy efficiency and environmental   Done under PHDR    Background information used in preparation of energy project
issues; recommend principles to guide restructuring of  grant for the  scheduled for FY99 Board presentation.
power sector                                      preparation of the
proposed Energy
Project
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1 ._   .  _   Purpose as Defined                   S taus
Study                           at Appraisal/Redefined                                              Impact of Study
Petroleum                             Study demand for petroleum products, their supply and    Completed  Background information used for preparation of a proposed
procurement.                                                        petroleum transshipment and exploration project.
Formulation of overall petroleum exploration and
development strategy
Agricultural Pricing and Marketing    Prepare an action program for privatization of    Completed
agricultural input supply and distribution, and product
marketing
Reorientation of Trade                Study trade liberalization, with particular reference to  Completed  Trade has been liberalized. Opportunities have been opened for
export promotion and private sector involvement                     private sector companies to conduct foreign trade on equal
footing with SOEs.
Assessment of Training Needs in the Core   Study training requirements for Government agencies  Completed  Large number of staff have been trained; government study
Economic Ministries and Agencies of the   supported under the project                                     shows productivity of staff has improved.
Government
Transport sector study                Review technological, economic and treaty requirements   Completed  Transport Rehabilitation Credit was approved on May 24, 1994.
to support reorientation of trade from former Soviet
Union to other markets through China.
Social Sector Privatization           Develop a conceptual framework for social sector  Completed         Pilot projects established management contract for Bayanzurkh
privatization.                                                      district hospital, and full privatization of the Institute of Finance
and Economics. Further assistance would be determined by the
direction of Government policy on private participation in social
services which is not clear at this stage.
Health Insurance Advisory Services Study   Study the implications of introducing a health insurance    Ongoing  done by WHO
system into Mongolia, including implementation and
training of personnel.
Accountancy Development Study         Prepare plan for developing accountancy institutions and   Completed  New Accounting framework and management information
professions and adoption by business and Govemment of               system have been installed in various businesses, e.g. Arkhi
new accounting systems. Long term advisor to MOF on                 vodka factory, Trade and Development Bank and Gobi
accountancy development to conduct seminars for staff               Cashmere factory. Seminars conducted; textbook translated and
of MOF, other institutions and SOEs.                                B.S. in Accountancy Degree Program was developed.



- 17 -
Table 8a: Project Costs
_    Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                             Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total
Advisory Services                  257   2,768  3,025   257   4,660  4,917
Training                           13    1,072   1,085   13    1,071   1,084
Equipment                           -      710    710     -      909    909
Studies                            80    1,900   1,980   80       58     138
Total Project Cost /a             350   6,450  6,800  350   6,697  7,047
/a Net of taxes and duties. Project is exempt of taxes and duties. Figures may not add due to rounding
Table 8b: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate
Source                   Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
Government of Mongolia   350       -     350   350      -     350
IDA                        -    5,000  5,000   -    4,979  4,979
Government of Japan        -    1,200  1,200   -    1,418  1,418
UNDP                       -     250    250    -       300    300
Total /a                  350   6,450  6,800  350   6,697  7,047
/a Figures may not add due to rounding.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Cove-                Original    Revised
Agree                 nant       Present   fulfill-    fulfillment
ment                                        ment
Section       type      Status                date          Description of covenant     Comments
date
Credit  Schedule 2 B   10        C          6/30/95    12/31/97      Carry out of studies in selected
key sectors
Credit  3.03           10        CD         6/30/95    12/31/97      Carry out training and studies   Delays in procurement and disbursement due to frequent staff
in accordance with annual plan  turnover
Credit  4.01(b)        I         CP         6/30/95    7/31/97       Auditing
Credit  3.04          5          CD         3/12/92'    6/30/96      Appointment of project      High turnover; 3 coordinators between June 1996 and March
coordinator                 1997.Four coordinators in all.
Covenant Class:                                                                                       Status:                                                        l
I =        Accounts/audits                   8        =        Indigenous people                C        =        covenant complied with
2  =       Financial performance/revenue      9       =        Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD     =        complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries     10      =        Project implementation not        CP      =        complied with partially
3  =       Flow and utilization of project                     covered by categories 1-9
funds                             11      =        Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4  =       Counterpart funding                                 budgetary or other resources
5  =       Management aspects of the                           allocation
project or executing agency       12      =        Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6  =       Environmental covenants                             regulatory/institutional action
7  =       Involuntary resettlement           13      =        Other



- 19-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement (OD or
OP/BP)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(US$000)
FY             1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      Total
Preappraisal    24.4     93.4                                                                  117.8
Appraisal                10.5                                                                   10.5
Negotiations              4.4                                                                   4.4
Supervision              61.6      83.6      15.7      19.8       7.4       5.4       2.9      196.4
Completion                                                                            16        16
Total       24.4      169.9     83.6       15.7      19.8      7.4       5.4       18.9     345.1



-20 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Month/Year Number Days in  Specialized        Performance Rating       Types of
Cycle                             of     Field  Staff Skills                               Problems
Persons          Represented
.... ........ ........... .... . ..... ..   ... .   ImlmnainDvlpet.. ...    . . ...  . . . ... . .. .   ..
Implementation Development
Status      Objectives
Through Appraisal    Jul-91       4        14     OP,L,TR
Appraisal through                                 STA, OP,
Board Approval       Oct-91       6        14     DO, L,TR
Supervision          Feb-92       3        8      STA,TR,L          I             n.a.
(Supervision SSO
only)                Jul-92       4        8        n.a            n.a.          n..a.
Oct-92       4        7    E,STA,TR,L          I             n.a.        M
Apr-93   J 2    16            E,PR             I            n.a.         M
Dec-93       2        6       E,Sr.E           I             n.a.        M
Jul-94  J   2         6       E,OP             S      S                  M
Feb-95       2        11      E,OP             S              S          M
Apr-95        9         5        OP 
Sep-95       2        2       E,OP                           S        M,Pr.TA
______            j Feb-96  j I             3        DO       _
May-96       2        3        E,OP            S              S         M,Pr.
Jun-97       1        5        OP              S             S
Completion          I__         _ _              __           ___
.~ ~~~~~~~                                   9    I   s 
Specialization:                  Ratings:                                   Types of Problems:
E - Economist
STA - Senior TA Officer          HS - Highly Satisfactory                   M - Managerial
TR-Training, EDI                 1, S- Satisfactory; no problems            Pr -Procurement
L - Lawyer, LEG                  U - Unsatisfactory                         TA-TA progress
DO -Disbursement Officer
OP -Operations Officer
PR - Procurement Specialist



AnnexxA
Page I of 8
NIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL -ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(232 1- MOG)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE
BORROW'ER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. BA CKGRO UND
1.    The establishment of People's Republic in 1924 has brought rwo neighbouring
countries almost to an emergence i: al the sence. The political structure, economic
development of Mongolia was largely dependent on Soviet Union. Mongolia remaimed
almost completely isolated from the internationalI arena for a long period, which made
Mongolia totally vlnerable and totally dependent on Soviet Union. And the collapse of
Soviet Union has led Mongolia into the path of serious discrepancies in all its activities.
2.    The consequences of the collapse of Soviet Union has resulted in the worsening
terms of trade, disruptions in the flow of essential imports, collapse of traditional expor-
markets to Mongolia's trading partners, mostly socialist countries, and consequently the
withdrawal of Soviet financial assistance. Shortages of intermediate soods and spare parts
were spread throughout the count;y and as a result the azricultural and industrial
production slumped. During 1990 -1993. Mongolia experienced a dramatic drop in real
GDP of 20 percent.
3.    The coaliTion Government that took power in 1990 announced its intention to
bring about the rapic transformation of Mongolia from a command to a market economy.
Principal reforms include progressive price liberalisation, introduction of new laws
covering taxation, new foreign investment, private ownership, formation of company and
commercial banks. and creation of an independent Central Bank. But an accelerating
downturn in the economy overhangs these reform efforts.
4.    In 1990, the number of Ministries has been reduced from 20 to 11. And within,
two new bodies: the National Development Board (NDB) and Mongolbank, a central
bank reporting directly to the Parliament were created. The Minis;ry of T,ade and Indus;ry
was given substantial new responsibilities. MOF and the respec.ed bodies made up the
State' s agencies for economic management. All the professional staff at these bodies were
trained by the institutions and training mechanisms of a socialist command of planned
economy. The standard of their education was considered appropriate to the demands of
the planned economv, however their knowledge of market economics were limited.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTIO N'.AD OBJECTIVES
The total project cost was USS 6.8 million. It included the MDAs share in the amnount of
US$ 5.0 million, a grant from the Government of Japan for USS 1.2 rnillion, admrinistered
by the flvT, a erant from UTNDP in the atnount of USS 300.000 and Government
contribution in kind of US$ 350.000. The IDA Credit agreement was signed on December



AnnexA
Page 2 of 8
-22 -
28,1991 and became effective on March, 1992. The grant from the Government of Japan
was signed on February 19, 1992 and the contribution from UJNDP was channeled through
UNDP project '.MON/92/002'. The project was executed by Government, through the
Ministry of Finance, with the assistance in implementation pro-vided by the DIF, through
an agreement berween the goverm-nent and PvIF; and by UNOPS ( T-N Office of project
Services), through a management services agreement between the Government and
UNOPS. Due to weak absorbing capacity, the Government requested to prolong the
closing date by December 31, 1997.
in brief, the project had two objectives: a) to develop Mongolia's institutional
capacitv for macroeconomic management and reform, through provision of training,
advisorv services. eauipment and maierials for core economic agencies, and b) to carrv out
selected sector/ feasibilitv studies.
The following eccnornic agencies were selected to strengthen their institutional capacities:
- Minisrrv of Finance, includinc the Customs General Administration, as the overall
coordinator of the project
- Mongolbank
- Nationai Development Board
- Nlinistrv of Trade and Industrv
- lnisrv of Justice
- State Statistical Office
Mongolian Asset Recoverv Agzency
3. IDA PERFORMN4.VCE
a)   IDA performa-nce auring development and implemenrarion of the project.
TAC-2321 was the DA: s among the frst projects in Mongolia. Tle implementation of
the TAC has been supervised conrinuosly by the IDA mission.
IDA recosnised L,om  the very start that the personnel lacked the knowledge on
procurement and international banking procedures and took an iniative in its hands by
assisting in the related topics. IDA, in the interest of the country, has acted on the behalf
of the Governr.e.-. of Mongolia in arranging the advisors and consultants. On some
uncertainties the EDA provided step by step advice on how to solve the particular issue.
Therefore the ID.. had played an imnportant role in the implementation of the project.
b) Lessons leamed
* During the projec. implementation it was clear that the first prioriry should be laid in
allowin_ the counterpart side in hiring the consultants through the selection basis.
*  The next impnor:ant issue was tha: it would be more efficient if the secondary
implementing agencies like UTNOPS do not participate in the future projects.



Annex A
- 23 -                              Page 3 of8
* Too much attention was laid on how to increase the involvement of the personnel in
various courses. And on the poor basis of selection it proved to be beneficial only in
some cases. Therefore priority should be laid on the quality, rather than the quantity.
4. BORRO FIER'S PERFORMANCE
a)    Borrower s performance dzring development and implementazion of the project.
Thanks to the hanrony between IDA. and the Borrower the implementation of the project
progressed smoothly.
A major difficulty in the imnpleientation of the project was the lack of language
experience, international procurement and banking procedures and the lack of faniiaritv
with IDA procedulres. In particularly due to Mothgolia's liinted absorptive capacity there
were a sianificant disbursement lags in  1994-1995. Therefore, the Government of
Mongolia had to request for an extension of the TA Project duration.
The fuil success of the project has been undermined by the National Election held in 1996
and establishmnent of the new  Government. And by the immediate decision of the
Government the in-nisterial struc,(ure h.as been simnplifed. The operations of the Nfinisny
of Trade and industry and National Development Board were stopped.
The procurement of much needed com=uter and office equipments for the participating7
aeencies has satisfied some requirernets and needs of the personnel in irnproving the
efciencv of their daily works. The riesearch. conducted on the equipment usage revealed
that the .outine work-s of the personnel have become more fiexible in compare to the past.
b)    Lessons learned
*  It was clear from the implementation cf the project that due to Mon2oli& s limited
absorptive capacity, the Implementing azency i.e the Ministrv of Finance should pay
more attention on how to coordir:.ate the TA support from other international fnancial
orzanisations and donor countries to its fLill success.
*  In evaluatine the Derformance of hired consultants and advisors much emp)hasis should
be mven in on the job training of counterpart team by them. There is a lack of well
trained mon2olian counterpart team who could continue the acrivities carried out by
consultants after their deparTure.
* Borrower has found out there wa.s a need to have professional staff who could handle
inspection on the site and as well as to arrange training for them to provide regular
service during the utilisation of purchased computers and equipment. Most
participatinag agencies had comp.ianed on the unsufficient quality of some procured
equipment. In relation to this. it is desirable to finance the cost of travelling and
training related ,o purchasing and u.,isirg the equipment out of TA component of the
Credit line in the future.



Annex A
- 24 -                                Page 4 of8
*  The project implementing agency, especially the Ministry of Finance, should work
closely with the World Bank, which is considered as the link to the World of
Information and Technology.
S. DESCRIPTION OF EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
a) Tne firt objective - Institu'donal capacit building. The objective has been
satisfactorily achieved through the provision of overseas and in-country training,
foreign advisory services, equipment and materials for each of the participating
economic agencies. Detailed description is shown below:
A7 ;NS7RY OF FTIM N  CE (MOF)
and NATIONAL DEPELOPMZN7BOARD (NDB)
Followirng the demise of the old central pianning svstem struacures, MOF has been
redefinine its role in a market based economy. Specinc concern was given to tax reform,
budget formulation and control, management of public debt. To support the training and
advice provided by the advisors, the TAC provided short term advisors. Tney gave on the
job training, coaching and advice in: tax reform, budget procedures, management of public
debt, accourting and audit standards. Oversees trainings were provided on the followingr
issues: tax man,agement  and organisation, accounting procedures, financial auditing,
fiscal policy and planning, financial prograrmming. INDB, on the other hand was
established in 1990. The main objectives of the Board were to determine the long term
economic and social policy, to provide short and medium term macroeconomic forecasming
and analysis, and prepare a public investment program within the context of a rnnket
economy. During the five years of unpiernenting TAC the )MOF, 9N-DB have concentr.aed
more on obtaining of the advisory services in the prio*ry sector of the economy and
traing their staf in abroad. As for the oversees training the priority was ziven to
technology and investment policy, proiect evaluation and analysis, aid coordination and
managemen. project planning, balance  of payments and foreign trade, project
mana2ement and national accounts, -management and foreisn loan coordination issues.
However in 1996 New Go'verriment has closed the operation of the Board. And the
MAinistry of Finance took up the activities of the Board.
In-countrv training courses on economic management and project analysis, budget
procedures and accountancy auditing procedures were given the most benefit to the
participants.
As f;or the request, MOF has -received 68 valuable books on accountancy and
finance throuzh the Mongolian State U.-iversity from the International Book Bank.
BAAVK OF MONGOLIA (BOM)
BOMr s most urgent need was T.he development of its monetary policy and banking
supervision functions. In order to  lfilli this requirement BOM has been provided with the
assistance from the long term advisor and arranged an overseas training and in-courtr.y
training on ;he issue of monetary policy. The second important issue was the strengt hening
and ac,Uih;g knc%ledge on exchange -_e, policy. And therefore the i,mmediate steps .ve7re
taken in arranging foreign advisor and oversees training.



AnnexxA
25 -                                Page S of 8
Installation of more advanced central bank accounting software and computers
enabled BOM  management to receive timely and accurate infonnation on, inter alia,
balance sheets, statements of accounts, foreign account reserve positions, stock controls
and off balance sheet items. To derive the most advantage out ofit the system has been
extended to all the BOMs. The procurement of books and periodicals has extended the
capaciry of its library.
.M'ISTRY; OF JUSTTICE MOJ)
As the case is similar to all other Ministries, the lawyers and the emplovees in the
Ministry were trained in the socialist countries. Therefore, it became essential to train and
teach lawyers the basic market economy concepts and protections. An important task for
MOJ during the transition to a market oriented economy was and still is the drafting of
economic, financial and business laws. To fulfill these obligations the Ministry has invited
foreign consultants in revising the existing laws and redeveloping the drat on Bankruptcy
Law. Selected emnployees got training on financial legislation and mark-et economy laws.
The Ministry has received a wide ranee of books includinis the books on National laws of
developed counrries, Civil laws, Trade laws, Criminal law and other business related laws,
as well as the handbooks on laws.
MIvMSTRY OF 7RADE AND AD USTR?Y (VlM)
MTI was formed in 1990, with the objective to stimulate foreign trade, foreign
investment, and domestic industry and commerce in the nascent private sector. The
authorities realise that new foreign investment can play an important role in the smooth
transformation of Mongolia' s economy into the market oriented economy. It also realises
that the advice is required to help makinlg policy and improving performance in specific
areas such as export promotion, trade resdmes. The project assisted the Ministry to finance
the consultants on foreim investment policy, export poiicy, promotion of small and
medium scale enterprises, and to provide training to its employees on the same issues. The
TAC could prove to be very beneficial to the Ministry, but as the consequance of the
General electior The newly established Government has closed the Ministry in 1996. And
few of the employees have shifted to the :vIinistry of External Relations.
AA 7ZONAL STA T7ST7C'AL OFFICE OF MONGOLLA (NSO)
The main objective of TAC under the NSO was an introduction of the system of
national accounts in Mongolia. Before the TAC commencement, 'Mon2olia has used the
same accounting system as the centrally planned economy did. The transformation of the
existing accountine system into the international standard was initiated with the project.
TAC has provided assistance in the following services: invitation of consultants,
attendance at training courses, study rours and procurement of goods. During the
transition period of 1992-1997, the activities like the consultancy services provided by
highly qualified experts, training and retraining of staff on market theory and practices
have played important role in introducins the SNA in Mongolian statistics.The estimation
of GDP by applving production, expenditure, income approaches; conti,nued improvement
of estimates and constant price imputation; compilation of particular accounts; calculation
of new indicators are derived and implemented successfully. In 1997 the TAC mission



Annex A
- 26 -                               Page 6 of 8
allocated funds for the NSO to procure some equipments, including AT286, AT386 PSs,
printing equipments, software. This provided an opportunity to increase the level of
technical capacity and improve data processing. As well as the quality of published
products improved with the growth of staff efficiency. -
CUSTOMS GEZNER,L ADMINISTRATION (CGA)
The initial activity under TAC was the mission of senior advisor to provide the
assistance in implementing Harmonised system for tariff classification and the GATT code
for customs classification. And also provide the training in both the areas. With the
assistance of WB and other foreign acencies CGA introduced the computerised system for
processing customs docunentation (ASYCUDA). UNCTAD has donated the ASYCUIDA
software package to the Government. World bank, as co-financier of ASYCUDA (phasel
and phase2) has been very helpful in installing the software. CGA now has a modern
clearance system installed at 7 major cities. Customs Houses at headquarters, railway
station and Import-export bank have been renovated and refurnished. The system enables
CGA to collect the accurate statistics on trade flows and revenue, which is essential to the
planning of the economy. As a result of installing ASYCUDA CGA now have a team of
qualified officers in installing and maintaining the system. The only danger to the
sustainabilitv of the svstem is that if it is not installed in the remaining 4 sites and plans are
not made early to adopt the ASYCIDA-i-system. Under the Information Network
System CGA acquired the necessary equipments for the successful continuation of its
routine works.
Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency (MiRA)
MARKA was established in December, 1996 imrediately after the closure of two
major banks. Therefore to strengthen the loan recovery activities MLARA has requested for
short term advisors in loan accounting and collection. Additional funds were used to
purchase essential computer equipments.
b) Second objecnive -Sectorial Studies
a)    The project's second component had financed strategic studies in sectors, key to
the long term development of Mongolia' s economy, as well as feasibility studies for public
investments consistent with these sector stratezies. Therefore, the sides aareed to conduct
at first, the mineral and mining policy studv, taking into the considerartion its prioritv in
Mongolia' s transition to a market economry. Field works have been done by individual
consultants retained by IJNOPS. The new Mining Law first of its kind came into force as
the step to modernise the legal and institutional framework for mining, as part of its
program to promote foreign direct investment in this particular sector. Besides, the study
on the future mining operations, the study on environmental protection, as well as the
study tours accompanied by IDA mining engineer have been conducted with due
diligence.
b)    A transporn study was considered to -be of great imporance  to review the
technological, econornic and treaty requirements to support Mongolia' s reorientation of its
trade from former Soviet Union to other markets through China. Therefore, a group of



AnnexA
- 27 -                               Page 7of8
consultants were invited to take up the project preparatory work for future MDA s
Transport Rehabilitation Credit.
c)    A small coal pricing study was conducted because the coai subsidy represented a
substantial portion of Government expenditures. And coal subsidies were important
because they had and have implications on the efficient use of energy and corresponding
impact on the environment.
d)    Aericulture sector study, Health Insurance Advisory Services and Instirutional
Development Fund! Arthur Andersen .Accountancy Development Study were conducted.
A new accounting framework and management information svstem have been installed in
the Arkhi vodka factory, Trade and Development Bank and the Gobi cashmere factoTy, as
part of Accountancy Development Study. Several training on international accounting
standards, financial accountin, information system and management accounting were
conducted by the consultants of A.rthur Andersen & Inc, which was attended by general
accountants of reputed firms and compa:ines, private as well as public.
e)    TAC allocated the funds in financing the long term advisor to the Mongioian
Petroleum Corporation.
f)    The Environmental Impact Assessment Report on the Zuunbavar. and Tsagazr.-Els
oil fields and a proposed Zamyn Uud petroleum transshipment faciiitv was done.
g)     TAC financed the development of a management information systems and
accountancy development at the Bagaiuur coal mine in preparation for the IDA Coal
Rehabilitation Credit. The project has been implemented successfully by Arthur Andersen
consultants in collaboration with the related Government office,s.
h)    The TAC financed the impieme'atation of the second phase of ASYCUDA, a
computerised customs data processing system for the CGA. Under the second phase the
system has been extended further to a eleven customs posts.
6. CONCLUSIONS APD LEPSSONS LEARNED
- The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. TAC helped in meeting the immediate
needs for Mongolia's transition through the longer term institutional strengthening process
and sector/feasibility studies. TAC provided important institutional support, such as the
basic skill in mananing the market economv, to the kev economic agencies. A core group
of Mongolian staff received training and expertise in the various fields, necessary in
successfull transformation of the economy. One of the major achievements was the
establishment of new Mining Law first of its kind, which carne into force as the step to
modernise the leg2al and institutional fr2mework for mining, as part of its program to
promote foreign direct investment in this particular sector.
- The project has clarified the need to examine the future role of Counterpart funds in
transitional economies, where ability to pay is constrained by adjustment processes.
- On the basis of the TAC outcome, it becomes clear that more attention should be paid in
designing and developing institutional capacity of the econornic agencies.



Annex A
- 28                               Page 8of8
- In the project similar, more attention have to be paid to the combination of the donor
activities to address broader macroeconomic and sectoral concerns, which will make the
project more efficient.                                     -
- The sensitivity to Mongolian needs and sensibility on the part of the IDA team enabled
this project- the first of its kind in the country- to be a success.



-29 -
Anne-x B
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
No separate ICR rnission was conducted.



- 30 -
Annex C I
Page I of 2
SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
Subcomponent No. 1: Ministry of Finance (MOI)
Responsibility: The Ministry of Finance has a central unit in Ulaanbaatar and a network
of district offices. It is responsible for macroeconomic policy, the preparation and
administration of the annual budget for central and local government, which includes
transfers to SOEs; definition of government accounting standards; administration of
cenitral government debt; and maintenance of relations with international financial
institutions.
Objective of the Component: The principal objectives were: a) establish a modern budget
system; b) establish a modem tax system; and c) strengthen the mechanism for control of
the fiscal deficit.
Description of the Component:
*  advisory services to help introduce a modern budget system, supported by a PC
computer system, and to serve as lead advisor for the project, coordinate the inputs of
other internationally recruited staff;
*  advisory services to provide on-the-job training, coaching and advice in tax reform,
including implementation and administration; budget procedures; management of
public debt; accounting and auditing standards; support for computerization, systems
and software development.
*  in-country courses in economics, finance and related topics; Training of Trainers
Course on Macroeconomic management for staff of universities and other training
institutions, and government staff;
* overseas courses
* books, personal computers, software, fax and copying machines, etc.
Impact of the Component:
Strengthening of Government Accounting. Experts provided detailed recommendations
on modifications to existing system, to advise on development of a new chart of accounts,
and on the feasibility of using an accrual based system. On the job training and seminar
on government accounts and public expenditure management were also conducted.
Through the Mongolia State University, accountancy and finance books were received
froim the International Book Bank.
Strengthening of the Mongolian Asset Recovery Agency (MA4RA). MARA was
established in 1996 as a repository of nonperforming loans from two commercial banks
which were liquidated under the Government's financial sector reform program. MARA



-.31 -
Annex C I
Page 2 of 2
has been mandated to catalogue and recover these outstanding loans and develop
programs for disposal of assets where appropriate.
Improving External Aid Management. ODverseas training was provided in technology
and investment policy, project evaluation and analysis, aid coordination and management,
project planning, project management and foreign loan coordination, as well as balance of
payments and foreign trade.



- 32 -
Annex C 2
SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
Subcomponent No. 2: National Development Board (NDB)
Responsibility: Originally the Ministry of National Development(MND), in 1996 the
National Development Board was abolished and its functions transferred to the Ministries
of Agriculture, Industry and MOF, Department of External Relations.
Objectives of the Component: to process of establishing public investment priorities, and
limit and restructure capital outlays
Description of the Component.
.  advisory services and training to develop capacity in macroeconomic and
sector analysis, and investment programming (financed by UNDP);
*  advisory services and training in project analysis and appraisal and in general
public investment;
*  in-country training;
*  overseas training; and
*  library, computer hardware and software, and fax/telex equipment.
Impact of Component:
See the impact section on Ministry of Finance (Annex Dl).



-33 -
Annex C 3
SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
Subcomponent No. 3: Bank of Mongolia (BOM)
Responsibility: The Bank of Mongolia is the Central Bank of Mongolia; it was
established along with seven commercial banking institutions in 1991. BOM is
responsible for: issuance of currency; management of the exchange rate and foreign
exchange reserves; design and implementation of monetary policy; provision of banking
services to the Government and to the commercial banks; capital market development;
financial system supervision; financial and economic advice to the government; and
research and public information.
Description of Component:
* advisory services to provide training and advice in monetary research and analysis;
* advisory services to provide training and support bank supervision;
* advisory services and training to help BOM develop bank accounting standards and
systems, develop capacity in analysis and execution of monetary and credit policy,
including development of new monetary policy instruments, design and implement a
new payments clearing and monetary policy and settlement system, and assist in
developing the legal and regulatory framework for introducing new financial
instruments;
* local training in central bank operations and English language capacity;
* overseas training for selected staff;
* supplementary equipment; and
* a general library.
Impact of Component:
Upgrading of Central Bank Accounts. A new chart of accounts, based on International
Accounting Standards was established. Oracle financial systems software has been
installed which enables BOM management to receive timely and accurate information on
inter alia, balance sheets, statements of accounts, foreign account reserve positions, stock
controls and off balance sheet items. All branches of BOM now use the new system.
Commercial banks which will be upgrading their systems have been advised to purchase
software which will be compatible.
Support for Central Bank Supervision. Laptop computers purchased under the credit
are facilitating BOM's on-site examination of commercial banks.



- 34 -
Annex C 4
SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
Subcomponent No. 4: National Statistical Office (NSO)
The National Statistical Office (formerly, the State Statistical Office, was
originally established as part of the centrally planned economy. Most of its staff were
trained in the Soviet Union and other CMEA countries, so that they lack knowledge of
and experience in data compilation and analysis techniques used in market economies.
Computer software and hardware were of the type used in former CMEA countries.
Description of the Component:
The content of the NSO component was to be subject to the organizational review
to take place in Spring 1992 and provisionally included the following:
* consultants services to provide advice on national accounts; sampling and surveys;
business and economic statistics; NSO organization' and preparation of an
information system plan;
* on-the-job training by the short-term advisors; and
- overseas courses and practical attachments at institutions similar to NSO in other
countries.
Impact of the Component:
The SNA has been successfully introduced into Mongolian statistical
computation; GDP is now accurately measured; acquisition of hardware and software has
improved the level of technical capacity and data processing, as well as the quality and
efficiency of published reports.



-35 -
Annex C 5
SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
Subcomponent No. 5: Ministry of Justice' (MOJ)
During the transition to a market economy, the Ministry of Justice was given the
important task of drafting economic, financial and business laws, to put in place a basic
legal framework for the protection of property, contracts and market functions. The MOJ
lawyers, however, were trained in the legal system of the Soviet, centrally-planned
economic model, and had no experience with basic market economy concepts and
protections such as property rights and enforceability of contracts.
Description of the Component:
*  Workshops conducted by a firm specializing in international legal training in
developing countries on topics such as financial sector reform, drafting and
negotiation of contracts.
3  Consultant services for revision and streamlining of laws, and drafting as necessary
implementation regulations for such laws;
*  Publication in English of key economic laws and regulations
*  Overseas legal training; and
  Strengthening of the Legal Research Center through provision of law books, legal
periodicals, materials and office equipment.
Impact of the Component:
Training in Financial and Legal Reform. Staff of MOJ and other legal and judicial
institutions were trained at the International Law Institute in Washington, D.C. These
staff subsequently prepared and are implementing the legal reform subprojects being
financed under the BELTAC project.
The Bankruptcy Law has been developed from an earlier draft, other existing laws
have been revised in accordance with a market oriented economy. The work on revising
economic, financial and business laws is continuing. A wide range of legal books,
including books on national laws in developing countries, criminal and civil law, trade
and business law, and legal handbooks, have been received.



- 36 -
Annex C 6
SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
Subcomponent No. 6: Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI)
The Ministry of Trade and Industry was formed in 1990 by combining the former
Ministry of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Trade and Procurement, Committee of Technical
Supply and the State Committee for External Economic Relations. During the course of
the project period in September 1996 it was abolished and its various functions were
transferred to MOF, Ministry of Agriculture and Industry and Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
Description of the MTI Component:
* Advisory services to provide advice on foreign investment policy, external trade
policies and promotion of domestic market conditions.
*  Expert services to provide advice on price reform, consumer protection and
competition, the legal and institutional framework for foreign trade and policies to
promote small business;
*  Local training in legal topics and in English;
*  Overseas training;
* books, research materials, PCs and software, and office equipment.
Impact of the Component:
Substantial improvements were made to the investment law, the policy for exports
and imports; and the economics entities regulations. A new contract law was enacted,
report of 1994 says proposed. Assistance was provided to domestic enterprises to realign
and restructure themselves to operate in a competitive system. The Mongolian Chamber
of Commerce was assisted in drawing up its aims and objectives in the changed economic
climate. The impacts are substantial. Private enterprise has taken a great step forward; all
business enterprises in the country have an equal opportunity to conduct foreign trade.
The SOEs that remain have geared themselves to the changed economic conditions and
are in competition with private enterprise.
While MTI no longer functions as a separate entity, the priorities which were
developed with the technical assistance remain the country's priorities for trade, i.e.,
encouraging export and growth of export-oriented industries as a first priority; promotion
of quality; discouraging of barter; seeking opportunities to provide training to all
segments of government and industry; seeking to join GATT; seeking foreign investment;
all by promoting the right environment and without direct interference.



- 37 -
Annex C 7
SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
Subcomponent No. 7: Customs General Administration (CGA)
The Customs General Administration was organized out of the old Customs
Department to handle the Customs Law which took effect in 1991. CGA is responsible
for import and export clearance and control procedures, and the collection of customs
duties.  CGA reports directly to MOF in order to coordinate the Government's tax
collection functions and improve budgetary implementation.
Description of the component:
In collaboration with the IMF the functions of the CGA would be strengthened through
* Introduction of a computerized system for modernization of customs administration
and processing customs documentaition (ASYCUDA) to main customs houses in
Mongolia in order to increase efficiency, minimize fraud and maximize revenue
receipts, and produce accurate statistics on trade flows and revenue;
*  Revision of the valuation provision oif the Customs Law;
*  Introduction of a harrnonized system;
*  Training in trade facilitation; and
*  Provision of a statistician to advise on the functions to utilize ASYCUDA output as
input for the Statistics Department.
Impact of the Component:
A harmonized system for tariff classification and GATT code customs
classification has been installed in seven major cities. Customs houses at headquarters,
the railway station and import-export bamk have been renovated and refurbished. The
ASYCUDA system, which allows collection of accurate statistics on trade flows and
revenue, is operating. The necessary equipment, and a team of officers qualified to install
and maintain the system is in place.



- 38 -
Annex D
Page I of 2
JAPANESE PHRD GRANT(TF021376)
The Japanese PHRD grant in the amount of X170.1 million (US$1.26 million in
1992 dollars equivalent) was approved in February 1992 as part of the cofinancing
package for the project. The Grant Agreement was signed almost immediately on
February 19, 1992. The PHRD funds were administered in two portions. The first,
US$1.09 million equivalent, was allocated to financial advisory services for the MOF,
BOM and CGM, and administered by the IMF under a management agreement with the
Government. It was fully disbursed by 1996. The second, US$170,000 equivalent, was
executed by the Government for activities to be identified during project implementation.
The grant was administered in two portions: a) The first US$1.09 million
equivalent, was allocated to finance advisory services for the Ministry of Finance
(US$451,000), Bank of Mongolia (US$495,300) and Customs General Administration
(US$143,880). These funds were administered by the IMF (Fiscal Affairs and Monetary
and Exchange Affairs Departments) under a management agreement with the
Government of Mongolia; and b) the second portion was expected to be executed by the
Government for activities to be identified during project implementation.
The IMF-administered portion of the grant was fully disbursed by 1996. In the
Ministry of Finance, the grant financed short and long-term advisors on the strengthening
of the budget, cash and debt management operations, sales and income tax
administration, development of a computerized tax and expenditure system, and
strengthening of the external debt administration.   For the Customs General
Administration, US$82,400 was used to finance short-term advisory services on customs
valuation and harmonization, and US$61,500 to cofinance the installation of an
ASYCUDA computerized customs data processing system. For the Bank of Mongolia,
the Grant financed short-term advisors on foreign exchange management, payment
clearing and settlement systems, open markets development and bank supervision. It
funded one long-term advisor on monetary research and policy.
The government-executed portion of the grant was slower to disburse. In
September 1996, the Government requested that IDA take over administration of their
portion of the grant. Sub-projects financed under this portion of the grant included
conisultants services for preparation of a round table on foreign direct investment
(November 1996), for the first investors' conference on oil, gas and mining opportunities
(June 1997), for the second investors' conference (scheduled for June 1998) and for
developing a framework for social sector privatization; and secondment of BOM and
MOF officials to IDA headquarters for on-the-job and classroom training programs.
In 1996, the closing date of the grant, originally June 30, 1996 was extended to
December 31, 1997 to make use of an undisbursed balance of US$588,000 resulting from
the appreciation of the yen against the US dollar between 1992 and 1996. The
Government requested, and IDA agreed, to reallocate the remaining funds to a private
investors conference, and for additional training for staff in the core economic ministries.
Some administrative difficulties occurred with the government-executed portion,



-39 -
AnnexD
Page 2 of 2
requiring more intensive supervision. Problem areas were: a)slowness in preparing work
plans and agreeing on effective use of fwuds among different beneficiary institutions; and
b) long communications delays, affecting the schedule of payments to consultants. A
further extension of the closing date of the grant to June 30, 1998 was made at the request
of the Government in order to complete the preparatory work on the second investors'
conference scheduled for June 1998. As of March 31, 1998 the undisbursed balance was
US$114,500 equivalent.
The impact of the PHRD grant has been considerable. Consultants services
provided policy advice and valuable on-the-job training particularly to staff in the budget,
accounting and tax administration departments of MOF and the monetary policy, research
and banking supervision departments of BOM. Assistance under the grant contributed to
considerable transfer of skills, and consequently facilitated the development of an
institutional framework for macroeconomic management. It also helped to pinpoint areas
where specialized long- and short-term training was needed for financing under the
Technical Assistance Credit.



- 40 -
Annex E
UNOPS
Services Provided Under the Management Services Agreement
The MSA, which was expected to cover about 60% of the IDA credit amount,
provided for one long term advisor to the Ministry of Trade and Industry; one long term
advisor to MND; short term advisors/trainers to MTI, MND, SSO, MOJ and MOF, as
well as support to in-country and overseas training, and some equipment and supplies.
Performance of UNOPS. While good support services were provided from the
UNDP field office, i.e., seeking financing for the ASYCUDA project, English for special
purposes program, supervision of long-term advisors and organizational and support
services, etc., the services and role of the UNOPS was less satisfactory. Provision to the
Ministry of Finance of information on project implementation and budgetary
expenditures by UJNOPS was erratic. In November 1992 the supervision mission noted
that UNOPS had created lengthy bureaucratic requirements, unnecessarily stringent
language requirements, and conflicting intellectual backstopping that competed with the
intended objectives of the project. The mission recommended that IDA undertake an
internal review and follow up with the UJNOPS headquarters in New York.
The Management Services Contract was terminated by the Ministry of Finance on
April 1, 1996 to be effective 60 days thereafter.



