-dooo -1~         /17C. 
Dacat Of
The World Bay*
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U.wt NO. P-5680-Mr
MEMORANDUM AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$5 MILL1,-T EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
MONGOLIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 22, 1991
TFI document has a restied dbitrbuti  and may be used by repient only lo the perfonnane of.
dther offical dute. Its contents may not odtrwise be diiemd widthu Wordd Bank authrization



CURRNYUIALET
(As of September 30, 1991)
Currency Unit - tugrik (T,)
US$1.00 - Tg 40
Tg 1 - US$0.025
FISCS X
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systsm
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BOM    -   The Bank of Mongolia (the central bank)
CMEA   -   Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
GATT   -   General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
IDA    -   International Development Association
IAMD   -    Institute of Administration and Management Development
IMF    -   International Monetary Fund
JGF    -   Japanese Grant Facility
MOF    -   Ministry of Finance
MOJ    -   Ministry of Justice
MND    -   Ministry of National Development
MPS    -   Material Product System
NTI    -   Ministry of Trade and Industry
NCC    -   National Computing Center
OPS    -    (UNDP) Office of Project Services
PIP    -   Public Investment Program
SNA    -    (UN) System of National Accounts
SSO    -   State Statistical Office
UNCTAD -   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Program
UNIDO  -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USSR   -   Union of Soviet Socialist Republics



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MONGOLIA
TECICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borgoner                : ktongolian People's Republic
Amount                  : SDR 3.7 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms                  : Standard, with 40 year maturity
IiUAUcing Plan
Local     Foreign     Total
-US$ million -------
Government                    .35         -          ,35
IDA                                       5.00      5.00
Government of Japan             -         1.20      1.20
UNDP                           -          _2         .25
Total                         31          .4           0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report : Not applicable
IBRD 23405
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the verforrian;.
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auuhorizi ion.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMNFTr ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE MONGOLIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1..       I 3ubmit for your approval the following memorandum and recommenda-
tion on a proposed development credit to Mongolia for SDR 3.7 million,
(equivalent of US$5.0 million), on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40
years to help finance a technical assistance project. Additional grant
financing of 170 million (US$1.2 million equivalent, is being provided by the
Government of Japan and US$250,000 is being provided by the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP). A map (IBRD 23405) is attached.
2.        Mongolia joined the Bank Group (IBRD, IDA and IFC) on February 14,
1991. An economic mission visited Mongolia in June/July 1991 and its report
"Mongolia-Towards a Market Economy" (Report No. 10108-MON) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.
3.        Backgroun.  Since the founding of the People's Republic in 1924,
Mongolia's political structure and economic development have been shaped
largely by its close relations with the USSR. This resulted in the country's
transition from a peasant feudal agrarian society with strong religious and
cultural traditions to a centrally-planned command economy. Owing partly to
these circumstances and partly to its geography, Mongolia remained almost
completely isolated from th_ international community for most of this period,
although it became a member of the United Nations in 1961 and has participated
in the activities of several specialized agencies since then including UNDP,
the World Health Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization, and the
United Nations Fund for Population Activitios. In early 1990, the pace of
political and economic reforms initiated during the second ha]f of the 1980s
quickened dramatically, leading, after Mongolia's first multi-party elections
in July 1990, to the formation of a reformist, coalition government that
decided to "construct a market-oriented economy."
4.        At the same time, the adverse impact of external factors on its
economy is significantly influencing the dynamics of the reform process now
underway in Mongolia. Per capita income, estimated at around $500 in 1990,
may have fallen 20 percent as a result of these external shocks. The abrupt
termination of new aid from, and drastically reduced trade with, the USSR and
its former CMEA partners have reinforced the new government's intention to
proceed with comprehensive economic reforms as quickly as possible. Although
detailed plans are still being worked out, the authorities hope to introduce
the principal measures over the next three years. These include the return of
state livestock herds to individual groups, privatization of state-owned
enterprises (SQEs) accounting for 70 percent of state assets with the partial
sale or lease and, eventually, the promotion of private sector equity (includ-
ing foreign joint ventures) participation in others. Laws to protect enter-
prise ownership rights and their transfer are being drafted. More broadly, a
phased program of price adjustments was introduced in January 1991; the



- 2 -
governmental bureaucracy is being streamlined; tax reforms are under way; and
financial sector reforms, including the separation of commercial and central
banking functions, the introduction of independent bank supervision, and the
use of indirect monetary policy instruments, are being formulated.
5.        Stabilization, Adjustment  and Reform.  There is little doubt about
the authorities' commitment to reform. Indeed, they seem determined to move
ahead on all fronts at oJnce, although the imrediate actions required to stabi-
.ize the economy suggest that a more measured pace would be more appropriate.
Recent progress on some key components of the reform program, particuiarly the
privatization of SOEs and other state assets, has been somewhat uneven. More
attention will need to be paid to the sequencing of different reforms, their
coherence and internal consistency, and measures to evaluate their effective-
ness. An early priority is the need for further price reform and the deregu-
lation of internal trade and markets to underpin the privatization process and
to stimulate small-scale private enterprise and foreign investment. To
develop the institutional framework for a market-based economy, Mongolia will
need a cohort of administrators trained in the methods of indirect macroeco-
nomic management, financial market development and the creation of an enabling
legal framework. At the same time as promoting privatization, the government
must also redefine its role and activities to bring them more in line with the
needs of a market-based economy. While all production-oriented SOEs should be
privatized at an early date, the government will need to ensure that remaining
SOEs (e.g., public utilities) are managed efficiently under appropriate
regulatory and pricing policies. The government's principal responsibility
should be to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment conducive to growth
for different economic agents, or. in which they can compete on an equal
footing. Restrictions and regulations that distort resource allocation and
private sector initiatives need to be removed. These include: subsidies,
state orders, foreign exchange allocation, and remaining price controls. Free
entry and exit of enterprises, anti-monopoly measures and consumer protection,
and appropriate pricing policy for natural monopolies, also need to be
considered. A social safety net that takes into account not only the short-
term effects of adjustment, but also the pension, health and social welfare
needs of a market economy needs to be further developed.
6.        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  During the Bank's first reconnais-
sance mission to Mongolia in late 1990, the authorities requested technical
advice and assistance from the World Bank Group. Easier and systematic access
to the advice available in the international community at large, and develop-
ment of staff capacity to use this information and experience would facilitate
the formulation and implementation of its comprehensive reform plans.
However, international concessional resources avai'able are limited. Existing
UNDP funds are already largely committed for the next two years on activities
agreed before 1990; the IMF will not be able to sustain its high initial level
of staff effort in the medium-term; and, while ADB is planning to assist in
investment planning and specific feasibility studies, IDA expects to play an
important role in broader economic management support. In short, this would
be the principal rationale for IDA involvement.



- 3 -
7.        Second, Mongolia's absorptive capacity for, and interest in,
external borrowing will depend on early and rap1c. steps to stabilize the
economy and mobilize donor support for this effort and the subsequent medium-
term adjustment procass. Mongolia must then develop investment projects that
can be the focus of operational dialogue with IDA and other donors. Accord-
ingly, the authorities indicated at a very early stage their interest in
technical assistance for sector studies to support pre-investment project
preparation. Given the limited total volume of concessional financial
assistance that can be expected for a country with a population of two million
people, and the many competing claims on the budget, prioritization of future
investment projects is a necessity. A flexible source of funds for sector
studies and project preparation activities would facilitate this prioritiza-
tion process and meet an immediate mutual need of both Mongolia and its
potential development partners.
8.        Project Oblectives.  The project would help Mongolia develop its
institutional capacity for macroeconomic management In a market economy. It
would also help define strategies for sectors/subsectors key to Mongolia's
economic development and, as appropriate, demonstrate or confirm the feasibil-
ity of selected public investments.
9.        Project Descrigtion.  The project has two components.  The first, a
program of advisory assistance, in-country and overseas training, and material
support with an estimated cost of US$4,820,000, would concentrate on develog-
ing Mongolia's institutional cARacity for macroeconomic, manasEgeme-nd reform.
Assistance would be directed at the institutions with key roles to play in the
transition: Ministry of Finance, including the Customs General Addinistra-
tion; the Bank of Mongolia (the central bank); Ministry of National Develop-
ment; Ministry of Trade and Industry; and Ministry of Justice. A small
component would help the State Statistical Office provide basic statistics to
these agencies. The second component, with a total cost of US$1,980,000,
would finance strategic studies in selected sectors/subsectors key to the
long-term development uf Mongolia's economy, and feasibility studies of key
projects identified in light of these sector strateg.es. Preparation is well
advanced on the first sector study whose priority requires that it be started
in early 1992: mining and mineral development. Other sector studies have been
identified, and would be agreed between the Government and IDA on a case by
case basis. Major sector studies under consideration include: education,
electric power, health and transport. IDA intends to follow closely the
progress of a sector study on livestock to be carried out under a grant from
Denmark. Every effort would be made to advance the work on these studies as
*      far as possible during the next 12-18 months for consideration at future donor
meetings in Ulaanbaatar. The attached Technical Annex (and Schedule 1, Key
Project Activities) describes the project's institutional context, detailed
features and procurement, disbursement and management arrangements.  The
project cost and financing plan, procurement and disbursement arrangements and
timetable for key project processing events are given in Schedules A, B and C.
10.       Proiect Implementation.  MOF would be the focal point in the
Government to coordinate project activities. The Government has appointed a
Project Coordinator and Assistant Coordinator both of whom are MOF staff.
Five advisors would be provided to the main participating agencies, supported



- 4 -
by appropriate and properly-timed short-term experts. The advisor to NOF
-ould serve as lead advisor for the Project and coordinate the inputs of the
ot'ner internationally-recruited staff.  Because of the Government's
inexperience with the ivplementation of technical assistance activities,
considerable outside assistance would be required. Accordingly, the
Government plans to contract with the IMF to organize the expert services for
the NOF and BOM components. The Government plans to contract with UNDP's
Office of Projer.t Services (OPS) to provide the other advisors and short-term
experts on specialized topics. Specialized consulting firms, or as
appropriate, individual internationally-recruits.d experts, would carry out the
sector and feasibility studies. All consultants would be engaged according to
IDA Guidelines. OPS would help the participating agencies with procurement of
equipment in accordance witti IDA Procurement Guidelines, and organize local
and overseas training on their behalf. The project is expected to be complet-
ed by June 30, 1995, with a closing date of June 30, 1996.
11.       Agreed Actions.  A condition of effectiveness is the signing of the
agreements with the IMF and UNDP/OPS. Preparation of these agreements is
underway. The terms of reference for the advisors have been agreed and are
available in the project file. The authorities would carry out the training
for staff of the participating agencies and the studies according to an annual
work plan agreed with IDA. The Government would maintain key project staff,
including the Project Coordinator until the closing date. There would be a
formal review of project progress and ths work program each year.
12.       Benefits.  The project would help the Government's efforts to reform
the public sector and promote private sector development. The project has
five major benefits. First, strengthening individual and agency capacity
would develop mechanisms for management of the market economy and well-
articulated procedures for economic coordination. Second, a core group of
Mongolian staff would receive training in skills and work methods appropriate
to the shift from a command economy. Third, new procedures would be
introduced for public expenditure control, sector analysis and project
appraisal, macroeconomic forecasting and analysis, monetary and credit policy
and implementation, banking supervision, foreign investment, trade promotion,
privatization and private sector development. This would help meet immediate
needs for Mongolia's transition as well as start the longer-term institutional
strengthening process and, through the sector and feasibility studies,
establish the framework for Mongolia's development as a market-oriented
economy. Fourth, this increase in local capacity would help build internal
and international confidence in Mongolia's ability to manage the transition to
a market economy. This should facilitate the mobilization and judicious use
of further technical assistance and financial aid. Lastly, specific laws,
regulations and procedures would be prepared, approved and implemented.
13.       Risks.  As one of the first Bank Group operaticns in a country
undergoing substantial and rapid economic and political zransition, the
project presents more risks than are usual in an IDA-assisted technical
assistance project in Asia. First, the institutional context remains fluid.
This risk would be mitigated by a formal review of the project's underlying
design each year when the work program is discussed as part of the IDA
supervision process. A second risk is the problems Mongolia's isolation and



- 5 -
difficult living conditions may cause in finding, at a reasonable cost,
international staff with the experience and outlook to be effective
trainers/advisors. The plan to supplement a small core of long-term advisors,
by short-term visitinig specialists in particular topics, is designed to
mitigate this potential difficulty to some extent. A third risk is that the
Project m'ght incur delays in implementation because of the G)vernment's
inexperience with the management and administration of technical assistance.
This risk would be mltigated through the assistance to be provided by the IMF
and UNDP/OPS referred to in para. 13 above. Furthermore, intensive
L"pervision of this Project by IDA is planned, especially during the first
year of project implementaLion.
14.       Recommendatio.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 22, 1991



-6-
MONGOLIA
TECRHITa   ASS1ST1ANCE PROJEaT
Estimated Costs and Financing Elan
Estimated Costs                             Local       Foreign      Total
.......... (US$'000)  -----
Ministry of Finance                    40           961        1,001
Customs Department                    -           250         250 iA
Ministry of National Development       33           796          829
Bank of Mongcolia                      38           876         914
Ministry of Trade and Industry         33           710          743
Ministry of Justice                    13           305          318
State Statistical Office              100           200         300
Training                               13           318          331
Equipment                             _             134
Institutional Development         270          4,550       4,820
Studies                                80         1.900       1.980
Total Project Costs /              350         6,450       6,800
rinancing Plan
Government of Mongolia                350             -          350
IDA                                               5,000       5,000
Government of Japan                               1,200       1,200
UNDP                                                250          250
Total                             35          4.450       6.800
a In addition to amount provided for the Ministry of Finance above.
b Project is exempt from taxes and duties.



7 .                         SCHEDULE b
TEHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
Procurement Nethod                 Total
Project  Elemnt                    Other            N.B.F.       cost
~~~~~(US$ '000)--
.. _   .   .   .  _  .................  .  (u$.o o   .. ..   .. . . . . . .
Advisory Services                   1,575           1,450 /a    3,025
(1,50O)Ak                  (1,500)
Training                            1,085                       1,085
(1,030)1k                  (1,000)
Equipment                             710                         710
(600)j£                    (600)
Studies                             1,980                       1,980
(1,900)/b                  (1,900)
Total                          5X350          1,450        6,800
(5,000)                    (5,000)
La  Cofinanced in parallel by Japan and by UNDP.  Cofinancing from Japan
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.  UNDP cofinancing procured in
accordance with UNDP guidelines which are acceptable.
A Services to be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the use of
Consultants.
-c International shopping.
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the -;espective amounts financed by the IDA
credit. N.B.F. - Not Bank-Financed.
IDA Disbursements
Categories             Amount of Categorxy      of elDenditures to be rinaned
(US$ '000)
Advisory Services              $1,500        100l
Overseas Training                 680        100l
Local Training                    320        100l
Equipment                         600        100l  of foreign expenditures
100l of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 751 of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Studies                   1.900        1001
Total                     5,000
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA FY                    FY92     FY93     FY94     FY95      FY96
- --------   (US$ million)--------------
Annual                     0.2      0.5       1.7      1.8      0.8
Cumulative                 0.2      0.7      2.4       4.2      5.0



-6-
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of K,y Project Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                 5 months
(b)   Project prepared by:                  Governrent with IDA, IMF and con-
sultant assistance
(c)   First presentation to IDA missiot.:    April 1991
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:           October 1991
(e)   Negotiations:                         November 1991
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:         February 1992
(g)   Relevant PCRs and PPARs:              None



SCHEMEI R
-9-
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STATUS QF BANK GROUP QPERATIONS IN MONGOLIA
(At September 30, 1991)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA cgEplTS
No loans or credits have been made.
B.  STATEMET OF IFC INVESTMENTS
No IFC investments have been made.



- 10 .
MONGOLIA
TENiGALL ASSIST-ANCE PROJECT
Technical Annex 1/
1.        Project Objectives and Descrigtio.  The project consists of an
institutional develoment component (US$4,820,000, of which US$4,550,000
foreign and US$270,000 local), which would concentrate on devgloipng
Mongolia's institutional caRacity for macroeconomic management and reform,
through a program of technical assistance, training and material support to
core agencies. It also includes a studies component (US$1,980,000, of which
US$1,900,000 foreign and US$80,000 local), which would finance studies to help
define strategies for sectors/subsectors key to Mongolia's long-term economic
development and, as appropriate, prepare priority investment projects.
Support for the Agencies of Economic Managmnt
2.        Overview.  In the 1970s, there were more than 50 ministries and
state committees, organizing and commanding all aspects of Mongolia's economy.
By 1988 only 20 ministries and eight state committees remained. Further
changes in 1989 and 1990 reduced the number of ministries to 11 and abolished
the central planning agency and the State Committee for Social and Economic
evelopment. The Ministry of National Development (MND) was created and the
Bank of Mongolia (BOM), the central bank reporting to Parliament was
established with the separation of the former State Bank into central and
commercial banking functions. The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) was
given substantial new responsibilities. With the MiV.istry of Finance (MOF),
these bodies make up the Government's key agencies for economic management.
3.        For all Government agencies, identification of appropriate
operational systems and staff will take time and considerable care. While the
core staff of these agencies is relatively small, their level of education is
high. However, their unfamiliarity with the concepts and practice of
macroeconomic management in a market economy calls for early and intensive
input from seasoned foreign experts, experienced in advising on these topics
and skilled in coaching and skill transfer. Apart from providing policy
advice, long-term advisors can be expected to be involved with both systems
development and personnel training. Some of this will bj its nature be
specialist and require short-term expert input. For a few civil servants,
specialist training overseas in carefully selected courses and through
practical attachments to counterpart inswitutions will be appropriate. But
1/ Based on a preparation mission in July 1991 comprising Paul M. Cadario
(Principal Country Officer), Elizabeth Trask (Technical Assistance
Officer), Salman Salman (Senior Counsel) and Garth Armstrong
(Consultant), and an appraisal mission comprising Albert Howlett (Senior
Technical Assistance Officer, Task Manager) and Elizabeth Trask in
October 1991. Ramesh Chander (Statistical Advisor) contributed to the
design of the project. Peer Reviewers were Tom Hoopengarduser, Nimrod
Raphaeli and Roger Sullivan. The Country Director is Shahid Javed Burki
and the Division Chief is D..vid Pearce.



- Ii -
for many, cost-effectiveness will dictate in-country, on-the-Job training,
supported by local courses. After briefly assessing the current situation in
the participating agencies, specific requirements for advice, training and
equipment are set out below for each.
4.        Ministry of Finance (MOF).  MOF's central headquarters in
Ulaanbaatar has a small staff of 86, of whom 58 are professional. A network
of district offices in Mongolia's three towns, 18 aimaks (districts) and 351
somons (rural communities) employs approximately 1,000 people. MOF has the
essential functions of a typical finance ministry: collection of taxes from
enterprises and individuals; preparation of an annual budget for central and
local govenment, which includes transfers to SOEs; administration of the
budget; audit of state expenditures; definition of government accounting
standards; administration of central government debt; and maintenance of
relations with international financial institutions. Local boards administer
regional government budgets in conjunction with MOF staff. In the past, the
budgetary process was closely linked to the annual planning process of the
State Planning Committee.
5.        Following the demise of the old central planning system structures,
MOF is redefining its role in a market-based economy. Specific concerns are
tax reform, audget formulation and control, and management of public debt, and
the need to develop coordination between MOF and other agencies. With the
abrupt halt of external financing from traditional sources and the shortfall
of budget revenue obtained under command economy mechanisms, the rising
recurrent budget deficit and pressures to reduce expenditure have placed a
burden on the budgetary process that it was not designed to handle. The
capital budget was formerly determined by the central planning machinery, with
MOF acting as the administrator for some components; most enterprise capital
spending went through the budget, without differentiation from public works.
A high proportion of the capital investment budget was covered by loans from
the USSR, administered by the state monobanking system. With the recent
reforms, the process of preparation and administration of the capital
investment program is being redefined, and the respective responsibilities of
the various concerned agencies, including MOF, in budget formulation and
execution, clarified. Along with ad hoc measures to deal with these immediate
problems, a new budget law and procedures for preparing recurrent expenditure,
including the administration and audit of this expenditure, are urge-it
priorities. Accordingly, both fiscal policy and administrative machinery are
evolving. New tax and customs laws have been introduced and revised. The IMF
has taken the lead in assisting MOF staff in this process, and has helped
define the MOF component of the Project.
6.        The MOF component (US$1,001,000 of which US$961,000 foreign and
US$40,000 local) consists of the following elements. One advisor/trainer
would be attached to MOF over a three-year period. Although expected to have
a broad overview of fiscal policy and the operations of a finance ministry,
the advisor/trainer would be specialized in budget policy and expenditure
control and would help HOF introduce a modern budget system, supported by a
computer (PC-based) system. This advisor/trainer would also serve as the lead
advisor for the project, and would coordinate the inputs of the other
internationally-recruited staff. To support the training and advice provided



- 12 -
by the advisor/trainer, the Project would also provide about six staff-months
each year, for three years, of short-term advisors/trainers. They would give
on-the-job training, coaching and advice in: tax reform, including
implementation and administration; budget procedures (supporting MOF's senior
trainer/advisor); management of public debt; accounting and audit standards;
and support for computerization, systems and saftware development. During the
first year of project implementation, in-country courses would be offered in
economics, finance and related topics on the basis of a training needs
assessment already undertaken with financing from the Japanese Grant Facility
(JGF), and during the entire Project there would be continuous provision for
learning English.  Selected MOF staff with language ability would attend
suitable overseas courses offered by training institutions and counterpart
agencies. Funds would also be provided for books, personal computers and
software, fax and copying machines, etc.
7.        Customs General Administration.  An important element of the
Government's program to modernize the tax system is the development of a
mnodern customs administration. The Customs Law took effect from March 1991.
A comprehensive set of regulations and procedures and a harmonized customs
system is being drafted for consideration by parliament for implementation in
1992. To handle its increased responsibilities, the former Customs Department
was reorganized and named the Customs General Administration (CGA) in October
1991. Under the new Customs Law, the CGA is responsible for import and export
clearance and control procedures, and the collection of customs duties. In
collaboration with the IMF, the functions of the CGA would be strengthened
under a program whose main objectives are: (a) to introduLe a computerized
import and export control system; (b) to revise the valuation provision of the
Customs Law; and (c) to introduce a harmonized system. In order to coordinate
better the Government's tax collection functions and improve budgetary
implementation, CGA would also report directly to MOF. To carry out these
reforms the technical assistance described below will be required.
8.        The CGA subcomponent of the MOF component (US$250,000) provides for
on-the-job training and assistance in improving procedures and practices in
customs valuation and harmonized system clessification and the introduction of
the ASYCUDA, a computerized system for processing customs documentation
developed by UNCTAD. UNCTAD will donate the ASYCUDA software package to the
Government. Direct technical assistance would be provided for implementation
of the package by both customs and computer specialists financed under the
project. The Government of Japan has agreed to provide additional support to
complete the implementation of the full ASYCUDA system.
9.        The Bank of Mongolia (BOM).  Before 1991, a single state-owned
institution handled all banking activity. The State Bank operated as the
central bank and the government's treasury, and carried out all commercial
banking activities. In May 1991 a new central bank was formed along with
seven commercial banking institutions. BOM is responsible for: issuance of
currency; management of the exchange rate and foreign exchange reserves;
design and implementation of monetary policy; provision of banking services to
the Government and to the commercial banks; capital market development;



- 13 -
financial system supervision; financial and economic advice to the government;
and research and public information. The President of BOM is directly
responsible to the lower house of parliament.
10.       BOM has 600 staff, 100 of them in Ulaanbaatar, 100 in a computer
bureau that services the banking system, and 400 in 21 branches throughout the
country. The branches assist in the collection and distribution of domestic
currency and assist in interbank settlement. Virtually all the commercial
banking activities of the old State Bank have been transferred to the seven,
newly-formed commercial banks. BOM's Monetary Policy and Security Issues
Department conducts economic analysis as a basis for its advice to Government,
and assesses commercial bank reserve requirements. A significant volume of
advice and training will be required for some years. The Issue and Treasury
Department arranges for the printing, distribution and collection of
banknotes, and serves as the Government's treasury. The operations of the
Banking Settlement and Accounting Department, which services the entire
banking system, suffer from unreliable telex links to outlying BOM branches,
and the commercial banks' equipment is also limited. The Banking Supervision
Department issues bank licenses and reviews the banks' performance and
observance of capitalization, liquidity and reserve requirements. Its
capability to undertake these new analysis and inspection functions is limited
and specific technical training is required. The Foreign Relations Department
oversees exchange rate policy and foreign reserve management, the
administration of foreign credits, and relations with the IMF. The economic
and technical aspects of foreign currency management are difficult areas with
which the Mongolian banking system has little experience.
11.       BOM's central functions and structure are relatively conventional
and straightforward, and as the commercial banking sector develops, BOM's
nationwide branch network and some system-wide services such as computing and
clearing can be expected to fall away. Almost as important as its internal
structure is the effectiveness of BOM's external relations with the
legislature, the banking system, the MOF, and the international financial
community. Even before Mongolia joined the IMF in early 1991, Fund staff
provided considerable technical support and advice to the BOX for developing
its functions and close relations can be expected for some years. The project
design takes into account the need for IMF involvement in the design,
selection and, as appropriate fine-tuning of the technical assistance to be
provided to BOM. BOX's most urgent need is assistance in developing its
monetary policy and banking supervision functions. Having helped design the
component, IMF staff will continue to provide guidance in these areas and
support the execution of this component.
12.       The BOX component (US$914,000, of which US$876,000 foreign and
US$38,000 local) consists of the following elements. One advisor would
provide training and advice in monetary research and analysis and one advisor
would train and support bank supervision. Short-term advisors/trainers would
help BON develop bank accounting standards and systems, develop capacity in
analysis and exe_ution of monetary and credit policy, including development of
new monetary policy instruments, design and implement a new payments clearing
and settlement system, and assist in developing the legal and regulatory
framework for introducing new financial instruments. Local training would be



- 14 -
provided in topics related to central bank operations and developing English
language capacity. Overseas training would be provided for selected staff.
Funds would also be provided to BOM to finance modest supplementary equipment
(including computers and software, and a fax) as well as a basic research
library.
13.       Ministry ofgNational Develooment (1ND).  MND was established in
October 1990 from parts of the now defunct State Committees for Social and
Economic Development and for Science, Technology and Higher Oducation. The
Government has indicated that MND should henceforth conduct analysis to
determine long-term economic and social policy; provide short- and medium-term
macroeconomic forecasting and analysis, and prepare a public investment
program (PIP) within the context of a market economy. MND has a minister,
three deputy ministers and 116 staff, of whom 80 are professional. Relatively
few MND personnel, around 30, are currently involved in the long-term policy
and priority-setting, macroeconomic analysis and PIP functions normally
associated with planning agencies in developing market economies. The
Ministry also supervises six, semi-independent state institutions including a
patent office, a bureau of standards, an institute of science and technology,
and a science and technology information center, which together employ 775
people. These institutions deal with MND's fourth current function, promotion
of technical change. Like other ministries, virtually all the professional
staff in MND were trained in the Soviet Union or by Soviet advisors. While
their standard of edue_tion is high their knowledge of market economics and
appropriate planning techniques is currently very limited. A consultant
financed under the JGF helped MND's senior staff develop a reorganization and
staffing plan to develop these new functions.
14.       The Ministry of National Development component (US$829,000, of which
US$796,000 foreign and US$33,000 local) consists of the following elements.
One advisor/trainer would be attached to MND to develop capacity in
macroeconomic and sector analysis and investment programming.  This
advisor/trainer would be financed by UNDP. This advisor/trainer would train
MND's staff of 15-20 economists, engineers and financial analysts in
analytical techniques suitable for planning and economic management in a
market economy. Initially, the advisor would also help identify key, highly
qualified staff from line ministries to learn these techniques. This advisor
would also coach MND staff in developing working relationships with line
agency staff in investment programming and the preparation of a PIP, as well
as in collating sector inputs for a medium-term development strategy, a draft
of which would be prepared by December 1993. Particular emphasis would be
placed on how MND staff should elicit and coordinate inputs from other
ministries and agencies, and analyze and present these data in a responsive,
consistent, overall long-range macro-economic framework that would guide
rather than "direct." The trainer would be a macro-economist with extensive
experience in policy formulation and advice. Specialists would visit Mongolia
for about three weeks at a time over three years to advise and coach on
macroeconomic theory, modelling and economic management. The Project would
provide short-term trainers/advisers skilled in project analysis and appraisal
and in public investment in general. They would help NND develop skills in
project appraisal to determine priorities for a multi-year PIP and annual
capital budget. These experts would organize and conduct in-country training



- 15 -
courses as well as provide on-the-job training and coaching. Local training
to be provided for MND and, through it, to line ministries would be greater
than for other core ministries because of the need to develop common
techniques for investment programming, and because of the authorities'
intention to encourage efforts by line ministries to identify, and prepare
investment projects. Significant formal in-country training is therefore
appropriate. The project would also provide overseas training. Modest
library, computer hardware and software, and fax/telex equipment would also be
provided.
15.       Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI).  MTI was formed in 1990 by
combining the former Ministry of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Trade and
Procurement, Committee of Technical Supply, and the State Committee --or
External Economic Relations. In July 1991, MTI was again restructured,
reducing it from 15 to 10 departments. Broadly, it seeks to stimulate foreign
trade, foreign investment, and domestic industry and commerce in the nascent
private sector. NTI is headed by a minister assisted by three deputy
ministers who are responsible for foreign trade, industry and foreign
investment, and domestic trade.   MTI's central Foreign Trade Policy
Department is organized geographically. Its objective is to facilitate the
rapid expansion of private sector involvement and to reorganize the state
foreign trading organizations. Advice is required to help make policy and to
improve performance in specific areas such as export promotion, transportation
logistics, trade statistics and trade regimes. The Department of Internal
Trade Policy is charged with promotion and regulation of domestic commerce.
To assist the shift to a market-based economy and the promotion of a
competitive and efficient domestic market, the department needs advice to
define suitable policy and regulatory mechanisms. The Industry and Trade
Department deals with MTI's mandate to supervise new foreign investment in
Mongolia; however, its role regarding industry is less clear. The current
situation specifically includes export-oriented industries (except the major
one, mining) and some responsibility for general industrial policy.
16.       The authorities realize the role that new foreign investment can
play in the transformation of Mongolia's economy. The project would finance
experts to help MTI develop a foreign investment policy, clarify its role in
the privatization process and establish enabling mechanisms for private sector
activity. A consensus about the new role of the government in deciding
industrial policy is still evolving. MTI also has general support departments
that cover international organizations (GATT, UNCTAD, UNIDO), law and trade,
finance and statistics and inspection of trade practices. Each of these
require short-term advice on specific technical matters along with specialized
training, although they have a lower priority than those relating to MTI's
central policy departments.
17.       The MTI component (US$743,000 of which US$710,000 foreign and
US$33,000 locel) consists of the following elements. One advisor/trainer
would be attached to MTI for extended periods over two years. This advisor
would focus on foreign investment policy, providing advice not only on legal
and institutional sup,port to facilitate foreign investment but also on
external trade policies and measures to promote competitive domestic market
conditions, approaches that will further encourage direct foreign investment.



- 16 -
Short-term experts would advise on specific issues related to price reform,
consumer protection and competition, the legal and institutional framework for
foreign trade, and policies to promote small business. Local training would
be provided in topics related to the experts' advice and in English. Overseas
training would also be provided. Funds would be provided for books and
research materials, PCs and software, and office equipment.
18.       Satistics.  As in other centrally planned economies, Mongolia's
statistical system follows the Soviet Material Product System (MPS). Since
market-determined prices played no part in transactions, MPS did not compile
price indices. The need for statistical reporting was met through regular
reports prepared at the enterprise level, providing information on inputs
used, outputs generated, investment, employment, etc. On the basis of returns
aggregated by statistical units in the almaks and transmitted to Ulaanbaat-r,
the State Statistical Office (SSO) prepared nationwide statistical estimates.
As most professional staff were trained in the Soviet Union and other CMEA
countries, they lack knowledge of and experience in data compilation and
analysis techniques used in market economies. This factor also determined
SSO's choice of computer hardware and software from former CMEA countries.
19.       Mongolia's economic reforms have major implications for the
statistical system. The demand for information has significantly changed,
while the growth of services and changes in the structure of the economy
require monitoring, particularly in the transition. National accounts, based
on the framework laid out in the System of National Accounts (SNA) and its
associated aggregates of GDP, are needed to satisfy demands by user agencies
and by donors for information that is normally available in developing market
economies. A comprehensive review of SSO's functions and its organization is
planned for the second quarter of 1992 in which IDA and other donors, probably
including the IMF, ESCAP, and the ADB would participate. Accordingly, the
modest technical assistance inputs described in the following paragraph are
provisional, and may be modified depending on the outcome of the review, and
the plans of other donors.
20.       The State Statistical Office component (US$300,000 of which
US$200,000 foreign and US$100,000 local) consists of the following elements
(subject to the organizational review referred to above). Short-term
consultants would provide advice on: national accounts; sampling and surveys;
business and economic statistics; SSO organization; and preparation of an
information system plan including whether the National Computing Center (NCC)
should provide computing services for other users and advice on hardware
selection and equipment acquisition. Supplementing on-the-job training to be
provided to SSO and NCC by the short-term advisors, a combination of initial
courses in Ulaanbaatar of three-four weeks duration, when appropriate followed
a year later with a somewhat more advanced workshop of a shorter duration,
would address SSO's most urgent in-country training needs. These are:
estimation of GDP-based national accounts; compilation of price indices;
sampling and survey methods for household and enterprise enquiries; market-
oriented economic statistics and international classifications (modifications
of collection procedures, applications to the industrial and service sector
surveys, and compilation of trade statistics); training in use of PCs and the
most common software packages. Provision would also be made for attendance at



- 17 -
overseas courses and practical attachments at institutions with functions
similar to SSO in other countries. Computers and software identified for
financing under the information plan would be financed by another donor. The
Government would finance local costs of Tg 4 million for survey and data
collection.
21.       Ministry of Justice (MOJ).  The Ministry of Justice (MOJ), which
employs about 80 lawyers, is divided into six departments, namely (a) Drafting
and Legislation (18 lawyers); (b) International Legal Cooperation (5 lawyers);
(c) Legislation Registration, Publication and Information (12 lawyers);
(d) Administration and Personnel (8 lawyers); (e) Courts Department (10
lawyers); and (f) Economic Crimes Expertise Departmer.t (5 lawyers). In
addition, the Legal Research Center has 12 lawyers. MOJ also supervises the
Archives and Prison Administration Bureau. The activities under the Project
are confined to lawyers working in the civil law (as opposed to criminal law)
area within MOJ. Some Ministries have employed their own in-house staff
lawyers who work closely with the lawyers in MOJ, but MOJ is moving to absorb
all Government attorneys and would assign them according to need: currently
there are about 20 lawyers in this group. Given the shortage of trained legal
staff in Mongolia, this concentration of civil service positions in MOJ is
more efficient than trying to spread the legal staff around to all public
agencies, provided effort is made to provide specialized skills through
continued training and appropriate assignment.
22.       An important task for MOJ during the transition to a market-oriented
economy is the drafting of economic, financial and business laws, to put in
place a basic legal framework for the protection of property, contracts and
market functions. To do this effectively, it should analyze laws of other
countries, understand their legal content, convince line ministries of the
appropriate legal principles that their policies and regulations should
contain, and defend their views before the lower house of parliament.
However, MOJ's lawyers are trained in the Soviet, centrally-planned economic
model of a legal system; hence, they know little of basic market economy
concepts and protections such as property rights and enforceability of
contract. Although most lawyers are trained in the Mongolia State University,
some were trained in the Soviet Union, and few speak English.
23.       The Ministry of Justice componient (US$318,000 of which US$305,000
foreign and US$13,000 local) is a first step toward remedying this situation.
A firm specializing in international legal training in developing countries
would conduct two in-country workshops on such topics as financial sector
reform, and drafting and negotiation of contracts. A consultant would help
MOJ revise and streamline financial, economic and business laws; and help
draft, as necessary, implementation regulations for such laws. Funds would be
provided to help MOJ publish in English key economic laws and regulations.
The Project would provide overseas legal training in various topics relevant
to the functioning of a market economy, including financial sector law and
regulation. The Project would help MOJ strengthen the Legal Research Center
through provision of law books and legal periodicals, materials and some
office equipment.



- 18 -
24.       Training and LogisticalASUpport for Institutional Development. A
training fund of US$331,000 (of which US$318,000 foreign and US$13,000 local)
would finance trainers for local training courses that are needed during the
Project to help implement the new policies and procedures the Project would
help develop. The fund would be used to supplement the training funds
available to the participating agencies in their respective project
components. Priorities would be determined arnnually and incorporated in the
annual work program.  Care would be taken to ensure that female candidates
are given every opportunity to participate in all training activities. This
fund could also be used to support any modest equipment or material costs of
additional volunteer English teachers that may be recruited and financed by
other donors (e.g. UNDP, Peace Corps).
25.        luiument Fund (US$134,000).  Projects in other Asian countries have
confirmed the usefulness of portable simultaneous interpretation equipment for
seminars, conferences and other training exercises held in seminar rooms in
the workplace or other appropriate conference facilities. Mongolia has only
one venue in Ulaanbaatar equipped with such equipment. To improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of lectures and seminars by advisors engaged
under the project and by other international experts visiting Mongolia to
consult and to transmit international experience, the project would finance
such equipment and training in its use and maintenance. The Project would
also finance five vehicles and their operation and maintenance. All agencies
suffer from a dearth of basic computing and commumications equipment, and some
even lack a basic technical library; accordingly, each component includes an
equipment and library budget. The equipment fund could also be used to
finance moLest amounts of additional equipment as required by the
participating agencies.
Sector and FEasibility Studies ComRonent
26.        The project's second component (US$1,980,000, of which US$1,900,000
foreign and US$80,000 local) would finance strategic studies in sectors/
subsectors key to the long-term development of Mongolia's economy, as well as
feasibility studies for public investments consistent with these sector
strategies. It would help the Government define public sector involvement (of
both an investment and a policy or regulatory nature) to serve Mongolia's
economic and social development goals and foster the development of its
private sector. The line ministry responsible would assemble a team of staff
drawn from its ranks, other related agencies, and MND to work with a team of
international experts. The responsible line agencies and MND are collecting
relevant data and background material so that appropriate TOR can be drafted
in collaboration with IDA technical staff and consulting proposals invited,
following agreement with IDA. Five sectors/topics have been tentatively
identified: mining and minerals, education, electric power, transport, and
health. Formal agreement has been reached on the mineral and mining policy
study, selected because of its priority in Mongolia's transition to a market
economy.
27.       Minerals and Mining Policy (USS500.000). The Bureau of Mines,
supported by MND, the State Geological Service and the State Environmental
Commission will review Mongolia's mining development prospects, recommending



- 19 -
policies and actions to: promote direct foreign investment in mining
development and mineral processing; define an exploration promotion strategy
and appropriate local institutions, both public and private; review the
Government's participation in existing joint venture mining companies (copper,
tin/molybdenum and gold) develope&i in the pre-reform period with SOEs from the
Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia and (former) German Democratic Republic; examine
environmental protection regulations as they pertain to mining development;
and review institutional relations among the various state and parapublic
bodies involved in the mining sector.
28.       Four other major studies have been identified.  An expenditure study
of education and science would review education and training by the public and
private sector, evaluating the effectiveness and cost of current curriculum
and classroom methods, and the share of expenditures between primary,
secondary and post-secondary levels. A power sector master plan review would
review an eight-volume investment program for the power sector completed with
Soviet assistance in late 1990. Introducing market concepts of tariffs and
demand forecasting, it would verify cost estimates and engineering
assumptions, and assess institutional, management, operating and regulatory
issues with the power public utility. A transport study is under
consideration that would review the technological, economic and treaty
requirements to support Mongolia's reorientation of ics trade from the Soviet
Union to other markets through China. A livestock sector review, originally
foreseen for financing under the Project, would develop a plan for the
livestock sector during the next decade. The Government of Denmark has
announced its intention to provide a grant to finance the cost of this study.
IDA intends to follow closely the progress of the study including assisting
with the TOR. A Bank consultant may participate in the work.
29.       The Project studies component also provides financing for five,
small reform oriented studies relating to: (a) energy policy; (b) coal
pricing; (c) petroleum demand and supply; (d) agricultural supply and
distribution; and (e) export promotion and development. The objectives of the
energy policy study would be: (i) to investigate the pricing, energy
efficiency and environmental issues that should define the power system's
longer-term investment priorities; and (ii) to outline pricing, organizational
and regulatory principles that should guide the restructuring of the electric
power sector. Given the importance of coal, and its cost to the country's
electric power sector, a small coal pricing study would be undertaken early in
1992 to formulate pricing reforms. The objective of the petroleum demand and
supply study would be to develop a strategy to meet the country's increasing
demand for petroleum products, once economic growth has resumed. The
objective of the agricultural supply and distribution study would be to
prepare an action program for the privatization of agricultural input supply
and distribution, and agricultural product (including food) marketing. The
export promotion and development study would examine access to foreign
exchange and trade finance, and customs inspection, valuation and duty
collection procedures on the import side, and market reconnaissance, quality
control and marketing arrangements for export promotion.



- 20 -
30.       As appropriate, aid subject to the availability of funds, this
component would also finance feasibility studies for priority public
investments identified from the sector studies, or for the review of on-going
investments whose priority--or viability--in a market-oriented system needs to
be reviewed. The timing and scope of sector studies beyond the minerals and
mining policy study, whether drawn from this provisional list or others that
appear more useful and necessary and appropriate for IDA support as the reform
program proceeds, would be agreed on a case by case basis. The extent of
funds available for feasibility studies for the preparation of specific
projects would depend in part on the extent to which other dt :s finance
sector studies.
Project Ad&inistration snd Implementation
31.       Project Cost and Disbursement Profile.  Total project cost is
estimated at US$6.8 million. The foreign cost is US$6.45 million. The local
cost is Tg 14 million (US$350,000), not including taxes and duties, from which
the project, related imports and overseas consultants' fees, remuneration and
expenses are exempt. The project cost is based on recent experience from
other projects in the Asia region. Disbursement estimates (MOP Schedule B)
are based on standard IDA profiles for technical assistance projects, adjusted
to take account of the readiness for project launch, the fact that all
activities under the Project's institutional development component have been
fully prepared and appraised, and one major sector study and five reform
oriented studies have been fully agreed.
32.       Financing Plan.  The project wculd be financed by a Development
Credit of SDR 3.7 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
with 40 years maturity, a grant of US$1.2 million equivalent from Japan, and a
grant of US$250,000 from UNDP. The IDA Credit would finance overseas and in-
country training, equipment and materials cor all agencies, resident and
short-term technical assistance to MND, MTI, MOJ, SSO, and the sector and
feasibility studies. The grant from Japan would finance the expert services
for BON and MOP. To assist in project preparation, a V33.7 million
(US$250,000 equivalent) grant under the Japanese Grant Facility (JGF) has been
used to assist with project preparation. JGF-financed consultants assisted
with various aspects of project preparation including training needs, the
structure of MND, the livestock sector survey and procurement. The UK
Government has agreed to finance a trainer in English. The Government would
provide local financing of Tg 14 million, amounting to 5X of the project costs
equivalent to about US$350,000.
33.       ImDlementation and Administrative Arrangements.  The Government will
require assistance to facilitate the identification and recruitment of experts
for the wide range of services needed over a three-year period, and to
administer the training program, and to procure equipment. The Government has
selected UNDP/OPS to provide the services to all participating agencies,
except for MOF and BOM. The IMF would be contracted by the Government to
recruit advisers and short-term experts for MOF and BOM. Consulting firms
would be hired for the sector and feasibility studies, or, if appropriate, as
teams of individual experts organized by UNDP/OPS. IDA Guidelines would be
followed in all cases. UNDP/OPS would, on behalf of the government,



- 21 -
administer overseas training and, in the implementation of in-country train-
ing, would cooperate with local training agencies such as the Institute for
Administration and Management Development (IAMD) and the College of Economics.
UNDP/OPS would also be responsible for procuring equipment on behalf of the
Government. The office of UNDP in Ulaanbaatar would provide local logistical
support as part of the arrangement with UNDP/OPS including one staff member
who would work full-time to support the project.
34.       The advisor assigned to MOF would be designated lead advisor.  The
lead advisor would coordinate the inputs of the other internationally-
recruited staff, provide support, ensure timeliness and distribution of
reports from the contracted staff, and coordinate with the Technical
Assistance Coordinator in MOF to ensure responsiveness to the Government's
requirements. Experienced in economics, planning and finance, the lead
advisor would also provide advice to the recently established Economic
Coordinating Commission responsible for coordinating macroeconomic policy, as
well as offer counsel to members of the Government and senior staff on issues
of economic reform as requested.
35.       MOF would serve as the coordinating agency for the Project.  I(OF is
best staffed for the accounting and logistical arrangements that smooth
project implementation would require. MOF has designated its First Deputy
Minister to act as Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator would serve
as the Government's principal contact with IDA, and would ensure liaison with
key staff in other participating agencies. NOF has also appointed an
Assistant Project Coordinator to assist with day-to-day logistical arrange-
ments. The Project Coordinator would collect periodic progress reports from
the participating agencies, oversee the keeping of timely and accurate project
accounts, arrange programs for visiting IDA supervision missions, and
supervise the processing of IDA withdrawal applications.
36.       Training Capability and Training Arrangements.  A training program
has been developed that integrates on-the-job training and coaching by the
advisors and visiting specialists, local classroom training, and overseas
training. The program was designed to ensure that there is integration among
core agencies to take advantage of common training needs. In-country training
would be carried out in collaboration with local agencies such as the IAMD and
the College of Economics. IAMD is being strengthened through a technical
assistance project financed by UNDP, which aims to bu'ld up institutional
support for the policy of economic restructuring. It focuses on the research,
training, and consultancy capabilities of IAMD in economic management,
international business management, enterprise management and public adminis-
tration. The UNDP-assisted project provides English language training and
training of trainers to develop IAMD's capacity to deliver courses, do
management consulting and conduct research. IAMD staff participated in the
pre-project training needs assessment. The facilities of IAMD, the College of
Economics and other local training institutions would be used for selected
seminars and workshops, and effort3 would be made to involve their staff in
the short courses either as instructors, observers, or participants as
appropriate.



- 22 -
37.       Procurement Arrangements.  Consultants would be engaged in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Consultants
for the sector and feasibility studies would be obtained generally from a
single firm, though in some cases (such as sector studies) it might be cost-
effective and technically appropriate to hire individuals. Contracts for
equipment valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent would be obtained through
international shopping, i.e. obtaining quotations from at least three
reputable suppliers, preferably from different countries, after providing a
brief description of the equipment needed.
38.       Disbursegents.  The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over four
and one-half years, closing on June 30, 1996, as follows: for consultant
ser-ices, overseas and local training, 100X; for equipment and supplies, 100X
of foreign expenditures, 100X of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75X
of local expenditures for other items procured locally. All disbursements
would be made against full documentation. Most payments would be made through
UNDP/OPS and IMF. To help facilitate disbursements in Mongolia, a Special
Account in US dollars with an authorized allocation of $10,000, would be
established in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA. The account would be
replenished monthly or whenever it was drawn down by about 50 percent of the
initial deposit.
39.       Account and Audit Arrangements.  The IDA Special Account would be
operated by MOF and kept in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA. Since most
payments would be handled through UNDP/OPS and IMF, auditing arrangements
would be relatively simple. Payment and disbursement requests of the
participating agencies not handled through UNDP/OPS or IMF would be processed
through the Proiect Coordinator (MOF). HOF would obtain the annual audit of
the project accounts and Special Account from an independent auditor and
forward them to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
40.       Progress Reporting.  Each agency participating in the project would
designate a staff member as its lead contact with IDA and the Project
Coordinator in MOF. This person would provide substantive oversight of the
agency's work program of advisory/training services provided to his/her
agency, and of the uses to which the project reports and other outputs are
put, and see that local counterpart personnel are in place as needed for full
involvement in project-related activities. This person would also be respon-
sible for submitting progress reports to MOF, for meeting with supervision
missions visiting each agency, and for supplying information to MOF and IDA as
may be requested on the substantive and administrative progress of the
component (particularly on training).  Six-monthly progress reports would be
prepared by the Project Coordinator. A draft annual work program and budget
would be submitted to IDA each year for review and agreement. The Project
Coordinator would coordinate the participating agencies' inputs into the
annual work program and into the Project Completion Report.



SCHEDUL 1
Page 1 of 7
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Expected                   Responsible
Government Objectives         Project Component Activities          Results/Impact        Timing      Agency
A. Budgetary Reforms
Assist with design and implementa-
Establish modern tax      tion of tax procedures and
system and broaden        administration including:
revenue base
(a) introduction of sales tax;        Increased revenues     7/92           IOF
(b) establishment of new system of  Increased revenues       1993           MOF
individual taxpayers' numbers;
(c) improvements in practices and   Increased revenues       1992-93        4OF
procedures for administering
newly introduced income taxes                                                         l
and custom duties;
(d) preparation of harmonized         Increased revenues;    6/92           CGA
customs system;                   smoother functioning
customs system.
(e) establishment of comprehensive  Increased revenues;    12/92            CGA
customs regulations and           smoother functioning
procedures.                       customs system.
(f) provide on-the-job training      More effective tax
for tax and customs officials.   and customs
administration.
Strengthen mechanism for    Advise and assist in the
control of fiscal deficit   improvement of budgetary
procedures including:
(a) Review and redesign of            Improved expenditure   Ongoing        MOF
expenditure control              control.
procedures;



SCHEDUIE1
Page 2 of 7
MONGOLI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Expected                   Responsible
Government Objectives         Project Component Activities          Results/Impact       Timing       Agency
MOF
(b) Design and initial                Improved budgetary     1992
implementation of a cash         control and use of
management system for the         budget as a tool of
budget;                          macroeconomic
management.
(c) Establishment, in cooperation   Improved debt            1992           MOF
with the BOM, ot an annual       management and
budget financing plan             restraint of infla-
consistent with an appropriate  tion.
monetary program;
(d) Design and initial implementa-   Improved use of         1992-93        MOF
tion of procedures for           budget as a tool of
improved forecasting of          macroeconomic
revenue and non-discretionary   management.
expenditures, extending budget
coverage, and improving coor-
dination of the budget with
the public investment program.
B. Banking and Monetary      Assist officials in:
Reforms                  (a) developing a monetary research  Improved formulation  Ongoing            BON
and analysis function;            of monetary policy.
Establish institutional
framework for formula-   (b) providing training in              Improved formulation  Ongoing          BON
ting monetary policy          techniques of compilation and   of monetary policy.
analysis of monetary and
economic data;
(c) utilizing data and analysis       Improved formulation  Ongoing         BON
for formulation of monetary      of monetary policy.
policy.



SCHEDULE 1
Page 3 of 7
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Expected                   Responsible
Government Objectives         Project Component Activities          Results/Impact        Timing      Agency
Develop a modern banking    Design and implementation of new    More efficient             6/92           BOM
system                       payments and clearing settlement    banking system.
system.
Development of legal and              More efficient          6/92          BOM
regulatory framework for              banking system.
introducing new financial
instruments and securities.
Establish system of          Advise on the formulation of bank   Strengthened              Ongoing        BOX
prudential oversight of       supervisory policy.                   financial stability
banking system.                                                     of banking system.
Assist with implementation of         Strengthened            Ongoing       BOM
system of licensing and continual   financial stability
supervision of banks including a    of banking system.
reporting system and on-site
audits.
Assist with development of            Strengthened            6/92          BOM
legislation and regulations           financial stability
covering inter alia:  civil           of banking system.
penalties, debt recovery, consumer
protection, bills of exchange.



SCHEDULE I
Page 4 of 7
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Expected                   Responsible
Government Objectives         Project Component Activities          Results/Impact        Timing      Agency
C.  Investment Program       Assist with establishment of           Refocus budgetary       12/92       MND/MOF
Improve process of        priorities for public investments.  capital outlays from
establishing public                                             productive sectors
investment priorities                                           to sound and
and limit and                                                   economic infra-
restructure capital                                             structure and limit
outlays.                                                        investment to high
priority projects.
Assist with establishment of          Improved project        6/92      MND
investment monitoring groups to       management and
implement a system of investment    Government
procedures to improve project         oversight.
management, control and execution.
Strengthen capacity in appraisal    Government able to        12/94         MND
of public investment projects.        make more informed
decisions on
proposed investment
projects.
Assist with preparation of three-   Improved decision-        6/92          MND
year public sector investment         making on priority
program.                              investment programs
within budget
constraints.



SCHEDULE I
Page 5 of 7
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Expected                    Responsible
Government Objectives          Project Component Activities            Results/Impact        Timing      Agency
External Reforms
Liberalize and promote        Assist with development of
international trade           policies to liberalize and promote
international trade including:
(a) issuing foreign trade licenses   Increased exports         Ongoing        MTI
on a non-discriminatory basis;   and more efficient
procurement of          12/92          MTI
imports.
(b) eliminating mandatory state        More efficient          1992-94        MTI
orders for exports;                productive
structure.
(c) simplifying and improving the   Reduced resource           1991-94         MTI
existing exchange rate system;   distortion.
(d) allowing private sector            Increased exports.      6/92            MTI
exporters to retain foreign
exchange earnings;
(e) permitting licensed commercial  More efficient trade
banks to conduct selected          and payments system.
foreign exchange operations;
-J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SCHEDUlLE I
Page 6 of 7
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Expected                   Responsible
Government Objectives         Project Component Activities          Results/Impact       Timing       Agency
(f) permitting the development of   More efficient trade   12/92            MTI
a foreign exchange market        and payments system.
through the banking system.
Promote Foreign Investment  Assist with development of              Increased foreign      12/92          MTI
regulations and institutional         investment.
framework for implementing the
foreign investment law and
expediting procedures for
prospective investors.                                                                   X
Private Sector Development  Assist with action program to           Establishment of new   6/92
remove barriers to private sector   private sector                          MTI
activity and to develop further       initiatives.
appropriate incentives.
Help 14TI clarify its role in the    Improved Government    12/92           NTI
privatization process.                policy on
privatization



SCHEDULE I
Page 7 of 7
MONGOLIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Expected                  Responsible
Government Objectives        Project Component Activities        Results/Impact      Timing      Agency
Assist with development of          New small businesses  12/92         MTI
Government policies to promote      established.
small business.
Statistics                                                      Improved system of    12/92          SSO
Improve system of central   Assist with the development of a    national accounts.
statistics.                 system of national accounts on SNA
basis.
Increased capacity    12/92         SSO
Training program in statistics -    of SSO staff to
various topics.                     carry out new
functions.
Leg-aL
Develop legal framework     Assist with drafting of economic,   Clear instruc-         12/92         mOJ         %a
financial and business laws.        tions/'Slidance to                               a
entrepreneurs about
Training in financial sector        rules within which
reform and drafting and             to operate.
negotiation of contracts.
Improved capacity of  12/92         MOJ
MOJ staff to develop
rules and
regulations suitable
to a market economy.
Sector Studies              Mining Study
Determine future strategy   Other sector studies to be agreed   Strategy for future   6/93       Bureau of
in priority sectors.        on case by case basis.              development of                  Ministry of
mining sector and               Energy
identification of
priority investment
projects.
Strategy for future   1992-95  Various
action in sectors
_ ______________________ _  _________________________________   studied.



IBRD 23405
U.S.S.R.
z   Hen _)                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U.S.S.R. 
LIO r   LMNOOM®3                         0 4An                  °ylw                                                      u         
V ~~~~~~~UVS                                                          @ HOVSGO-. T'/  
ZAYBYAN-OLGIY                                                                                                                  ELENGE
DZAVHAN    J$Tdm0n        '        (               suI.OAN@                                                                                     -
V OVD~1
\  \-            bdewnO    Telow                _i_  _ 1 t                *             J}        >-nwsR   weel-                                                                              0 1
UUASTAY                     ARHANGAY   'N
\ ' )"@K' j o ,,,. '8' ' ~~ > < °°  "-;SETSERLEG;                                                  -                                                 -O< o> Boo Oo.0n1. HOdog
N                                                       -HOVETE ,MDZU  MOD                                                      15v  RAAN  0-"0
Moodolw st Tonbl  - ALTAY3  <  -t=S>°  o,..A,, O -* ;D-=                 %a../tooos *              ® $UKHSAARUUNURT
|dooo CHINA   _ ,     OBIALTAY -= 'T'                              r                      '        o __ w_TA
0_ 0     hT                  jao     o                     / ' -' - A.                                             D  SAYNSHANDSUKH8AATAR
~~~ ~~ARVAYHEER j              0
CHINA                                                                                                                                                                    gkAo    .EY~NOGRO~~~O  0.H~g ~   0~
Ga oB  ,ALTY            c .             T   -    6VORHANGAY -         t-               @MANDALiGO
GOBI-ALTAY  ~~~~~~~1-                                            0.g.$oooDUNDGOBI
BAYANHONGOR                                                                    0
>\   J  3AYANHONGOR t               *} 1    -T;'                     o'    ~~~~~DORNOGOBI %fhMONGOLIA
\   _  +   i  DAIANDZADGAD              oHb901                             SELECTED TOWNS / VILLAGES
t   S   f            8p        iv                                                   /       bvvbv      191 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AtMAK CAPITALS
IS1LOhlETERS 0   50  100  1SQ  200                                                                    0      CIg i  o  MNOGOBI°lg                                                                9NAIALPTL
uJOETR                                                                                                                                         '¶0101020  M(GB                            FAIR-WEATHER ROADS, TRACKS OR TEIWLS
F T                I                                            --O-- r ,                                                                                                        -   ALL-WEAThER HARD OR LOOSE SURFACE ROADS
MILES 0     50     100    150    200                                                                                        E                                                        - RAILROADS
+ AIRFIELDS
+ INTERNATIONAL AJRPORT
AIMAKC BOUNDARIES
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NOVEMBER 1991



