Report No. PID6103
Project Name                     Chile - Higher Education Reform Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       CLPE55481
Borrower                         Government of Chile
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education
Teatimos 20, Office #31
Santiago, Chile
Phone: 5-62-698-3351    Fax: 5-62-671-6164
Date this PID Prepared:          March 6, 1998
Appraisal Date:                  June 1, 1998
Project Board Date:              September 3, 1998
1. Country and Sector Background:
In 1981, the tertiary education system was diversified and stratified into 3
tiers: Universities, Professional Institutes (PI), and Technical Training
Centers (TTC). Fees were introduced in public institutions. The number of
fee-charging private universities and colleges increased sharply. A loan
scheme for students was introduced in public institutions, along with a
"voucher-like" system negotiable at either public or private institutions. The
procedures for financing public universities were changed to encourage income
generation and cost saving and award research funding on a competitive basis.
Public university personnel lost their regular civil service status.
These reforms, aimed at deregulating the sub sector, have had a profound
impact on its size, organization, financing and management. They led to more
than a doubling of student enrollment, increasing the gross enrollment rate to
27%; they also resulted in a proliferation of institutions, from 8
universities to a total of 270 institutions, including 200 PIs and TTCs, many
of which are in the regions.
Nearly all of the expansion has been financed by private sources. Public
expenditures on higher education declined by 40% in real terms though per
capita spending rose. By 1990, the state financed 27% of the costs, down from
1009. However, more recently, the resources allocated to the sub-sector have
increased by 50 percent in real terms, driving the share of higher education
in the education budget to about 12%.   Funding comes from student fees in
public as well as private institutions, income from services, and public
subsidies.
Public funding is allocated through four mechanisms: (a) direct public support
(Aporte Fiscal Directo, AFD) to the 25 "pre-reform" public and private
universities (54% of public funding); (b) indirect public support (Aporte
Fiscal Indirecto, AFI) linked to a "best student formula" which allocates
resources based on the number of top scorers admitted in each institution the
previous year (12% of public support). Students are classified in 5
categories, with a 12:1 subsidy range; (c) three competitive funds (13% of



public funding), one for science and technology (with 3 windows respectively
for general, applied and priority research), a second for institutional
development, and a third one for teacher education; (d) assistance to students
(229 of public funding) in the form of scholarships and a loan system based on
an income contingent repayment scheme, which benefit about 54t of students.
Chile's tertiary education system is not yet as developed as those of
industrialized economies, but compares well with that of, for example,
Argentina, some of the East Asian countries, and Hungary. Three key indicators
leads to that conclusion: (i) qualification of teaching staff: in OECD
countries university professors are recruited from the Ph.D. level; in Chile
less than 15 W have advanced degrees (Argentina: 15%); (ii) coverage: it is
about 27% in Chile, compared to approximately 30% in Argentina (down from 419
in 1993), and is lower than in Hungary (17%), but significantly lower than in
Korea (48%-) and OECD countries, which are approaching quality tertiary
education for all with about 80% tertiary enrollment; and (iii) incomplete
diversification: the subsector has relatively very low enrollment rates at the
lowest tier (two year vocational and technical level), the highest tier (post
graduate programs), and in high cost / low private return fields such as basic
science (2.59).
Recent developments and present status: A new legal framework providing for
greater autonomy and more participatory governance for the State Universities
is under Congressional review. However, a student unrest spread to the entire
sub-sector during May/June of 1997. Although grievances focused on financing
and governance issues, they revealed broader concerns having to do with the
concept, identity and mission of higher education in Chile, its role in
national development and the role of the State in supporting it. The Ministry
recognized that in recent years the basic and secondary education reform had
mobilized attention at the expense of the tertiary sector, in which a long
term vision had been missing. It was both receptive and firm, agreeing to the
most pressing financial demands, including a revision of the policy covering
contractual funding. At the same time, the Ministry opened a process of broad
dialogue which will address, as a matter of urgency, issues of equity,
management and participation, regulation, and financing; and in a more
strategic perspective, concerns of quality in the context of global
competition, regional development, and international cooperation.
2. Project Objectives
The impact of the project would be the improvement of the higher
education subsector's response to society's needs for democratic social
development, and enhanced economic competitiveness in the global market. In
this context, the proposed project intends to accomplish the following
development objectives:
Increase Equity in and Access to the Tertiary Education System: this
objective will be achieved by: (i) redesigning the need-and-merit based
scholarship scheme; (ii) redesigning the student loan programs to better
target students needs; (iii) establishing mechanisms to facilitate student
and graduate transfers between tiers, institutions, and careers; and
indirectly, by (iv) providing matching grants to technical training
institutions in fields of higher demand from the productive sectors, since
this education level should be more targeted to students from low income
families.
-2-



Improve Quality, Efficiency and Responsiveness of the Tertiary Education
System: this objective will be achieved by: (i) enhancing of the legal and
regulatory framework; (ii) integrating the HE levels and consolidating study
programs; (iii) consolidating the national system for quality assurance,
including certification and accreditation of institutions, and evaluation of
programs; (iv) building capacity for strategic planning and management at
MINEDUC, other governing bodies, and tertiary institutions; (v) improving
the funding formula (AFD) and contracting system, (accountability); and (vi)
establishing a competitive fund, which will provide grants to promote quality
and responsiveness of undergraduate study programs in priority fields, in
areas of importance for regional development; of doctoral programs; and
technical training programs in fields of higher demand from the productive
sectors
Progress towards these development objectives and outputs will be monitored
and assessed based on key performance indicators shown in Annex 1. The main
performance indicators are: (i) enrolment rates by socio economic group and
regions; (ii) proportion of faculty with advanced degrees; (iii) real unit
costs per student; (iv) average length of study cycles; (v) drop-out
rates; (vi) proportion of funding under new formula, conytracts, and
competitive grants mechanisms; and (vii) number of autonomous institutions.
3. Project Description
The reforms of the 80s and 90s have stimulated expansion and
diversification of the subsector. However, these reforms were introduced over
a number of years, in response to market pressures, and do not form a wholly
coherent or comprehensive framework. Both, the Chilean situation after 16
years of unregulated development and, a contrario, the experience of more
industrialized (OECD and East Asian) economies point to the need for a well
defined role for the state in higher education.
Therefore, the main reform to be supported by the project is the
redefinition and completion of a political, legal, financial, and regulatory
framework for the higher education system. This framework will be designed in
a way that promotes a substantial increase in the equity, quality, and
efficiency dimensions of the HE system. In order to establish legitimacy and
ownership, the HED is organizing a high level non partisan body to help the
process of developing this new overall policy framework. As a consequence,
this process will involve wide stakeholder participation. The reform effort
will be undertaken in parallel with the project. This particular situation
will reinforce the project viability and sustainability, as long as the reform
has a broad consensus base. The new HE framework will have redesigned policy
tools to reinforce the concept of increasing equity, quality, and efficiency.
A new financial system for institutional support will be performance oriented
as opposed to the current "historic" or "traditional" orientation. A new
and very important element in financing institutions will be the
implementation of contracts between the gov and the institutions. This will
also allow to extend public funding to non-AFD private universities, PI, and
TTC (that receive almost not public su[pport at present) according to policy
priorities. A much more comprehensive quality assurance system will help the
cohesion of the HE system. Regarding student aid, it will be sought to extend
coverage, targeting the poorer, and to increase scholarships benefits to cover
all tuition costs and in some cases, maintenace costs. The ultimate goal of
the project will be to materialize and integrate all the reforms in a new
overarching law for HE.
-3-



4. Project Financing
Project costs are estimated at US$220 million. Bank financing would be
for US$35 million , the central government and co-financiers would finance
US$185 million.
5. Project Implementation
The executing agency will be the Ministry of Education.
6. Project Sustainability
We have identified the following factors likely to be critical for the
sustainability of project benefits:
(i) Institutional Sustainability: As a result of the reform of sub-sectoral
policy component, a legal and regulatory framework must be established with
common consent, preferably within the first years of implementation, and by
mid-project as the latest. Individual institutions should be able to function
with total autonomy
(ii) Financial Sustainability: The competitive funding mechanism would
require increasing budgets over time, as they should encourage performance,
and overall performance is expected to increase. The adequacy of the entire
financial envelop, and of each funding instrument should be reviewed in light
of the new policy framework the government proposes to develop. To have
legitimacy, the new funding system should be represented as an integrated and
balanced package, and should be based on transparent criteria. Chile intends
to compete with industrialized economies and has developed a diversified
system of higher education funding. However, as indicated earlier, some
financial instruments do not support their stated purpose (AFI); others, such
as the student stipend and loan schemes, are insufficient. The AFD on the
other hand is mostly based on a historical formula and could be used much more
aggressively to support policies, reward quality, efficiency, output and
responsiveness
7. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The Bank has recent experiences from similar projects in Indonesia,
Vietnam, Romania, and Argentina. These experiences suggest that the most
effective investment is to establish competitive funds within a well designed
policy framework, supported by adequate sectoral management capacity and
quality assurance systems. The purpose of this new paradigm for higher
education financing, such as the one initiated in Argentina as a result of the
1995 higher education law, is to move away from the traditionally negotiated
budgets and to establish transparent and performance based resource allocation
mechanisms for public funding, and to stimulate diversification of income for
higher education institutions.
The initial lessons from the Argentina: Higher Education Reform Project
(13935-AR) are:
there should be technical assistance for the universities to improve their
strategic and budgetary planning and management; (ii) need for enhanced
university management information system; (iii) the formula based funding
mechanism should be based on differential unit costs per student, according to
disciplines; (iv) the selection criteria for the competitive fund should be
more tightly linked to the improvement of productivity or budget management;
(v) annual legal covenants should be set for the implementation of the
financing policy, rather than setting   a global target; and    (vi)  need for
salary incentives to professors doing research.
- 4 -



8.  Poverty Category             N/A
9. Environmental Aspects
The project does not present environmental risks and has an
environmental rating of "C". Increased capacity in basic sciences and
engineering disciplines might impact favorably on the development of
environmental teaching and research.
10. Program Objective Categories
The primary categories are policy and institutional building.
Contact Point:                   Lauritz Holm-Nielson, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)473-6712
Fax No. (202) 522 3135
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 20, 1998.
- 5-



