Page  1
July 30, 1998
Mr. Eduardo Aninat Ureta
Minister of Finance
Republic of Chile
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Re:
CHILE – Japanese Grant for Higher
Education Reform Project
TF No.025308
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in 
an amount not exceeding one hundred and fifteen thousand U.S. dollars (US$115,000) (the Grant) to the 
Republic of Chile (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter-Agreement.  The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to 
this Letter-Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and 
on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter-Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of 
this Letter-Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter-Agreement will become effective as of the date 
of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By ______________________
Myrna Alexander
Country Managing Unit Director
Argentina, Chile, Uruguay
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By ___________________
Authorized Representative
Date:  August 10, 1998
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of a project aiming to increase 
efficiency, coordination and quality of the Recipient’s higher education system, and the equity and social 
cohesion therein (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given consist of the 
provision of technical assistance for: (a) the analysis of current financial mechanisms for student loans 
and fellowships, and other issues that affect equity in the students’ access to the Recipient’s higher 
education system; and (b) the review and consolidation of studies on a quality assurance system for the 
Recipient’s higher education system.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance the services of consultants with global expertise (the 
Consultants) required for the carrying out of the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out, on behalf of the Recipient, the portion of the Activities to be carried 
out with the assistance of the Consultants.  The Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent 
necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred 
by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 15, 1998.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the Consultants) shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities.  Whether 
Page  3
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter-Agreement; or under the Letter-Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Bank and the Recipient, which provides for another Japanese grant for the preparation of the Project, 
or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
