Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4404-CH
Loan Agreement
(Higher Education Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 15, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4404-CH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend to the Borrower the loan set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Loan) 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
Page  2
meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any higher education institution in the Borrower’s 
territory which is selected, pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual, to receive grants under the Competitive Fund (as defined below); 
(b)
“Competitive Fund” means the fund referred to in Part C.3 of the Project; 
(c)
“Competitive Fund Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
“CONICYT” means Comisión Nacional de Investigación Científica y 
Tecnológica, the autonomous agency established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 
16.746 published in the Borrower’s Diario Oficial of February 14, 1968 for the 
promotion of scientific and technological research; 
(e)
“DIVESUP” means División de Educación Superior, the higher education 
division in the MINEDUC (as defined below);
(f)
“Education Law” means Law No. 18.962 published in the Borrower’s Diario 
Oficial on March 10, 1990; 
(g)
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement; 
(h)
“Higher Council for Education” means Consejo Superior de Educación, the 
autonomous agency established pursuant to the Education Law for the accreditation of 
universities and other professional institutions; 
(i)
“MINEDUC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(j)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; 
(k)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the letter 
dated September 29, 1998 from the Borrower to the Bank; 
(l)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter Agreement signed by the 
Bank on December 19, 1997, and countersigned by the Borrower on January 16, 1998; 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(n)
“Subproject” means a project to be carried out by a Beneficiary, 
consisting of one or more of the activities set forth in Part C.3 of the Project, and 
to be financed by the Competitive Fund.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
and forty-five million four hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($145,450,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank or a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event 
the account is opened in a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, 
Page  3
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Page  4
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
(i)
carry out the Project through MINEDUC; and 
(ii)
cause the Higher Council for Education and CONICYT to assist 
MINEDUC in the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, in the carrying out of Part C.3 of the Project, 
through MINEDUC, enter into agreements with each Beneficiary, under terms and 
conditions substantially similar to those of the model form contained in the 
Operational Manual (the Grant Agreements), such agreements to provide for: (i) the 
transfer by the Borrower to such Beneficiary, on a grant basis, of the funds required 
by such Beneficiary to carry out a Subproject; and (ii) the obligation of such 
Beneficiary to carry out such Subproject as provided in the Operational Manual.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, during the execution of the 
Project, a unit in DIVESUP responsible for Project coordination and management, such 
unit to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to have qualified 
staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities. 
(b)
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a unit in DIVESUP responsible 
for the operation of the Competitive Fund (the Competitive Fund Unit), such unit to 
have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to have qualified staff 
in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than January 
15 and August 15 of each year during Project implementation, commencing August 15, 
1999, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may request on the 
progress in the carrying out of the Project during the six-month period preceding the 
date of such report.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 15 each year, commencing January 15, 2000, a report 
Page  5
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 30 each year, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: 
(a)
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project; 
(b)
criteria for selection of Beneficiaries and Subprojects; 
(c)
requirements for implementation of Subprojects; and 
(d)
model forms for the Grant Agreements.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in DIVESUP a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through DIVESUP: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  6
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Competitive Fund Unit has been established as provided in Section 
3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this 
Agreement has been established;  
(c)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank; and 
(d)
at least three Grant Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and Beneficiaries. 
Section 5.02. The date April 22, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ José Pablo Arellano 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf of the
  Treasurer General of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Genaro Arriagada
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf of the
  Controller General of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Genaro Arriagada
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods for Parts A.2. (e)
   400,000
100% of foreign
and B (c) of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
Page  8
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants’ services
13,100,000
100%
and training (other than
Part C.3 of the Project)
and marketing campaign
(3)
Operating Expenditures
 1,200,000
100%
of the PCU
(4)
Grants for Subprojects     129,000,000
90% of the amount of
the Grant provided
under each Grant
Agreement
(5)
Refunding of Project
    300,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
 (6)
Fee
  1,450,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
 __________
Agreement
TOTAL
145,450,000
===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Operating Expenditures of the PCU” means the cost of fixed term 
staff consultants’ fees, office supplies and materials, office leasing, utilities and 
other related costs of the units referred to in paragraph 3.03 of this Agreement. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works costing, 
respectively, less than $500,000 and $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, except those 
under the first two contracts of goods and works to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) consulting 
firms’ services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) 
individual consultants’ services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; and (d) grants for Subprojects and training, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the performance of the Borrower’s 
higher education system and, in particular, its quality, coherence, efficiency, 
relevance, and equity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
Page  9
objectives:
Part A:
Policy Framework and Capacity Building
1.
Enhancement of the legal and regulatory framework for the higher education 
subsector, consisting of: (a) development of definitions of the appropriate roles of 
the universities, professional institutes and technical training centers involved in 
higher education; (b) establishment of mechanisms to facilitate transfers of students 
and graduates among such educational institutions; and (c) preparation of draft laws 
and/or regulations, and/or draft amendments to existing laws and/or regulations.
2.
Carrying out of a policy and institutional capacity building program consisting 
of the following activities: (a) development of policies (and appropriate mechanisms 
for delivering them) on non-university institutions, on target participation rates for 
higher education, on direct contribution by higher education institutions to regional 
economic development, on higher education student access equity, and on improved 
methods for gathering and conveying information and signals on the future needs of the 
Borrower’s economy; (b) development of new working procedures and arrangements between 
the various types of higher education institutions and DIVESUP; (c) building capacity 
for strategic planning and management at DIVESUP and other higher education governing 
bodies; (d) building capacity for strategic planning and management at higher 
education institutions; (e) design and implementation of a management information 
system to provide system-wide information on higher education for stakeholders’ 
decision-making including provision of the equipment required therefor; and (f) design 
and implementation of a marketing campaign to promote technical education.
Part B:
Quality Assurance
Establishment of a quality assurance system for higher education services, 
including: (a) consolidation of the national system for higher education quality 
assurance; (b) establishment of a qualification framework for study programs; and (c) 
design and implementation of a higher education quality awareness campaign.
Part C:
Institutional Funding and Quality Improvement 
1.
Establishment of a coherent policy basis for public funding of higher education 
activities. 
2.
Development of a funding methodology for higher education activities.
3.
Operation of a competitive fund to promote quality and relevance in the higher 
education subsector (the Competitive Fund), through the provision of grants to 
Beneficiaries: (a) for undergraduate programs in fields of national priority, such as 
basic sciences, health, technology, agronomy and education; (b) for graduate programs, 
with emphasis on doctoral programs in general, and master and doctoral programs 
oriented to the productive sectors and to the improvement of higher education 
teaching; (c) for technical training programs in fields of high demand from the 
productive sectors; and (d) for the improvement of the facilities, equipment and human 
resources of Beneficiaries as required to implement the programs referred to in 
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above. 
4.
Assessment and revision of the Borrower’s student loan and scholarship schemes 
with a view to increasing equity in access to, and opportunities for, higher 
education.  
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal  
(Expressed in Dollars)*
July 15, 2004
7,275,000
Page  10
July 15, 2005
7,275,000
July 15, 2006
7,275,000
July 15, 2007
7,275,000
July 15, 2008
7,275,000
July 15, 2009
7,275,000
July 15, 2010
7,275,000
July 15, 2011
7,275,000
July 15, 2012
7,275,000
July 15, 2013
7,225,000
TOTALS
________________________ 
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $350,000 and $5,000,000 equivalent or more each for goods and works, 
respectively. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Specialized scientific equipment which the Bank agrees can only be purchased 
from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods (including goods for Subprojects) and works estimated to cost 
Page  11
respectively, less than $350,000 and $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $400,000 equivalent for goods for Part A.2 (e) of the Project, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works under this Part 
C.2, standard bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be used. 
3.
National Shopping 
Goods (including goods for Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $300,000 equivalent for goods 
other than for Subprojects, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more; and (c) to the first two contracts for goods and works to be 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 above, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
with firms shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  12
2.
The short list of consultants for services to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 above, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services to be provided by firms for technical assistance and research shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection 
Consultants’ services for tasks of a routine or standard nature and estimated to 
cost less than $60,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate not to exceed 
$2,500,000 equivalent for services other than for Subprojects may be procured, at the 
option of the Borrower, under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 5 
Page  13
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $9,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $9,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
Page  14
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
