                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 34617

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (TF-25378 SCL-44040 PPFB-P3360)

                                               ON A

                                               LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$145.45 MILLION

                                      TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                               CHILE

                   FOR THE HIGHER EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                         December 8, 2005




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 7, 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Chilean PESO (CLP)
                                      US$ 1.0 = 518.63

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 to December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD            Direct Financial Support (Aporte Fiscal Directo)
AFI            Indirect Financial Support (Aporte Fiscal Indirecto)
FUAS           Uniform Form for Student Socioeconomic Accreditation (Formulario Único de
               Acreditación Socioeconómica)
CF             Competitive Fund
CFTs           Technical Training Centers (Centro de Formación Técnica)
CNAP           National Committee for Accreditation of Undergraduate Education (Comisión Nacional
               de Acreditación de Postgrado)
CONAP          National Commission for Graduate Accreditation (Comisión Nacional de Acreditación
               de Pregrado)
CONICYT        National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (Comisión Nacional de
               Investigación Científica y Tecnológica)
CRUCH          Council of Rectors (Consejo de Rectores)
DESUP          Higher Education Division in the Ministry of Education (División de Educación
               Superior)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ICT            Information Communication Technology
IPs            Professional Institutes (Institutos Profesionales)
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MECESUP        Higher Education Improvement Project (Mejoramiento de la Calidad y la Equidad en la
               Educación Superior)
MINEDUC        Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación)
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PSU            University Admission Exam (Pruebas de Selección Universitaria)



                             Vice President:         Pamela Cox
                          Country Director:          Axel van Trotsenburg
                 Director/Sector Manager:            Evangeline Javier / Eduardo Velez Bustillo
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Lauritz Holm-Nielsen

                                            CHILE
                        Chile: Higher Education Improvement Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            20
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P055481                                                  Project Name: Chile: Higher Education Improvement
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Eduardo Velez Bustillo                                  TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 8, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Chile: Higher Education Improvement Project              L/C/TF Number: TF-25378; SCL-44040;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P3360
   Country/Department: CHILE                                                              Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (82%); Central government administration (9%);
                            Vocational training (8%); Law and justice (1%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Education for the knowledge economy (P);
                            Social analysis and monitoring (P); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/11/1998                                     Effective: 01/01/1999                06/23/1999
     Appraisal: 06/15/1998                                         MTR: 03/22/2002                  03/22/2002
      Approval: 11/05/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MIN OF EDUCATION (DIVESUP)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo                         Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Eduardo Velez Bustillo                         Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen
ICR Primary Author:             Kristian Thorn


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Higher Education Improvement Project was to improve the performance of the Chilean higher
education system in the following dimensions:

Coherence and Efficiency: The project would enhance the legal and regulatory framework in order to integrate
higher education institutions at the three tiers (universities, professional institutions (IPs), and technical training
centers (CFTs)). It would develop a coherent and flexible set of rules to: (i) allocate an increasing share of public
funding on the basis of performance; (ii) facilitate the enrollment of students with academic credits from lower-tier
higher education institutions; (iii) require periodic evaluation; and (iv) build strategic planning and management.

Quality and Relevance: The project would promote study programs responsive to social demand and labor market
needs. This would be achieved through the establishment of: (i) a competitive fund to finance such programs and
(ii) an integrated quality assurance and evaluation system for all higher education institutions and study programs
in order to provide concrete guidance to students, employers, and the higher education sector itself.

Equity: The project would encourage participation of students from low-income families by identifying inequities
in the higher education system and developing policies and instruments to overcome them. It would assess the
pattern of participation by gender and by socio-economic groups in higher education. More specifically the project
would revise and enhance the student aid system, and integrate regional development criteria in the selection of
specific innovation activities to be financed through a competitive fund.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components financed with a US$145.45 million IBRD Loan and a Government counterpart
of US$96.0 million for a total cost of US$241.45 million.

Project Component A ­ Policy Framework and Capacity Building (US$4.8 million). This component aimed at
enhancing the policy, legal, and regulatory framework for higher education and building institutional capacity for
strategic and evidence-based decision making. There were two subcomponents:

A1: Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework (US$0.9 million). This subcomponent was designed to
provide the basis for strengthening the legal and regulatory framework of Chilean higher education in areas that
would contribute to achieving the project development objectives.

A2: Policy and Institutional Capacity Building (US$3.9 million). This subcomponent would provide support for
capacity building at government and institutional levels to strengthen strategic planning and managerial capacities.
The key objectives were to improve access to data and information at all levels of the higher education system,
strengthen system oversight and management, and stimulate institutional multiyear planning.

Project Component B ­ Quality Assurance (US$5.3 million). This component was designed to establish and
implement quality standards in Chilean higher education by (i) establishing and consolidating the national system
for quality assurance; (ii) developing a qualification framework for study programs, with specifics for technical,
undergraduate, and graduate programs; and (iii) carrying out activities to increase awareness of quality
management.

Project Component C ­ Financing (US$227.4 million). This component was designed to revise the higher
education financing system to strengthen articulation between national policies and financial instruments. There
were two subcomponents:

C1: Institutional Funding (US$227.2 million). This subcomponent would provide the basis for developing a new



                                                          - 2 -

funding mechanism for university base-funding in order to increase institutional accountability for direct public
funding. Moreover, the subcomponent would establish a competitive fund to promote quality and relevance. The
fund would provide grants for: (i) technical training institutions at the tertiary level; (ii) undergraduate programs
in fields of national priority; and (iii) graduate programs.

C2: Student Aid (US$0.2 million). This subcomponent would assess and revise the system for student loans and
scholarships to increase equity in access and opportunities for further education by identifying inequities and
supporting the development of policies to overcome them.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Loan Agreement underwent one amendment and one extension of the closing date.

Amendment
On November 8, 2004, the Loan Agreement was amended to reallocate US$5.3 million from Consultants' Services
and Goods to finance additional grants for subprojects under Project Component C. The reallocation reflected the
Government's decision to increase the level of funding for competitive funding while at the same time taking more
responsibility for direct funding for Consultants' Services and Goods.

The amendment also included the following new activities: (i) accreditation of institutions under Component B;
and (b) preparation of a follow-on project under Project Component C. The accreditation of institutions was not
foreseen during project preparation (only accreditation of programs). Moreover, the amendment allowed the
Higher Education Division in the Ministry of Education (DESUP) to bridge the project to the new Chile: Tertiary
Finance for Results Project approved by the Board on July 5, 2005.

Extension of the closing date
The original closing date was June 30, 2004. This date was extended twelve months to June 30, 2005 (on April 26,
2004) in order to: (i) fully complete the implementation of subprojects under the competitive fund and (ii) bridge
the operation to a new Bank-financed higher education project for Chile.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project development objectives were closely linked to the
Government's strategy for the sector and the goal in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of "upgrading Chile's
human capital, with a view towards improving the country's competitiveness in the international arena". The three
project components addressed key sector issues and were effectively designed as entry points for change in Chile's
higher education system.

Lessons learned from earlier lending operations in Chile and higher education projects in Argentina, Indonesia,
Jordan, Tunisia, and Vietnam were incorporated into the project design. Experience suggested that an effective
mechanism for creating an incentive to improve quality in higher education was to establish a competitive fund
within a well designed policy framework. Operational experience showed that even limited investment, allocated
based on transparent and objective selection procedures, can effectively stimulate quality improvement. Moreover,
a lesson learned from other operations was that quality assurance facilitates change in higher education institutions
by providing the opportunity to staff and management to identify main institutional weaknesses and ways to
overcome them (see ICR for P034091, P004017, and P040195).

The preparation process built consensus in the system for change through an extensive process of consultation with
beneficiaries. The concept was shared and discussed with all stakeholders including: (i) the Higher Education
Advisory Group to the Minister of Education and DESUP, (ii) associations of higher education institutions:
Council of Rectors (CRUCH), Organization of Private Universities, and National Council for Professional
Institutes and Technical Training Centers (CONIFOS); (iii) the Executive Branch including the Ministry of
Finance; (iv) the Legislative Branch: Presidents of Senate and House of Representatives as well as Senate and
House committees on education; (v) other governmental agencies: Higher Council for Education and the National
Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT); and (vi) student organizations and
representatives.


                                                          - 3 -

The project design included indicators to monitor implementation and progress towards the project development
objectives. However, monitoring systems and definitions were not developed for each indicator and ­ with few
exceptions ­ the project did not include quantifiable targets. Monitoring systems, definitions and baselines for PDO
and implementation indicators were only established retroactively midway through project implementation,
motivated by an increased focused on results in Bank operations. The indicators used to monitor the project are
included in Annex 1. The absence of targets and baseline data made it difficult to monitor progress in the early
phases of implementation and assess impact by means of an ex-ante/ex-post analysis.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project development objectives is considered highly satisfactory. The project had a
high impact on the quality, relevance, efficiency and equity of the Chilean higher education system and
significantly exceeded all baselines. Among the key outcomes are enhanced accountability for results in the
allocation of public funding for higher education, strengthened capacity for sector and institutional management,
improved quality and relevance of tertiary programs, and expanded access to higher education for low-income
students.

The project not only fulfilled the project development objectives but significantly exceeded its major objectives. As
the following sections show, the scope and acceptance of program accreditation went far beyond what was foreseen
in the design phase. Moreover, a new instrument ­ institutional accreditation ­ was added during project
implementation, thereby further consolidating quality assurance in Chile. The competitive fund achieved its
objectives of updating the learning infrastructure and enhancing the qualifications of higher education teachers.
This permitted a shift in priorities and additional advances to be made in improving teaching methodologies and
curricula. Finally, the project not only improved the targeting of student financial assistance in Chile, but went
beyond it by supporting a structural reform that opened the system to students at all tertiary institutions. These
changes were written into law, thus ensuring their sustainability. The sub-sections below summarize the main
outcomes of the project.

4.1.1 Coherence and Efficiency
Improved management capacity in the Ministry of Education and enhanced coherence in government policies.
The project strengthened the capacity of the Higher Education Division in the Ministry of Education (DESUP) to
formulate policy, provide information to students and set priorities for Chilean higher education. For instance,
support from the project allowed DESUP to introduce new laws on student financial assistance, increase the focus
on results in Chilean higher education through competitive funding and formulate new legislation on quality
assurance. Moreover, the project increased the capacity of DESUP to collect data from institutions on all major
aspects of higher education and make information available to the public through its website. Finally, the project
enhanced coherence in government policies by linking instruments such as quality assurance and student aid and
providing a framework for curricula redesign and the transfer of academic credits.

Transparency in the allocation of public investment funding and increased accountability for results. With the
establishment of a competitive fund, the project marked a departure from a system where investment funding was
allocated based on historical precedent and a process of political negotiation. The competitive fund enhanced
transparency by awarding funds based on clear eligibility and selection criteria published in annual invitations to
submit proposals. A representative survey of 183 direct beneficiaries conducted in March 2005 shows that more
than four-fifth of the respondents were satisfied or highly satisfied with the transparency of the selection process
(89 percent) and the information provided in each round of the competitive fund on eligibility and selection criteria
(90 percent). Moreover, the competitive fund improved the effectiveness of investment funding by allocating
resources based on quality. All proposals were subject to a rigorous and transparent evaluation process led by
panels of independent experts. Evidence suggests that the thorough review process stimulated an increase in the
quality of presented proposals. Between 1999 and 2003, the annual number of proposals more than doubled while
the average score provided by independent reviewers ­ reflecting the quality, impact and sustainability of the
proposals ­ rose from 74 to 84 points on a 0-100 scale. Finally, competitive funding provided stronger



                                                         - 4 -

accountability for results by increasing the share of public resources for higher education tied to performance. The
implementation of selected subprojects was closely monitored by performance indicators and remedial action was
taken in cases of underperformance. Due to the competitive fund, allocations tied to performance criteria increased
from about 3 percent of public funding for higher education in 1999 to about 19 percent in 2005.

Strengthened institutional multiyear and strategic planning. The project encouraged managers of tertiary
programs and institutions to adopt a long-term and strategic approach to institutional strengthening. Prior to 2000,
only about one-third of Chilean universities had developed multiyear improvement plans. Due to the project this
situation changed dramatically with all of Chile's 25 traditional universities (CRUCH) featuring strategic
institutional plans in 2004. Such plans helped institutions clarify their mission, formulate medium-term objectives
and target resources to areas closely linked to Chile's social and economic development. The key drivers for
change were the competitive fund and the introduction of program and, later, institutional accreditation in Chile.
The competitive fund required investment proposals to be clearly linked to the institution's improvement plan,
thereby providing an incentive for institutions to develop such plans. Moreover, the availability of competitive
funds made planning attractive since supported subprojects provided the resources and stability in funding required
to implement change. A survey of 33 leaders of tertiary institutions in Chile shows that 64 percent of respondents
consider the competitive fund to be the main reason for institutions to engage in strategic planning. Another
important change was the introduction of self-assessment processes and external accreditation, making diagnostic
tools available to managers and building internal capacity for identifying institutional weaknesses and formulating
improvement plans. Institutional development plans provided the basis for improving internal efficiency by
targeting efforts and stimulating a more rational use of resources.

Improved information available to students and enhanced transparency in the market for higher education
services. The project provided the basis for students in Chilean higher education to make informed choices about
careers and institutions by improving information on course offerings, the quality of programs and labor market
outcomes. This enhanced transparency in the market for higher education services in Chile, a market characterized
by a large number of providers of varying quality. First, the project boosted the capacity of the Ministry of
Education to collect data and make it available to students online. Second, quality assurance of programs and
institutions provided students with information on the quality of educational offerings. Based on thorough
evaluations, several programs were deemed of too low quality to be accredited. For programs receiving
accreditation, the recognition was given for a period of two to seven years, depending on the assessed quality of the
program. These results and the full reports of external reviewers were made available online for students to read.
Evidence suggests that this information was widely used. In August 2005, almost 5,000 individuals downloaded
information from the website of the National Commission for Undergraduate Accreditation (CNAP). Finally, the
project pioneered systematic collection of data on labor market outcomes of recent graduates from universities and
CFTs. Data on earnings of tertiary graduates in 113 careers were made available to students online. Between
December 2004 and June 2004, the webpage received more than 350,000 requests for information.

4.1.2 Quality and Relevance
Improved quality and relevance through curricula redesign, training of staff, and better equipment and
infrastructure. Targeted investments made through the competitive fund improved the quality and relevance of
tertiary technical, undergraduate, and graduate education. The main outcomes are:

· In regard to tertiary technical education, the project facilitated the introduction of competency-based and
  modularized curricula formulated in collaboration with industry. In total, 20 new careers were designed and 33
  were redesigned. Moreover, 61 formal agreements were entered into with private enterprises to design curricula
  around specific technical competencies. The project also enhanced the skills of instructors to teach the new
  curricula and facilitated the integration of information communication technology (ICT) in learning processes.
  Prior to 1999, the CFTs were faced with significant quality problems marked by a decline in enrollment despite a
  growing need for skilled technicians in technology intensive production. The project boosted quality and
  enrollment in the supported CFTs. Between 2000 and 2004 enrollment increased 97 percent in the supported
  CFTs while enrollment declined 17 percent in institutions without support from the project (see Table 1).




                                                         - 5 -

           Table 1. Enrollment in Technical Training Centers, 2000-2004
            Year                                        2000         2001        2002       2003     2004
            Total CFT enrollment                        53,184       57,082      61,123     62,070   66,488
            Enrollment in CFTs with support             19,646       23,606      29,499     35,362   38,670
            from the project
            Enrollment               in  CFTs  without  33,538       33,476      31,624     26,708   27,818
            support from the project
           Source: DESUP 2005




· At the undergraduate level, the project helped update the learning infrastructure, improve the qualifications of
  university teachers and introduce new teaching methodologies. Through targeted training activities the project
  improved the content knowledge and instructional skills of university teachers. Notably, the awarding of
  scholarships to university teachers for doctoral studies led to a rise in the number of Chilean academics with a
  PhD. The largest increases were in universities in the capital area such as the Catholic University of Chile,
  where the number of professors with a PhD increased 25 percent between 1999 and 2004. Moreover, the project
  improved library services by providing more facilities for group work, making new learning materials available
  and giving all students the opportunity to use ICT on a daily basis. Between 1999 and 2004, the number of
  library books per student increased 15 percent and students were given access to about 8,000 new computers.
  Furthermore, the project improved the learning infrastructure by investing in buildings designed around the
  needs of students. The space available for each undergraduate student increased 37 percent between 1999 and
  2004 to about 8.5 square meters per student. Finally, by supporting the establishment of 8.1 laboratories per
  university with state-of-the-art equipment, the project significantly improved opportunities for students to engage
  in experimental science and practice in real-life circumstances. Although no standardized data exist on learning
  outcomes in tertiary education, annual surveys of the International Institute for Management Development
  provides an indication of the improvements made in the relevance and quality of undergraduate university
  education. Between 2000 and 2005, the proportion of private sector executives perceiving Chilean university
  education to meet the needs of a competitive economy rose from 61 percent to 70 percent.

· In regard to graduate education, the project facilitated a large increase in enrollment and, in turn, graduation in
  doctoral programs by providing scholarships, strengthening the learning infrastructure in existing graduate
  programs and supporting the establishment of new programs. Between 1999 and 2004, PhD graduation went
  from 75 to 244 students (see Graph 1). The increase in supply of young researchers made an important
  contribution to strengthening Chile's science base. In part this is reflected in a 30 percent increase between 1999
  and 2003 in the number of articles published in internationally recognized journals (RICyT 2005).

                                                  Graph 1. PhD graduation, 1998-2004

                                      250




                                      200




                                      150
                         graduates

                                  PhD


                                      100




                                       50
                                           1998     1999    2000      2001    2002     2003   2004



                                                           Source: DESUP 2005




                                                                  - 6 -

Enhanced capacity for quality improvement. The project was successful in designing and implementing a
national voluntary quality assurance system of tertiary programs and institutions based on self-evaluation processes
with subsequent verification by external peers. The initial objective was to assess the feasibility of implementing a
quality assurance system in Chilean higher education. However, due to high demand from tertiary institutions, the
system reached a level of coverage that went far beyond what was foreseen in the planning phase. With a total of
233 accredited programs, the project exceeded its target of 40 programs by a factor of six. Currently, about 63
percent of CRUCH undergraduate students are enrolled in an accredited program. In May 2005 accreditation was
written into law in Chile through the adoption of a new law on student financial assistance (Bulletin 3223-04), thus
ensuring the sustainability of quality assurance in Chile. The impact of accreditation can be summarized in the
following points:

· Improved management information systems. The need to undertake self-assessments and document results
  stimulated institutions to improve their management information systems. In the early phases of the project, it
  was difficult to get information on inputs and processes. Currently, most institutions are able to account for
  outputs and several are tracking labor market outcomes of recent graduates.
· Developed a culture of quality improvement. The project stimulated a cultural change in Chilean higher
  education. The introduction of self-diagnostic tools and feedback mechanisms spurred institutional learning and
  increased the focus on results. Moreover, initial reluctance on the part of universities based on a conception of
  unrestricted autonomy has now given way to the acceptance of external evaluation as a natural process in
  upholding quality standards.
· Matched skills with the needs of the labor market. Accreditation and the development of quality standards
  facilitated the profiling of knowledge, capabilities and dispositions expected of tertiary graduates in several fields
  of science. Developed in close collaboration with employers, these profiles provided for a better match between
  graduates and labor market needs and stimulated institutions to improve quality through curricula redesign.
· Provided universities with internal champions for change. The project established a pool of qualified individuals
  able to help institutions identify weaknesses and formulate plans to improve quality. More than 600 academics,
  spanning all fields of science, were involved in processes of accreditation as external reviewers. Hence, Chilean
  higher education institutions now have a significant number of internal champions for change.
· Strengthened Chile's position in the global market for higher education services. Accreditation contributed to
  positioning Chile in the global market for knowledge and talent through a host of international activities.
  Chilean accreditors worked with accreditation agencies in other South American Common Market,
  MERCOSUR, member states in setting up recognition mechanisms for acquired learning based on common
  career evaluation and accreditation frameworks.

4.1.3 Equity
Better regional balance in funding. The project enhanced equity by prioritizing quality improvement in some of
Chile's smallest universities. This investment allowed these institutions to address problems such as a low stock of
qualified staff, inadequate facilities and outdated curricula. An analysis of public funding for recurrent expenditure
(Aporte Fiscal Directo, AFD) in CRUCH institutions in the 1999-2005 period finds a direct relationship between
size and funding per student. By contrast, the competitive fund allocated on average 63 percent more resources per
student to universities with less than 5,000 students than to universities with more than 5,000 students (US$194 for
small universities vs. US$119 for large universities). Moreover, the competitive fund was successful in redirecting
resources to universities outside the capital area and the central regions of Chile (see Graph 2). Universities in the
capital area received 47 percent of AFD between 1999 and 2003 but only 32 percent of resources allocated through
the competitive fund. Additional investment funding gave an important boost to regional universities. For example,
the University of Magallanes, a small university located in the extreme South of Chile, increased enrollment by 18
percent between 1999 and 2004 in part due to investments in classrooms and laboratories made through the project
(MINEDUC 2004).




                                                          - 7 -

                               Graph 2. Distribution of AFD and competitive funding
                                for CRUCH universities by region, 1999-2003 average

               50%

               45%

               40%

               35%

               30%

               25%

               20%

               15%

               10%

                5%

                0%
                    Region Region Region Region Region Capital Region Region Region Region Region
                        I     II      III      IV       V        Area     VII    VIII      IX     X   XII
                    (North)                                                                         (South)
                                       Competitive funding             Direct public funding (AFD)


                                                    Source: DESUP 2005
                                   Note: Region VI and XI do not feature CRUCH universities


Improved coverage and targeting of student financial assistance. The project paved the way for several reforms
of student aid in Chile by providing technical assistance and financing key studies on policy options and best
practice. Although not foreseen in the design phase, the project contributed to the formulation of a new law on
student aid that opened financial assistance to students in private universities, professional institutes and CFTs.
Initiatives to improve coverage were successful in increasing public funding for student aid by 50 percent in real
amounts between 1999 and 2005. Moreover, the project helped improve the targeting of financial assistance to
talented students with the greatest need by funding the establishment of a new information system in the Ministry
of Education. This system improved the socio-economic profiling of students, e.g. by consolidating income data
from several databases. Household data show that Chile made significant progress in improving access to students
from low income families between 1996 and 2003 (see Graph 3). In this period enrollment increased 6.0 and 6.1
percentage points for income quintile I and II, respectively (Students from the poorest 40 percent of the households
age 18-24). Most of this progress was made after 1998.




                                                            - 8 -

                      Graph 3. Tertiary enrollment rate for income quintile I and II, 1996-2003

                                                22


                                                20
                       .
                                                18


                        enrollment              16


                                  tertiary      14
                                          of
                                                12
                                            Rate

                                                10


                                                 8
                                                     1996      1998              2000           2003


                                                                 Quintile I      Quintile II


                                                             Source: CASEN (2003)


4.2 Outputs by components:
Project Component A ­ Policy Framework and Capacity Building
The implementation of this component was satisfactory. The project helped provide the basis for several important
changes to the legal framework, improved vertical and horizontal articulation of the higher education system,
strengthened the capacity of the Ministry of Education for sector oversight, provided information to students on
labor market outcomes and built capacity in tertiary institutions for strategic management.

A1: Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework
Strengthened legal framework for higher education. The project financed the preparation of several changes to
the legal framework for higher education. Most important was the aforementioned new law on student financial
assistance (Bulletin 3223-04) opening support to students in private universities, CFTs and IPs (see Subcomponent
C2). Moreover, several studies helped prepare for a change to Chile's income-contingent loan system (Bulletin
3712-04) aimed at increasing its financial sustainability. Among the changes introduced was the possibility to
retain excess tax payments and obtain accurate income data from tax authorities. As a result, the Ministry of
Education was able to reprogram approximately US$10.0 million of its debt portfolio and increase overall
repayment by 16 percent. Other legal changes supported through the project included a law that increased access to
external credit for CRUCH universities (Bulletin 3502-04) and a clarification of the statutes governing the
University of Chile.

Boosted collaboration between universities in Chile (horizontal articulation). Through workshops, targeted
funding and awareness campaigns, the project stimulated universities to work together to increase opportunities for
horizontal student mobility and to begin a process of curricula redesign based on common standards. Due to
technical and financial support from the project, inter-university networks were established in medicine, marine
biology, engineering, nursing, veterinary medicine, chemistry, agriculture, architecture, philosophy and teacher
education. Each of these networks formulated a framework for student mobility and mutual recognition of
academic credits. Moreover, they facilitated Chile's entry into the Tuning Latin America Project, an off-spring of
the European Bologna process aimed at bringing consistency to university education and paving the way for
student-driven learning processes. Finally, inter-university networks helped prepare Chilean universities for a
major reform of the undergraduate degree structure and curricula planned to precede Chile's bicentenary
celebrations in 2010.




                                                                     - 9 -

Increased coherence between short-cycle and long-cycle tertiary institutions (vertical articulation). Through
technical support and workshops, the project stimulated CFTs and CRUCH universities to collaborate in order to
ensure that students attaining a non-university tertiary degree in Chile were able to build on acquired
qualifications. Between 1999 and 2005, the number of CFTs directly integrated with CRUCH universities grew
from 4 to 12 institutions, together accounting for about 8 percent of total CFT enrollment. These CFTs and
universities pioneered joint governance and management structures, which allowed the integration of short-cycle
tertiary education into the strategic plans of universities. Moreover, the integration permitted the formulation of
career paths where students are able to build on academic credits earned in the CFT education to achieve an
undergraduate degree, e.g. in engineering. Finally, the CFT and university collaboration improved quality and
efficiency by sharing facilities and rotating staff.

Enhanced supervision of CFTs. The project helped implement and consolidate a new framework for licensing and
quality control of CFTs. Under the new system, institutions are classified in three categories according to their
track record and documented performance as follows: (i) under supervision; (ii) in process of accreditation; and
(iii) autonomous. The project financed the design of the new framework, including the development of criteria and
guidelines for institutions and evaluators. The introduction of a transparent licensing process enhanced
information to students and administrators on differences in quality and provided the clarity necessary for six CFTs
to be elevated to the status of autonomous between 2001 and 2005.

A2: Policy and Institutional Capacity Building
Enhanced Ministry of Education information systems and online services. The project financed a streamlined
application system (FUAS) for student financial assistance. Since 2000, students have been able to receive
information on eligibility, procedures and repayment conditions and apply for aid online. Submitted information is
automatically validated, which has improved efficiency in the handling of requests in the Ministry of Education.
Moreover, the system enhanced the targeting of assistance by compiling income data from several databases. In
May 2005, more than 45,000 students had submitted an application using the FUAS. The project also helped
revamp the Government's portal for higher education. The portal now features all information produced by the
Ministry relevant to students, teachers and researchers. Moreover, the portal gives access to updated statistics.
Standardized information on, inter alia, faculty, enrollment, graduation and financing, has significantly improved
the basis for evidence-based decision-making at the level of the ministry and the individual university.

Provided data to students and institutions on labor market outcomes. In 2004, a so-called labor market
observatory became fully operational with support from the project. The observatory provided information on the
earnings of recent tertiary graduates. Information was made available on 69 undergraduate and 44 technical
careers, representing approximately 75 percent of the total enrollment in Chilean higher education. The
observatory made it possible for students to get access to updated and reliable data and make informed career
choices. Evidence suggests that the data became an important source of reference for students and parents. On
average, more than 4,000 individuals visited the observatory's web page (www.futurolaboral.cl) every day.

Built capacity in CFTs for curricula redesign. The project enhanced capacity among CFT teachers and managers
to improve curricula in collaboration with industry. A catalyst for this process was a change in the law governing
vocational training in 2002, providing a tax exemption to companies that finance employee training in
modularized CFT courses. In collaboration with the private development agency Fundación Chile, a round of
workshops was held in 2003 in order to discuss and reach agreement on a conceptual framework for curricula
redesign. Subsequently 80 individuals from 40 participating CFTs received training on the design and
implementation of a modularized and competency based curricula. This effort was supported by the publication of
several manuals and examples of best practice made available online (www.formaciontecnica.cl). By project
closing, a modularized and competency based curricula had been developed for the following seven careers:
accounting, administration, electronics, gastronomy, network maintenance and support, nursing, and system
analysis.

Improved institutional strategic planning. The project spurred institutions to formulate strategic development
plans. A total of 19 universities developed a strategic plan for the first time between 1998 and 2003 (See Graph 4).


                                                        - 10 -

The plans were developed in open processes where staff was invited to contribute to identifying weaknesses and
setting goals.

                       Graph 4. Share of CRUCH universities with a strategic development plan

                                100%


                                 80%


                                 60%


                                 40%


                                 20%
                                          1998   1999     2000     2001    2002     2003


                                                   Source: DESUP (2005)


Institutions also developed systems for monitoring the implementation of strategic plans and revising their content
based on evidence. A survey of 33 leaders of tertiary institutions in Chile shows that 91 percent of tertiary
institutions track implementation progress through a system of performance indicators and 88 percent revise goals
and milestones on an annual basis. About 85 percent of university leaders perceived strategic plans to have had a
high or medium impact on the quality of institutional management. Notably, strategic planning improved the
ability of institutions to set priorities, formulate initiatives to address institutional weaknesses and set long-term
targets. Moreover, strategic planning stimulated institutions to revise their mission, objectives and internal policies
to reflect the needs of students and the labor market.

Project Component B ­ Quality Assurance
The implementation of this component was highly satisfactory. Quality assurance was established as an integral
part of Chilean higher education and won wide support from key stakeholders. With the accreditation of 223
programs, the project went far beyond the 40 programs expected to be accredited in the design phase of the project.
Moreover, a new instrument ­ institutional accreditation ­ was developed during project implementation and
proved to be an important source for institutional improvement. Finally, accreditation improved the quality of
existing graduate courses which helped ensure high quality standards in PhD programs created with support from
the competitive fund.

Accredited a high proportion of undergraduate programs. Accreditation of undergraduate programs had its
inception in Chile in March 1999 when the National Committee for Accreditation of Undergraduate Education
(CNAP) was established. In the early phases of implementation, technical committees with more than 250
representatives from academia, students and employers defined criteria and quality standards (qualification
frameworks) for 18 careers such as agronomy, law, engineering, medicine and psychology. Moreover, procedures
and material for self-evaluation were agreed and made available online (www.cnap.cl). Accreditation was opened
to all programs with at least one generation of graduates, offered by an autonomous institution. More than 500
applications for accreditation were received and by August 2005 a total of 223 programs had been accredited for a
period of two to seven years (Table 2). Currently, approximately 63 percent of CRUCH undergraduate students are
enrolled in an accredited program.




                                                          - 11 -

            Table 2. Programs accredited by CNAP, 1999-2005
                                                 Years of accreditation                 Not
                     Career            2       3       4       5       6       7     accredited   Total
             Business and adm.         2       4       2       2       1       2          3         16
             Agriculture               3       2       2       9       -       5          2         23
             Art and architecture      -       1       3       3       1       2          -         10
             Basic sciences            3        -      1       2       3       -          -         9
             Military sciences         -        -      -       1       -       -          -         1
             Social sciences           1       5       2       5       1       1          -         15
             Law                       1        -      -       2       -       -          -         3
             Education                18       12     13      29       1       -          6         79
             Humanities                -       1       -       1       1       -          -         3
             Health                    -       4       3       6       4       5          -         22
             Technology                4       6      11       7       7       5          2         42
             Total                    32       35     37      67       19     20         13        223
            Source: CNAP 2005



Established accreditation as a credible evaluation mechanism. Approximately six percent of the programs under
evaluation did not receive accreditation due to inadequate quality. Moreover, variation in the length of
accreditation was used to signal assessed differences in quality. Tough but fair evaluations helped establish CNAP
as an institution respected for the quality, fairness and transparency of its procedures. At the outset there was some
concern in the sector about the implications and utility of establishing a central quality assurance authority in
Chile. Yet, initial reluctance on the part of universities quickly gave way to the acceptance of accreditation as an
essential management and evaluation tool in a highly diversified system challenged by a significant expansion in
enrollment.

Ensured ownership through bottom-up quality assurance progresses and developed a culture of quality
improvement. Program accreditation was introduced in Chile on a voluntary basis, designed to stimulate quality
improvement rather than serve as a bureaucratic control. Accreditation was implemented in open processes where
staff participated in self-assessments based on a generic framework for analyzing strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities and threats. The adopted bottom-up approach was successful in fostering ownership at the
decentralized level and creating a large pool of staff committed to improving quality. Subsequent validation by
external peers added credibility to the process and stimulated excellence. An important feature of this process was
the frequent change of roles, where approximately 300 individuals had the opportunity to be part of programs
being accredited and later serve as external peers. As pointed out in a recent summary report from CNAP, this led
to significant cross-fertilization of effective approaches to quality improvement. Another important output was the
decision of 42 institutions to establish internal units responsible for supporting self-assessment processes. These
units helped build management information systems, among other things, designed to provide the data needed for
internal quality management.

Pioneered processes of institutional accreditation. The accreditation of programs showed a number of limitations
as follows: (i) several quality issues were related to decisions made at the institutional level and (ii) program
accreditation could, by design, not be effectively used to hold institutions accountable for their performance. For
this reason, it was decided to complement program accreditation with the introduction of institutional
accreditation. Like accreditation at the decentralized level, institutional accreditation was based on self-assessment
processes with external validation. Inspired by academic audits implemented by several countries in the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) the focus was on the capacity of institutions ­
in the form of internal policies and follow-up mechanisms ­ for internal quality management. By project closing, a
total of 62 institutions had asked to be accredited and 20 institutions had been accredited (See Table 3). Similar to
program accreditation, institutions were accredited for a period of two to seven years, reflecting the assessed
quality.




                                                          - 12 -

           Table 3. Coverage of institutional accreditation
                                      Accredited or        Outside
               Type of institution   in accreditation    accreditation       Total            Share
                                        (students)        (students)       (students)
             CRUCH universities          246,208              0             246,208           100%
             Private universities        92,779             55,781          148,560           62%
             IP                          72,638             15,504          88,142            82%
             CFT                         30,986             4,486           35,472            87%
             Total                       442,611            75,771          518,382           85%
           Source: CNAP 2005



Weaknesses identified in institutional self-assessment processes have provided a key input to the formulation of
institutional improvement plans. Moreover, institutional accreditation proved an important element in preparing
the system for the introduction of performance agreements between DESUP and public universities, scheduled to
be launched in the first semester of 2006.

Upheld high quality standards in graduate education. The project helped establish the independent National
Commission for Graduate Accreditation (CONAP) under the National Commission for Scientific and
Technological Research (CONICYT). Using similar procedures as CNAP, this commission oversaw the
accreditation of 84 PhD and 116 master's programs. With a 60 percent increase in graduate enrollment between
1998 and 2003, these processes helped ensure that expansion did not come at the expense of a drop in quality.

Project Component C ­ Financing
The implementation of this component is considered highly satisfactory. The project helped design and build
consensus for the introduction of a new mechanism for tying university base-funding to performance, which will be
ready to be launched in the first semester of 2006. Moreover, this component implemented and consolidated a
competitive fund that made a substantial contribution to improving the teaching infrastructure and boosting the
quality of staff in technical, undergraduate and graduate education. As original objectives were met, priorities were
changed and additional advances were made in reforming curricula and reorienting university studies. Finally, the
project improved the targeting of Chile's system for student financial assistance to students from low-income
families. Moreover, the project exceeded its objectives by contributing to an opening of financial support to
students in CFTs, professional institutes and private universities ­ institutions previously ineligible to participate in
government-sponsored student aid programs. Hence, the project significantly increased opportunities for students
from low-income families to pursue higher education.

C1-A: Development of new funding methodology
Developed new funding mechanism for direct public funding (AFD). Through studies and technical assistance,
the project helped develop a framework for tying funding to desired educational outcomes. Drawing on lessons
learned from OECD countries, agreement was reached on linking part of AFD to performance agreements
negotiated between each institution and the Ministry of Education. This modality was chosen in order to factor in
specific institutional characteristics and needs, a key element for ensuring sustainability of the new mechanism in a
highly heterogeneous system. Moreover, performance agreements were designed to enhance DESUP's capacity to
manage the system and tie incentives to the achievement of national priorities. The new system will be piloted in
FY06 in four public universities.




                                                          - 13 -

C1-B: Competitive fund to promote quality and relevance
Established competitive investment fund. With the execution of 398 university-based subprojects (see Table 4), the
competitive fund (CF) was successful in tying funding to targeted improvement plans and supporting investment
projects with clearly defined activities, expected results and monitorable indicators. Institutions were invited to
submit proposals based on eligibility and selection criteria published by DESUP. This bottom-up approach
generated reforms with high ownership, as is evidenced by substantial cash and in-kind contributions from CFTs
and universities. Of the total funds spent on subprojects under the competitive fund, counterpart funding from
supported institutions accounted for approximately 25 percent. Key to the success of the CF was its transparent and
rigorous decision-making procedures. All proposals were reviewed by selected experts and safeguards were built in
to avoid direct and indirect conflicts of interest. The evaluation of proposals focused on expected beneficiaries and
the viability of the proposal. Some of the dimensions that were taken into account were: impact on delivered
services to students; coherence with institutional strategic plans; availability of human resources to implement the
proposal; link with labor market needs; systems in place to monitor implementation; and financial and operational
sustainability.

         Table 4. Number of subprojects and proportion of resource by level of tertiary education
                                                1999    2000     2001      2002      2003     2004      Total
           Tertiary           Number of          0       20       14        19        13        3         69
           technical          subprojects
                              Share of          0%      28%       18%       18%      25%       4%       17%
                              resources
           Undergraduate      Number of          41      37       50        69        32       19        248
                              subprojects
                              Share of          72%     51%       62%       65%      60%       80%      63%
                              resources
           Graduate           Number of          16      15       16        18         8        8         81
                              subprojects
                              Share of          28%     21%       20%       17%      15%       16%      20%
                              resources
           Total number of subprojects           57      72       80        106       53       30        398
           Source: DESUP 2005



Provided framework for addressing national priorities. The establishment of a CF provided the Ministry of
Education with an effective instrument to stimulate change in the university system. The Ministry was able to
provide an incentive for institutions to address national priorities without adopting a top-down approach. For each
call for proposals, specific selection criteria were developed in order to target pressing sector issues. This flexibility
allowed the CF to shift focus gradually from meeting basic learning infrastructure needs to improving teaching
methodologies. The 2004 round of the CF was entirely focused on fostering inter-institutional collaboration to
accelerate student mobility and curricula reform based on commons standards for quality and workload. The CF
gave high priority to areas of importance for Chile's social and economic and development. The fields that
received the most support were technology and basic science. These two fields accounted for about 35 percent of all
funds awarded. Programs in health and agriculture also received substantial support with each area receiving
approximately 8 percent of the total resources. In addition to specific fields, a significant proportion of resources
was allocated to academic improvement, including the training of higher education teachers (10 percent) and
curricula improvement (15 percent) (Graph 5).




                                                         - 14 -

                                   Graph 5. Proportion of resources by area of study


                                       Training of HE    Administration
                                          teachers        and business Agriculture
                                            10%               2%          8%
                                                                             Art and
                                             Curricula                     architecture
                                             redesign                           4%      Basic sciences
                                              15%                                             15%

                                  Management                                           Social sciences
                                  improvement                                               5%
                                      6%                                          Law
                                                                                   1%
                                Development of                                      Education
                                human resources                        Humanities      2%
                                      1%                                  3%
                                                Technology
                                                    20%         Health
                                                                  8%



                                                      Source: DESUP (2005)

Competitive fund perceived by beneficiaries as making a large impact. A survey of university leaders and
subproject coordinators (183 respondents) shows a high level of satisfaction with the competitive fund. Ninety-four
percent of respondents state that they are either highly satisfied (44.3 percent) or satisfied (49.2 percent) with how
the CF worked overall. The most frequently citied achievements are: (i) improved teaching facilities and
equipment, e.g. laboratories, auditoriums and libraries; (ii) strengthened university staff qualifications; (iii)
increased quality of course offerings by updating teaching methodologies and curricula; and (iv) improved
efficiency by lowering student dropouts. The following sections summarize outputs for each line of the competitive
fund: tertiary technical, undergraduate and graduate education.

C1-B: Competitive fund ­ Technical tertiary education
Improved the learning infrastructure in tertiary technical education. A total of 69 subprojects were implemented
in tertiary technical education with support from the CF. Approximately 75 percent of the resources were allocated
to institutions outside the capital area. The bulk of investments were directed to areas in high demand from the
productive sector such as administration and agriculture. Through targeted investments, the CF made a substantial
contribution to updating the learning infrastructure. Among the items financed were more than 1,200 computers,
equipment for 56 laboratories and the construction and remodeling of 10,000 square meters of classrooms. These
investments helped reverse a trend of declining quality, which is evident in the aforementioned increase in CFT
enrollment (see Table 1). Moreover, improvements to the learning infrastructure facilitated the adoption of new
curricula, emphasizing student collaboration and practical training.

Implementation of competency-based and modularized curricula. Curricula design was a fundamental element in
all subprojects in tertiary technical education supported through the CF. Investments were directed to the design of
new careers as well as the redesign of existing programs. Two important changes were introduced. First, the CF
supported the development of competency-based curricula with clarity on the skills that students are expected to
acquire. These processes were completed in close collaboration with Chilean companies and employers'
organizations, e.g. aided by the signing of formal collaborative agreements between CFTs and private enterprises.
Second, the CF stimulated the restructuring of curricula in modules, allowing for student-driven learning processes
and facilitating vocational training in Chile. This process was complemented by the aforementioned achievements
in building capacity among CFT staff for curricula redesign (see Section 4.2-A2). A total of 53 careers were
designed representing approximately six percent of all programs in tertiary technical education.

C1-B: Competitive fund ­ Undergraduate education
Improved the qualifications of university staff. The CF placed high priority on improving the quality of



                                                            - 15 -

undergraduate teaching by upgrading content knowledge and pedagogical skills of in-service university teachers.
The focus was on increasing the number of staff holding a graduate degree. Due to scholarships financed by the
project, 542 academics were able to pursue a doctoral degree. Moreover, 115 scholarships were awarded to
academics to complete a master's degree. As Table 5 reveals for selected universities, PhD scholarship holders
have the potential of significantly increasing the number of university academic staff with a PhD. In addition to
scholarships, the CF financed the hiring of 137 academics with a PhD and the insertion of 35 post-docs. This
helped boost the research capacity of Chilean universities.

            Table 5. Doctoral scholarships for academic staff
                                                       Total           Academic          Staff PhD
                         University                  academic          staff with       scholarships      (2) / (1)
                                                        staff           PhD (1)              (2)
             University of Austral                      807                341               82            24%
             University Bío Bío                         372                100               10            10%
             University Católica del Norte              758                259               32            12%
             University of Concepción                   629                268               94            35%
             University of Valparaíso                   838                 42               13            31%
            Source: Soluciones Integrales S.A. (2005)



A key objective was to promote international collaboration and draw on best practice abroad. For this reason, the
project supported close to 2,100 short stays abroad in high quality research environments and more than 1,400
visits to Chile of foreign scholars of international repute. Finally, the CF supported the establishment of
university-based centers for the training of academic staff. The University of Talca, for example, established a
technology center which provided training to staff in the use of ICT and the design of teaching processes that
combine online and face-to-face approaches (blended learning). Evidence suggests that the training of university
staff had a positive, albeit moderate, effect on the quality of teaching. A representative survey of 400 undergraduate
students studying in programs supported by the CF shows that approximately one-fifth of students perceive the
qualifications of teachers to have improved from the time of their enrollment (See Table 6).

Reoriented university studies. Implemented subprojects were instrumental in launching a process of curricula
improvement in undergraduate education in accordance with new professional standards and cutting-edge
international research. A particular emphasis was placed on the introduction of interactive approaches,
student-driven learning processes, and the formulation of expected competencies in collaboration with employers.
As Table 6 reveals, 57 percent of students consider the quality of curricula to have improved. It should be noted,
however, that a substantial proportion of students consider curricula to have changed for the worse (26.4 percent).
This may in part be due to difficulties related to changing from one curriculum to another for students enrolled in
the institution at the time of the change.

            Table 6. Student perception of the change in quality of undergraduate education from the time
            of their enrollment to project closing
                                                              Improved       Unchanged      Declined       Total
             Change in the qualifications of teachers            21.3%          72.8%          6.0%        100%
             Change in the quality of curricula                  57.0%          16.6%         26.4%        100%
             Change in the quality of library services           63.5%          33.3%          3.3%        100%
             Changes in quality of laboratory equipment          71.5%          26.5%          2.0%        100%
             Changes in the quality of classrooms                81.0%          15.5%          3.5%        100%
            Source: Soluciones Integrales S.A. (2005)
            Note: N=400 students in undergraduate programs supported by the competitive fund in the following four
            universities: University Católica del Norte, University Católica de Valparaíso, University of Chile and
            University de los Lagos.



Provided access to state-of-the-art equipment and teaching facilities. The project financed the construction of
212 laboratories with state-of-the-art equipment, funded the acquisition of 7,512 new computers available to




                                                               - 16 -

students and staff, and supported the construction and remodeling of 142,673 square meters of teaching facilities.
These investments supported the aforementioned changes to the undergraduate curricula by increasing
opportunities for group work and providing the infrastructure necessary for students to engage in experimental
science and practice in real-life circumstances. Moreover, state-of-the-art equipment opened additional areas of
study and provided new options for doing thesis work in Chile. Finally, computers and networks improved
opportunities for students to search for information and conduct research online. This was particularly important
for students from low-income families without access to ICT at home. Investments in the teaching infrastructure
were well received by students. More than 70 percent of students consider the quality of laboratory equipment and
classrooms to have increased from the time of their enrollment (See Table 6).

Improved library services. The project financed the construction of 48 new and the restructuring of 55 libraries. In
all subprojects, particular care was given to designing libraries around the needs of students and making libraries
attractive places for students to study and engage in group work. For example, the project supported the
construction of close to 300 project rooms designed for students working in teams. In addition to improving the
infrastructure, subprojects financed the training of library personnel and improved access to up-to-date
publications. More than 122,000 new books and periodicals were added to the general collections. Moreover,
subprojects supported the development of electronic catalogues, which provided new options for accessing
information and making reservations through the Internet. For instance, in collaboration with a consortium of 25
universities (CINCEL), the project helped purchase online access to abstracts dating back to 1988 in the
international recognized ISI Web-of-Science database. This provided a unique tool for students and professors alike
to stay informed about the latest research in all major fields of science. As was the case for investments in the
teaching infrastructure, students perceive library services to have significantly improved. Table 6 shows that three
out of five students consider such services to have changed for the better.

Strengthened management of undergraduate programs. The CF supported 23 subprojects aimed at building
university capacity for internal management. Three types of subprojects were financed. First, the CF supported
subprojects that improved the management of human resources. For instance, the University of Tarapacá simplified
its student enrollment processes and the University of Federico Santa María established a mechanism for
evaluating the performance of staff. Second, the CF supported subprojects that enhanced university fiduciary
management. As a result, universities such as University Arturo Prat and Universidad de la Frontera and
University de Los Lagos improved their cash flow management and financial reporting. Finally, subprojects helped
strengthen the monitoring of institutional strategic plans. The University Católica del Maule, for instance,
implemented a new system for tracking results and trained 60 administrators in results-based management.
Overall, these initiatives enhanced capacity for evidence-based decision-making and strengthened accountable for
results.

C1-B: Competitive fund ­ Graduate education
Expanded and strengthened graduate education in Chile. The CF helped establish and consolidate 23 graduate
programs. Investments were made in research equipment, technical assistance and the remodeling of teaching
facilities and laboratories. The largest share of resources (about 64 percent) went into graduate scholarships.
Between 2000 and 2004, 565 PhD and 88 master's scholarships were awarded on the basis of academic merit.
Particular emphasis was placed on fields of high importance to Chile's social and economic development such as
technology and medicine. The combination of additional graduate course offerings, improved quality of programs,
and the availability of scholarships led to a large increase in graduate enrollment. During project implementation,
enrollment in PhD and master's programs almost doubled (Table 7). As mentioned, the impact on PhD graduation
was equally substantial (see Graph 1). The hiring of some of these graduates as university teachers contributed to
improving the quality of undergraduate education. Moreover, support for graduate education complemented efforts
by CONICYT to strengthen Chile's science base. Between 1998 and 2003, the number of active researchers in
Chile increased from about 5,400 to 7,000 individuals measured in full time equivalent.




                                                        - 17 -

         Table 7. Postgraduate enrollment by field of science
                                                                                               Change
                                       1998     1999      2000    2001    2002      2003    between 1998
                                                                                              and 2003
           Agricult. and oceanic sci.  251       243       267    274     352       409         63%
           Art and Architecture        152       281       330    264     316       275         81%
           Natural sciences and math   1,134   1,219      1,295  1,374   1,497      1,547       36%
           Social sciences             2,177   2,785      2,517  2,933   3,714      4,091       88%
           Law                         272       231       211    294     337       378         39%
           Humanities                  779       874       827    724     822       1,006       29%
           Education                   1,371   1,273      1,616  1,736   1,526      1,471        7%
           Technology                  540       772       785   1,003   1,044      1,295      140%
           Health                      288       390       411    444     495       683        137%
           Total                       6,964   8,068      8,259  9,046   10,103    11,155       60%
         Source: DESUP (2005)



Achieved critical mass in graduate education through networking. The CF was used to stimulate collaboration
between accredited graduate programs in Chile. This was done to off-set some of the disadvantages associated with
the relative small size of Chilean graduate programs. With support from the project, graduate networks were
established in chemistry, ecology, material science, molecular science and physical science. These networks helped
achieve a critical mass through the sharing of equipment and the rotation of teaching staff. Moreover,
inter-program collaboration led to the exchange of good practices and stimulated horizontal mobility of graduate
students in Chile.

C2: Student Aid
Developed scholarship program for poor students attending short-cycle higher education. Through studies
analyzing the causes of inequalities in Chilean higher education, the project contributed to the design of a new
scholarship program ­ New Millennium Scholarship ­ for students enrolled in CFTs and IPs. Although enrolling a
high proportion of students from low-income families, these institutions did not have access to student financial
assistance. The New Millennium Scholarship program established in 2001 provides scholarships to non-affluent
students. In 2005, more than 10,000 students received support (see Table 8). Access to scholarships contributed to
the aforementioned increase in access to higher education for students from income quintiles I and II (see Graph
3).

            Table 8. Students Awarded a New Millennium Scholarship
                                         2001           2002        2003         2004          2005
             Number of scholarships      3,000         6,004        8,748       10,325        10,705
             Current $US million         1.67           2.62        3.43          4.32         4.85
            Source: DESUP (2005)


Contributed to opening student financial assistance to all tertiary institutions. The project supported the
preparation of new legislation that changed the student financial assistance system from covering only students
enrolled in the 25 CRUCH universities to also include students enrolled in private universities, IPs and CFTs. The
new law adopted in May 2005 (Bulletin 3223-04) established a system of student loans available to all students
achieving a threshold score in the University Admission Exam (PSU). Funds are provided by commercial banks
and all loans are subject to a state guarantee. Hence, the new system does not impede students unable to provide
collateral from financing their studies. The new system promises to improve equity further by increasing options
for talented students from non-affluent families to access higher education.

Linking financial aid to institutional performance. In addition to increasing the availability of student financial
assistance, the project supported a change in the principles guiding the allocation of resources under the existing
student aid system. Under the new system, students will receive support based on their score in the university
entrance exam, their socioeconomic profile, and ­ as something new ­ a reference tuition fee determined by the
research and teaching efficiency of the institution they are attending. Universities are divided into four sub-groups



                                                          - 18 -

according to the results of institutional accreditation. The reference tuition fee for each group will be set annually
as the actual tuition of the university with the highest performance rating but with the lowest tuition fee. Hence, the
new system strengthens the link between tuition and quality while providing an incentive for institutions to
improve their efficiency.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The overall objective of the competitive fund was to promote study programs responsive to social demand and labor
market needs. Thus, a full evaluation of the competitive fund should be based on labor market outputs. This task
can be accomplished in the future, when the student cohorts who benefited from the project have been in the labor
market for some years. Based on the data available, Annex 3 performs an assessment focusing on variables
associated with the quality and internal efficiency of undergraduate study programs supported by the competitive
fund as compared to outcomes in a comparison group. The evaluation is based on a difference-in-difference
methodology.

Considering proxies for quality, the results suggest that the treatment group was relatively more successful in
upgrading the skills of university staff than the comparison group. Moreover, evidence suggests that supported
programs were able to attract students with a higher score in the university entrance exam.

The results regarding internal efficiency are more ambiguous. The change in the retention has the right sign, with
one exception, but standard deviations are large compared to the estimated parameters. By contrast, the change in
the graduation rate has a negative sign in all estimators. This would imply that the study program financed by the
competitive fund showed a decline in the graduation rate as compared to the comparison group. However, due to
data limitations only a very imperfect match is made between student intake and graduation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is considered high.

First, the establishment of a competitive fund marked a shift from a funding system dominated by negotiated and
historic line-item budgeting methods. Merit-based investment funding is now recognized by institutions as an
integrated part of the funding system for higher education. Moreover, the CF provided the Ministry of Education
with a new instrument to implement its policies and bring about change in the Chilean higher education system.

Second, the project consolidated program and institutional accreditation in Chile. As part of new legislation on
student aid, CNAP was written into law. Due to support from the project, CNAP was successful in developing
efficient decision-making structures for the handling of external evaluations and accreditation processes. A key
feature was the use of broadly composed peer review committees, ensuring fair and impartial decision-making and
providing Chile with a resource of academics trained in quality assurance processes.

Third, the Higher Education Division in the Ministry of Education (DESUP) and its MECESUP project department
(PIU) improved capacity to handle day-to-day operations, plan ahead and provide technical assistance to higher
education institutions. This enhanced DESUP's capacity to stimulate concerted action in a system marked by a
high degree of autonomy at the university level.

Finally, the project strengthened the management capacity of higher education institutions in Chile. Particularly,
the formulation of institutional multiyear and strategic plans in all CRUCH universities and the establishment of
information systems enhanced the ability of institutions to prioritize resources and make informed decisions.
Moreover, the project made an impact on the ability of institutions to improve quality and relevance in
collaboration with industry by upgrading the skills of academics to redesign curricula and adopt new teaching
methodologies.




                                                         - 19 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A stable political and macroeconomic environment was a positive factor in the implementation of the project. The
economic slowdown of 1998-2003 did not adversely affect project implementation. The 2004 windfall in copper
prices boosted growth and provided a solid basis for sustaining social expenditure, e.g. creating the fiscal space for
increasing funding for student financial assistance.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Sound economic management by the Government facilitated the availability of adequate budget resources and
provided a favorable environment for the implementation of the project. Ensuring Chile's transition into a
knowledge-based economy remained a key priority for the Government throughout implementation, and the project
benefited from high-level commitment to the project objectives. Moreover, Government policy added momentum to
the project, e.g. by introducing new legislation on student financial assistance and quality assurance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The dialogue and cooperation with the MECESUP project department was excellent. Agreed improvements were
carried out in an effective and timely manner. At mid-term, some weaknesses were identified in regard to the
monitoring of subprojects and the collection of data on project indicators. These shortcomings were overcome by
providing training to staff and integrating information systems.

The MECESUP project department collaborated closely with staff in CONICYT and the Chile: Science for the
Knowledge Economy Project (P077282). This added to the impact of investments in graduate education. Moreover,
effort went into ensuring complementarity between investments in short-cycle technical higher education and the
implementation of the Chile: Lifelong Learning and Training Project (P068271).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project costs were estimated at US$241.4 million. Due to additional Government counterpart funding, the
actual costs were US$278.2 million. Some of the added counterpart funding went into financing Components A
and B, which is why the aforementioned reallocation was made on November 8, 2004 (see Section 3.4 and Annex
2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is considered highly likely. First, key features of the project were consolidated
through changes to the legal framework. Accreditation was written into law and student financial assistance was
opened to students at CFTs, IPs and private universities. Second, the project engendered a shift in institutional
culture to incorporate quality assessment as a regular institutional practice. Ownership among universities for
program and institutional accreditation provides the necessary stimulus for sustaining the process of quality
improvement. Third, the project built institutional capacity for strategic decision making and quality management.
Taken together with the upgrading of teachers and training in curricula redesign, a strong basis exists for
institutions to make effective use of new classrooms, libraries and laboratories to improve learning outcomes.
Finally, a follow-on two-phased APL (P088498) was approved on July 5, 2005 to provide continuing support to the
Government's program in higher education. The new operation builds on the achievements of the MECESUP
Project. The design includes the continuation of a competitive fund and the piloting of the developed funding
methodology for universities base-funding (See C1-A).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The 2004 round of the competitive fund was designed to bridge to the approved follow-on higher education project
by supporting inter-university networks, developing joint guidelines for curricula redesign and transferring
academic credits between institutions. Lessons learned from these subprojects will be incorporated into a new call
for proposals expected in early 2006.




                                                        - 20 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The project's objectives were closely aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS of April
1995), particularly in its emphasis on upgrading Chile's human capital, with a view to improving the country's
competitiveness. Project preparation included extensive consultations and careful attention to lessons learned from
similar reforms carried out in other countries. The result was a project that closely mirrored the Government's
strategy for increasing the efficiency of its investments in higher education and improving the quality and
relevance of higher educational services in Chile.

The skill mix and continuity of the team assigned to the preparatory phase were adequate. Substantial conceptual
and technical assistance was provided to the Borrower in designing the project and ensuring readiness for
implementation. The project objectives were clear and specific and all components adequately supported the project
development objectives. Although indicators were identified at appraisal, baseline data and targets were not
established. Only midway through implementation was a proper monitoring and evaluation system put in place to
measure the impact of project interventions.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank carried out a total of 14 supervision missions, including a mid-term review in March 2002
and an ICR mission in July 2005 (See Annex 4). A supervision mission was carried out every six months. Each
supervision mission discussed progress made, assisted the Government in addressing key bottlenecks and provided
technical advice. All conclusions were recorded in, thoroughly discussed and signed, aide memoires, which were
subsequently used as a monitoring and follow-up mechanism. One task manager was in charge of preparation and
supervision, which provided a high degree of continuity on the part of the Bank. The supervision team was
composed of a stable mix of Bank specialists and international experts. Throughout the project's implementation,
the Bank responded quickly to requests from the Government and collaborated closely with counterparts in the
Ministry of Education and key stakeholders in the higher education system. Lastly, supervision was time and
cost-effective, as missions were combined with the supervision of other Bank projects in the region.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is considered satisfactory. There was continuity of staff throughout the
preparation and supervision of the project. Supervision missions included an appropriate mix of technical experts,
providing guidance on sector issues and fiduciary management.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. In 1997 the Government presented a new bill on public universities to the Chilean legislature and the
Ministry of Education prepared a document on the vision, policy criteria and objectives for higher education stating
that quality, equity and efficiency were priority objectives for the sector. The Government generated wide support
for the project by consulting and involving all stakeholders.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Highly satisfactory. The Government was committed to key reforms throughout implementation. The dialogue
with the Ministry of Education was excellent and all agreed changes were made in a timely manner. Moreover, the
Government gave momentum to the project by increasing resources for student financial assistance and proposing
legislative changes that added to the impact and sustainability of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory. The project was very well managed. The PIU was strong and its leadership was unaffected by
the change of Government one year into project implementation. The project's team had a full-time general
coordinator that reported directly to the head of DESUP. The team was organized in sub-teams, one per
component, and each of the sub-teams had its own coordinator. The leadership and effectiveness displayed by the
coordinator of the PIU, the high professional standards of the sub-teams, and the appropriate skill-mix of PIU staff



                                                        - 21 -

were key to ensuring a highly successful project implementation.

During each supervision mission, the PIU prepared and delivered to the Bank well-documented project
implementation progress reports that resulted in valuable documentation to accomplish the missions' objectives.
Moreover, the PIU conducted frequent site visits and provided technical assistance to subprojects under
implementation. Recurring follow-ups and the monitoring of results reinforced efforts to increase accountability for
results in Chilean higher education.

The PIU undertook a wide range of activities to increase awareness of the project and build momentum for change.
A key tool was the project's webpage (www.mecesup.cl), used to disseminate studies and publish all information
relevant to the competitive fund. Moreover, the PIU staff provided technical assistance to similar operations in
places such as Colombia, Mozambique, and Palestine, thus adding to the impact of the project.

An evaluation carried out by the Ministry of Finance in 2004 shows that the project's implementation was
associated with low operating costs compared to similar public programs in Chile, although costs increased
marginally during implementation due the larger portfolio of subprojects under the competitive fund. The resources
used to administer the project (including expenses for the operation of the PIU, CNAP and CONAP) amount to
only 5.9 percent of the total cost.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, the borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory. The Government was highly committed and
added momentum to the project and the management of the project was highly effective.

8. Lessons Learned

· M&E needs to be integrated into project preparation and implementation. Lack of clarification of roles and
   responsibilities during project preparation for collecting baseline and performance data makes it difficult to
   sustain momentum for maintaining indicators. Notably, this is the case when data collection depends on a flow
   of information from a large number of beneficiaries. Moreover, it is necessary to have the skills, experience and
   motivation present to analyze data and incorporate findings into decision-making processes within institutions.
   Identification of motivated champions, as well as recognition and support for their efforts is key to maintaining
   appropriate analytical capacity.

· Allowing institutions to suggest and implement changes within a clear policy framework serve to enhance
   institutional autonomy while increasing accountability. Anchoring quality assurance in self-assessment
   processes and inviting institutions to submit investment proposals based on clear eligibility and selection
   criteria stimulates the development of new solutions and ensures strong ownership to reforms at the
   decentralized level. At the same time, centrally formulated criteria can be designed to ensure that institutional
   improvement processes address national needs.

· Combining quality assurance with targeted funding enhances impact. Program and institutional accreditation
   allows institutions to identify weaknesses and appropriate remedies. Funding for quality improvement, in turn,
   provides the means by which corrective action can be taken. Hence, the combination of the two instruments
   ensures that funding targets key weaknesses and that quality assurance becomes a meaningful exercise with a
   direct operational impact.

· Competitive funding is a highly flexible tool. A competitive fund with several rounds can be used to target
   specific sector development needs as they arise. It is straightforward to adjust eligibility and, notably, selection
   criteria in accordance with changing priorities and needs. The competitive fund supported by the project saw a
   significant reorientation from investments in teaching facilities to improvement of curricula and teaching
   methodologies.

· Including a policy component in higher education investment loans enhances sustainability. Innovations in
   higher education are more likely to be sustained when a project addresses regulatory and legislative changes



                                                        - 22 -

   necessary to foster a supportive environment at the national level. Rather than engage in up-front legal reforms,
   the project illustrated the advantage of working within the existing legal framework and gradually building the
   case for legislative action on the basis of results.

· Building institutional capacity for fiduciary management is central to improving outcomes in higher
   education. The sustainability of competitive funding mechanisms in higher education is closely linked to
   financial management and procurement capacity at the study program level. Such capacities should be
   recognized as a priority within each institution and should be developed over time by university management.
   Significant momentum is added by harmonizing procedures and developing a strong central capacity for
   financial management and procurement technical support and oversight.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Higher Education Improvement Project (MECESUP) made significant achievements in improving the quality,
efficiency, equity and relevance of Chilean higher education: (i) a culture of transparency, accountability and
results-based management of public resources was initiated and consolidated; (ii) structural and legal modifications
in the financial and student aid systems were carried out, significantly increasing equity in access to higher
education; and (iii) a quality assurance system was designed and implemented in the system, stressing the
importance of quality as a core factor in national and institutional strategic planning and decision-making. As
such, the project made an important contribution to achieving the goal of providing the highly skilled and
diversified workforce necessary to transform Chile into a knowledge-based economy.

Coherence and Efficiency
Accountable and performance- based public funds allocation
The Institutional Development Fund (Fondo de Desarrollo Institucional), allocating funds for academic
improvement based on historical criteria, was successfully replaced by a competitive fund for sub-projects. The
resources of the competitive fund were allocated through transparent and public calls for proposals, thus
introducing for the first time in the Chilean higher education system commitments to specific results and their
evaluation through performance indicators. At the institutional level, it introduced a culture of accountability for
public funds, fostering capacity-building in management and allowing a closer relationship between higher
education institutions and the Ministry of Education.

Strategic planning and capacity building at the institutional level
The competitive fund improved the capacity of institutions to engage in mid-term planning through prioritized
institutional plans, thus introducing strategic planning in Chilean higher education. In addition, the project
stimulated management capacity building at the institutional level through the establishment of a new project
administration culture. This new culture includes information demands, institutional internal coordination and
networking at the administrative and academic staff levels, self-regulation procedures, and internal and external
accountability in financial, administrative and academic matters. Even when in general these first strategic plans
do not all include fully developed arrangements for monitoring and evaluation, they represent an important first
step towards good technical planning that will be further enhanced in the recently approved Chile: Tertiary
Education Finance for Results Project.

Intra and inter-institutional networking
The project strongly encouraged the development of networking capacity ­ internally between faculties and
departments and externally between institutions ­ in order to optimize the use of resources for research and
teaching, promote synergies and develop nationally coordinated projects. Initially, the competitive fund promoted
networking in accredited doctoral programs, stimulating program managers and researchers to share resources and
major scientific equipment. The 2004 call for proposals under the competitive fund initiated the development of
inter-institutional networks to promote curricular reform based on learning outcomes and competencies at the
undergraduate level. Moreover, networks were established to begin the design of an academic credit transfer
system for Chile. At the graduate level ­ especially in regard to doctoral programs ­ the competitive fund made it
possible to (i) increase coverage in strategically important and under-represented disciplines through the



                                                        - 23 -

establishment of new programs; (ii) double student enrollment due to new graduate scholarships and improved
study conditions; (iii) more than double graduation based on strict quality standards determined by CONAP; and
(iv) increase inter-program networking and collaboration in order to achieve a higher scientific output.

Quality and Relevance
Focus on quality through curricular reform, strengthening of academic staff, infrastructure and equipment
The competitive fund supported numerous initiatives destined to improve academic quality in tertiary education
technical training programs, as well as in undergraduate and graduate education offered by the Council of Rectors
Universities (CRUCH). At the technical training level, the competitive fund stimulated curricular redesign
adopting a learning-outcome and competency-based approach, and improved teaching skills through academic staff
training and the upgrading of laboratories. At the CRUCH university level, the competitive fund (i) facilitated
academic staff improvement and renewal at the doctoral level; (ii) contributed to modernizing libraries in all
universities, including more space for study, open shelves, bibliographic resources (including the ISI Web of
Science data base); and (iii) effectively integrated communication and information technologies into academic and
managing processes. Additionally, the competitive fund allowed the renewal of teaching laboratories by equipping
them with cutting-edge technologies and facilitating student learning by massively incorporating information
communication technologies.

Quality assurance
The design and implementation of a national voluntary system for quality assurance of professional titles and
degrees offered by higher education institutions and of institutional quality standards, led to the formal
introduction of accreditation processes based on self-evaluation validated by external peer reviewers. Two
commissions were established for this purpose: CNAP at the undergraduate level and CONAP at the post-graduate
level. In spite of its initial experimental nature, quality assurance in Chile reached very high coverage levels.
During project implementation, institutional accreditation was introduced and became an eligibility criterion for
institutions wishing to make State guaranteed loans available to students under the new law on student financial
assistance. Quality assurance was culturally incorporated as an essential element into the higher education system,
demanding new processes from institutions ­ such as self-evaluation ­ and offering objective evaluation
instruments and information to prospective students. At the doctoral and master's level, quality assurance was very
effective in assuring quality of Chilean graduate programs and their improvement, both for existing and new
programs. Accreditation also guided the awarding of scholarship and was increasingly used to create a stronger
link between performance and the allocation of resources for higher education. Finally, accreditation provided
greater transparency on the quality of higher education programs to the public.

Equity
Improvement of the student aid system to increase equity in access and retention in tertiary education
The project facilitated a pro-active government approach to improving equity, incorporating into the student aid
system sectors which traditionally had been excluded. A scholarship program for needy students enrolled in
technical training programs was established and a loan system, with State guarantee, for low and mid-income
students enrolled in all sorts of accredited higher education institutions ­ private and public universities, CFTs and
IPs ­ was approved. Due to legal and operative modifications, enrollment rates among the poorest students
increased considerably and the national student aid system became more transparent and efficient.

Increase in regional institutional funding
The competitive fund established as a priority to support regional smaller institutions by establishing institutional
funding ceilings and evaluating submitted proposals based on their quality, needs, priorities and capacities. This
allowed a much more even regional access of students to information and communication technologies,
infrastructure and equipment ­ that is, improved equity in student access to quality facilities and programs.

Increase in the transparency of the higher education system
Through diverse and coherent policies, defined and implemented within the project framework, the transparency of
the higher education system significantly increased. These actions are related to the allocation of public funds and
to the generation and distribution of relevant information to all stakeholders. The competitive fund is publicly
recognized for its transparency; open calls, external reviewers, feedback to participants and especially, quality


                                                        - 24 -

results due to rigorous processes. In regard to information, students, academic staff and government bodies have
available ­ on an open and free basis, a complete set of information regarding the kind and quality of offered
programs, the expected economic returns for professionals and technicians according to their specific disciplines,
and the socio-economic and academic characteristics of students entering into the system. This information (i)
allows students and their families to make more informed decisions on their investments in education; (ii)
encourages academics and institutional managers to improve offered services; and (iii) permits policy makers at the
government level to work on a well informed basis.

Outreach
At completion, the project reached a sustained and stable operation, being increasingly known outside Chile.
Outreach activities increased from participation in international seminars and workshops to consulting in
Mozambique and Ghana and a study tour of higher education officials of Palestine, Morocco, Tunisia and
Mozambique to the project in Chile.

Sustainability and the future of higher education in Chile
As Chile approaches its bicentenary celebrations, the key challenge is to sustain momentum and build on the
achievements made in the MECESUP project. For that reason, the Government of Chile is continuing its
collaboration with the World Bank through a new project in higher education. The so-called Chile: Tertiary
Education Finance for Results Project includes a competitive innovation fund targeting investments to such issues
as academic staff development, support to doctoral programs, curricula innovation, teacher training, systems for
the transfer of academic credits, articulation and networks, and transition programs for inadequately prepared
secondary school graduates. Moreover, the project will pilot institutional performance agreements with additional
money in a small number of state universities gauged to have adequate fiduciary and information management
systems.

Access to quality education is one of the primary goals of Chilean society today. The country wants to transform
itself into a knowledge-based economy and society. This requires urgently advanced human capital to attain a
critical mass of education and research, the development of doctoral programs in all necessary disciplines, and
increased capacity to innovate in the productive sector. These challenges cross all educational sectors. Appropriate
answers and actions at the tertiary education level will determine the achievement of results. Quality of teachers in
primary and secondary schools and the demonstration of required competencies by students will determine the
quality of input to the tertiary level. Modern and flexible curricula in technical training and universities will
determine the possibility of lifelong learning, employability and international mobility. Finally, world class
doctoral programs will determine Chile's research, development, and innovation capabilities.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                        - 25 -

       Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

       Outcome / Impact Indicators:


              Indicator/Matrix                         Baseline                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Funding under competitive matching          Baseline (1999): 3%              19% (2005)
grants mechanisms                           Target (2004): 12%
Tertiary enrollment rate for income         Baseline (1998): 8.7%            14.5% (2003)
quintile 1
Proportion of public funds for tertiary     Baseline (1998): 26.2%           31.6% (2003)
education allocated to student financial
assistance
Proportion of competitive funds allocated   Baseline (1999): 73.8%           77.8% (2003)
outside the Santiago area
Proportion of business leaders perceiving   Baseline (2000): 61%             70% (2005)
Chilean university education to meet the
needs of a competitive economy
Universities having complied with           Baseline (1998): 0%              100% (2004)
eligibility requirements for accreditation  Target (2004): 50%
Proportion of undergraduate CRUCH           Baseline (1998): 0%              63% (2003)
university students enrolled in an
accredited program
Proportion of tertiary students studying in Baseline (1998): 0%              85% (2004)
an accredited institution
Accredited undergraduate programs           Baseline (1998): 0               233 programs (2005)
                                            Target (2004): 40
Accredited Master's and PhD programs        Baseline (2000): 28 programs     200 programs (2004)
CRUCH universities with a strategic         Baseline (1998): 6 universities  25 universities (2004)
development plan
Enrollment in Technical Training Centers Baseline (1998): 54,290 students 72,689 students (2004)
Annual PhD graduation                       Baseline (1999): 75 students     244 students (2004)
Enrollment in graduate education            Baseline (1998): 6,964 students  11,155 students (2003)
Proportion of received proposals selected   Baseline (1999): 50% (out of 114 22% (2003) (out of 241
for funding under the competitive fund      proposals)                       proposals)
Average quality score assigned by           Baseline (1999): 74 points       82 points (2004)
independent peers to received proposals for
funding under the competitive fund (scale
1-100)
Classrooms space per CRUCH student          Baseline (1999): 6.2 m2 per      8.5 m2 per student (2004)
                                            student
Library books per CRUCH student             Baseline (1999): 17.2 books per  17.8 books per student (2004)
                                            student
New and reconstructed laboratories          Baseline (1999): 38 laboratories 212 laboratories (2003)
(cumulative)
New and reconstructed libraries             Baseline (1999): 34 libraries    103 libraries (2003)
(cumulative)
New computers for university staff and      Baseline (1998): 992 computers   7,512 computers (2003)
students (cumulative)




                                                             - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate           Appraisal
                      Component                             US$ million     US$ million
A: Policy Framework and Capacity Building                       4.8                    6.3               131
B: Quality Assurance                                            5.3                    6.2               117
C: Financing                                                  227.4                  262.9               116
Project Coordination Unit                                       1.1                    1.2               109

Total Baseline Cost
   Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                           0.3                    0.1                33
   Physical and price Contingencies                             1.1                    0.0                 0
   Front-end fee                                                1.5                    1.5               100

                      Total Project Costs                     241.5                  278.2               115



               Total Financing Required                       241.5                  278.2               115




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                          Procurement Method      1
  Expenditure Category                                                                              Total
                                     ICB             NCB          Other   2        N.B.F.           Cost
1. Goods                             0.00             0.4            0.3            0.00             0.7
                                    (0.00)           (0.4)          (0.3)           (0.00)          (0.7)
2. Services                          0.00            0.00            8.5            0.00             8.5
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)          (8.5)           (0.00)          (8.5)
3. PCU Staff                         0.00            0.00            5.5            0.00             5.5
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)          (5.5)           (0.00)          (5.5)
4. Adm. Expenses                     0.00            0.00            0.3            0.00             0.3
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.3)          (0.00)           (0.3)
5. Competitive fund                  0.00            0.00          225.0            0.00            225.0
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)         (129.0)          (0.00)         (129.0)
6. Front End Fee                     0.00            0.00            1.5            0.00             1.5
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)          (1.5)           (0.00)          (1.5)
    Total                            0.00             0.4          241.1            0.00            241.5
                                    (0.00)           (0.4)         (145.1)          (0.00)         (145.5)
   1/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
       contingencies.
   2/  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
       services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
       services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
       project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 27 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                           Procurement Method     1
  Expenditure Category                                                                           Total Cost
                                     ICB             NCB          Other   2        N.B.F.
1. Goods                             0.00             0.00          0.11             0.00           0.11
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.11)           (0.00)         (0.11)
2. Services                          0.00             0.00         12.39             0.00           12.39
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (7.80)           (0.00)         (7.80)
3. PCU Staff                         0.00             0.00          1.20             0.00           1.20
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (1.20)           (0.00)         (1.20)
4. Adm. Expenses                     0.00             0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Competitive fund                  0.00             0.00         262.98            0.00          262.98
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (134.47)          (0.00)        (134.47)
6. Front End Fee                     0.00             0.00          1.45             0.00           1.45
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (1.45)           (0.00)         (1.45)
7. PPF                               0.00             0.00          0.07             0.00           0.07
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.07)           (0.00)         (0.07)
   Total                             0.00             0.00         278.20            0.00          278.20
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (145.10)          (0.00)        (145.10)
   1/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
       contingencies.
   2/  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
       services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
       and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds
       to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
    Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          Bank         Govt.    CoF.      Bank     Govt.     CoF.        Bank        Govt.    CoF.
Project Component A:       4.8          0.0       0.0      3.2      3.1       0.0         67           -       -
Policy Framework and
Capacity Building
Project Component B:       5.3          0.0       0.0      4.7      1.5       0.0         89           -       -
Quality Assurance
Project Component C:      131.4        96.0       0.0     134.4    128.5      0.0         102         140      -
Financing
Project Coordination       1.1          0.0       0.0      1.2      0.0       0.0         109          -       -
Unit
Project Preparation        0.3          0.0       0.0      0.1      0.0       0.0         33           -       -
Facility (PPF)
Physical and price         1.1          0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0          -           -       -
Contingencies
Front-end fee              1.5          0.0       0.0      1.5      0.0       0.0         100          0       -
Total Financing           145.5        96.0       0.0     145.1    133.1      0.0         100         145      -
Required




                                                        - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

As part of the economic assessment of the project, a quantitative study was carried out of the project's main
component, the competitive fund. There were two reasons for this choice. First, the competitive fund was by far the
most important expenditure item of the project, representing 94 percent of the total investment. Second, we were
able to conduct a quantitative study of the competitive fund, whereas the other project components were of a more
qualitative character and less suited for evaluation. Due to data limitations, the analysis focused on undergraduate
programs, which account for 63 percent of investments made under the competitive fund in the 1999-2004 period.

Methodology
The overall objective of the competitive fund was to promote study programs responsive to social demand and labor
market needs. Thus, a full evaluation of the competitive fund should be based on labor market outputs. This task
can be accomplished in the future, when the student cohorts who benefited from the project have been in the labor
market for some years.

The assessment applied a difference-in-difference methodology, comparing changes in the dependent variable for a
treatment group and a comparison group. The treatment group was defined as those undergraduate study programs
in council of rectors' universities that were awarded financing from the competitive fund. This definition excluded
projects aimed at the university level, such as library construction or efforts to strengthen institutional
management. Two types of comparison groups were used: (i) all study programs not supported by the project and
(ii) study programs not awarded financing from the project but belonging to a sub-area where at least one
university accessed funds.

The difference-in-difference methodology was used in order to isolate ­ as much as possible ­ for time invariant
characteristics of university programs and changes in the higher education system in the project implementation
period affecting all study programs. Moreover, the past trends in the explanatory variable were taken into account
to control for any bias that would arise from a time trend in the programs that were awarded funding from project.
However, these comparison groups do not have the characteristics of a properly selected control group as used in
impact evaluation studies. The project did by design not undertake a random assignment of programs to a
treatment and a control group. Moreover, the data do not permit a matched design based on program
characteristics such as management capacity to implement quality improvements. Hence, it is possible that a
selection bias remains. For this reason results should be interpreted with caution.

The outcome variables considered in the assessment were: (i) teacher to student ratio considering faculty with
graduate degrees (PhD and MA); (ii) retention rate; (iii) graduates to past enrollment ratio; and (iv) cut-off score in
the university entry test. The first variable is a proxy for quality. A key priority of the competitive fund was to
improve the quality of teaching by increasing the number of university faculty with advanced skills. The retention
rate and the graduation rate are indicators of internal efficiency of higher education study programs. Most
subprojects financed by the competitive fund were expected to improve internal efficiency. Finally, the cut off in
the university entry exam proxies quality of the study programs as perceived by applicants.

Results
Table 1 presents the main results of the assessment: the treatment effect parameter and its standard deviation for
all pairs of treatment and comparison groups for every outcome variable. The first row shows the results for the
ratio between teachers with a graduate degree and students. Most estimated parameters are statistically different
from zero. The results suggest that the treatment group was relatively more successful in upgrading the skills of
university staff than the comparison group. As discussed the assessment design does not allow a firm conclusion to
be made that this positive result is an impact of the project.

The results regarding internal efficiency are more ambiguous. The change in retention has a positive sign, with one
exception, but standard deviations are large compared to the estimated parameters. There is not solid ground to
conclude that the competitive fund contributed to better the retention rate in treated programs as compared to the
comparison group. The change in the graduation rate has a negative sign in all estimators. This would imply that
study programs financed by the competitive fund showed a decline in the graduation rate as compared to the



                                                         - 29 -

comparison group. A possible explanation for this counterintuitive result is the presence of noise in the variable.
Our preferred indicator is the ratio between graduated (with title) in period t and first year enrollment in period t-3.
This is a very imperfect proxy of the true graduation rate, considering that the mean duration of studies is near to
seven years and enrollment in Chilean universities is not a steady state variable. Some attempt to control for
changes in enrollment was made by including a "trend" control, but the results did not show relevant changes.

Lastly, the cut off in the entry test treatment effect is positive. Treated study programs showed a gain of about ten
points relative to the comparison groups. This is a sizable effect, representing 10 percent of the standard deviation
of the variable. However, the standard deviation of the estimated parameter is rather large, a possible effect of
heterogeneity in outcome, rendering the parameter statistically different from 0 in only two cases.

Table 1. Difference in Difference treatment effect parameters and standard deviations
 Outcome variable                     Case 1             Case 2             Case 3            Case 4            Case 5                Case 6
 Teacher/student (graduate             0.041             0.049**            0.043**          0.037**           0.045**               0.038**
 degree)                               (0.03)             (0.02)             (0.02)           (0.01)             (0.01)                (0.02)
 Retention rate                        -0.017             0.015              0.002            0.021              0.019                 0.006
                                       (0.03)             (0.02)             (0.02)           (0.03)             (0.02)                (0.02)
 Graduates to past first year          -0.20*            -0.24**            -0.18**          -0.31**            -0.35**               -0.29**
 enrollment ratio                      (0.11)             (0.10)             (0.09)           (0.12)             (0.12)                (0.11)
 Cut off at entry test                  11.1               9.8*              10.5*              9.9               8.6                    9.2
                                       (7.6)              (6.2)              (5.6)             (8.2)             (6.7)                  (6.3)
Note: Case 1 considers treatment in 1999-2000 and control group 1 (all study programs not supported by the project); Case 2 considers treatment in
1999-2001 and control group 1; Case 3 considers treatment in 1999-2002 and control group 1. Cases 4, 5 and 6 are analogous to cases 1, 2 and 3, but
considering control group 2 (includes only sub-areas for which at least one university was awarded funding). One asterisk denotes significance at 10%
level, two asterisks at 5% level.




                                                                       - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/1997                    4    Task team leader (1);
                                              Consultants (3)
              01/1998                  10     Task team leader (1); Education
                                              specialist (1); Consultants (8)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/1998                    5    Task team leader (1);
                                              Education specialist (1);
                                              Consultants (3)
              06/1998                    9    Task team leader (1); Higher
                                              education specialist (1);
                                              Economist (1); Procurement
                                              specialist (1); Task assistant (1);
                                              Consultants (4)

 Supervision
              09/1999                    7    Task team leader (1);                   S               S
                                              Procurement specialist (1);
                                              Financial management
                                              specialist (1); Higher
                                              Education Director (1);
                                              Project coordinator (1);
                                              Consultants (2)
               01/2000                   2    Task team leader (1); Higher            S               S
                                              Education Director (1)
              03/2000                    4    Task team leader (1);                   S               S
                                              Procurement specialist (1);
                                              Financial management specialist
                                              (1); Consultant (1)
              09/2000                    3    Task team leader (1); Financial         S               S
                                              management specialist (1);
                                              Consultant (1)
              01/2001                    3    Task team leader (1);                   S               S
                                              Consultants (2)
              08/2001                    4    Task team leader (1);                   S              HS
                                              Procurement specialist (1);
                                              Consultants (2)
              03/2002 ­ Midterm          9    Education manager (1); Task             HS             HS
              Review                          team leader(1); Education
                                              specialist (1); Financial
                                              management specialist (1);
                                              Procurement analyst (1); Social
                                              scientist (1); Operation analyst
                                              (1); Consultant (1); Team
                                              assistant (1)
              07/2002                    3    Task team leader (1);                   HS             HS



                                               - 31 -

                                            Consultants (2)
               02/2003                 6    Task team leader (1);                HS    HS
                                            Procurement specialist (1);
                                            Economist (1); Education
                                            specialist (1); Consultants (2)
               07/2003                 6    Task team leader (1);                HS    HS
                                            Procurement specialist (1);
                                            Consultants (4)
               01/2004                 5    Task team leader (1); Evaluation     HS    HS
                                            officer (1); Consultants (3)
               07/2004                 5    Task team leader (1);                HS    HS
                                            Procurement specialist (1); M&E
                                            specialist (1); Consultants (2)
               01/2005                 4    Task team leader (1);                HS    HS
                                            Procurement specialist (1);
                                            Performance finance specialist
                                            (1); Consultant (1)

 ICR
               07/2005                4     Task team leader (1);                HS    HS
                                            Consultants (3)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                                N/A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    41                             459.1
  Supervision                              45                             503.2
  ICR                                       4                              13.0
  Total                                                                   975.3




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bernasconi, Andrés and Fernando Rojas (2004). Informe Sobre La Educación Superior En Chile: 1980-2003,
Universidad de Talca y Universidad Andrés Bello

Brunner, José Joaquín and Patricio Meller (2004). Oferta y Demanda de Profesionales y Técnicos en Chile ­ El
Rol de la Información Pública, Santiago: Ril Editors

Delannoy, Françoise (2000). Education Reforms in Chile, 1980-1998: A lesson in Pragmatism, Educational
Reform and Management Publication Series, Vol. 1, No. 1, June

DESUP (2004). Informe Final de Evaluación: Programa Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad de la Educación,
Santiago de Chile: Ministry of Education

El-Khawas, Elaine, Robin DePietro-Jurand and Lauritz Holm-Nielsen (1998). Quality Assurance in Higher
Education: Recent Progress; Challenges Ahead, LCSHD Paper Series, No. 23, Washington D.C.: The World Bank

El-Khawas, Elaine (1998). Developing Internal Support for Quality and Relevance, LCSHD Paper Series, No. 29,
Washington D.C.: The World Bank

Hauptman, Arthur (2002). Reforming Student Financial Aid: Issues and Alternatives, LCSHD Paper Series, No.
76, Washington D.C.: The World Bank

Holm-Nielsen, Lauritz and Natalia Agapitova (2002). Chile ­ Science, Technology and Innovation, LCSHD Paper
Series, No. 79, Washington D.C.: The World Bank

Kindermann, Jorge (2002). Recuperación de Créditos Universitarios, Santiago de Chile, MECESUP

Larrañaga, Osvaldo (2001). Elementos para una Reforma del Sistema de Crédito Estudiantil en Chile, Santiago:
Universidad de Chile, Departamento de Economía

Larrañaga, Osvaldo (2002). Financiamiento Público para las Universidades Chilenas: Diagnóstico y Propuestas,
Santiago: Universidad de Chile, Departamento de Economía

MINEDUC (2005). Chile: Compendio de Educación Superior, Santiago: Ministerio de Educación

Neumann, Raul Allard (2000). Chile: Rol del Estado, Políticas e Instrumentos de Acción Pública en Educación
Superior, LCSHD Paper Series, No. 58, Washington D.C.: The World Bank

OECD (2004). Chile: Reviews of National Policies for Education, Paris: Organization for Economic Co-operation
and Development

Repetto, Andrea Vargas (2003). Access Barriers for Poor and Indigenous People in Chilean Higher Education,
LCSHD Paper Series, No. 81, Washington D.C.: The World Bank

Soluciones Integrales S.A. (2005). Evaluación de Impacto Programa MECESUP, Santiago de Chile

Thorn, Kristian; Lauritz Holm-Nielsen and Jette Samuel Jeppesen (2004). Approaches to Results-based Funding in
Tertiary Education ­ Identifying Finance Reform Options for Chile, Policy Research Working Paper Series, No.
3436, The World Bank

World Bank (1998). Higher Education Improvement Project, Project Appraisal Document, No. 17887, Washington
D.C.: The World Bank

World Bank (2003). Chile: Science for the Knowledge Economy Project, Project Appraisal Document, No. 25324,
Washington D.C.: The World Bank




                                                     - 35 -

- 36 -

