Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 17887
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$145.45 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FORA
HIGHER EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
October 19, 1998
Human and Social Development Group
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 5/19/98)
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (CLP)
452.55 CLP = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                 Aporte Fiscal Directo (Direct Financial Support)
AFI                 Aporte Fiscal Indirecto (Indirect Financial Support)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CFT                  Centro de Formaci6n Tecnica (Technical Training Center)
CONICYT              Comision Nacional de Investigacion Cientifica y Tecnol6gica (National
Commission for Scientific and Technological Research)
CORFO                Corporaci6n de Fomento (Economic Development Corporation)
CSE                  Consejo Superior de Educaci6n (Higher Council for Education)
DIVESUP              Division de Educaci6n Superior (Higher Education Division in the Ministry
of Education)
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FDI                 Fondo de Desarrollo Institutional (Institutional Development Fund)
FOMEC               Fondo para el Mejoramiento de la Calidad (Fund for Quality Improvement)
FONDECYT            Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Cientifico y Tecnol6gico (National Fund for
Scientific and Technological Development)
FONDEF              Fondo de Fomento al Desarrollo Cientifico y Tecnol6gico (Fund for the
Promotion of Scientific and Technological Development, for Industry-
University Collaborative Research)
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GNP                  Gross National Product
HE                   Higher Education
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank)
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IIU                  Institutional Implementation Unit
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MECE-SUP            Mejoramiento de la Calidady la Equidad en la Educaci6n Superior
(Quality and Equity Improvement in Higher Education)
MINEDUC (MOE)    Ministry of Education
MIS                  Management Information System
NPV                  Net Present Value
OECD                 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OM                   Operational Manual
PFU                  Publicly Funded University
PHRD                 Policy and Human Resources Development
PI                   Professional Institute
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
R&D                  Research and Development
Vice President              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director            Myrna Alexander
Sector Director             Xavier Coll
Task Manager               Lauritz Holm-Nielsen



Chile
Higher Education Improvement Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ............................ 2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ............................................. 2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................. 3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .......................... 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components .........................................................                                        8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..........                            .................... 9
3. Benefits and target population .........................................................                            9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................ 10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..................................... 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .......................................... 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................... 14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic .........................................................                                                  14
2. Financial .........................................................                                                  15
3. Technical ............................... 16
4. Institutional .....................                                                                                  16
5. Social .....................                                                                                         17
6. Environmental assessment .....................                                                                       18
7. Participatory approach .1.....................                                                                        8
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability .....................                                                                                 19
2. Critical risks .....................                                                                                20
3. Possible controversial aspects .....................                                                                 21



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation          ........................ 19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies         ........................ 20
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Economic Analysis
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Chile at a Glance
Annex 11.    Chile Higher Education
Map



Chile
Higher Education Improvement
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCSHD
Date: October 19, 1998                         Task Team Leader: Lauritz Holm-Nielsen
Country Director: Myma Alexander                Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Project I): 45881          Sector: Education    Program Objective Category: N/A
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:    JI Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data                 [X] Loan        [] Credit      [] Guarantee     [] Other
,SpecifyJ
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 145.45
Proposed terms:                           []  Multicurrency    [X] Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 3           [   Standard          []  Fixed           [X]  LIBOR
Variable                                   -based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front End fee: 1.00%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local            Foreign        Total
Government                                                  96.OOM          0.00M          96.OOM
IBRD                                                       78.30M           67.15M        145.45M
Total       174.30M         67.15M        241.45M
Borrower: Republic of Chile
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Education, Division of Higher Education (DIVESUP)
Estimated disbursements(Bank FY/US$M):     1999       2000       2001    2002     2003    2004
Annual 16.00      36.00      30.00    24.00    23.00   16.45
Cumulative 16.00     52.00      82.00   106.00   129.00  145.45
Project implementation period: January, 1999 to December, 2003 Expected effectiveness date: January 1, 1999
Expected closing date: June 30, 2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the project is to improve the performance of the Chilean higher education system in the
following dimensions:
*  Coherence and Efficiency: the project would enhance the legal and regulatory framework in order to
integrate higher education institutions at the three tiers (universities, professional institutes, and
technical training centers). It would develop one coherent and flexible set of rules to: (i) allocate an
increasing share of public funding on the basis of performance; (ii) facilitate the enrollment of
students with academic credits from lower-tier higher education institutions; (iii) require periodic
evaluation; and (iv) build strategic planning and management.
*  Quality and Relevance: the project would promote study programs and levels of higher education that
are responsive to social demand and labor market needs and, thus, would have direct impact on
Chilean socio-economic development. This would be achieved through the establishment of: (i) a
Competitive Fund to finance such programs and levels; and (ii) an integrated quality assurance and
evaluation system for all higher education institutions and study programs in order to provide
concrete guidance to students, employers, Government, and the higher education sector itself.
*  Equity:  the project would encourage participation of students from low-income families by
identifying inequities in the higher education system and developing policies and policy instruments
to overcome them. It would assess the pattern of participation by gender and by socio-economic
groups in higher education. More specifically the project would revise and enhance the student aid
system, and integrate regional development criteria in the selection of specific innovation activities to
be financed through a Competitive Fund.
Progress towards development objectives and outputs will be monitored and assessed based on key
performance indicators shown in Annex 1. The main performance indicators are:  (i) increased
percentage of graduates employed in their fields of study within six months of graduation; (ii)
improved positive views from employers on quality of graduates; (iii) increased enrollment in and
graduation from relevant technical, undergraduate and  graduate  programs; and   (iv) increased
proportion of low income students that enter and graduate from the higher education (HE) system.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex J):
CAS document number: 14370-CH    Date of latest CAS discussion: May 9, 1995
This project would contribute to the sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of "upgrading
Chile's human capital, with a view towards improving the country competitiveness in the international
arena" (para. 34). It is widely accepted that HE systems play a critical role in the enhancement of a
country's competitiveness, through the training of its workforce and the advancement of knowledge,
which in turn leads to new products and processes. Chile's HE system is not yet as developed as those of
industrialized economies, but compares well with that of, for example, Argentina, some of the East Asian
countries, and Hungary. Three key indicators lead to that conclusion: (i) qualification of teaching staff in
most OECD countries university professors are recruited from the Ph.D. level; Chile produces 1/20 (per
population unit) of the Ph.D.s produced on average by OECD countries, and less than 15% of faculty
have advanced degrees (Argentina: 15%); (ii) coverage: it is about 27% in Chile, compared to 35% in
Argentina, and 17% in Hungary, but significantly lower than in Korea (48%) and OECD countries, which



Page 3
are approaching higher education for all, with more than 50% higher education enrollmient on average,
and more than 80% of enrollment in the most advanced countries; and (iii) incomplete diversification: the
subsector has relatively low enrollment rates at the lowest tier (17%, two year vocational and technical
level), the graduate level, and in high cost / low private return fields such as basic sciences (2.5%).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Key Structural and Institutional Features of the Sector:
In 1981, the government launched a comprehensive series of structural andfinancial reforms. The higher
education system was diversified and stratified into three tiers: universities, professional institutes (PIs),
and technical training centers (CFTs). Fees were introduced in public institutions, and the number of fee-
charging private universities and colleges increased sharply. In addition, a loan scheme for students was
introduced in public institutions. The procedures for financing public universities were changed to
encourage income generation and cost-saving, and to award research funding on a competitive basis.
Finally, public university personnel changed from regular to special civil service status (estatuto
especial).
These reforms, aimed at deregulating the subsector, had a profound impact on its size, organization,
financing and management. They led to more than a doubling of student intake, increasing the gross
enrollment rate from 10.8% in 1980 to 27% in 1994; they also resulted in a proliferation of institutions,
from 8 universities to 257 institutions, including 68 universities, 70 PIs and 11 9 CFTs, many of which are
in the regions.
Nearly all of the expansion has been financed by private sources. Public expenditures on higher
education declined by 40% in real terms thoughper capita spending rose. By 1990, the state financed
27% of the costs, down from 100% (before the 1980's reform). Since the return of democracy in 1990,
however, the resources allocated to the sub-sector have increased by 50% in real terms, driving the share
of higher education in the education budget to about 12%. In 1997, funding, in pub]lic and private
institutions, came from student fees (33%), income from services (26%), and public subsidies (41%).
Public funding is allocated through four mechanisms: (a) direct public support, Aporte Fiscal Directo
(AFD) to the 25 "pre-reform" public and private universities (approximately 43% of public funding); (b)
indirect public support, Aporte Fiscal Indirecto (AFI) linked to a "best student formula" which allocates
resources based on the number of top scorers admitted in each institution the previous yearl (8.6% of
public support); (c) Institutional Development Fund, Fondo de Desarrollo Institucional (FDI), divided
into four competitive funds (8.9% of public funding), one for science and technology (with 3 windows
respectively for general, applied and priority research), a second one for institutional development, one
for teacher education, and a pilot program launched in 1998, called convenios dle desempenio
("performance contracts"); and (d) assistance to students (21.7% of public funding) in the form of
scholarships and a loan system based on an income contingent repayment scheme, which benefit about
54% of students.
Recent developments and present status: A new legal framework providing greater autonomy and more
participatory governance for the public universities is under congressional review. However, student
unrest spread to the entire sub-sector during May/June of 1997. Although grievances focused on
financing and governance issues, they revealed broader concerns having to do with the concept, identity
and mission of higher education in Chile, its role in national development and the role of the State in
'Students are classified in 5 categories, with a 12:1 subsidy range.



Page 4
supporting it. The Ministry of Education recognized that in recent years the basic and secondary
education reform had mobilized attention at the expense of the higher education sector, where a long term
vision had been missing. The government was both receptive and firm, agreeing to the most pressing
financial demands, including a revision of the policy covering contractual funding. At the same time, the
Ministry opened a process of broad dialogue which will address, as a matter of urgency, issues of equity,
management and participation, regulation, and financing, and, in a more strategic perspective, concerns of
quality in the context of global competition, regional development, and international cooperation.
Main Sector Issues:
Fragmentation: The system has the following characteristics: (i) inconsistencies between the current
regulatory framework and policy instruments; (ii) incomplete diversification, with low enrollment at the
technical level, and science and technology undergraduate and graduate programs, due to failure of the
market to engage private institutions in more expensive programs (which occurs in most countries);2 (iii)
segmentation, since student transfer between the different institutional tiers is extremely limited, which
hampers the aspirations of learners, adversely affecting equity; and (iv) insufficient linkages with the
public and private sectors, and regional development.
Governance: The Ministry of Education has limited possibilities of action to develop an efficient national
policy. This problem is due to two factors: (i) higher education institutions have real autonomy; and (ii)
the system is very fragmented and heterogeneous. The higher education institutions have highly uneven
capacity for self governance. Some have developed capacity for strategic planning and self evaluation,
and are moving towards establishing real internal and external accountability, while others are either too
autocratic and resistant to change, or are still struggling with fundamental issues. Over the last year, the
Higher Education Division (DIVESUP) has increased its capacity in terms of human and material
resources to effectively perform its role as coordinator and regulator of the system.
Efficiency: At the sub-sector level, the proliferation of small private institutions points to the need for
consolidation. At the institutional level, the existing one-year financial framework is inadequate, not only
as a time horizon for academic improvement, but also as a tool to raise efficiency. In 1992, it was found
that the average time for completion of a first degree had increased from 7 to 10 years in the 25
traditional universities, twice the stipulated length. There are also high dropout rates.
Financing: Most public financing is linked neither to performance nor to social promotion. There are
concerns about the adequacy of the different financing mechanisms: (i) institutional funds (AFD and
AFI); (ii) FDI; (iii) student support (scholarships and loans); and (iv) research and development (R&D)
funding. AFD accounts for about half of all government expenditures on higher education, and 95% of it
is distributed among 25 "traditional" universities on a historical basis. The remaining 5% is distributed
according to 5 performance indicators, but given its structure and size it has a very limited impact on the
system. The system of resource allocation bears little relationship with any obvious indicator of need.
Another point of concern is the level of autonomy of public and private universities among the traditional
universities. Given that both types of universities receive public resources they should have the same
level of autonomy and should operate on a level playing field. Additionally, the system of student aid is
complex. There are three main student loan and scholarship schemes and two new scholarship programs,
but there is limited coordination among them. Moreover, the amount allocated to student aid is relatively
small in the context of a system where fees are high. These programs offer resources to cover part or all
of the fees, but they do not provide resources for living expenses (though some institutions provide
scholarships that cover partial living expenses). Many private institutions (professional institutes and
2Basic sciences represent 12% of careers offered in traditional universities, while only 0.5% in the private sector. On the
other hand, social sciences represent 7% of courses offered by traditional universities, but 27% in the private sector.



Page 5
technical training centers) have little or no access to these resources and they are the ones that need it
most since the majority of their students come from lower income families.
Equity: In the late '80s, the top 20% income group obtained around 53% of public expenditures on the
sub-sector, while the bottom 20% only captured 6%. Although the gross enrollment rate for the 18 to 24
years-old group was 15.8% in 1990, only 8% of the population belonged to the lowest quintile while
54.2% belonged to the upper income quintile. Moreover, this gap has been widening in the past years; in
1992 the enrollment rates were 7.8% and 41.1% respectively. This situation is aggravated by the lack of
efficient mechanisms to support academically qualified but financially needy students. Also, the
diversification of higher education is incomplete, and there is no real choice for the students. The lack of
direct public funding for professional institutes and technical training centers seems to be perceived as if
the education that these institutions provide has lower priority. The market orientation of the system has
led to an emphasis on the most profitable levels and programs (for the institutions), a decline in quality
investment, and an uneven stratification, with weaker institutions offering lower quality services to poorer
students at an unsubsidized cost. Most regional institutions have not received enough resources to play a
role in promoting decentralized development. Although in the last decade the share regional universities
have received from different funds (FDI, student aid, FONDEF, and most recently performance
contracts) has been increasing, inequalities remain.
Quality: Quality is generally considered high in public higher education, and more heterogeneous in
private institutions. The level of knowledge acquired by graduates and their associated opportunities
differ widely according to the type of institution attended. The mechanisms for quality assurance have
been improving but are still not as strong as desired3. In particular: (i) the regulatory frarnework remains
fragmented and does not cover the entire subsector; (ii) the system does not use the full range of
managerial mechanisms available to guarantee quality; (iii) the expansion of the system has not been well
regulated, and the proliferation of institutions as well as programs has affected both quality and external
efficiency; (iv) the quality of teaching staff is a concern; and (v) the quality of research is at risk and
programs are barely sufficient to support the ambitions of Chile in the international scene.
Relevance: There has been strong growth in enrollment in Chilean universities since 1980. The growth
has been driven by student demand, and in some fields of study, by the new private universities' push to
raise funds through offering low cost, high volume courses in careers such as law, journalism and
business administration. For undergraduate study programs, the result to date is a pattern of enrollment
that is not well matched with the labor market. At the graduate level, there has been a proliferation of soft
study programs for the M.A. degree and slow or no growth in science and Ph.D. programs. Again, there
is a mismatch with the labor market in the distribution of enrollment between the various careers. While
enrollment in the private universities represents only 31% of total enrollments, the enrolliments in social
sciences and law (22,554 and 10,077 respectively) exceed those in the publicly funded universities,
(PFU) (20,235 and 7,699 respectively). In contrast, the private universities are very minor players in basic
sciences and mathematics (183 vs. 7,976 in PFU), technology (9,057 vs. 52,107 in PFU) and health (567
vs. 16,760 in PFU). Furthermore, there has been a decline in enrollment at the lower tiers (i.e., technical
training centers), from 83,000 in 1993 to 60,000 in 1997. This is the opposite of what would be expected
in an expansive higher education system reaching towards OECD country levels. This is strong evidence
that the present system is failing to respond to the needs of the country. More students would enroll at the
3In March 1990, the Higher Council for Education was created as a public, semi-autonomous organization, formally
chaired by the Minister of Education. This Council was charged with developing and establishing a new evaluation
system using the few guidelines that the 1990 law provided. The Ministry of Education is in charge of accreditation
of CFTs. This is a partial accreditation system since it only covers the new private institutions (i.e., universities,
professional institutes and CFTs).



Page 6
lower tiers if study programs provided value for the money they cost, e.g., relevance and direct access to
the labor market.
Government Strategy:
Policy objectives:
The Government presented a new bill on public universities to Congress in 1997 (see section D.4). In
July 1997, the Minister of Education formulated the Government's commitment towards HE, its policy
objectives, and next steps. DIVESUP prepared a document on a vision, policy criteria and objectives for
HE (see "Proyecto MECE - Educaci6n Superior: Visi6n global, principios y objetivos de politica, " in the
project files). This document states that quality, equity, and efficiency are priority objectives for HE
policies: (i) quality is defined as an excellence level that allows graduates at all levels of HE to compare
and compete in the international market. The current accreditation and evaluation system would be
enhanced and expanded to cover the whole sub-sector of higher education. An acceptable quality level
would be a pre-requisite for an institution to be granted government funds; (ii) equity measures are
intended to alleviate limited access due to socioeconomic or geographic reasons. The Government is
integrating regional development criteria in its funding mechanisms4, and expanding the student aid
system; (iii) regarding efficiency, where the aim is at equilibrating teaching, research, and extension
functions within institutions and to diversify and integrate HE tiers, fields of study, and careers. There is a
definite strategy to link funding to performance. The Government intends to use a contracting system for
the transfer of funds to the institutions. This system would apply to the matching grants awarded by the
Competitive Fund. Later, accountability criteria would be extended to AFD transfers.
Consensus building:
The Government intends to generate wide support from society via consultation with beneficiaries
(including students). The documentation for the proposed project, "Proyecto MECE-SUP 1998-2003 ",
has been shared with the following stakeholders: (i) MECE-SUP Advisory Group to the Minister of
Education and DIVESUP (see project oversight in section C.4, and Advisory Group's membership and
establishing memorandum in project files); (ii) associations of higher education institutions: Council of
Rectors (25 traditional universities), Consejo de la Educaci6n Superior Privada (new private
universities), and CONIFOS (professional institutes and technical training centers); (iii) Executive
Branch: Secretaria General de la Presidencia and Ministerio de Hacienda; (iv) Legislative Branch:
presidents of Senate and House of Representatives, committees on education; and (v) other governmental
agencies: Higher Council for Education and the National Commission for Scientific and Technological
Research (CONICYT). The next step is consultations specific to each of the components. Consultation
on the quality assurance component is currently underway.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The issues to be addressed are: (a) quality and relevance of graduates; (b) efficiency in institutional and
student support financial mechanisms; (c) equity in access and opportunities for further education; and
(d) the system fragmentation, including HE tiers and program differentiation, and linkages with regional
development mechanisms. The project supports the necessary capacity building to undergo and sustain
legal changes in governance structures.  The project would not address directly R&D funding
mechanisms. At present, R&D activities are funded by: (i) CONICYT through FONDECYT
(fundamental research fund) and FONDEF (fund for technology transfer projects and services to
industry); and (ii) CORFO, through FONTEC (fund for technological innovation and development in
4 In the current pilot phase of the Competitive Fund regional universities were awarded 70% of the funds.



Page 7
private firms). IDB supported these R&D activities until 1996, and the Government has continued R&D
financing. In addition, Fundaci6n Chile supports product innovation and commercialization.
Description of Sector Issues to be Addressed:
a. system fragmentation, including level and program  differentiation, and linkages with regional
development mechanisms: The present expectations and readiness for change among sub-sectoral
stakeholders offer a window of opportunity, which should be used to define an overall policy
framework that balances diverse interests while addressing as a priority the issue of incomplete
diversification. Sub-sectoral policies have been formulated in response to emerging situations and do
not add up to a coherent and comprehensive framework. There is a lack of clarity of the specific
mission of the institutions comprising each of the three tiers of higher education. Thle consequences
have been duplication and overlap of programs on one hand, and gaps on the other. For instance,
universities compete with CFTs in the offering of technical careers. Due to the lack of a clear policy
on research, backed up by appropriate funding policies, research is, de facto, cross-subsidized by
teaching. There is a need to clarify roles at the system level and within institutions in undergraduate
and graduate education, and research.
b. efficiency in institutional and student support financial mechanisms: As part of an effective sub-
sectoral framework and strategy formulation, each policy should be reviewed in light of the central
objectives for the subsector, and should be promoted by matching instruments. At the moment not all
policy instruments support the sub-sector's stated goals. For example the AFI is allocated in a ratio of
12 to 1 per student to institutions based on students' merits. The aim is to have an incentive for
institutions to recruit the best students, an objective they would pursue in any case. The AFI
resources could be used to promote equity by providing incentives for admission of talented students
from less favored (municipal) secondary schools. Other instances of disconnects include the different
levels of control applicable respectively to publicly-funded public and private universities, and the
lack of decentralized decision-making power to support regional development.
c. equity in access and opportunities forfurther education: The new policy framework should include a
strategy for student support addressing the issues of equitable access, participation, and career
progression. The students are the most important element in any educational system. Insofar as they,
especially the most advanced students, are the source of new blood and energy for the system, it
would be beneficial to channel their enthusiasm into constructive participation. Presently, Chile is
making efforts to strengthen the student support system. Access is not fully equitable in geographic
or socio-economic terms. The current student loan scheme is administered by the individual
institutions and would benefit from stronger national supervision. Students from the lower income
groups often attend the lower tier, CFTs, at relatively high costs, since these institutions do not
receive public funding. This situation is aggravated by the lack of opportunities for late re-entry and
career progression. It is necessary to articulate the various tiers of the system, to offer credit transfer
options, and eventually to set up remedial courses.
d. quality and skills relevance of graduates: National priorities should be carefully studied and placed in
the new policy framework. A refocused policy framework would for instance: (i) ensure that Chile's
human capital formation, accumulation and deployment compare with its competitors, including a
policy for graduate education; (ii) promote enrollment in the disciplines required for the development
of a technology-based economy; and (iii) clarify the basis for establishing research priorities and link
these with doctoral programs.



Page 8
Strategic Choices:
The main strategic choice for this project is about the role that the state should play to improve the HE
system. The alternatives are to expand state involvement in the provision of HE services directly or to
strengthen its role in policy making and system regulation. For instance, the Government could play a
major role in the provision of technical training, given the critical importance of this level of education in
economic development and the possible failure of the private sector to provide quality and relevant
education. On the other hand, the private sector could continue to provide the technical training, and the
Govermment could adjust the existing framework to allow the CFTs access to performance-based public
funding and their students access to student aid. The strategic choice, consistent with Chile's market-
based economy and limited role for the state, is to support a state with a more active role in policy-
making and regulation. Thus, the main role of the state would be to set a framework that levels the
playing field for HE institutions.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 1):
(Please note: all numbers have been rounded to the nearest decimalplace)
P l  lFrm eWok and   wte l POR                     nd             % of    Bank-        33o
1.Plcy FrameokadCpc                      oiyad4.8 i                 2.0      4.83.
Bui_ldin'f g                            Institution Buildin                 __=_ _
a) Enhancement of the Legal and                              0.9      0.4       0.9        0.6
Regulatory Framework
b) Policy and Institutional Capacity                         0.8      0.3       0.8        0.6
Building
c) Establishment of a Management                             1.6      0.7       1.6        1.1
Information System
d) Promotion of Technical Training                           1.5      0.6       1.5        1.0
2.QuaiA A ssurince.                        P fiid         - 5.3       2.2. 5.3            3.6
Wnttton Buildin
3. Finan1cin     .      ___                . ....iv. 227.4            9.       13.4       9.
a) Institutional Funding               _______ _                     _.
(i) Establish a policy for public funding,  Policy and    0.4      0.2       0.4        0.3
and (ii) Increase accountability and develop  Institution Building
a funding methodology
(iii) Competitive Fund to Promote      Physical and     226.8    93.9    130.8         89.9
Quality and Relevance5                 Institution Building
*  Technical training programs                               18.6     7.7      10.7        7.4
*  Undergraduate programs in science,                       168.5    69.8      96.5       66.3
technology, and other priorityfields
*  Domestic graduate programs                                38.0     15.7     21.8       15.0
*  Fund administration, monitoring and                       1.8      0.7       1.8        1.2
evaluation
b) Student Aid Studies                                       0.2      0.1       0.2        0.1
Projec VCoordina  Xtion   it                                 1.2                 0 1.2     0.8
Poect Prparation Faclt  P)03                                        01   --0.3           0.2
Pysical and Price ContigenisL                                         . .      .           .
'Eligible institutions would be grouped according their level and size to assure fair competition.



Page 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
The reforrns of the '80s have stimulated expansion and diversification of the subsector. However, these
reforms were introduced over a number of years, in response to market pressures, and do not form a
wholly coherent or comprehensive framework. Both the Chilean situation after 16 years of unregulated
development and, al contrario, the experience of more industrialized (OECD and East Asian) economies
point to the need for a well-defined role for the state in higher education. Therefore, the miain changes
supported by the project are related to the improvement, strengthening and perfection of the political,
legal, financial, and regulatory framework of the higher education system.
This framework would evolve in a way that promotes a substantial increase in the equity, quality, and
efficiency dimensions of the HE system. In order to establish legitimacy and ownership, MINEDUC has
established a consultation network, including a high level body (MECE-SUP Advisory Group) to help the
process of elaborating and deepening this new overall policy framework. As a consequence, this process
will involve wide stakeholder participation and would lead to the formal codification and
institutionalization of the reforms being tried out and implemented under the project. This particular
situation would reinforce the project viability and sustainability, as long as the reform has a broad
consensus base.
The new HE framework would have improved policy tools to reinforce the concept of increased equity,
quality, and efficiency. The new financial system for institutional support will be performance oriented
as opposed to the current "historic" or "traditional" orientation. A very important element in financing
institutions will be the implementation of contracts between the Government and the institutions. This
would also allow for extending public funding from the competitive funding mechanism to non-
traditional private universities, professional institutes, and technical training centers which are
autonomous and/or accredited under the new accreditation system. A more comprehensive quality
assurance system would help the cohesion of the HE system. Regarding student aid, it will seek to extend
coverage, target the poorest, and increase scholarship benefits to cover tuition costs and part of living
expenses. The ultimate goal of the project will be to integrate all the reforms in a coherent regulatory
framework for HE in Chile.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
In general, the expected benefits are increased coherence, efficiency, quality, relevance, and equity in the
Chilean higher education system. This would in turn bring about broad economic and social benefits.
More and better qualified graduates in general, and more graduates from relevant fields in particular,
would increase and improve the human resources pool, enhancing production, productivity and
competitiveness. The project would increase the number of students in pertinent fields ancl levels of study
and/or their economic value by increasing the quality and relevance of education. Better quality students
will be more valuable in the market and therefore earn higher wages. If institutions become more
efficient and create the right incentives, students will graduate earlier and thus enter the labor force at an
earlier age which will increase the present value of their stream of income (see E. 1 and Annex 4 for an
estimation of these benefits).
The project would also contribute to increased efficiency at the institutional level. The idea is to change
the incentives that institutions have at present. By tying core funding to certain output and performance
indicators, institutions would try to improve those indicators in order to obtain more public funding, thus



Page 10
becoming more efficient. The economic analysis for the project (see Annex 4) also estimates these
benefits.
In terms of institutional improvements, the project specifically targets the following institutions:
a. for coherence and efficiency related initiatives the project would aim to strengthen capacity both at
the system and institutional level: DIVESUP, Higher Council for Education, CONICYT and higher
education institutions; and
b. for quality and relevance related initiatives:
*  Traditional universities and new private universities that have or plan to have undergraduate
programs in priority fields, and / or graduate programs;
*  Professional institutes that have or plan to have professional programs in priority fields;
*  Technical training centers in fields of higher demand from the productive sectors.
Target students:
Most students in the system will benefit from the project since public funding would be directed towards
improvement of quality and responsiveness, and efficiency gains would be converted into fuller access
and opportunities in fields of high demand. In the medium to long term it is expected that students from
lower income families will have the most to gain from the project in terms of increased opportunity to
study at higher quality institutions and to receive increased financial support.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The project would be implemented over a period of five years.
Implementing agencies: Implementation of the project in general will be carried out at the system level.
Implementation of the Competitive Fund sub-component will be carried out both at the system level and
institutional level.
(i) At the system level, the project will be implemented using the existing structures of the Higher
Education Division (DIVESUP), the Higher Council for Education (CSE) and CONICYT. These
institutions will be strengthened (see section E.4) to cover new functions. The MECE-SUP project unit
was incorporated as a new temporary department within DIVESUP (see organizational chart in the PIP)
and will share personnel with the other departments. The Executive Secretariat for the Competitive Fund
will be a part of the MECE-SUP department. By the end of the project, the administration of the Fund
would become an integral part of a department in charge of promoting quality.
(ii) At the institutional level, institutions would use their planning or institutional development offices as
Institutional Implementation Units (IIU) to oversee the respective institution's project activities. In case
of absence of such an office, DIVESUP would provide technical assistance to the institution to establish
technical capacity and organize an IIU. The IIU will have an "upstream" and a "downstream" function:
the upstream tasks would consist of helping the institution prepare sub-project proposals for consideration
by the Competitive Fund; the downstream tasks would focus on implementation, i.e., if a sub-project is
approved, the beneficiary institution would be responsible for implementing it through its IIU, under
DIVESUP's supervision.



Page 11
The following chart depicts the implementing agencies per component:
1. Policy Framework and Capacity Building
a) Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework   DIVESUP, Higher Council for Education
b) Policy and Institutional Capacity Building
c) Establishment of a Management Information System  DIVESUP
d) Promotion of Technical Training
2. Quality Assurance                              DIVESUP, Higher Council for Education and
CONICYT
3. Financing
a) Institutional Funding
(i) Establish a public funding policy, and (ii) Increase    DIVESUP
accountability and develop a funding methodology
(iii) Competitive Fund to Promote Quality and  DIVESUP (Competitive Fund Administration),
Relevance                                         Institutional Implementation Units
b) Student Aid Studies                            DIVESUP                        _
Project coordination: MECE-SUP project's team has a full-time general coordinator that reports to
DIVESUP's Chief. The team is organized in sub-teams, one per component, and each of the sub-teams
has its own coordinator. The general coordinator and the component coordinators constitute the
Coordination Committee for MECE-SUP. This Coordination Committee also includes the Chief of
DIVESUP, the Executive Director of the Competitive Fund, and the Head of DIVESUP' s Department in
charge of technical training.6
Project oversight: This will be carried out by the MECE-SUP Advisory Group. This high level group
has already been established, and consists of 18 people with extensive experience. The council will
advise the Minister of Education, DIVESUP, and the project coordinator during both project preparation
and implementation. Advisors will participate in periodical meetings and technical workshops. The
Advisory Group will be assisted by a technical office at DIVESUP. An International Supervisory
Committee would be established to advise MINEDUC and to evaluate the progress of the project and the
Competitive Fund's activities.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing: A LAC Region Financial Management Specialist (FMS)
visited the Project Coordinating Unit to assess the financial management arrangements umder which the
Project would be implemented. The FMS has been providing guidance to Project Management on the
installation of an appropriate project physical and financial monitoring mechanism. A. feasible action
plan has been agreed with Project Management leading to having in place, prior to Loan effectiveness,
the necessary staff and a physical and financial monitoring mechanism acceptable to the Bank.
Completion of the action plan would warrant satisfactory project management from its inception, thus
satisfying O.D. 10.02 requirements. DIVESUP's Budget office would be responsible for project financial
management, accounting, reporting, and ensuring external auditing of all project related expenditures.
The Budget office would have input from the institutions, and it would report to the project coordinator.
Annual audit reports would be completed by Contraloria General de la Reputblica, and forwarded to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
6 Since all three components of MECE-SUP project include activities directly related to the technical training level, and
given that this level is one of the government priorities, the inclusion of DIVESUP's responsibility for technical
training in the Coordination Committee would help to avoid neglecting the importance of this educational level.



Page 12
Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation activities under the project would be undertaken
at three distinct levels:
(i) Project: to assess the performance of DIVESUP in implementing the project, and the Higher Council
for Education and CONICYT in implementing the quality assurance component; to evaluate the
effectiveness of each component of the project with respect to their individual objectives and to
monitor the progress in implementing the reform and its global impact on higher education quality,
equity, and efficiency. Progress reports will be completed biannually.
(ii) Competitive Fund: to monitor the institutional performance of this funding mechanism, verify its
compliance with established eligibility and selection criteria, and its transparency and overall
fairness; to evaluate the results achieved by the sub-projects financed and their impact on quality and
relevance improvements in beneficiary institutions.
(iii)Individual Subprojects funded by the Competitive Fund: to monitor and evaluate activities under
individual subprojects.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a. Investment in student loan scheme: it was decided to provide technical assistance to improve the
student loan programs, rather than to invest in them. The Government is committed to and capable of
financing such an investment by itself. The Government recently introduced a new loan scheme
known as CORFO loans, which are arranged through the commercial banking system and target
students from middle income families attending public or private institutions.  This scheme
complements the Ministry of Education loans (Fondos Solidarios de Credito Universitario),
administered by AFD-supported universities, and targeted to lower income students.
b. Direct input investment: (e.g., equipment, buildings, training) across the board: it was decided not
to provide inputs directly to all the institutions, because it would only improve their situation
temporarily, and would not sustain improved performance. Instead, a Competitive Fund to Promote
Quality and Relevance is proposed as a sustainable, output-oriented funding mechanism. InstitutiGns
will compete for investment funds on the basis of their own strategic planning and choices. They will
present their proposals and argue for investments in human and physical resources. Thus, input
investments would be aligned with govermnental policy and institutional strategic plans, while the
competitive process would select projects based on quality and relevance criteria.
c. Up-front legal framework reform: although the project aims to reform HE legislation, this cannot
be done in the short-term for political reasons. In particular, changes in the funding of the traditional
universities and some other programs would likely meet resistance from both political interests and
students. As a result, the Government has a pragmatic approach to this issue, working within the
present legal framework, and building the case for legislative action slowly and on the basis of results
rather than more radical immediate reforms. The Government intends to build consensus and make
adjustments to the legal framework when necessary over the course of the project.
d. Direct focus on regional and less developed higher education institutions: this alternative was
rejected because it does not lead to a complete diversification of HE levels and programs. However,
a performance-based resource allocation system would increase equity at the institutional level and
would respond positively to the governmental priority of regional development. The project will
indirectly focus on regional and less developed higher education institutions by integrating criteria in
the: (i) competitive fund to promote quality and relevance; and (ii) reform of policy instruments
through the improvement of the funding formula (AFD).



Page 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ..  ......  ....  .. .. .. ..S -'   y: ::t
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
To enhance efficiency, quality, and equity  Chile: Primary Education   HS                HS
in selected schools in rural and urban areas  Improvement (ongoing)
To improve efficiency, quality and equity   Chile: Secondary            S                 S
of secondary schools, and to strengthen  Education (ongoing)
managerial capacity
Other development agencies
To enhance R&D performance of          IDB: Research and
universities, research institutes, and private  Development (completed
sector                                 in 1996)                                    _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
The Bank has recent experiences from similar projects in Indonesia, Vietnam, Romania, Tunisia, Jordan,
and Argentina. These experiences suggest that an effective mechanism for creating an incentive to
improve quality in the HE sector is to establish competitive funds within a well designed policy
framework, supported by adequate sector management capacity and quality assurance systems. The
purpose of this new paradigm for higher education financing, such as the one initiated in Argentina as a
result of the 1995 higher education law, is to move away from traditionally negotiated budgets and to
establish transparent and performance-based resource allocation mechanisms for public funding, and to
stimulate diversification of income for higher education institutions.
Initial lessons from the ongoing Argentina Ihigher Education Reform Project (34091-AR):
Although only about mid-way through its implementation, the Argentina Higher Edlucation Project
provides some initial lessons. The main one is that change comes slowly in this sub-sector, the result of
long-standing autonomy of most institutions, particularly the publicly funded universities, and the
entrenched interests of maintaining the status quo. In terms of the relative change in funding patterns to
public universities, the new formula in Argentina thus far has only affected 17 percent of total public
funding. The other main lesson is that, while the Competitive Fund is a flexible and adaptable tool, it can
also be too diffused and fragmented across faculties and institutions and thus have difficulty achieving
institution- and sector-wide changes in performance.
The specific lessons from Argentina's experience include:
(i) there should be technical assistance to the universities to improve their strategic and budgetary
planning and management; (ii) there is need for an enhanced university management information
system; (iii) the formula funding mechanism should be based on differential unit costs per student,
according to disciplines; (iv) the selection criteria for the Competitive Fund should be tightly linked to



Page 14
the improvement of productivity or budget management; (v) annual targets should be set for the
implementation of the financing policy, rather than setting a global target; (vi) there is a need for salary
incentives for professors doing research; and (vii) there is a need for stronger articulation of individual
project components and sub-components.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
a) The Government made the modernization of education its first priority. It acknowledges the
importance of extending the reform to the higher education sector. A bill on the legal framework for
public universities was introduced in July, 1997.
b) The President of the Republic of Chile announced higher education as one of the main social priorities
of the country for the remainder of his presidential period (ending in year 2000).
c) Regarding equity, it was decided to substantially increase the number of scholarships and loans, so
that by 2000 all university students from low income families will have access to these benefits.
d) Under the Bank's Advisory Services Program, which is financed by the Ministry of Finance, the
Government specifically asked for Bank advice on reforming its higher education system in September
1997. The Government was receptive to the Bank's analysis and requested Bank assistance and financial
support for preparing the MECE-SUP project which emerged from that advice. Furthermore, DIVESUP
prepared the project preparation plan and developed the official background document for the project.
e) The MECE-SUP Advisory Group, an 18 member body, was established (April 1998) to advise the
Minister of Education on higher education policies and to oversee the HE reform project.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The initial impetus for the Bank's involvement in higher education came from the flexibility and
neutrality of the Bank's advisory services program with Chile. Under that program, Chile seeks and pays
for the advice of Bank staff and consultants in a variety of areas which typically involve policy choices.
In the case of higher education, the Bank's advice was sought because of its ability to bring global
experience (in this case, including that of OECD countries as well as other middle-income countries) and
its substantial involvement in the education sector in Chile through support for improvements in primary
and secondary education. Thus, in addition to international experience, the Bank is able to bring to the
higher education system many lessons and experience gained at the lower levels of the system and can
provide an integrated focus.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Economic evaluation methodology:
[x] Cost benefit    [] Cost effectiveness   []Other [specify]
NPV= US$ 494.5 million
Rationale for public sector intervention: Higher education has long been recognized as providing
significant positive externalities. While Chile does not desire a higher education system completely
dominated by the public sector, the public good aspects of the system can justify a major involvement by
the state. Moreover, if public sector spending on higher education is carefully targeted, it can have a
major long run impact on income distribution and therefore improve the current inequality gap.
Improvement in income distribution is likely to be one result of the reallocation of public sector spending
in this project. Furthermore, both market failures and externalities make public provision and financing
critically important.



Page 15
The project's justification is based on an analysis of the expected impact of the changes to the financing
of institutions under the project (see Annex 4). This analysis attempts to measure the impact of the project
on educational performance in Chile, and to estimate the economic value of that impact in terms of
changes to future student incomes. It also looks at the benefits from changes in student ccimpletion rates
and improvements in institutions' cost efficiency/productivity. A system as complicated as higher
education requires the participation of numerous actors, or stakeholders, for a successful project, and this
analysis makes assumptions about how those groups would respond. Overall the project promises a
strong return on investment, but additional modifications to the funding allocations towards institutions
which have the most to offer in terms of poorer students and market oriented educational fields have the
potential to make the project even more cost effective.
The main benefits are derived from changes in student incomes. It is estimated that the additional annual
income accruing to students would be about US$ 42-50 million.  If this annual flow of benefits is
discounted to the present using an interest rate of 12%, the net present value is aboutUS$ 344-424
million, depending on the extent to which the funding allocations are based on a nmix of student
enrollment and historical allocations, with the proviso that no institution receives less than before (see the
two scenarios set out in Annex 4). The higher the proportion of funding based on student enrollment, the
higher the returns.
This calculation both overstates and understates the benefits. The number of students graduating in any
particular year will only be a fraction of the total students receiving educational services that year. Thus,
the additional income from the project should be reduced to the number of students graduating. At the
same time, the project will continue to operate for five years, which would increase the value of the
project by almost five times. If students take an average of five years to graduate, these two factors
would tend to cancel each other.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
Financial summary: Table 1 of Annex 5 presents the total costs of the Higher Education Project during
the implementation period (1999-2003) and during the post-implementation period after the close of the
project (2004-2007). In this analysis, most project costs are considered recurrent costs; however, a great
share of those costs belongs to the Competitive Fund (94% of the project), which is a mechanism for
funding physical improvements, equipment, and institutional development, and thus should be considered
as investments. The responsibility for maintenance of these investments rests with the participating
institutions and, generally speaking, the impact of their maintenance ought to be manageable within
existing institutional budgets.
Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, and fees is estimated at US$241.45 million.
Base costs were estimated at US$ 239 million, with physical and price contingencies estimated at US$1
million for the non-competitive fund components, and a front end fee of US$1.45 million. The proposed
Bank loan would finance 60.2% of total project costs; the Government's share would be 39.8%. No other
donor is currently planning to co-finance the project.
Fiscal Impact: Incremental recurrent costs associated with the project are within the capacity of
Government's higher education budget. From Table 10 of Annex 4, it can be concluded that the project
will increase the higher education budget up to a maximum of 16% of current spending. Compared with
the "no-project" scenario (see Annex 4), higher education spending with the project in place is projected
to be US$37 million less (see Table 11 of Annex 4). A conservative growth projection is that the
incremental amount for the period under consideration would be US$277 million, with the project
accounting for US$240 million. The project will account for no more than 1.8% of the Ministry of
Education's total annual budget, and a maximum of 0.3% of public sector spending, figures which further
demonstrate that the Project can be implemented without imposing a financial burden.



Page 16
At the same time, project benefits which are to be realized through increased incomes for students should
translate, over time, into increased tax revenues for the Government. This fiscal impact has not been
estimated.
3. Technical
The project is technically justified on the basis of the importance and the public nature of the problem it
addresses. It draws on best practice from the Bank and higher education reforms from OECD countries
and countries of similar levels of development. Project components and instruments have been prepared
on the basis of international comparisons while taking into account country performance. During the
preparation process special attention has been given to designing elements of the components,
particularly on the Competitive Fund. The preparation of the project has included study tours, seminars in
Chile, consultation/collaboration with stakeholders and technical assistance. All the analyses have been
carried out with technical assistance of international and local specialists.
The Competitive Fund is being pilot tested through a new line in the Institutional Development Fund.
This new line, called convenios de desempeino ("performance contracts") will eventually evolve into the
Competitive Fund. The operational manual (OM) for the Competitive Fund is available. This OM has
incorporated experience gained in other Bank projects with competitive funds in Indonesia, Romania,
Brazil and Argentina and has taken advantage of the lessons learned from these projects.
4. Institutional
The Borrower has the capacity to carry out the project: the Ministry of Education has already gained
experience in managing large donor funded development project with the previous MECE projects (basic
and secondary education). The primary implementing agencies (DIVESUP, Higher Council for Education
and CONICYT) have the capacity to initiate project implementation. There have been significant
developments in the institutional strengthening of DIVESUP.  The first phase of DIVESUP's
reorganization plan has been completed, and includes the incorporation of the MECE-SUP project team.
Highly qualified professionals have been added to the project, increasing by 50% the professional staff,
and new office space was devoted to the project's activities. In addition, it is anticipated that the
organizational structure for DIVESUP will be further improved in the period 1999-2003. There have also
been advances in the consolidation of the information system, with improvement in the electronic
exchange of information between DIVESUP and HE institutions.
Quality of governance by DIVESUP and Higher Council for Education has been satisfactory, although
their regulatory and controlling roles have been limited to segments of the higher education system.
Their performance history is satisfactory. For instance, the Higher Council for Education has a good
track record as a semi-autonomous institution, with very objective decision-making processes (e.g., in
deciding whether or not to license new established institutions, or approve a new study program). This
valuable experience can be leveraged by expanding the Council's functions to all higher education
institutions. This seems to be the best option for a Quality Assurance entity, as opposed to creating a new
institution or a new department within DIVESUTP with these responsibilities. CONICYT has already
started an accreditation process for doctoral programs. DIVESUP will be in charge of policy and
capacity building activities. It is expected that in the future DIVESUP will have a more proactive role in
helping the development of the HE system, by setting policy orientations and providing technical
assistance to individual institutions.
The current management and human resource capacity of DIVESUP, the Higher Council for Education,
and CONICYT will be augmented by activities to be carried out under the sub-component "Policy and
Institutional Capacity Building", and by using consultants and committees which include external experts.



Page 17
For instance, expert committees will be used in the implementation of the Competitive Fund and the
National Accreditation system. The activities would consist of studies, technical assistance, training, and
upgrading of equipment in order to: (i) develop policy on critical issues; (ii) establish new working
procedures between the various types of higher education institutions and MINEDUC; (iii) build
capacity for strategic planning and management at MINEDUC and other governing bodies; (iv) design
and implement a new management information system and a labor market observatory; (v) design and
implement a marketing campaign to promote quality and technical education;  and (vi) build
decentralized capacity for strategic planning and management at higher education institutions.
5. Social
In order to strengthen the project, ensure participation and reduce risks, social assessment activities will
be carried out throughout the implementation of the project. An analysis of social issues has already been
conducted which identified certain key issues and areas where further work would be necessary. The
objectives of the social assessment are to: (i) identify and address conflicts and risks related to equity and
quality issues; (ii) define participation mechanisms related to policy framework and capacity building,
quality assurance and financing; and (iii) propose recommendations for the project's design and
implementation. One of the main social challenges is to build consensus among the complex
stakeholders involved. For instance, a main stakeholder group is the 371,000 students in the higher
education system. Within this group there are different sub-groups, including those attending the
traditional universities, those attending private universities and CFTs, those with student aid (45%) and
those without student aid, among other distinctions.
Main Social Issues
Equity: Though most opportunities are still concentrated in the richest quintiles, enrollment of poor
students has increased from 4.4% to 8.5% for the lowest income quintile, and from 7.8% to 15.1% in the
second lowest quintile (1992-1996). Thus, the situation is improving, and it is expectedl that by 2000
students in the first three quintiles will represent between 64% and 69% of enrollment. Regarding student
financing, although 45% of students receive aid, 55% of those receiving aid are in the upper income
brackets (third and fourth quintiles). Like enrollment, this situation is also improving, and it is
anticipated that by the year 2000, 69,000 students in the first three quintiles will be receiving assistance,
and by 2003, about 76,000 will be covered (compared to 58,000 in 1997). Targeting mechanisms would
be necessary in order to reach poor students in private universities, PIs, and CFTs where financial aid is
not readily accessible, and where there is a higher concentration of poor students. Another way of
increasing access to higher education is through the improvement of the secondary education program,
which may help increase scores on entrance exams; this issue is being addressed by the MECE-
Secundaria project. MECE-SUP's response to the equity issue would be to increase available assistance,
and to make such assistance more accessible. The project would also target certain groups of students
(i.e, the poor and those in non-traditional universities) in order to increase equity. Another important goal
is to make sure that students already in the system complete their education.
Quality: The main concern regarding quality assurance is that there is no single quality assurance system
currently being enforced. The project's response is a revision of the current quality
assurance/accreditation system and a Competitive Fund to increase incentives for quality. Broad
consensus among stakeholders on these issues is being built. However, private universities, professional
institutes and CFTs should have more participation. Students have raised certain concerns for quality,
including support for research, full time professors, and an honest and trustworthy evaluation system, but
these concerns have not yet been formally addressed in a participatory manner.



Page 1 8
Financing: The distribution of resources clearly favors the traditional universities in AFD and AFI
(86.9% of total AFI). In recent years, the share of regional universities in other funds (FDI, student aid,
FONDEF) has been increasing, although inequalities remain. Some alternatives which have been
discussed are to change the scope and composition of funding, freeze the AFI, and increase direct student
support. The Competitive Fund would also make resources available to more institutions in need of
funding.
Gender: Women and men are represented rather equally in the higher education system in general.
Women's enrollment has grown from 110,000 in 1991 to 171,000 in 1997 (46% of total enrollment).
There is less equality in the field of study chosen, where women continue to enroll in "soft fields" such as
social sciences and education. This, in turn, has an impact on careers and future salaries. Promotion
programs designed to attract students to "hard fields" (i.e., engineering) should address women's needs,
and a study on possible gender inequities is recommended.
Strategy
The strategy recommended for the social assessment includes further and more in-depth consultation with
the various stakeholders, as well as specific studies which would evaluate possible mechanisms for
participation. In parallel with the consultation process, a diffusion and communication system would be
developed in order to ensure that the relevant stakeholders are informed of the project and its goals and
components. Specifically, the additional analysis would include: (i) studies related to the student
financing system; (ii) a gender equity analysis; and (iii) targeting mechanisms to improve equity. During
the Project Launch mission, a workshop will be held to focus on the social assessment and participatory
approach mechanisms.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   []A   []B   [X] C
The project is expected to have a positive impact on environment, through its support of environmental
education (via sub-component "Competitive Fund to Promote Quality and Relevance").
7. Participatory Approach:
In the Chile Higher Education Project, participation of stakeholders is important not only in preparation,
but also throughout implementation. With this in mind, participation is not a process which will be
completed in a given timeframe, but rather, is an on-going process which will build upon responses and
outcomes which could prove to be unpredictable. A participatory approach is desired in order to build
broad consensus among the stakeholders, and to achieve the objectives of: (i) improving quality, equity
and efficiency; (ii) supporting a redefinition of the political, financial and regulatory framework; (iii)
building legitimacy of the higher education system; and (iv) supporting the regional higher education
system to promote decentralized development. Project preparation has involved initial consultation and
collaboration. More work is needed to ensure complete participation in all aspects of the project and will
continue during implementation.
These participatory activities have been instrumental in the design of the project, and each project
component is taking responsibility for ensuring the participation of the relevant stakeholders. One of the
main challenges faced in this approach includes the large number and diverse nature of the student
population (371,000 total) which may be identified by type of institution attended (which determines
whether or not the students may be unionized), by income level, by program of study, and by geographic
location, among other factors. It is important to note the necessity of reaching students attending non-
traditional universities and those attending PIs and CFTs, since thus far the project has primarily focused
on leaders of student unions, who attend the traditional universities. The project has had consultations
with the Rectors' Counsel which represents the authorities of these universities, but more attention is now



Page 19
needed for including the 119 CFTs and 43 private universities. Therefore, further consultation would
include: (i) regular (non-leaders) students in traditional universities; (ii) students in regional universities;
(iii) students in private universities, PIs, and CFTs; (iv) academic and administrative personnel; (v)
parents; (vi) relevant regional authorities; (vii) labor market leaders and specialists; and (viii) political
piarties. Consultations have been held to address the Quality Assurance System, involving institutional
management, professional associations, students, politicians and other groups. Consultations are
programmed for the: (i) financing component; and (ii) student aid studies. The Project Launch Workshop
will build on work already completed, and will suggest studies to be carried out and methods to be used
to ensure participation.
(i) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
*  Students                                                IS/CON
*  Higher Education Institutions                           IS/CON/COL
(ii) Other key stakeholders:
*  Authorities (MINEDUC, Ministry of Finance)              IS/CON/COL
e  Faculty and support staff                               CON
*  Parents                                                 CON
3  Intellectual and academic leaders                       CON
*  Policy-makers                                           CON
3  Employers                                               CON
(IS: information sharing; CON: consultation; COL: collaboration)
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
We have identified the following factors likely to be critical for the sustainability of project: benefits:
(i) Institutional Sustainability: A revised regulatory framework needs to be established with common
consent, preferably within the first years of implementation, to codify and institutionalize the changes
being introduced under the project. This would provide the sustainability from an institutional perspective
needed to preserve project benefits. * In addition, it is expected that, through the project's contribution to
individual institutions via the Competitive Fund, the overall institutional capacity of the system for
higher education will be raised. However, there is no guarantee for any particular institution and the goal
is sustainability for the subsector, not necessarily for individual institutions. At the same time, the project
would identify ways of enhancing both the strategic planning and the policy making capacities in the
Ministry of Education in order to build sustained institutional capacity for policy making and oversight.
Given the nature of the sector and the project's goals, there are risks in sustainability at all of these levels.
The project will affect entrenched interests and will have different impacts on different groups. However,
the general pattern of institutional and policy continuity in Chile bode well for the project's benefits to be
sustained over time.
(ii) Financial Sustainability: The project represents 16% of the state's total public expenditure on higher
education. If sustained, the Competitive Funding mechanism would require increasing budgets over time



Page 20
as the scope and reach of the program are to be expanded. The adequacy of the entire financial envelope
and of each funding instrument should be reviewed in light of the new policy framework the government
proposes to develop. To achieve legitimacy, the new funding system should be presented as an integrated
and balanced package, and should be based on transparent criteria. Nevertheless, Chile is a country with
a sustained record of growth and sound fiscal management. In articulating its goals for the education
sector, the Government has been clear as to the priority to be assigned to the sector. Thus, the prospects
for being able to maintain--if not increase--levels of funding for education in general, and higher
education in particular, are high.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Governing bodies are not capable of (or willing  M    Constitution of an oversight team that
to) implementing change                               would visit the institutions assessing the
change process and helping to remove
obstacles
Lack of transparency in allocating the         N      Clear rules have been developed and the
Competitive Funds to qualifying institutions          Bank will monitor the application of these
rules through regular detailed
supervision.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
The design of the regulatory and financial    M       Participation of intermediate
framework does not take the input of all              organizations and stakeholders to express
stakeholders into account                             their concerns
Resistance from traditional universities and some  H  Continued dialogue with traditional
political groups to changing the current way of       universities and political sectors, and their
distributing the Direct Fiscal Support.               involvement in the project development
process
There are not enough financially needy students  M    The Competitive Fund could support the
with acceptable academic qualifications that take     organization of leveling and remedial
advantage of financial support schemes                courses targeted to these students
A provision in the higher education budget is not  M  Slow the growth of AFD, phase AFI out
made to continue competitive funding after            and transfer funds to the new mechanism
project completion
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 21
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Student opposition               S         S      The government would guarantee student
participation in public institutions' governing
bodies, and invite student participation in
stakeholder workshops
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i) Competitive Fund Administration Unit established
(ii) Financial Management System satisfactory to the Bank implemented
(iii) Operational Manual for the Project, including manuals for the Competitive Fund and the Quality
Assurance System, approved by the Bank
(iv) At least three grant agreements executed with higher education institutions (a grant agreement model
will be included in the Competitive Fund Operational Manual)
1. Other Covenants:
(i) Maintain the Project Unit and Competitive Fund Unit
(ii) Follow annual audit reporting requirements
(iii) Follow operational manual requirements for the operation of the Competitive Fund and the Quality
Assurance System, and enter into satisfactory agreement with higher education institutions
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation: a draft was assessed during appraisal.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality: Draft PIP and OMs were assessed.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Lauritz Holm-Nielsenyvchi0q         avier Coll      /c//A3 %        Myrna Alexander i-lcglqe
Task Team Leader                'irector LCSHD                     Director LCC7C



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Chile Higher Education Project
Monitoring and    Ciltical Assumptions
Narrative Summary                  Key Performance Indicators            Supervision
Sector-related CAS Goal:            *  7.5 % increase in graduates employed in   *  tracer studies   (Goal to Bank
"objective of upgrading Chile's human  their fields of study within six months of   *  independent    Mission)
capital, with a view towards improving  graduation'                              client survey    *  income
the country's competitiveness in the                                             reports            redistribution
international arena"                                                             (annually)         mechanisms work
Project Development Objective:      *  Improved positive views from                             (Objective to Goal)
prospective employers on quality of   *  ICR             *  society demands
To improve the performance of the      graduates2                                                   high quality
Chilean higher education system in the   *  Improved enrollment and graduation in                   graduates from all
following dimensions:                  relevant technical, undergraduate and                        HE levels
Coherence and Efficiency,              graduate programs2
Quality and Relevance, and          *  % increase in proportion of low income
Equity                                 students that enter and graduate from the
HE system2
Outputs:                            *  revision of the regulatory fraework for   *  progress    (Outputs to Objective)
1. New policy framework                higher education by December, 2000        reports to     *  law amendments
established at national level, and  *  credit transfer mechanisms introduced by  MECE-SUP           and/or revision,
strategic planning implemented at      July, 2001                                Advisory           and decrees passed
sector and institutional levels     *  strategic plan for DIVESUP by December    Group             'by authorities
1998                                 *  mid-term        *  students take
*  institutional development plans           Review and         advantage of
developed by December, 1999              ICR                transfer
opportunities
*  governing bodies
are capable of (or
willing to)
iimplementing
change
*  governing bodies
iintegrate students,
academia, and
employers
2. Quality Assurance system         *  revised procedures for licensing of   *  progress        *  results of quality
established for all institutions and   universities and PIs at the CSE, and of   reports to         assessment
selected study programs                CFTs at the DIVESUP, by June 30, 1999     MECE-SUP           influence funding
*  national accreditation board constituted  Advisory       *  information on
and operative by the end of 1999         Group              quality programs,
*  50% of universities having complied with  *  mid-term        credit transfer, and
eligibility requirements for accreditation  Review and     flunding is available
*  40 programs evaluated in four areas of    ICR                for all
study
'Baseline to be determined by studies under the project
2 Baseline and target level to be determined by studies under the project



Annex I
3. Contractual and competitive      *  28% of funding under contracting        *  progress        *  competition open
financing system introduced for         system3                                   reports to          and fair and in
institutional support, and...       *   12% of funding under competitive          MECE-SUP            accordance with
matching grants mechanisms4               Advisory           transparent
Group              procedures,
... student aid revised to make it  *  recommendations to improve the student   *  mid-term          eligibility, and
more equitable                          aid system ready by December 31, 1999     Review and          selection criteria
ICR            *  unit costs
allocation per
student reflect real
costs
* social barriers for
access are removed
Project Components / Sub-components:  Inputs: (budget for each component)                         (Components to
1. Policy framework and capacity                                                                  Outputs)
building                            *  technical assistance                   *  progress         *  Government is
*  background studies and study-tours         reports to         committed to
a Enhancement of the legal and      *  office equipment, hardware, and software   MECE-SUP            support reforms
regulatoryframework                 *  training seminars in strategic             Advisory
(i) develop definitions for tiers' roles  management for system and institutional  Group          *  the process takes
(ii) establish mechanisms to facilitate  managers and administrators              (quarterly)         the input of all
student and graduate transfers  *  overseas training                       *  disbursement        stakeholders into
between tiers, institutions, and                                               reports            account
careers                                                                        (quarterly)
(iii) propose legal amendments                                                *  biannual         *  not a considerable
(US$ 4.8 million)                             supervision        resistance to
b. Policy and Institutional Capacity                                              missions            change from
Building                                                                                              traditional
(i) develop policy on non-university                                                                  universities, or
institutions, HE participation rates,                                                             political opposition
contribution to regional
development, equity, and
information management
(ii) develop new working procedures
between the various types of
higher education institutions and
DIVESUP
(iii) build capacity for strategic
planning and management at
DIVESUP and other governing
bodies
(iv) build capacity for strategic
planning and management at
higher education institutions
c. Establishment of a Management
Information System (including a labor
market observatory)
d Promotion of Technical Training
Baseline: 22% (1998) including CONICYT
Baseline: 3% (1998)



Antex I
2. Quality Assurance                  *  technical assistance                     *   progress        *   incentives are
(i) consolidate the national system for  *   background studies and study-tours       reports to          adequate for all
quality assurance                 a   office equipment, hardware, and software    MECE-SUP            stakeholders to
*   certification and                                                         Advisory            participate.
accreditation of          (US$ 5.3 million)                               Group
institutions                                                              (quarterly)
*   evaluation of selected                                                *   disbursement
programs                                                                  reports
(ii) establish a qualification framework                                              (quarterly)
for study programs                                                            *  periodic
(iii) design and implement a quality                                                  magazine to be
awareness campaign                                                                published by
the quality
assurance
entity
*  biannual
supervision
missions
3. Financing                                                                                          *   the process takes
a.  Institutional Funding             *  technical assistance                     *   progress            the input of all
(i) establish a coherent policy basis  *  background studies and study-tours          reports to          stakeholders into
for public funding                *   office equipment, hardware, and software    MECE-SUP            account
(ii) increase accountability and                                                      Advisory        *  enough qualified
develop a funding methodology     *   investment to finance competitive grants    Group               competitors
(iii) establish a Competitive Fund to    in accordance with transparent rules and     (quarterly)     *  publication of:
Promote Quality and Relevance         agreed eligibility and selection criteria  *   disbursement     procedures,
(yearly competitions for matching         *  first call for competition in frst   reports             eligibility and
grants)                                       half of 1999                        (quarterly)         selection criteria,
*   for technical training                                                *   institutional       and public
institutions in fields of  (US$ 227.4 million)                            (recipient)         information about
higher demand from the                                                    reports for         grants and M&E
productive sectors                                                        competitive         results
*   for undergraduate                                                         funds           *   enough funds for
programs in priority fields                                               (semiannual)        research, overseas
*   for graduate programs                                                 *   fund                fellowships, and
b.  Student Aid studies                                                               administration'     for post-docs
(i) define system's inequities and                                                    s evaluation of     provided through
develop a policy to overcome them                                                 institutional       CONICYT
(ii) revise the student support system                                                reports         *   enough financially
according to the developed policy                                                 (annual)            needy students
*  need-and-merit based                                                   *   international       with acceptable
scholarship scheme                                                        supervisory         academic
*   student loan programs                                                     committee           qualifications.
reports
(annual)
*   supervision
missions
(biannual)



Annex 2
Project Description
Chile Higher Education Project
Chile's Higher Education (HE) system is at a crossroads between an elite higher education system and a
completely diversified, mass higher education system. The proposed project aims at improving the
performance of the Chilean HE system, to help achieve Chile's objectives of "upgrading its human
capital" and "improving the country's competitiveness in the international arena" (CAS, paragraph 34).
The performance of the HE system is expected to improve along three system-wide dimensions that are
aligned with the major problem areas of the system, and with CAS objectives: (i) increased coherence
and efficiency; (ii) improved quality and relevance; and (iii) increased equity. These ambitious goals
demand a wide scope, comprehensive project, that targets the main actors of the HE system: HE
governing bodies, HE institutions at the three tiers (Universities, Professional Institutes, and Technical
Training Centers), and students attending or planning to attend these institutions.
The project will consist of capacity building, technical assistance, and investment funds. The technical
assistance will help to establish a state-of-the-art policy, legal, financial, and regulatory framework that
allows for an adequate development of the HE system along the three dimensions previously mentioned.
This framework should help define a more appropriate role for the state in HE, and encourage a change in
the culture of the system, from one based on "historical" criteria and incremental adjustments, to one
based on performance criteria. Real institutional autonomy would be paired with accountability, and the
state will essentially buy the services from the best and most cost-effective providers. The proposed
changes in the system's framework and culture will be promoted and reinforced by the establishment of a
competitive fund. This fund will award matching grants to institutions, focusing resources to enhance the
diversification of the system, and to enhance study programs of high demand and/or related to national
priorities.
The project will have the following three components: (i) Policy Framework and Capacity Building; (ii)
Quality Assurance; and (iii) Financing. The Bank will finance technical assistance and capacity
building activities for the design and implementation of all components. Each component will contribute
to one or more aspects of the development objective. Component one would lead to increased coherence
and efficiency. Component two would stimulate demand for quality education and guidethe consumers
of higher education. Component three would contribute to change the institutional culture and to improve
equity, quality, and relevance. Also, there will be strong relationships between components. For
instance, institutions will have financial incentives to participate in quality assurance processes, and the
results of these processes will influence the institutional ability to get further funding.
(For a more detailed description of the project and project components, see the Project Implementation
Plan, PIP, in the project files: "Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad y Equidad de la Educacion
Superior -MECE-SUP 1998-2003").



Page 2 of 8                         Annex 2
Project Component 1 - Policy Framework and Capacity Building - US$ 4.8 million (total cost of
component)
The technical assistance to be provided under this component aims at "leveling the playing field" in the
HE system, by enhancing the policy, legal, and regulatory framework, and building capacity to respond to
the changes that will be introduced. The framework would integrate and articulate all HE levels and
institutions, enabling the HE system to develop adequately, and to respond to policy objectives (see sub-
component a, Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework). Capacity building will be carried
out at governmental and institutional levels to strengthen the strategic planning and managerial capacities
(see sub-component b, Policy and Institutional Capacity Building). The type of activities to be carried
out includes in-depth analytical studies, policy development, and design and implementation of a
management information system (MIS). Some of the studies will form the foundation for the other
components, and the MIS will support all components.
The Division of Higher Education (DIVESUP) will be in charge of implementing this component. The
Higher Council for Education will assist DIVESUP in implementing task a.ii, and Institutional
Implementation Units (IIU) will jointly implement task b.iv with DIVESUP.
a. Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework
Tasks to be undertaken in this sub-component would include:
(i) Develop definitions of the appropriate roles of the tiers involved in higher education: universities,
professional institutes and technical training centers. The purpose will be to minimize unnecessary or
inefficient overlaps while recognizing that some overlap may be beneficial (e.g., for reasons of
competitiveness and efficient utilization of infrastructure and human resources). Furthermore, the
following will be needed for an adequate policy framework:
-  C larify the legal basis for the distinction between public and private institutions and also for the
distinctions between those institutions eligible for direct public funding and those not entitled to
such funding.
- Specify the (perhaps different) forms of governance for those institutions (in each tier) which are
in receipt of public funds to ensure that the supreme body of the institution is able to be held
accountable for its use of public funds.
*  Refine the sets of financial regulations under which publicly funded institutions will be required
to work, including an examination of the appropriate levels of control over expenditure of public
funds. This would also include defining the appropriate level of disclosure about the use of such
funds - and also of other funds - including arrangements for any external audit(s).
(ii) Within the framework defined by the above, establish policies and mechanisms to facilitate transfers
of students and graduates between institutions (both within a tier and between tiers) covering
curriculum, quality and pedagogical matters as well as funding, financial and management
arrangements needed to ensure that such mechanisms work effectively. Move towards a system that
recognizes the students' and graduates' learning achievements rather than a formalistic system that
places students and graduates in unrealistic categories.
(iii) Propose amendments to present and proposed laws to assure that all components are implemented
successfully and benefit all targeted institutions.



Annex 2                               Page 3 of 8
Tasks under (i) form the preliminary work required in order to ensure that the transfer mechanisms of
task (ii) have a coherent and consistent framework in which to operate. It would seem appropriate to view
tasks under (i) as the basis for a study (S. 1 a, see studies list at this annex's end) to be undertaken prior to
the work on task (ii) as a main component of the whole project. Of course such a study would cover
matters of wider significance than those of task (ii), but analysis to date suggests that such a study (S. 1 a)
would be of significant benefit to the higher education system as a whole. It would also form the
foundation for the other components of the project.
b. Policy and Institutional Capacity Building
This sub-component will include the following activities:
(i) Develop policy (and appropriate delivery mechanisms for them) in five specific areas which are
urgent: policies for non-university institutions; policies about target participation rates for higher
education (or at least about those rates which the government is prepared to fund); policies
concerning the direct contribution which higher education institutions should make to regional
economic development; policies on equity for student access to higher education in the light of
inequity that might arise from students' secondary school participation and achievements, and/or from
their geographical location5. The fifth policy topic is concerned with developing improved methods
for gathering and conveying information and signals about the future needs of the Chilean economy
(and society more widely) in ways that can help inform decisions both in DIVESUP and in the higher
education institutions.
(ii) Develop new working procedures and arrangements between the various types of higher education
institutions (as defined under component la) and DIVESUP. This would include redefining the
boundaries between the institutions and DIVESUP in policy terms and also the types, levels and
frequency of information exchanges - in both directions. In addition, this task should also establish
the roles, reporting lines and funding mechanisms for the other bodies (either government,
autonomous or semiautonomous) which could play a useful role in the further development of higher
education (e.g. the Rector's Council, any accreditation body arising from the work of component 2,
and various other government funding bodies). For government bodies, it will be important to
articulate their policies to ensure consistency (e.g. on research funding).
(iii)Build capacity for strategic planning and management at HE Division (DIVESUP) and other
governing bodies, such as the Higher Council for Education. DIVESUP and the Higher Council for
Education would be reorganized in order to meet new demands arising from the changes in the
system.  DIVESUP's capabilities for policy design, implementation and evaluation will be
strengthened. New functions will be established, such as Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E),
technical assistance for grant application, and procurement advisory services. DIVESUP will prepare
a sectoral strategic plan. More generally, this component will identify ways of enhancing both the
strategic planning and the policy making capacities in DIVESUP in terms of its decision making
processes, the analytical capacity and the information needed to inform decisions, the methods of
data collection, and the staffing and managerial implications for DIVESUP. This is likely to include a
review of at least part of DIVESUP and also a staff training and development program.
This iS separate from questions of student finance covered in sub-component 3b



Page 4 of 8                         Annex 2
In terms of volume of effort (and cost), much of the work in this component will be needed under
tasks (iii) and (iv). Task (ii) comprises work which is primarily concerned with management and
policy implementation issues; task (i) is concerned with the development of specific policies which
cannot wait until the new policy making capacity of DIVESUP is in place (task iii). This would
suggest the finalization of two studies prior to the implementation of the main component of the
work, one covering task (i) on management and implementation issues (S. 1 bi) and the second on the
five specific policy areas of task ii (S. lbii).
(iv) Build capacity for strategic planning and management at higher education institutions: this task
should enhance the planning (and budgeting) capacity in higher education institutions to enable them
to respond better to national needs and policies. This is likely to entail staff development.Institutions
would use their planning or institutional development offices as Institutional Implementation Units
(IIU) to oversee the respective institution's project activities. The IIU will have an "upstream" and a
"downstream" function: the upstream tasks would consist of helping the institutional community
(e.g., departments) to focus on innovation and quality enhancement, and prepare project proposals for
consideration by the Competitive Fund; the downstream tasks would focus on implementation, i.e., if
a project is awarded a grant, the beneficiary would then be responsible for implementing it through its
IIU under DIVESUP's supervision.
(v) Design and implement a management information system (MIS) that provides system-wide
information for stakeholder decision-making. The IS will provide information such as: (i) statistics
about HE institutions; (ii) quality of programs; (iii) statistics about graduates entering the job
market; (iv) job market demands; and (v) disclosure of financial information. A Labor Market
Observatory will be established in coordination with relevant ministries.
(vi) Design and implement a marketing campaign to promote technical education: including a journal,
"open houses" for secondary students and entrepreneurs, and news features on TV, the radio and the
press.  The main objective of this campaign is to improve the social status of technicians.
Consequences of a successful campaign would be greater demand of technical education by the
students (reflected in increased enrollments) and greater demand for technical graduates by
employers (reflected in increased hiring and economic contributions to technical training institutions).
Project component 2 - Quality Assurance - US$ 5.3 million (total cost of component)
The technical assistance to be provided under this component will help to establish minimum standards
and acceptable, recognized levels in educational services. A quality assurance system is needed in order
to protect the public, allowing stakeholders6 to access reliable information on HE institutions, relevance
of degrees, effectiveness and efficiency in resource use, and institutional management capabilities. The
issue is clearly linked to the roles of the tiers (component I a) and the operation of any quality assurance
system may be used to help inform the distribution of public funds - either for education or for research -
or both (component 3a). This will include the following activities:
(i) Consolidate the national system for quality assurance: This component consists in the consolidation
of a national system for quality assurance. A "National Board for Accreditation and Evaluation"
would be created. This Board will have two main tasks: (i) certification and accreditation of
6Families, employers, DIVESUP, Competitive Fund Administration.



Anne-x 2                                Page 5 of 8
institutions, and (ii) evaluation of study programs. In the long run, it is expected that the
accreditation system will be: (a) open to all HE institutions; (b) voluntary; (c) linked to economic
incentives; and (d) centered on learning outcomes from study programs or careers (skills), rather
than from institutions. It is essential that the accreditation board is 'independent' both of government,
and also of the institutions whose quality it guarantees. It will be important for the institutional
design (S.3) to ensure that both types of independence are assured. The Higher Council for
Education would be the implementing agency for this component, and the Higher Council itself may
develop into the "National Board for Accreditation and Evaluation."
(ii) Establish a qualification framework for study programs: Quality standards will be set for the ten
study areas defined by UNESCO, with specifics for technical, undergraduate, and graduate programs.
The establishment of such standards would facilitate the transfer of students between related careers
and study levels (sub-component 1 a.ii), by assuring that courses and degrees carry basically the same
weight at different institutions. Also, a mechanism for continuous quality improvement would be
provided through the periodic revision of standards.
(iii)Design and implement a quality awareness campaign: including a periodic magazine, visits to
institutions, and reports targeted to legislators, government authorities, and the media. The main
objective of this campaign is to make society aware that quality in HE matters, and guide prospective
students when selecting an institution.
Project component 3 - Financing - US$ 227.4 million (total cost of component)
This component consists of the revision of the HE financing system to ensure the articulation between
national policies and financial instruments. The objective is to implement a new system that is
performance based, and is aligned with the development objective that would lead Chilean higher
education toward increased coherence, efficiency, equity, and quality.
The Chilean HE system needs direct investments such as in educational equipment, information
resources, staff development, and faculty training. Until now, public funding has been mainly based on
historical criteria, without taking into account real teaching load (enrollment of full-time equivalent
students) or performance indicators, such as % graduating from a student cohort. From a long-term
perspective, it is essential to create a performance oriented culture within the system, with funding
increasingly tied to performance. Then, the main strategic choice for this component is the establishment
of a sustainable and output-oriented funding mechanism, versus a one-time input investment. The
Government will develop performance-based contracts with the individual institutions regarding the use
of public funding.
The major part of this component (task a.iii) would be implemented by the Competitive Fund
Administration and by Institutional Implementation Units at the project level. DIVESUP would
implement policy activities (tasks a.i, a.ii, and b).
a. Institutional Funding
To increase institutional accountability, and thus efficiency, funds would be transferred to institutions
within the framework of a contracting system. This means that future funding would be contingent on
performance and track record. This sub-component comprises the following activities: (i) Establish a
coherent policy basis for public funding; (ii)  Increase accountability and develop a funding
methodology; and (iii) a Competitive Fund to Promote Quality and Responsiveness.



Page 6 of 8                          Annex 2
(i) Establish a coherent policy basis as the foundation for a funding methodology. There are several
fundamental policy questions to be analyzed before any funding methodology can be designed;
examples of such policy questions are:
*  the basis for determining which institutions should be eligible to receive direct public funding
and on what conditions (see component la);
*  whether or not the funding of education activities should be separate from direct public
funding for research;
*  the balance of public funding to be channeled directly to institutions compared with that to be
channeled through individuals (e.g. students for education funding, researchers for research
funding);
*  the extent to which direct funding should be made by reference to input or to outputs (or to
the processes in between);
*  whether the underlying calculations of funding levels should start from estimates of costs or
from considerations of price;
*  which policy topics might the funding methodology be used to help implement (e.g.
improved quality of education; regional equity; efficiency gains; expansion of the system).
Regarding the public funding of research, the first question is whether some research funding should
be included as part of the block grants for the funding of education or whether research funding
should all be project based. A second question concerns the balance of research funds to be provided
to individual researchers compared with those to be provided to the institution - and how the costs of
the institution (direct and indirect) are to be funded. A third question concerns the funding of post-
graduate programs and grants, and whether this should be considered an education or a research
activity (or, more likely, both). The analysis will also need to refine the roles of the various (public)
bodies involved in research funding.
(ii) Increase accountability and develop afunding methodology:
Develop a funding methodology for education starting from the policy basis determined under task i.
Any funding methodology will need to recognize that there are major differences in the costs of
provision (between subjects, between levels and at least historically, between institutions). For
example, the University of Chile has the responsibility for the National Seismology Center (Chile has
two to three thousand tectonic movements per year), but the financing of such a center should not be
based on the education performance of the department of Geology of the University of Chile. An
analysis of factual costs will help design a methodology - but a cost analysis is different from a
funding methodology.
Other existing mechanisms, such as AFI ("Aporte Fiscal Indirecto") and FDI ("Fondo de Desarrollo
Institucional)" will be redesigned with the objective of having a coherent set of financing tools
aligned with the policy objectives.



Annex 2                                 Page 7 of 8
This sub-component will be carried out in three phases: (i) studies on new criteria for public funding
allocation, consensus building activities, contribution to the MIS system (e.g., determination of unit
costs); (ii) universities will be required to be accountable for the expenses covered with AFD funds;
and (iii) change in AFD allocation criteria (e.g., a performance-based funding formula would be
designed).
Develop the approach to achieving accountability for the use of public funds: there are various
definitions of the concept of accountability ranging from simply identifying how the public funds
were spent, to the more complex question of establishing what was achieved with the public funds.
The approaches to accountability are likely to be different for education funding compared with
research funding. A full approach to achieving accountability for public funds will require a clear
definition of what services the state intended to purchase; this would implicitly imply a contract
between government and providers. Other aspects of accountability include the need for financial
monitoring of publicly funded institutions and the need for clear guidance on legitimate use of public
funds - and in particular the legitimacy of any cross-subsidy from public funds used to support
private activities. The costs of any monitoring will be a factor in the design of the process.
This component is intensively analytical. It will require both considerable thought and experience; it
would be far too simplistic to rush into developing a funding methodology before the policies on the
philosophical underpinning have been examined. With no other constraints, the logical order for the
analysis would be as set out above; under Chile's current circumstances, it may be appropriate to
examine first the concept of accountability - given the greater level of acceptability that this concept
now has. This whole component is primarily one study (S.3a). In addition to the study, the other
activities within this component would be the subsequent reorganization of the relevant bodies and
the building of numerical model(s) as needed to operate the agreed system. Along with such a
comprehensive study, an ongoing participatory process follows that would involve all stakeholders
(see Stakeholder Analysis in the Project File).
(iii)Establish a Competitive Fund to Promote Quality and Relevance (see Operational Manual)
Through yearly competitions, the Fund will co-finance institutional development projects that would
enhance the quality and relevance of study programs in priority areas. This sub-component would
promote a results-driven resource allocation, that would support sectoral priorities. The Competitive
Fund would replace and perfect the current Institutional Development Fund (FDI), since the
Competitive Fund will: (i) allocate funds in priority program areas; (ii) increase cost-effectiveness,
through the improvement of the selection process (including external review) and selection of best
projects; and (iii) monitor and evaluate projects upon completion. Eligibility criteria will be clearly
defined and fair competition would be assured through a tiered competition with attention to priority
fields, innovation, and quality enhancement. Institutions will decide investments to make in
equipment, information resources, and /or staff development and faculty training, and develop
proposals in accordance with their strategic plans. Proposals would be evaluated by peers, and the
Fund would select the best proposals for funding. The establishment of this Fund would require
capacity building at the government and institutional level (lb.iii and iv). Also, coordination with the
Quality Assurance System would be required, since eligibility should be contingent on satisfactory
performance and compliance with established standards and quality criteria.
The fund would provide matching grants through four funding lines:
* Grants for technical training institutions in fields of higher demand from the productive sectors.
Targeted institutions are Technical Training Centers, Professional Institutes, and Universities
(S.3bi). This raises questions about the roles of the tiers considered under component Ia.



Page 8 of 8                           Annex 2
*  Grants for undergraduate programs in fields of national priority, such as basic sciences, health,
technology, agronomy, and education (S.3bii).
* Grants to enhance graduate programs, with emphasis on doctoral programs in general, and
master and doctoral programs oriented to the productive sectors and to the improvement of HE
teaching.
b StudentAid
The student loan and scholarships schemes will be assessed and revised to increase equity in access and
opportunities for further education. Non-financial barriers to access, such as insufficient information on
loan and fellowships, will be identified and removed. The new policy framework should include a
strategy for student support addressing the issues of equitable access, participation, and career
progression. Access is not fully equitable in geographic or socio-economic terms. It is necessary to
articulate the various tiers of the system, to offer credit transfer options, and to set up remedial courses
(link with component 1).
Tasks to be undertaken would include:
(i) Define the various causes for the existing inequalities; these include for example: income status of the
student (or her/his family), differential quality of secondary school attended, geographical location of
the student, differential opportunity costs and direct costs facing students (e.g., from differing
institutions' fee rates). For each concern, develop a policy on the basis of the extent to which the
Government wishes to concern itself
(ii) Revise the various policy instruments that target students' needs in light of the stated national policy.
This would include considering the relative roles of grants and loans systems together with possible
repayment mechanisms. The issue is interlinked with the question of balance between student and
institution based funding mechanisms (component 3a).
As with component 3a, this is an intensely analytical component consisting primarily of a study (S.3c). In
addition to the studies, expenditure under this component is likely to be needed to cover the setting up,
staffing and equipping of the body(ies) agreed to administer the resulting scheme(s).
Summary of proposed studies
S.1:  (a)  enhancement of legal and regulatory framework; (bi) policy and institutional capacity
building; and (bii) development of five specific policy areas.
S.2:  quality assurance system.
S.3:   (a) core institution funding; (bi) assistance to technical training; (bii) grants for innovation and
quality improvements; and (c) student aid.



Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Chile Higher Education Project
(Please note thatfigures have been rounded to the nearest decimalpoint)
Project Component                                          Local           Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
1. Policy Framework and Capacity Building                      4.3             0.5           4.8
a) Enhancement of the legal and regulatoryframework             0.9            0.0           0.9
b) Policy and institutional capacity building                  0.8             0.0           0.8
c) Establishment of a Management Information System             1.2             0.4          1.6
d) Promotion of Technical Training                              1.3            0.2           1.5
2. Quality Assurance                                            5.3            0.0           5.3
3. Financing                                                  162.4           65.0         227.4
a) Institutional Funding                                      162.3           65.0         227.2
(i, ii) Establish a policy, increase accountability and develop a  0.4         0.0           0.4
fimding methodology
(iii) Competitive Fund to Promote Quality and Relevance7      161.9           65.0         226.8
*  Fund administration, monitoring and evaluation               1.8             0.0          1.8
*  Technical training programs                                 15.0             3.6         18.6
*  Undergraduate programs in science, technology, and         133.1           35.4         168.5
other priority fields for regional development
*  Domestic graduate programs                                  12.0           26.0          38.0
b) StudentAid                                                   0.2             0.0          0.2
Project Coordination Unit                                       1.1             0.1          1.2
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                              0.2             0.1          0.3
Total Baseline Cost                                           173.3           65.7         239.0
Physical Contingencies                                       0.1             0.0           0.1
Price Contingencies                                          0.9             0.0           1.0
Front End Fee                                                                  1.5           1.5
Total Project Cost                                           174.3            67.2         241.5
7Eligible institutions would be grouped according their level and size to assure fair competition.



Annex 4
Economic Analysis
Chile Higher Education Project
Introduction
During the 1990s the Chilean economy has grown by more than 6% per annum on average. Allowing for
the growth of population and labor force, this represents a growth rate of about 5% per capita. Maintaining
a high growth rate into the future means that obstacles to growth of productive capacity need to be
removed. One such obstacle is likely to be shortages of suitably skilled manpower, and the project can be
seen as significant in maintaining Chile's growth potential. Human capital development is a necessary but
not sufficient condition for growth, and investment in human resources will have diminished long-run
effects if other aspects of economic policy are badly managed. Precisely because these other aspects of
economic policy are well managed in Chile it is important that the lack of skills does not emerge as an
unnecessary constraint on continued high growth rates.
Another very broad concern is for income distribution. During the past two decades there has been a
pronounced tendency for earnings differentials to widen in many countries, and in some cases for the
absolute level of unskilled wage rates to fall. The generally accepted reasons are technology and trade (or
globalization). Technology is the more powerful factor: it has enabled capital to be substituted for unskilled
labor, which reduces unskilled labor demand and wage rates. By contrast, technological change has
increased the demand for and the rewards to many kinds of skilled labor. In addition, trade liberalization
has opened up opportunities for low-income countries to compete with higher income countries, especially
in goods and services which are intensive in low-skilled labor as input. This trade effect has its main
impact in high-income OECD countries, and in some cases Chile may benefit from trade liberalization with
richer countries. But it can also face similar competitive forces from lower income countries, whether in
domestic or in export markets. One way of countering these two factors making for greater inequality of
earnings is through human capital development which shifts the structure of labor supply in the same
direction as changes in labor demand.
For these two reasons, maintaining the growth potential of the economy, and countering possible
tendencies for income inequalities to widen, there are broad macroeconomic and distributional aspects to
the project. In addition, one may estimate the long run costs and benefits in a more specific and
microeconomic context.
The present economic analysis attempts to measure the impact of the project on educational performance in
Chile, and to estimate the economic value of that impact in terms of changes to future student incomes. It
also looks at the benefits from changes in student completion rates and improvements in institutions' cost
efficiency/productivity). In specific it aims at estimating the impact of one of its Project's Component,
namely, the Contractual and Financing system. This project component, along with its Competitive Fund
sub-component, account for about 95% of the total funds for the project). Overall the project promises a
strong return on investment, but additional modifications to the funding allocations towards institutions
which have the most to offer in terms of poorer students and market oriented educational fields have the
potential to make the project even more cost effective.
Background
The higher education system in Chile developed around a core group of institutions. Prior to 1980, the
system consisted of a one-tier system, with 8 universities (2 state and 6 private), all funded by the
government. In 1980 a series of reforms were introduced with the idea of: a) introducing market forces to
open the traditional system to unregulated market private provision of higher education, b) creating
different types of institutions within the system, and c) stimulating institutions to diversify their funding



Annex 4                                         Page 2 of 16
sources, including increased fees to students (cost-recovery). To accomplish this, a three-tier system
(Universities, Professional Institutes and Technical Training Centers) was introduced. The Universities
8
were forced to diversify their sources of income and to rely more on tuition fees .
These policies have had a significant impact. The changes may be summarized as follows: (1) considerable
increase in the number and differentiation of higher education institutions; (2) rapid increase in enrollment
provided almost completely by the new private institutions, with almost no cost to the state; (3) growth in
the number of professional careers and academic degree programs (from a few hundred in 1980 to more
that 3,500 in 1994); (4) move from grant block allocation of state funding to yearly budget allocations, but
complemented with funds coming from diverse sources, both public and private.
Table 1. Higher Education System in principle before and after the reforms
Before 1980                                     After 1980
1. One tier, one sector, low institutional      1. Three tiers, two sectors: high institutional
differentiation                                 differentiation
2. No tuition. Selective access according to    2. Tuition fees introduced by all institutions.
performance                                     Selective access maintained in the traditional
universities that receive public funding. In the
private institutions, open access to those who can
and/or will pay.
3. State financing of HE on the basis of incremental  3. Multiple competitive sources of funding
funding
4. System coordination provided by State authority   4. System coordination provided by markets and
and institutional oligarchies.                  policy regulations.
Chile's higher education system is not yet as developed as that of industrialized economies, but compares
well with countries of similar economic development, such as Argentina, some of the East Asian countries,
and Hungary. Three key indicators lead to that conclusion: (i) qualification of teaching staff in most
OECD countries university professors are recruited from the Ph.D. level; Chile produces 1/20 (per
population unit) of the Ph.D.s produced on average by OECD countries, and less than 15 % of faculty have
advanced degrees (Argentina: 15%); (ii) coverage: it is about 27% in Chile, compared to 35% in
Argentina, and 17% in Hungary, but significantly lower than in Korea (48%)9, and (iii) incomplete
diversification: the subsector has relatively very low enrollment rates at the lowest tier (17%), two year
vocational and technical level), the highest tier and in high cost / low private return fields such as basic
sciences (2.5%).
Rationale for World Bank and Public Sector Intervention
This project will contribute to the Bank's sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal (CAS) of
"upgrading Chile's human capital, with a view towards improving the country competitiveness in the
international arena" (para. 34). Higher Education systems play a critical role in the enhancement of a
country's competitiveness, through the training of its workforce and the advancement of knowledge, which
in turn leads to new products and processes.
8   A student-income contingent loan was introduced to compensate the effect of the introduction of fees.
However, only students enrolled in public, state supported universities were granted access to this
loans.
9   See annex 11 of the PAD for a comparison with OECD countries.



Page 3 of 16                                Annex 4
Higher Education has long been recognized as providing significant positive externalities to a country's
economy. While Chile cannot support a completely public sector HE system, the public good aspects of
the system would imply a major involvement by the public sector. Moreover, if the public sector spending
on higher education is carefully targeted, it can have a major long run impact on income distribution in
Chile. This improvement in income distribution is likely to be one result of the reallocation of public
sector spending in this project.
The Chilean Higher Education System
The higher education system in Chile consists of three tiers of institutions, which were created in the early
1980s. Most students attend the public and private universities in the system, and most public sector
funding goes to this level (see Table 2). Professional institutes and Technical Training Centers provide non
university education in professions and as technicians, but receive almost no public funds.
Higher Education institutions are authorized to provide the following titles:
- Universities: professional titles (5 years undergraduate programs, masters and Ph.Ds.) and any other type
of programs that requires an undergraduate as previous education. Currently, they also confer titles of
higher level technicians.
- Professional Institutes (IP's): professional degrees (that do not require undergraduate as previous
education) and careers of high level technicians.
- Technical Training Centers (CFT's): titles of high level technicians.
Public Funded Universities (Universidades del Consejo de Rectores)
There are 25 Universities which receive direct public funding since the 1980 reforms'". They include 8 that
are public (i.e., under some form of Government control), with the rest private (with autonomous status).
No more than 5 or 6 can be considered "complex" universities, capable of producing high level research.
As Table 2 shows, traditional universities represent 9.5% of all higher education institutions of the country,
with 46.7% of the total enrollment of the country in 1996.
This group of universities has access to a direct, annual grant, which is allocated on the basis of a lump sum
to each individual establishment". Both public and private institutions compete for the best student-linked
subsidies (Aporte Fiscal Indirecto), but this represents a small fraction of their income (about 6%). They
are favored as well by state financed student loans and scholarships. This group of institutions has
considerable influence in the Chilean higher education system, and is able to defend its allocation of public
resources. Through their powerful network of alumni, they have direct access to the Executive level and
these students are well organized and articulate.
New Private Universities
Following the deregulation of the system in 1981, another group of 42 new private sector universities has
developed. This group constitutes 16% of all HE institutes. In terns of financing, these universities
10   We will call these 25 Universities "traditional universities".
The percentage given to each establishment is determined by historical precedents.



Annex 4                                      Page 4 of 16
receive a small amount (about 6%) of government resources through the "Aporte Fiscal Indirecto" (AFI)'2.
In 1996, 5 of these 42 universities were autonomous, 29 were in the process of accreditation supervised by
Consejo Superior de Educacion (CSE), and 8 are being examined by the process in operation before the
Law of 199013. The higher quality private Universities may be able to attract high score students who bring
with them AFI, but this is a limited phenomenon (less than 1%). Most of these schools operate on the basis
of private funds, and are too small to be able to offer quality education.
The better among them want fair competition -- a "level-playing field"-- with the traditional private
Universities which receive public subsidy AFD and most of AFI. Those undergoing accreditation find the
process too bureaucratic. Those institutions doing well want the system to continue operating as a free
market. This group has strong ties with the political right wing opposition, which will have the power to
block radical proposals.
Professional Institutes (IPs) & Technical Training Centers (CFTs)
The IPs deliver "Professional Degrees" and the CFTs, "Higher Level Technician" degrees. All of them are
private. In 1996, there were 69 IPs (26,3% of all HE institutions and 14.6% of total enrollment), out of
which 5 were autonomous, 26 were under the process of accreditation and 38 under the process of
examination (the one contemplated in the Law prior to 1990). Additionally, there were 126 CFT (48,1% of
all HE institutions and 17.2 of total enrollment), none of which were autonomous, 17 under the process of
accreditation and 109 under supervision.
In terms of financing, public funding is limited to the AFI as well as in the case of the "new" private
universities"4. Additionally, CFTs have no access to public resources for student aid, despite the fact that
there are over 70.000 students enrolled in this level. The technical training at the CFT level has not been a
priority for the system, and they receive less than 1% of public funds. An emerging, competitive economy,
however, will generate increasing demands for higher level technicians with a technological focus.
Technical schools provide a good response capability, and strong ties to the modem labor market.
12  This is the indirect public support linked to a "best student formula" which allocates resources based
on the number of top scores admitted in each institution the previous year. Students are classified in 5
categories, with a 12:1 subsidy rate. It represents 12% of all the public support
13   This process consists of the following steps: the new private institution must sign an examination
agreement with either one of the traditional universities or one of the new state institutions. This
agreement takes the form of a private, fee for service, contract without any intervention by any
neither public body nor further government control. The new private institutions must submit their
teaching programs for approval by the examining institution.
14  In the case of the CFTs, access to AFI is basically theoretical, since this is base on the "best-student
formula", and these institutions simply do not capture the best students of the system.



Page 5 of 16                                    Annex 4
Table 2. Higher Education Institutions in Chile (type, number, enrollment and type of public funding they
receive)
Type and share o r
Type of institutions   Number of Institutions    Undergraduate enrollment  Public funding
1980         1996          1980         1996           1997
Traditional Universities   8            25         118,978       167,282    AFD, AFI, Loans
(9.5%)                    (46.7%)     Scholarships
(96.5%)
Private Universities     0            42            0           77,212         AFI
(16%)                     (21,6%)        (1.4%)
Professional Institutes (IPs)  0          69            0          52170           AFI
(26.3%)                    (14.6%)       (0.09%/0)
Technical Centers (CFTs)    0           126            0          61,418          AFI
I                     1__ ____ ____ ____   ________(48.1 %)       (17.2%)        (0.03 %)
Total               8           262         118,978      358,082         100%
1_.                                 i  (100%)                     0 (100%)    ___ _
Current Financing of the Higher Education System
A coherent financing policy framework is important for higher education in order to provide legitimacy for
separate policy decisions and particularly for the use and allocation of public funds. In Chile, a collection
of separate policies was added over time, each of which made good sense at the time, but resulted in a
patchwork, which does not hang together well. The result is a system of disconnected allocation
mechanisms which challenge system legitimacy. Additionally, it results in public funds being used in ways
that achieve little in terms of public policy intentions.
Funding mechanisms:
The current financing mechanisms are not significantly linked to any performance indicators. It is divided
into the following components: Direct block grant allocation (Aporte Fiscal Directo, AFD), Indirect Grant
Allocations (Aporte Fiscal Indirecto, AFI) and Funds for Institutional Development (Fondo de Desarrollo
Institucional, FDI) and Student Aid (loans and Scholarships).
(a) Direct grant allocation (AFD): it represents about 50% of all fiscal allocation and it is
distributed only to the 25 "traditional" Universities described in the preceding section. 95% of such funds
are distributed according to historical criteria, without any clear incentive to improve performance or
15
efficiency. The other 5%  are allocated according to 5 indicators of performance  . In 1998, the MOE
modified the weight given to these five indicators to better reflect elements of quality, efficiency and
scientific and academic production.
(b) Indirect Grant Allocation (AFI): it represents 8.5% of higher education expenditures. It is
distributed to those universities that attract students with the highest scores in the "Prueba de Aptitud
Academica" (a national examination test)16. The distribution of the AFI is very unequal since preferences
5   The model governing the allocation of these 5% since 1989 uses the following variables:
student/program, student/professor, % of professors with Ph.D., Research projects/professors,
publication of international recognition/professors.
16   The 27,500 best scores in this national test.



Annex 4                                         Page 6 of 16
of the best students are oriented more toward a very reduced number of universities, so most of this public
fund allocation goes again to the 25 traditional universities. Little or none goes to IPs and CFTs.
(c) Funds for Institutional Development (FDI): represent around 8.5% of total public funds and it
is assigned by competition, to the 25 "traditional" universities. These funds are mainly used to fnance
infrastructure needs for academic, teaching or administrative activities (i.e. construction and equipment of
classrooms, labs, libraries, bathrooms, etc.). The state has recently modified the selection criteria and the
evaluation and monitoring process to optimize its contributions to the institution's mission and that of the
country. In 1998, a new line was introduced called "convenios de desempeflo" which aims at financing
projects in priority areas on a competitive basis and through a contract between the State and the
Universities.
(d) Student Aid: These indirect public subsidies aim at facilitating the admission of students from
low socio-economic background into the 25 "traditional" universities (the ones eligible to AFD). They
represent about 20.7% of all public funds to higher education. The system is a complex one, with at least
seven different loan and grant schemes. There are three main elements of undergraduate student support:
Ministry of Education grants (Becas MINEDUC), Ministry of Education loans (Fondo Solidario de Credito
Universitario) and CORFO loans17.
Currently, the student aid system has a number of deficiencies. Aid under the two main components covers
on average, about 60% fees (the new Becas Juan Gomez Millas generally cover 100% of fees). Thus living
expenses are generally not covered, and the proportion of the real opportunity cost of education covered is
likely to be low. In addition, the two main schemes (MINEDUC loans and grants) apply only to the 25
AFD-aided Universities. The Juan Gomez Millas grants are available to students in a wider set of
institutions, and the CORFO loans to a somewhat wider set again. But the latter two schemes are still
relatively small, and over 95% of student aid goes to those enrolled in the 25 AFD-aided Universities. The
institutions whose students have the least access to student aid (the IPs and the CFTs) are those which are
likely to provide an avenue of advancement for low income and low social status groups.
Principal Characteristics of Higher Education Financing
Currently the system lacks coherence. There are minimal possibilities for allocating resources, or students,
across the three tiers of institutional levels. Originally, the idea was that Universities would specialize in
research and advanced study programs; IPs would specialize in the preparation of professionals, especially
in careers directed to the productive sectors; and the CFTs would be oriented to provide technical careers.
With the proliferation of private universities in the 80's (with the new legislation), IPs have been losing
their original orientation. There has been a tendency among the IPs to transform  themselves into
Universities. CFTs have diversified their spectrum, and are currently offering careers in business and
18
services . At the same time, many Universities offer technical careers, which do not require accreditation
or official evaluation19. At the end of the 80's, 22% of the students of technical careers were studying in
institutes different from the CFTs.
17  A comprehensive description of these students loans can be found in the project files.
Is Only 1/3 of the careers offered at these institutions are real technical programs.
19 In the case of the CFT evaluation and supervision is required before opening a program.



Page 7 of 16                               Annex 4
Equity is a major concern with the current system of financing, not only in the Student Aid system, but also
in access to the system and regional issues. A major problem is that the IPs and the CFTs have been
effectively excluded from public financing. The current system lacks transparency, good qualitative
evaluation, and information. The result is that these lower level institutions must charge higher fees to
cover operations. As Table 3 illustrates, this creates an equity problem because lower income students are
the principal market for the CFTs.
Table 3. Enrollment in CFTs by income quintile (annual pesos)
Income                          Percentage of the Enrollment rate in CFT
<= to 24,425 (Ist quintile)                              7.4
24,426 and 41,804 (2nd quintile)                           13.1
41,805 and 66,797 (3rd quintile)                           19.1
66,798 and 123,991 (4th quintile)                          27.9
> than 123,991 (5th quintile)                            32.5
Higher Education Project Impacts
The main objectives of the project are to improve the performance of the Chilean HE system in the
following dimensions: Coherence and Efficiency; Quality and Relevance; and Equity. There are three
components: (a) Policy Framework and Capacity Building, (b) Quality assurance system established for all
institutions and selected study programs, and (c) Contractual and competitive financing system introduced
for institutional support, and revision of the student aid system to make it more equitable.
The improvement in coherence and efficiency within the education system aims at completing
diversification, creating a more coherent and flexible set of rules and an efficient regulatory framework that
establishes clear and fair rules for the system. Over the long run, this will be an important component of
system performance, since it will move the allocation process away from historical patterns.
The quality assurance component seeks to provide concrete guidance to students, employers,
Govermment, and the higher education sector itself. The establishment of a general accreditation and
evaluation system of institutions and programs will accomplish this. This component would also promote
study programs and levels of HE that are responsive to social demand and labor market needs, and thus,
would have a direct impact on Chilean socio-economic development.
The new contractual and competitive financing system for HE will contribute to the alleviation of
several inequities in the system, as well as to ensure that financial decisions are in line with national
objectives. The first step will be to establish a coherent policy basis as the foundation for a funding
methodology. The objective is to have a system of allocation of public funds based on performance as an
incentive to increase quality and efficiency among institutions. Project sponsored changes in the system
will include: (1) Establish a policy, increase accountability and develop a funding methodology, (2) the
Competitive Fund which aims at promoting a results-driven resource allocation, according to sectoral
policy priorities. The fund will finance institutional development of programs in areas of national priority,
such as the basic sciences, and (3) financial aid for students, in which the project will analyze the system of
scholarships and loans in order to identify ways to improve its allocation and increase equity in the system.
In terms of project operations, the Competitive Fund, which is part of the new financing system, is the
major component. This fund will account for about 94% of the total funds for the project. This
Competitive Fund will gradually substitute the current Fund for Institutional Development (FDI), which
now accounts for 8.5% of total public funds and it is assigned by competition to the 25 "traditional"
universities. Currently, the amount of money allocated through the FDI is around US $16 million per year.



Annex 4                                            Page 8 of 16
With the project this amount will be increased to about US$ 45 million per year to be distributed on a
competitive basis (tiered competition) among all existing higher education institutions. In the new
Competitive Fund, resources will be allocated through three lines of competition: (1) Undergraduate, (2)
Doctoral education and related major equipment, (3) Senior technician training.
The Economic Impact of Financing Changes
These project-sponsored changes in financing from the new Competitive Fund on the distribution of the
FDI will have important consequences for the quality of teaching and the enrollment rates at these
institutions. Calculation of these benefits is problematic, since it is based on a number of assumptions
about how the various parts of the education system will respond. Nevertheless, it is possible to develop a
general picture of how the economic performance of the country will be affected. To do this, the economic
analysis calculates the benefits of the Competitive Fund in the Chilean Economy by estimating the
additional income generated from increasing enrollment in the different tiers of the higher education
system.
A series of assumptions was made about the share that each group of institutions (Public universities,
private universities, IPs and CMTs) will have in the distribution of the Fund (US$225 million):
*   Institutions were divided into 5 categories: the 4 existing groups, but with the 25 traditional
universities separated in two groups: (1) the 4 biggest (in terms of enrollment) Universities (U.
Catolica, U. Chile, U. ,Santiago and U.Concepcion), and (2) The rest of the 21 traditional universities.
*   For the distribution of the 3 lines of funding of the Competitive Fund two scenarios were
constructed20. In Scenario I, the share each group of institutions have is between the share of student
enrollment of each HE institution group and their current share in public funds distribution. However,
adjustments were made to these percentages so that no group of institution will receive fewer funds
that what they are currently receiving. In Scenario II, the share was calculated according only to the
share in enrollment that each group of institutions have, provided, as in scenario I, that no group of
institutions receive less money than at present. Tables 4 and 4A present these allocations.
Table 4. Scenario I- Allocation of the Competitive Fund among Institutions
Group I     Group 2
Traditional   Traditional  New private              Amount I (thousand
Universities   Universities  universities   IPs  CFTs    of US $)
Line 1                 28.0%       51.0%       12.0%      9.0%     0.0%        168,400
Line 2                 75.0%       22.0%       3.0%       0.0%     0.0%        38,000
Line 3                 15.0%       15.0%       2.0%       2.0%    66.0%        18,600
Total                  78,442      97,034     21,720    15,528   12,276       225,000
Share                  34.86%      43.13%      9.65%     6.90%    5.46%        100%
'Amount for the 5 years of the program
20 These two scenarios were constructed in order to show the benefits of the project under two different
situations. One, which is closer to current public fund allocation and the second one that is more
based in actual enrollment.



Page 9 of 16                                   Annex 4
Table 4. Scenario II- Allocation of the Competitive Fund among Institutions
Group I    Group 2
Traditional   Traditional  New private             Amount I (thousand
Universities   Universities  universities   IPs  CFTs   of US S)
Line I                 15.0%       50.6%      21.4%     13.0%     0.0%        168,400
Line 2                 60.0%       25.9%      14.1%      0.0%     0.0%        38,000
Line 3                 5.0%        10.1%       4.2%     10.0%    70.6%        18,600
Total                  48,990      96,931     42,177    23,752   13,132      225,000
Share                 21.77%     43.08%      18.75%    10.56%    5.84%       100%
'Amount for the 5 years of the program
* The annual cost of training a student for group 1 and 2 was calculated by dividing the operational
expenditures (excluding capital expenditure and student aid) of the institutions by the number of
students enrolled in that year2". In the case of the new universities, IPs and CFTs, tuition fees were
used as a proxy to cost per students since they represent more than 90% of the income sources of those
institutions and more accurate information on either income or expenditure is not available.
* The employment rate of the graduates was estimated 100% within 6 months of graduation. This seems
a realistic assumption in the Chilean context, sine in a study conducted on labor market, it was found
that most of all new graduates found a job within 6 months of graduation. However, it has not been
determined what portion of that is underemployment.
With these assumptions, Tables 5 and 5A (for scenario I and II respectively) show the calculations on the
redistribution of funds for one year of the project and its impact on the Chilean economy. The first five
columns of these tables show current distribution of FDI funds (total and share) across the different tiers
and the new distribution of funds after the project (total and share). With the new level and distribution of
funds, most institutions will benefit by receiving additional funds to fnance projects (see column B and A-
B). Using the assumptions about the average cost per student in each of these groups, we can estimate the
number of additional students that can be funded by dividing the increase in FDI and the cost per student
The last column shows the additional income that will be generated by educating these additional students.
The average annual salary used was the difference between the average salary of a professional or
technician in Chile minus the average annual salary of a person who has completed up to secondary
school22.
21   Only 1996 data was available to estimate the cost per student. Division de Educacion Superior, Chile.
22 The information on average annual salary was not available for the different tiers of institutions,
therefore the same data was used for Universities and Professional Institutes. Instituto Nacional de
Estadisticas (Chile), 1997.



Annex 4                                                                 Page 10 of 16
Table 5.Scenario I- Impact of the new Competitive Fund
Amount of FIx
Annual amount              by institutions                                  Number of
of FDI by               after the project  Increase                     new students
insdtutions             (thousand of US$  in FDI              Cost/ per than can enroll Average  Additional
(Thousand of   Current   and average per (thousan   Share of   student  uinder the rew  annual  income to the
USS, 1997)    Share of       year)       of USS)  FDI after   (USS)          FDI       salary    Country
(A)       total FIX        (B)         (A-B)  the opject    (C)        (A-By(C)   (US S)       (USS)
Traditional niajor
Urnversities             7,934         29.2         15,688       7,755      34.9       5,90        1,314      7,700    10,120,392
Rest Traditional
Universities             19,213       70.8          19,407        194       43.1       2,20          88       7,700     679,103
Private Universities       0           0.0          4,344        4,344      9.7        3,000       1,448      7,700    11,149,600
TPs                        0           0.0          3,106        3,106      6.9        2,000       1,553      7,700    11,956,560
CFI's                      0           0.0          2,455        2,455       5.5       1,000       2,455      3,000    7,365,600
Total                   27,147    1   100          45,000        =           100   I               6,859               41,271,256
X Average annual salary of a professional minus the average annual salary                                            | 343,927,132  2
of a person vP-th only secondary education
2NPV of proyected life incomie
Table 5A. .Scenario 11- Impact of the new Competitive Fund
Amount of FDI
by institutions
Annual                 after the
amount of                projet                                       Number of
FDI by               (thousand of Increase in                       new students
institudons              USS nd        FDI                 Cost/ per than can enroll Avrage  Additional
(Thousand of  Cufrent   avage per  (thousand   Share of   student  under the new  annual  income to the
USS, 1997)   Share of     year)       of USS)   FDI after   (USS)         FDI       salary'   Country
(A)      total FD[      (B)        (A-B)   the project    (C)       (A-By(C)   (US S)    (USS)
Traditional major
Universities           7,934        29.2        9,798       1,864       21.8      5,900        316        7,700    2,432,921
Rest Tradidonal
Universities           19,213       70.8       19,386        173        43.1      2,200         79        7,700    607,003
Private Universides      0          0.0         8,435       3,435       18.7      3,000       2,812       7,700   21,650,757
IPs                      0          0.0        4,750        4,750       10.6      2,000       2,375       7,700    18,289,040
CFTs                     0          0.0        2.626        2,626       5.8       1,000       2,626       3,000    7,878,960
Total                  27,147       100        44,996                   100        _          8,208               50,858,682
'Average annual salary of a professional minus the average annual salary                                          423322349  2
of a person with only secondary education
2 NPV of proyected life income
The additional funds in FDI that each group of institutions will receive will either increase the number of students in
the system or their economic value by increasing the quality of education. Thus, contributing in either of the two
cases to increase the additional amount of income generated under the project.
The additional annual income in Chile would be about US$42 million in Scenario I and US$50 million in
Scenario 11. If this annual flow of benefits is discounted to the present using an interest rate of 12%, the net



Page 11 of 16                                  Annex 4
present value is about US$ 344 million in scenario I and US$424 in scenario II. These are the benefits of
the annual investment in education under two scenarios. It is clear that scenario II brings more benefits to
the country; however, it is not necessarily the more politically feasible, despite its greater benefits.
These calculations overstate and understate the benefits somewhat. The number of students graduating in
any particular year will only be a fraction of the total students receiving educational services that year.
Thus, the additional income from the project should be reduced to the number of students graduating. At
the same time, the project will continue to operate for five years, which would increase the value of the
project by almost five times. If students take an average of five years to graduate, these two factors would
tend to cancel each other.
The return to the project is very good considering the initial investment for the five years of US$ 240
million. In addition there are a number of other benefits from the project. These include a gain in
efficiency at the institutional level and from a greater change in annual salary of graduates23. In the last
case the gain could come in two ways: (1) better quality students will be more valuable in the market and
therefore earn higher wages and (2) for graduating earlier and thus entering the labor force at an earlier age
will increase the present value of the stream of income. These effects would eventually be captured in the
salary column of Table 5.
Additional benefits could also be obtained through the component of the project which aims at modifying
the way the core funding (AFD) is distributed to reflect performance indicators. The project will try to
develop a funding methodology that could be input or output related and that will recognize that there are
major differences in the costs of provision (across subjects, levels and institutions). The idea is to change
the incentives that institutions have at present. By tying the core funding to certain output indicators,
institutions would try to improve those indicators in order to obtain more public funding.
The formula that will be used for this allocation has not yet been developed so it is not possible to show it
in this present analysis. However, it is possible to make some estimations of the potential impact. Since the
formula has not yet been developed, the impact of a change in AFD distribution (especially on the
incentives institutions currently have) will be measured through the FDI analysis performed previously.
Several different scenarios can be used, including one in which universities become much more efficient
and thus reduce cost per students and another one in which universities invest more either in infrastructure
or in increases of salaries and thus increase cost per students. Table 6 shows the impact of these two
24
scenarios on the NPV calculated above
Table 6. Impact on NPV of a variation in cost per students
Cost per student              NPV                % change
At current cost            343,927,132
10% higher                312,661,029              -9.1
10% lower                 382,141,257              11.1
23 The change in annual salary is measured by the difference between the income of a professional
minus the income of a person who has only secondary education. It is the additional income earned
by completing higher education studies.
24   For this analysis Scenario I was used for simplification purposes. The results are also valid to scenario
II and should be greater since the NPV under scenario II is larger than in scenario I.



Annex 4                                         Page 12 of 16
To make the project unattractive, cost per student have to increase considerably (more than 50%), which
does not seem viable given that with the different components of the project, higher education institutions
and in special universities should become more efficient.
Another variable that could affect the NPV is the time it takes a student to graduate. The new funding
formula for AFD could be tied to output indicators, such as the number of graduates per year in an
institution. This indicator by itself could induce institutions to produce lower quality graduates in a shorter
period of time, but the design of the new formula will try to ensure that other indicators will be taken into
account so that the quality of graduates is not at risk. It can be assumed that the new formula will create
incentives to the institutions so that students graduate in a shorter period of time. Currently it takes a
student in Chile an average of 8 years to graduate. The institutions could design certain rules to make
students graduate earlier, such as give financial aid only for 5 years of the studies.
By making students graduate earlier and then reducing the average time of completion from 8 years to 7 or
6 years, the benefits of the project will be further increased. The earlier students graduate, the earlier they
will enter the labor market and the earlier they will generate the income stream to the country. Graph I
shows the shape of the income stream of a student graduating at time "t" and another one graduating at "t-
1". There will be gains in the income pattern of a student graduating earlier, assuming that the labor market
can absorb students as they graduate. In a growing economy such as the Chilean, this assumption seems a
reasonable one.
Graph 1. Income stream of a student graduating at a certain year
Income
t-1    t                  year
Table 7 shows the impact on the NPV of reducing graduation time by one and two years. This can be a
very important aspect of the economic value of the project, since the Net Present Value calculation is very
sensitive to changes in the graduation time. If the project incentives are effective in reducing time to
graduate without lowering the quality of education, the project can have an enormous impact.
Table 7. NPV of the project with different completion times ofprograms.
Graduation time          NPV of project   % change
At current graduation rate  343,927,132       -
Graduation a year earlier  385,198,387      12.0
Graduation two years earlier    431,422,194  25.4



Page 13 of 16                             Annex 4
Finally, the last point in the second component is on financial aid to students. The project will provide
technical assistance to the Chilean in producing several studies to assess the efficiency and effectiveness of
the current system. At this point, only recommendations for the restructuring of the current system will be
made and thus an estimation of its benefits is not pertinent.
Analysis of Project Sustainability
Economic Environment and Higher Education Expenditure
In the interests of providing a broader perspective, it would be useful to examine the economic
25
environment in which the Project will be executed, focusing specifically on GDP, public sector spending,
26
and education sector expenditure.
Chile's economy during the 1990s has enjoyed high rates of growth averaging approximately 7%
annually. As a result, public and social expenditure levels, which had declined significantly during the
1980s, increased, as did social investment. In 1997, per capita GDP was roughly US$5,000. Public
spending rose at the same rate as GDP, fluctuating in the range 21-23% of GDP. Government expenditure
for 1998 will total approximately US$17 billion.
The education sector has been a major priority of the Government's throughout the 1990s. This is
particularly evident from the rates of real expenditure growth for the Ministry of Education. Between 1990
and 1997, the average annual rate of real growth of education expenditure was 12%, for a projected 1998
total of $US2.567 billion. The education sector's relative share of total public spending has risen from
11%in 1990 to 15%in 1998.
Higher education27 accounts for 13.5% of the education budget, or $US346 million in 1998. The
average annual growth rate during the period has been 7.5%. In addition, the 1998 science and technology
budget, allocated to CONICYT28, is approximately US$66.7 million. Most of these funds, earmarked
mainly for scientific and technological research projects, were requested by universities.
Scenario I- without the Project
In order to measure the fiscal impact of the MECE-SUP Project, it would first be helpful to consider
the scenario that would exist if no project were being implemented.
25 Includes all departments with budgets governed by the Public Sector Budget Act.
26 Includes the Ministry of Education and the decentralized departments covered in Part 9 (Ministry of
Education) of the Budget Act.
27 Includes Budget Act Chapter 30 funds, plus "Enhanced Teacher Training" and "Teaching Fellowships"
transfers from Program 02 and "University of Chile" transfers from Program 01.
28 National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research.



Annex 4                                          Page 14 of 16
Table 8. Higher Education Without the Project, 1998-2003
In billions of US$
I US$ = Ch$470.75
1998     1999      2000      2001      2002      2003
GDP                                       77,436    80,378    84,799    89,463    94,383    99,574
GDP growth                                 4.8%      4.0%     5.5%      5.5%      5.5%      5.5%
Public expenditure                        17,107    17,757    18,733    19,764    20,851    21,998
Public expenditure as % of GDP            22.1%     22.1%     22.1%     22.1%     22.1%     22.1%
MINEDUC exp.                               2,563    2,664     2,810     2,965     3,128     3,300
MINDEUC exp. as % of public Expenditure   15.0%     15.0%     15.0%     15.0%     15.0%     15.0%
Higher educ. Exp.                          346       360       379       400       422       445
Higher educ exp. as % of MINEDUC exp.     13.5%     13.5%     13.5%     13.5%     13.5%     13.5%
Increase in higher education exp.            -       4.0%     5.5%      5.5%      5.5%      5.5%
Sources:
GDP projections for 1998-2003: Central Bank of Chile.
1998 public expenditure: Budget Act.
1998 MINEDUC expenditure: Budget Act + wage inflation factor.
1998 higher education expenditure: Budget Act +changes.
Exchange rate: 1998 average.
Table 8 presents a fairly conservative projection - given the crisis in Asia - of Chile's economic
growth for the period 1998-2003. Against this background, equally conservative figures for government
spending and the share thereof represented by the education sector and higher education are projected as
tending to remain close to the previous years' averages. This is particularly likely to be the case, given the
behavior of the same variables during 1990-98. In this scenario, the projected incremental resources for
higher education, taking 1998 as the base year, are as follows:
Table 9. Higher Education, 1998-2003
Incremental Resources
In millions of US$
r                     |  1998  |  1999  |  2000  |  2001  |  2002  |  2003  |  Total  |
lIncremental resources     0          14        33         54        76         100       277
Scenario II- with the Project
Next, assuming the same economic environment and level of public expenditure, the projected
impact of implementation of the MECE-SIJP Project on resources for higher education is shown in table
10. In order to assess Project impact without factoring in changes to other budget items, it is assumed that
higher education spending will remain constant over the period in question, i.e., at the 1998 level.
From the Table 10, it can be concluded that the Project will increase the higher education budget by up to
a maximum of 16% of current spending. Compared with the "no-project" scenario set out in section III,
higher education spending with the Project in place is projected to be US$37 million less (see table 11). A
conservative growth projection is that the incremental amount for the period under consideration would be
US$277 million, with the Project accounting for US$240 million. This figure clearly demonstrates that the
Project can easily be absorbed into the higher education budget.



Page 15 of 16                               Annex 4
Table IO. Scenario with the project
In millions of US$
I US$ = Ch$470.75
1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003
Higher Education, 1998 spending         346      346       346      346      346      346
MECESUP project                                   28       49       55        52       55
Total with project                      346      374       395      401      398      401
Annual increase                                  7.5%     5.3%     1.5%     -0.8%    0.7%
Project impact as % of HE spending               8.09     14.16    15.90    15.03    15.90
Project impact as % of education sector  0        1.1      1.7      1.8      1.7       1.7
spending
Project impact as % of public expenditure  0      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3
At the same time, project benefits which are to be realized through increased incomes for students should
translate, over time, into increased tax revenues for the Government. This fiscal impact has not been
estimated.
Table I. Comparison ofprojected incremental resources with resources under the MECE-SUP project
1998      1999     2000       2001      2002      2003     Total
Incremental resources              14        33        54        76        100      277
MECE-SUP project                  ,28        49        55        52        55        240
Difference                     114       16       1          (24)      (45)      (3 7)
The more significant difference, perhaps, is the resource distribution over time: the incremental
cost projection shows gradually increasing levels, whereas spending under the Project scenario is expected
to stabilize during the third year.
The Project will account for no more than 1.8% of the Ministry of Education's total annual
budget, and a maximum of 0.3% of public sector spending, figures which further demonstrate that the
Project can be implemented without imposing a financial burden.
It is worth noting that resource levels for other higher education budget items (e.g., institutional
support and student assistance) are subject to fluctuations determined by govermnent policy and the
applicable laws and regulations. Although such variables were not considered in this exercise for
methodological reasons, these resources are likely to be affected by decisions resulting from the findings of
studies conducted under the MECE-SUP Project, an exercise that, it is hoped, will improve the allocation
of financial resources.
Someflnal remarks.
The project has been shown to have a large economic return, and is thus justified. Cost effectiveness is a
separate issue, relating to whether this is the least cost method of achieving the desired result. This
analysis did not examine closely the cost effectiveness of this approach, but several observations on the



Annex 4                                         Page 16 of 16
efficiency of the project are possible. Among the issues that project designers may want to consider are the
following.
Competition among institutions is an excellent method of encouraging efficiency, but it only works when
the various types of institutions are effectively able to compete. The fact that autonomous Universities can
open technical careers without the requirement of official evaluation creates unfair competition to the
Technical Training Centers since these are regulated by the government and require official evaluation.
The project may want to consider this issue in the policy component.
Moreover, by denying direct public funding to IPs and CFTs, the state has signaled that the education they
provide is less valued. Students in this level lack possibilities to continue their studies and their diplomas
have very little value. There is no clear information on the needs of the labor market. This results in that
parents and students do not have enough information to make the right choices. The project may want to
consider methods providing greater market demand information to prospective students.
In terms of financing, as described in the Student Aid section, there is an issue of coverage. The two main
schemes apply to the 25 AFD-aided Universities only. There are other grants and loans available to
students in a wider set on institutions, but they are still relatively small, and the vast bulk of student aid
goes to those enrolled in the 25 AFD-aided Universities (more than 90%). As mentioned before, students
from IPs and CFTs are least likely to benefit from student aid, and they are the ones most likely to come
from lower income families. Opening up eligibility to all students would pose budgetary difficulties in the
short run, but if schemes were extended to all institutions as they gained Autonomy through the
accreditation process, this would make for a more gradual and affordable increase in expenditure. It woruld
also put pressure on institutions to take the steps necessary to graduate to autonomous status.
Control of the educational institutions is an important consideration for their ability to respond to efficiency
incentives. In Chile the following institutions enjoy autonomy: (a) State universities, created by the State
and by law or derived from the states universities, (b) Private traditional universities, these are the ones that
in the past the state acknowledged as autonomous and that have access to AFD29, (c) Those private
universities that have gone through the examination process established by the 1980 decree of the Ministry
of Education, or those that have gone through the accreditation process. Those universities that have not
ended either the examination or accreditation process are not considered autonomous yet. This is an issue
that affects not only policy, but the ability of institutions to respond to changing environments, and should
be considered very carefully from the efficiency point of view.
Finally, one of the clearest signal of discontent with the current higher education system was a student
unrest that spread to the entire sub-sector during May/June 1997. Although grievances focused on
financing and govemance issues, they revealed broader concerns having to do with the concept, identity
and mission of Higher Education in Chile, its role in national development and the role of the state in
supporting it. In the long run, students are the market that these institutions must serve. Building in
greater feedback mechanisms would contribute to the ability of these institutions to respond to student
needs. One very effective mechanism would be to vest student scholarships with the students, who could
then choose the institution to attend, rather than providing the student scholarship funds to the institution
itself.
29  These are universities recognized as autonomous in different dates but before January 3, 1981.



Annex 5
Financial Summary
Chile Higher Education Project
Years Ending 2003
(US$ millions)
Implementation Period               Operational Period
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003   Total  2004  2005   2006    2007
Project costs
Investmnent costs  3.24   1.83   1.24  0.97   0.89   8.17  0     0      0       0
Recurrent costs   25.95  47.15  53.23  51.16  54.33  231.82  55.96  57.64  59.37   61.15
Total            29.19  48.98  54.47  52.13  55.22  239.99  55.96  57.64  59.37   61.15
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
% of total
project cost
IBRD                        60.2
Government                  39.8
Total                      100.0



Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Chile Higher Education Improvement Project
Procurement
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January, August 1996 (The Guidelines) and
September 1997 and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Competitive Fund: Through yearly competitions, the fund will co-finance institutional
development projects that would enhance the quality and relevance of study programs in
priority areas. The total amount of grants is estimated at US$225 million. Winning
institutions will sign agreements with the Ministry of Education for grants expected to
range between US$100.000 and US$5 million. Institutions will decide investments to
make in infrastructure, equipment, information resources and/or staff development and
faculty training and develop proposals in accordance with their strategic plans. Any
procurement of goods and works and contracting of consultants will be carried out by the
institutions according to the Bank Guidelines and the procedures outlined below.
However, due to the nature of the grants, aggregate amounts cannot be defined in
advance. Hence, the aggregated amounts indicated below do not include funds assigned
to the Competitive Fund.
Works: Civil works are expected to consist mainly of rehabilitation and new
construction of educational facilities under the Competitive Fund. All civil works
contracts estimated to cost over US$5.0 million equivalent, will be procured using
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure. Civil works contracts estimated to
cost less than US$5.0 million equivalent, may be procured using National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures. Works estimated to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent
may be procured on the basis of at least three quotations from qualified contractors. The
Project does not foresee any procurement of works other than those procured under the
Competitive Fund.
Goods: All goods estimated to cost over US$350,000 shall be procured using
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Sophisticated scientific equipment (regardless
of value) may be procured by the institutions using International Limited Bidding (ILB).
All goods estimated to cost less than US$350,000 may be procured in accordance with
the NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$0.4 million, excluding goods
financed under the Competitive Fund. For smaller purchases, National Shopping
procedures may be used up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3 million for contracts
valued at less than US$100,000.
Employment of Consultants: Consultant's services shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published by the bank in January 1997, revised in September
1997, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.



Page 2 of 6                            Annex 6
Consultants' Services with firms will be contracted through Quality-Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) except as indicated below. Consultants' services provided by firms for
technical assistance, and research may be contracted through Quality Base Selection. The
short-list of consultants for these services, estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants. Other services of
standard or routine nature such as surveys, background studies, study-tours, technical
assistance, training logistic support, etc., estimated to cost less than US$60,000 may be
selected based on Least-Cost Selection procedures, up to an aggregate amount of
US$2.5 million. Consulting services (such as technical assistance for grant application,
procurement advisory services, data collection, etc.) may be procured under contracts
awarded to individual consultants, in accordance with the provisions Section 5.1 of the
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated
January 1997.
Prior Review. Prior Bank review would be required before all bidding procedures for
the following procurement actions: (a) All contracts for goods and works costing more
than $500,000 and $5,000,000, respectively; (b) the first two NCB procurement of goods
and works; (c) all consultants' services estimated to cost US$100,000 or more if provided
by a firm, and all consultants' services estimated to cost US$50,000 or more if provided
by an individual; (d) any amendment of contracts resulting in the increase of the contract
value beyond the review limits set in (c) and (d) above; (e) all Terms of Reference for
consultants. Random ex-post review of all other contracts will be carried out by Bank
supervision missions.
A Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the first year of implementation of the
project (not including the Competitive Fund) should be submitted before effectiveness of
the Loan. Standard Bidding Documents for national and shopping procurement and
contracting of consultants will be developed and approved to be used by the Higher
Education Institutions before the first round of competition. A project launch workshop
will be organized at an early stage in Project Implementation to familiarize the
implementing unit and other institutions involved in the execution of projects. The
workshop will cover procurement, disbursement, reporting and auditing requirements.
The General Procurement Notice is planned to be published by November 16, 1998.
Annual financial audit reports, including the audit of procurement actions, would be
completed by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and forwarded to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.



Annex 6                             Page 3 of 6
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements \a
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
NCB            Other         N.B.F
1. Goods
Communication and
Computer Equipment,
Publications               0.4           0.3 \b                        0.7
(0.4)         (0.3)                         (0.7)
2. Services
Technical Assistance                    4.3 \c                         4.3
(4.3)                         (4.3)
Training                                 1.0 \c                        1.0
(1.0)                         (1.0)
Studies                                 2.2 \c                         2.2
(2.2)                        (2.2)
Publicity                                1.0 \c                        1.0
(1.0)                         (1.0)
3. PCU Staff                                  5.5 \c                        5.5
(5.5)                        (5.5)
4. Adm. Expenses                             0.3\b                         0.3
(0.3)                        (0.3)
5. Competitive Fund                        225.0 \d                       225.0
(129.0)                       (129.0)
6. Front End Fee                              1.5                           1.5
(1.5)                        (1.5)
Total                        0.4         241.1                         241.5
(0.4)      (145.1)                        (145.5)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-fmanced
a.    Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan credit
b.    National Shopping
c.    Consultants selected as indicated in Annex 6, Table Al.
d.    Aggregate amounts for works and goods cannot be determnined in advance since
those will depend on institutional requirements of the selected projects.



Page 4 of 6                            Annex 6
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method          Total Cost
Consultant Services Expenditure Category                                  (including
contingencies)
QCBS   QBS   LCS   Individuals
1. Policy Framework and Capacity
Building Studies:
Management Information System                                            0.150
-Availability and Employment of        0.150
Professionals & Technicians                    0.120                     0.120
-Design of Institutional Management            0.130                     0.130
System
-Labor Market Observatory                                                0.204
Promotion of Technical Training        0.204                             0.440
- Quality of Superior Technicians Training   0.440                       0.280
- T. V. Promotion                      0.280
- Publications                                 0.130                     0.130
2. Quality Assurance Studies:
-Public Information: National and              0.120                     0.120
International Backgrounds                      0.120                     0.120
- Evaluation of Present License Systems
- Relation Between Knowledge Areas and                                   0.400
Occupational Streams                   0.400                             0.250
- Quality Assurance Informnation System  0.250
- Review of Present Accreditation System
3. Financing Studies:                          0.130                     0.130
Institutional Funding                          0.130                     0.130
- Internal Efficiency                           .
- Review of Public Funding Criteria            0.130                     0.130
Student Aid:
- Criteria Student Aid Mechanisms
Routine contracts with individuals for
technical assistance for grant application,                  3.296       3.296
procurement advisory services, data                          5.543       5.543
collection, etc
UCP
Sub-total                              1.724   1.010   2.427  8.839      5.161
Total                                  1.724   1.010   2.427  8.839      14.000
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
LCS = Least Cost Selection



Annex 6                             Page 5 of 6
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(In US$'000)
Expenditure           Contract Value       Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)           Method              Prior Review
US $ thousands                            US $ thousands
1. Goods
Communication and Computer           >350      ICB                  All over 500
Equipment
Publications
<350      NCB                  First two
<100      National Shopping    None
2. Services (a)
A: Firms                    Regardless of Value  SBQC and SBQ       All over 100
Technical Assistance,                 >50      LCS                  All over 100
Training, Studies
Publicity
B. Individuals                                  Consultant          All over 50
Guidelines          TOR under 50
Paragraphs 5.1 - 5.3
3. Competitive Fund
A. Works                           >5,000      ICB                  All
<5,000      NCB                 First two
<350      Tree Quotations      None
B. Goods
Sophisticated Scientific    Regardless of Value  LIB                All over 500
Equipment
All other goods in                   >350      ICB                  All over 500
institutional plans                  <350      NCB                  First two
<100      National Shopping    None



Page 6 of 6                           Annex 6
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$         Financing
million          Percentage
Communication and Computer Equipment                  0.2              80%
Technical Assistance, Studies, Training,              8.1             100%
Publicity and Publications
PCU Consultants                                       5.0             100%
PCU Operating Expenditures30                          0.3             100%
Unallocated                                           1.4
Competitive Fund                                    129.0              57%
Front End Fee                                         1.5             100%
Total           145.5             60.2%
Disbursement
The proposed loan will disburse over a period of five years, and the expected closing date is June
30, 2004. Disbursements will be made for: (i) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures
for communication and computer equipment (totaling US$0.15 million); (ii) 100% of services,
including technical assistance, training, studies, publicity, publications, PCU consultants and
PCU's operating expenditures (totaling US$14.85 million); and (iii) 90% of investment grants to
be awarded by the Competitive Fund (totaling US$129.00 million), and 100% of operating costs
of the PCU. A PPF of US$500,000 will be refinanced by the loan.
Use of statement of expenses (SOEs):
Contracts of less than US$500,000 equivalent for goods and less than US$5,000,000 equivalent
for works. Consultant contracts of less than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals.
Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish, maintain, and
operate (under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank) a Special Account in US dollars.
The authorized allocation will be US$9.0 million. The initial deposit will be limited to US$3.0
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the loan account plus the total amount of
outstanding special commitments shall be equal to or exceed US$9.Omillion. After that point, the
authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$9.0 million.
30 "Operating Expenditures of the Project Unit" means the cost of consultant fees, secretarial services,
office leasing, utilities, office supplies and materials, and other related costs of the Unit referred to in
paragraph 3.03 (a) of the Loan Agreement.



Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Chile Higher Education Project
A. Project Budget                               Planned      Actual
US$200,000   US$200,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned      Actual
1. Time taken to prepare the project (months)  10 months    10 months
2. First Bank mission (identification)         N/A          1/5/98
3. Appraisal Mission Departure                6/15/98      6/15/98
4. Negotiations                               9/28/98      9/28/98
5. Planned Date of Effectiveness             12/15/98      TBD
C. Prepared by: Ministry of Education
D. Preparation Assistance: PPF and PHRD Grant (Japanese)
E. Bank Staff who worked on the project included:
Name                              Specialty
Lauritz Hohm-Nielsen                     Task Manager
Marian Kaminskis                         Task Assistant, Gender Analysis
Cesar Yammal                             Consultant, Higher Ed. Specialist
Gabrielena Alcala                        Consultant, Economist
Francoise Delannoy                       Liason with MINEDUC
Marta Molares-Halberg                    Country Lawyer
Marta Ospina                             Procurement
Maria Elena Castro-Munioz                Social Assessment
Quentin Thompson                         Consultant, Policy Analysis
Jean-Claude Martin                       Consultant, Institutional Analysis
Jacques Mazeran                          Consultant, Technical Education
George Preddey                           Consultant, Contracting for Higher Education
Max Brennan                              Consultant, Funding Systems
John Sheehan                             Consultant, Financial Analysis
Elaine El-Khawas                         Consultant, Quality Assurance
Benoit Millot                            Peer Reviewer
Doug Windham                             Peer Reviewer (external)
Chris Shaw                               Peer Reviewer
Donald Winkler                           Lead Specialist, Education
Alexandre Abrantes                       Country Sector Leader
Jose Carvalho                            Country Lawyer
Febe Mackey                              Team Assistant
Ruth Izquierdo                           Team Assistant



Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
Chile Higher Education Project
A.    Statistical References
1. Departamento de Informaci6n/Comisi6n Nacional de Investigaci6n Cientificay Tecnologica
(CONICYT). Indicadores Cientificos y Tecnologicos; 1997.
2. Divisi6n de Educaci6n Superior: Departamento de Politicas y Estudios. Evolucion y
Proyectos del Fondo de Desarrollo Institucional para las Universidades; 1996-98.
3. Feres, H&ctor y Guillermo Gaete (Universidad del Bio-Bio). Chile: los Recursos del Pais al
Sistema de Educaci6n Superior y su Distribuci6n Regional; 1997.
4. Divisi6n de Educaci6n Superior (DIVESUP). Disponibilidad y Ocupabilidad de Recursos
Humanos con Estudios Superiores en Chile: Informe de Avance: Primera Etapa; 1998.
5. Ministerio de Educaci6n, Division de Educaci6n Superior (Chile). El Sistema de Educaci6n
Superior en Cifras: Compendio Estadistico; 1996-97.
6. Minsterio de Educaci6n, Divisi6n de Educaci6n Superior (Chile). Directorio de Instituciones
de Educaci6n Superior en Chile; 1998.
7. Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). Educaci6n Superior: Anexo al Compendio de Informaci6n
Estadistica, 1992; 1990-92.
B.    Accreditation Documents
8. Ministerio de Educaci6n: Divisi6n de Educaci6n Superior. Sistema de Acreditaci6n
Institucional para los Centros de Formaci6n Tecnica; 1997.
9. Persico, Maria Cecilia and Pablo (CPU). Acreditaci6n en Chile: La Experiencia de un
Lustro; 1997.
1 0. RedLatinoamericana de Cooperaci6n Universitaria. Noticias de la Red: Reuni6n Consejo
Conultivo de Acreditaci6n; 1997.
11. Consejo Superior de Educaci6n (CSE). Boletin Oficial: Normas Generales
12. Consejo Superior de Educaci6n (CSE). Boletin Oficial: Acuerdos 1996
13. Consejo Superior de Educaci6n (CSE). Boletin Oficial: Guias de Procedimiento
C.    Legal Documents
14. Aportes Fiscales a la Educaci6n Superior (Public Funds to Higher Education); 1998.



Annex 8                             Page 2 of 5
15. Documento de Posici6n para la Consulta del H. Senado sobre Asuntos Universitarios:
Corporaci6n de Promoci6n Universitaria; 1997.
16. Informe al Consejo de Rectores del Grupo de Trabajo MINEDUC-Consejo de Rectores sobre
sistemas de Informaci6n para la Educaci6n Superior; 1997..
17. Marco de Politicapara la Educaci6n Superior; MINEDUC, 1997.
18. Mensaje de S.E. El Presidente de la Repuzblica con el que Inicia un Proyecto de Ley Marco
de Universidades Estatales; 1997.
19. Propuesta sobre Aportes para Convenios o Contratos de Desempefio MINED UC-
Universidades del Consejo de Rectores, para Proyectos Prioritarios, en el Marco de los
Planes de Desarrollo de las Universidades Tradicionales; 1997.
20. Reglamenta Normas para la Acreditaci6n de los Centros de Formaci6n Tdcnica; 1997.
D.    Project Background Documents
21. Arellano, Jose' Pablo (MoE, Chile). Politicas para la Educaci6n Superior; 1997.
22. Brunner, Jose Joaquin. La Educaci6n Superior Chilena como Objeto de Analisis y de
Politicas; 1996.
23. Brunner, Jose Joaquin and Guillermo Briones. Higher Education in Chile: Effects of the
1980 Reforn.
24. Comisi6n de Estudio de la Educacion Superior (Chile). Una Politica para el Desarrollo de la
Educaci6n Superior en la Decada de los Noventa; 1990.
25. Cox, Cristian. Higher Education Policies in Chile in the 90s; 1996.
26. Gonzdlez, Luis Eduardo (MoE, Chile). Regulaci6n, Acreditaci6n y Optimizaci6n de la
Calidad en la Educaci6n Superior Chilena; 1997.
27. Lemaitre, Maria Jose. Chile: A Decade After the Reform: The Challenge of Assuring and
Enhancing Quality; 1997.
28. Lemaitre, Maria Jose. Elementos para una Definici6n de Politica para la Educacion Superior;
1998.
29. Lolas, Fernando. Chilean Education: An Overview (with an emphasis on higher education);
1996.
30. MECE-SUP, Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). Ayudas Estudiantiles en la Educaci6n
Superior; 1998.
31. MECE-SUP, Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). Desafios de la Educaci6n Superior Chilena y
Politicas para su Modemizaci6n: Informe a su Excelencia El Presidente de la Repiublica;
1994.



Page 3 of 5                           Annec 8
32. MECE-SUP, Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). Fondos Concursables y Nuevos Mecanismos
de Convenios de Desmpefno; 1998.
33. MECE-SUP, Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). Informe del Grupo de Trabajo MINEDUC -
Consejo de Rectores sobre Disefio de Estandares de Calidad y Otras Medidas Iniciales Hacia
un Proceso de Evaluaci6n y Acreditaci6n de la Calidad de los Programas de Pre-Grado;
1997.
34. AECE-SUP, Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). Introducci6n del Instrumento Contratos de
Desempenio en las Universidades Tradicionales Durante 1998; 1998.
35. MECE-SUP, Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). Politica de Educaci6n Superior en Chile:
Bases para el Proyecto MECE Edacaci6n Superior; 1998.
36. MECE-SUP, Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). Policy Goals, Principles and Overall View;
1998.
37. MECE-SUP, Ministerio de Educaci6n (Chile). The National Commission for Scientific and
Technological Research (CONICYT); 1998.
38. Ministerio de Educaci6n: Consejo de Rectores de la Universidades Chilenas: Panel 5,
Presentaci6n de las Experiencias de las Universidades Chilenas en Internacionalizaci6n.
Estado de la Situaci6n de las Universidades Chilenas en Relaci6n con la Globalizaci6n y la
Internacionalizaci6n; 1997.
39. Muga, Alfonso and Jose Joaquin Brunner. Chile: Politicas de Educaci6n Superior, 1990-
1995; 1996.
40. El Programa de Fortalecimiento de la Formaci6n Inicial Docente, MINED UC; 1997.
41. Relanzamiento del Foro de la Educaci6n Superior; 1997.
42. Velasco, Carlos, Ministerio de Educaci6n: Divisi6n de Educaci6n Superior (Chile). Los
Centros de Formaci6n Tecnica y la Formaci6n de Tecnicos de Nivel Superior en Chile; 1998.
43. Ministerio de Educaci6n, Divisi6n de Educaci6n Superior. Integrantes del Consejo Asesor
para la Preparaci6n y Seguimiento del Proyecto MECE Educaci6n Superior, 1998.
44. Trayectoria, Desafios y Propuestas para la Educaci6n Superior. Discurso del Ministro de
Educaci6n, Jose Pablo Arellano, en la celebraci6n del 44 aniversario del Consejo de
Rectores; Slon de Honor Ex Senado, agosto 14 de 1998.
45. Discurso de S.E. El Presidente de la Repuiblica, Don Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, en la
Universidad Metropolitana de Ciencias de la Educaci6n. Presidencia; 26 de agosto de 1998.
E.    General Sector Background
46. Albrecht, Douglas and Adrian Ziderman. Deferred Cost Recovery for Higher Education:
Student Loan Programs in Developing Countries (WB Discussion Paper 137); 1991.
47. Arbeldez, Augusto Franco. Cuanto vale E$studiar in Po$sgrado en America Latina?;



Annex 8                              Page 4 of 5
48. Arriagada, Patricio R. Financiamiento de la Educaci6n Superior en Chile: 1960/1988; 1989.
49. Banco Mundial. La ensefianza superior: Las lecciones derivadas de la experiencia; 1995.
50. Brunner, Jose Joaquin and Hernan Courard, Cristidn Cox. Estado, Mercado y
Conocimiento: Politicas y Resultados en la Educaci6n Superior Chilena: 1960-1990; 1992.
51. Centro Interuniversitario de Desarrollo, CINDA. Gesti6n Docente Universitaria. Modelos
Comparados; 1997.
52. Programas de Posgrado en Argentina, Brasil y Chile; Caracteristicas y Proyecciones; 1996.
53. Centro de Investigaci6n en Creatividady Educaci6n Superior (U de Santiago de Chile).
Creatividad Educaci6n y Desarrollo; 1997.
54. Courard, Herndn, ed.. Politicas Comparadas de Educaci6n Superior en America Latina;
1993.
55. Ddvilia, Amanda, ed.. Desafi6s de la educaci6n superior; 1993.
56. Inter-American Development Bank. Higher Education in Latin America and the Caribbean:
Strategy Paper; 1997.
57. Mallea, John R. Panel 3: International Trade in Educational and Professional Services:
Implications for Higher Education; 1997.
58. Mendes, Candido and Cldudio de Moura Castro. Qualidade, Expanslo e Financiamento do
Ensino Superior Privado; 1984.
59. Revista de Educaci6n. Noviembre, 1997.
60. Riveros Cornejo, Luis and Nassir Sapang Chain. Retos y Dilemas de la Gesti6n
Universitaria; 1996.
61. Subbarao, K and Laura Raney, Halil Dundar and Jennifer Haworth. Women in Higher
Education: Piogress, Constraints, and Promising Initiatives(WB Discussion Paper 244);
1994.
62. Winkler, Donald K. La Educaci6n Superior en America Latina: Cuestiones sobre Eficiencia
y Equidad (WB Discussion Paper 77s); 1994.
63. Albrecht, Douglas and Adrian Ziderman. Funding Mechanisms for Higher Education (WB
Discussion Paper 153); 1992.
64. Eisemon, Thomas Owen and Lauritz Holm-Nielsen. Developing Capacity for Research and
Advanced Scientific Training: Lessons from World Bank Experience (ESP Discussion Paper
62); April, 1995.



Page 5 of 5                            Annex 8
65. Eisemon, Thomas Owen and Lauritz Holm-Nielsen. Reforming Higher Education Systems:
Some Lessons to Guide Policy Implementation (ESP Discussion Paper 60); April, 1995.
66, Crawford, Michael, Thomas Eisemon and Lauritz Holm-Nielsen. Interactive Technology and
Electronic Networks in Higher Educaiton and Research: Issues & Innovations (HCO
Working Paper 62); October, 1995.
67. Eisemon, Thomas Owen and Jamil Salmi. Increasing Equity in Higher Education: Strategies
and Lessons from International Experience (ESP Discussion Paper 61); April, 1995.
68. Sheehan, John. Reform of Higher Education Finance (ESP Discussion Paper 59); April,
1995.
F.    Project Implementation Documents
69. Project Implementation Plan, DIVESUP; 1998.
70. Operational Manual: Competitive Fund, DIVESUP, 1998.
71. Operational Manual: Accreditation System, DIVESUP, 1998.
72. Stakeholder Analysis, collaborative team effort, 1998



Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
tAmmt inS us               ete4
~~~~~  Loan ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~acl
or                                      ______________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~Un is   di:rez . t
Pxo~~~~~~ct  'Credit                .                    191W~~~~~~~~~BR  IDA  Cnll Odi- Orig. Fr  ReV'd
-ations   busa
Number of Closed Loans/credits:
53
Active Loans
CL-PE-6676   IBRD397      1996    GOVT OF CHILE    SECANO AG DEV I           15.00        0.00      0.00     11.37           4.88      0.00
40
CL-PE-6661   IBRD383      1995    MIN PUB WORKS    THIRD RD SCTR            120.00        0.00      0.00     87.15         58.63       0.00
30                    (MOP)
CL-PE-6673   IBRD388      1995    REPUBLIC OF         SECONDARY ED          35.00         0.00      0.00     30.55          15.35      0.00
36                   CHILE
CL-PE-6677   IBRD366      1994    REPUB. OF CHILE  14UNIC DEVT               10.00        0.00      0.00      4.14          4.15       0.00
80
CL-PE-6612   IBRD352      1993    MINISTRY OF         IRRIG DEV              45.00        0.00                6.01          34.52      0.00
80                    FINANCE                                                        31.00
CL-PE-6639   IBRD352      1993    REPUBLIC OF         HEALTH SECTOR          90.00        0.00      0.00     26.28          26.19      24.92
70                   CHILE
CL-PE-6664   IBRD352      1993    REPUBLIC OF         ENVIRON/INSTIT DEV   11.50          0.00      0.00      1.42          1.31       0.00
90                   CHILE
CL-PE-6636   IBRD347      1992    GOVT OF CHILE    SMLL FARMER               95.00        0.00      0.00     36.21          34 .43     0.00
30                   URE                SERVICES
CL-PE-6668   IBRD341      1992    GOVERNMENT          PRIMARY               170.00        0.00    49.21       4.00         50.34       4.02
00                                      ED&IMPRVMENNT
Total                                                                       591.50    0.00    80.21          207.73       230.40       28.94
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                304.91            2,600.51           2,905.46
of which has been repaid:                 23.39           1,867.60            1,890.99
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                489.10              733.11           1,222.21
Amount sold                                      0.00                7.19                7.19
Of which repaid              :                0.00                7.19                7.19
Total Undisbursed               :              207.73                 .15             207.88
a.Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 9 (continued)
CHILE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval          Company           Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic   Loan   Equity        Quasi      Partic
1987/88/89     Celulosa Arauco             0.00      0.00       15.00    0.00    0.00     0.00       15.00     0.00
1989/91        Escondida                  13.42       7.48      0.00      1.64   13.42    7.48        0.00      1.64
1989/93/94     CELPAC                     10.64       0.00      0.00      5.83   10.64    0.00        0.00     5.83
1990           ING-MLF-Nature F            1.20       0.00      0.00      1.80    1.20     0.00       0.00      1.80
1990/92/93     CTC                        18.45       0.00     20.00    29.66   18.45     0.00       20.00     29.66
1990/94        Leasing Andino              8.75       0.00      0.00    15.00    8.75      0.00       0.00     15.00
1991/93        Aconcagua                  0.0+0       6.45      0.00      0.00    0.00     6.45       0.00     0.00
1991/93        FIBRANOVA                   0.00       1.54      2.00      0.00    0.00     1.54       2.00     0.00
1991/94        BOMASA                      2.06       2.00      2.80      2.25    2.06    2.00        2.80     2.25
1993           Pangue                      0.00      4.70       0.00      0.00    0.00    2.82        0.00     0.00
1994           Pionero Fondo               0.00      10.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    10.00       0.00     0.00
1994/96/97     Moneda Asset Mgt            0.00       .46       0.00      0.00    0.00     .46        0.00     0.00
1995           Latasa-Chile                6.50       2.50       0.00     0.00    6.50     2.50       0.00     0.00
1995/96        Refimet                    15.00       0.00      0.00    46.00   15.00      0.00       0.00     46.00
1996           FEPASA                     14.50       0.00       6.00     6.00    9.90     0.00       6.00     4.10
1996           Proa Fund                   0.00       8.40       0.00     0.00    0.00     8.32       0.00     0.00
1997           Agrisouth Chile            10.00       0.00       0.00     0.00   10.00     0.00       0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:              100.52      43.53      45.80   108.18   95.92       41.57   45.80     106.28
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan       Equity    Quasi   Partic
1994             MERSAN                        0.00     0.00     3.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00     0.00      3.00    0.00



Annex 10
Chile at a glance
Chile Higher Education Project
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America  middle-
Chile   &        Income      Development
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        14.4       485      479
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                            4,920     3.710    4,540                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                               70.9     1,799    2,173                       _
Average annual growth, 1990-
Population (I%)                                        1.5       1.7       1.5     GNP                              Gross
Laborforce (%)                                         2.1       2.3       1.8
per                            primary
Most recent        (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)               86         74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72         69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live                        12        37       35               Acces to aafe water
Child malnutrition (36 of children under 5)              1         ..      ..
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                   96        80       86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      5        13       13                Chile
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)    99       11       107                Chie
100                                   Upper-middle-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM
1975     1985      1995     1996
GDP (billions US$)                            7.2     16.5      67.3     70.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                17.0     17.2      27.4    27.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP            25.4     28.1      29.3    26.2               Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   15.0     19.6      29.3     25.5
Gross national savings/GDP                   11.       8.1      27.5     23.3
Current account balance/GDP                  -6.8     -8.6       0.2      4.1
Interest payments/GDP                         2.7      9.9       2.2       1.7     Savings                     Investment
Total debtlGDP                               76.4    123.8      38.0     41.5
Total debt servicetexports                     ..       ..      25.7     20.4
Present value of debVGDP                        ..      ,.      36.3
Present value of debtlexports                  ..       ..    121.                             Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                      Chile
GDP                                  3.8      7.2      8.5       7.2      6.0Upe-ndlcoegru
GNP per capita                       0.2      6.3      5.0        .8      5.0                Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        7.0    10.4      33.5      -3.0      8.0
STRUCTURE of the
1976     1988      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                         Growth rates of output and investment
Agricuiture                                   6.6      7.4       8.8       8.4     30
Industry                                     38.1     36.4      30.0     29.720
Manufacturing                              20.3      15.7      18.4     17.8
Services                                     55.3     56.2      61.2     61.9      o
Private oonsumption                          69.3     67.0      62.0     65.2             91   92   93   94   95   90
General govemment consumption                15.7     13.4       8.8      9.3                     GDI        GDP
Imports of goods and services                27.4     25.7      27.4     28.4
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and imports
Agriculture                                   2.6      6.0        5.5      1.8     40
Industry                                      3.3      6.4       6.8      5.7
Manufacturing                               2.2      6.5        6.5      3.5
Services                                      3.9      7.8       9.9       7.9     20
Private consumption                           3.6      7.5      11.       8.8      10
General govemment consumption                 0.4      3.0       2.3      2.5
Grossdomesticinvestment                       3.6    12.4       12.      11.       -       5    92   93   94   95   99
Importsofgoodsandservices                     4.7    13.5       22.2     11.                     Exports  -mports
Gross national product                        1.8      8.0      10.       6.3
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italirs are for years other than those specified.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) oompared with its inoome-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Chile
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1995    1905
Domesk prices                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       30 -
Consumer prices                             374.7    30.7        8.2      7.4    25
Implicit GDP deflator                       334.6    30.7       12.2      7.0                         _
Government finance                                                                s
(% of GDP)                                                                        c
Current revenue                             24.8     26.2       21.5    22.6             91   92   93   94   as   go
Current budget balance                        ..       ..        5.3      5.6             -      DP def. --cPI
Overall surplusldefcit                      -2.6    -6.3         2.5      2.2
TRADE
1975     1985      1995    1996     -
(millions USS)                                                                    Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                         1,590    3,804    16,137   15,353     180_
Copper                                     868    1,789      6,487    6,029     iex, 000
Fruits                                      16      515      1,117    1,205     14.Mo
Manufactures                               395    1,168      6,720    6,435     1o5o                     _I
Total imports (dif)                         1,708    3,268    15,914   17,828     8XO       
Food                                       361      222        361     471       es-
Fuel and energy                            252         .     1,447    1,907      4
Capital goods                              328      588      4,177    4,736      2
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..       85       163      143            90  91  92  93  94  95  Ha
Importpriceindex(1987=100)                     ..      99       133      138                   rurS 
Termsoftrade(1987=100)                                 86       122      104
*ALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(millions USS)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               1,832    4,497    19,297   18,711      -
Imports of goods and services              2,049    4,013    17,979   20,087
Resource balance                            -217      484      1,318   -1,376     o- ---i,. --
90   9    92  92  194  s9  H6
Net income                                  -284   -2,043    -1,481   -2,016    -1 .                    |
Net current transfers                         10      147       310      473
Current account balance,                                                           .
before official capital transfers         -491   -1,412        147   -2,919
Financing tems (net)                         206    1,313       914    4,100      4
Changes in net reserves                      285       99    -1,061   -1,181    .4
memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)          238    2,950    14,820   15,487
Conversion rate (locallUS$)                  4.9   161.1       3968    412.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1995    1996
(millions USs)                                                        -         I Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        5,520   20,384    25,562   29,223
IBRD                                       129      487      1,372    1,093                       A  e
IDA                                         22       18        11       10                       1372 11 0
G                1487
Total debt service                           637    2,271      5,150    3,721           6955                  E
IBRD                                        20       37       841      352                                713
IDA                                          0        1         1        1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             15       32        53
Official creditors                           2      436    -1,802
Private creditors                           43      684      2,261
Foreign direct investment                   50      114      1,695       ..                              F
Portfolio equity                             0        0       274        ..                           l124
World Bank program
Commitments                                 20      541       155       15      A- IBRD                     E - Bilaeral
Disbursements                               16      231        83       75   |B-IA    D - Other mufluaterat   F - Pti'mte
Principal repayments                        11       20       705      264      c - IMF                     G - short-erm 3
Netfiows                                     6      211       -622     -188    1       ,        .        ,        _
Interest payments                           10       18       137       89
Net transfers                               -4      193       -759    -278
Development Economics



Annex 11
Chile Higher Education
Chile Higher Education Project
Upper-mid
1985   1995      LAC*       income*
Socio-economic context
Per capita GNP (US$)                            1,420  4,130
Adult illiteracy rate (%)                        7.8    4.8        16          15.8
Average years of schooling of adults             6.5 --            ..           ..
Structure and coverage of the system
Duration of education (years)
Primary level                                     8      8         7            6
Secondary level                                  4       4         5            6
Compulsory schooling                                     8         7            8
Gross enrollment ratio
Primary level                                    105    99       107.3        100.7
Secondary level                                  67     69        55.4         74
Tertiary level                                  15.6   28.2       ..            18
Percentage enrolled in population aged 6-        ..     ..        ..           ..
Student flow--secondary level
Progression to secondary level (%)                91     55   _                   -------
Public expenditure on education
Total spending as a percentage of GNP
Current spending per student (% of per capita GNP)
Primary level                                   13    8.5        ..           20
Secondary level
Tertiary level                                  54      ::     -:-             :
Girls' enrollment
Primary level (%)                               48.7   48.7       49           48.7
Secondary level (%)                             52.1    54
Tertiary level (%)                 :-   45.7                     _   _          ::-_-_
Enrollment in Private Institutions
Primary level (%)                                32     40        15.4         10.3
Secondary level (%)                              39     44         ..          16.4
Tertiary level (%)                              58.2   62.2       ..            ..
* Unweigted Group Average



Table 2. Description of the Higher Education System in Chile
Distribution
Type and share    of AFI
of Public    (thousand   Distribution
Type of institutions    Number of Institutions    Undergraduate enrollment    funding        pesos)    of student aid
1980         1996         1980         1996           1997          1997          1997
Traditional Universities       8            25         118,978      167,282       AFD, AFI,    13,719,983   39743102.1
(9.5 %o)                 (46.7%)        Loans,        (86.90/o)     (99.90/%)
Scholarships
(96.5%)
Private Universities           0            42            0          77,212         AFI         1,892,668      12000
(16%)                    (21,6%)        (1.4%)         (12%)       (0.03%)
Professional Inatitutes (Ps)   0            69            0          52,170         AF           131,159       4908.4
(26.3%)                   (14.6%)       (0.09%/)      (0.8%)       (0.01%)
Technical Centers (CFTs)       0            126           0          61,418         AFI           43,326         0
(48. 1%)    _____         (17.2%)       (0.03%)        (0.3%)
Total                8           262         118,978      358,082        100%        15,787,136   39760010.5
.____________________    ._______ _    (1I 00%)   __________     (100% )    ___________       ( I00%/o)     (1000/% )



Table 3. Distribution of fiscal support within the 25 traditional universities.
(million of pesos, 1997)
AFD      %       AFI      %       FDI       %    Student Aid   %  Institutional aid  %   Fondecyt   %    Total      %
U. Chile      14,625    23.9   2,401    19.5    5,419    48.8       1,786     9.4     22,445     265   4,369    39.5  51,045   25.6
Catolica      7,569    12.4   2,098    17.1    414        3.7       761       4.0     10,081     11.9  2,669    24.1  23,592    11.8
Concepcion    5,309     8.7    1,109     9.0     413      3.7       1,873     9.9      6,831     8.1    920       8.3   16,455    8.3
Santiago      4,560     7.5    1,893    15.4    366       3.3       1,890    10.0      6,819     8.1    661       6.0   16,189    8.1
Austral de    3,493     5.7     410      3.3     390      3.5       1,206    6.4      4,293      5.1    697       6.3   10,489    5.3
Chile
Catdel        3,201     5.2     744      6.0     395      3.6       958      5.1      4,340      5.1    342       3.!   9,980    5.0
Valparais
TecFSanta    2,707      4.4     474      3.9     287      2.6       845       4.5      3,468     4.1    208       1.9   7,989    4.0
Maria
C delNorte    2,678     4.4     252      2.0     200      1.8       504      2.7       3,130     3.7    145       1.3   6,909    3.5
Metro. Cs     2,043     3.3     106      0.9     254      2.3       764      4.0      2,403      2.8    54        0.5   5,624    2.8
Educ
Tarapaca       1,860    3.0     85       0.7     214      1.9       685      3.6      2,159      2.6    82        0.7   5,085    2.6
Valparaiso    1,725    2.8      425      3.5     209      1.9       545      2.9      2,359      2.8    110       1.0   5,373    2.7
Antofagasta    1,717    2.8     140      1.1     190      1.7       421      2.2      2,047      2.4    95        0.9   4,610    2.3
Talca          1,444    2.4     241      2.0     195      1.8       513      2.7       1,880     2.2    125       1.1   4,398    2.2
Frontera      1,370    2.2      341      2.8     224      2.0       852      4.5       1,935     2.3    192       1.7   4,914    2.5
Serena        1,283    2.1      200      1.6     194      1.7       619      3.3       1,677     2.0    107       1.0   4,080    2.0
Bio Bio       1,191     1.9     329      2.7     236      2.1       1,160    6.1       1,756     2.1    32        0.3   4,704    2.4
Atacama        757      1.2      20      0.2     173      1.6       330      1.7       950       1.1     2        0.0   2,232    1.1
Los Lagos      739      1.2     55       0.4     226      2.0       434      2.3       1,020     1.2    114       1.0   2,588    1.3
Magallanes     616      1.0     33       0.3     192      1.7       260      1.4       841       1.0    51        0.5   1,993    1.0
PlayaAncha     613      1.0     67       0.5     208      1.9       559      3.0       888       1.0    13        0.1   2,348    1.2
Metropolitana    565    0.9     482      3.9     208      1.9       722      3.8       1,255     1.5      7       0.1   3,239    1.6
Arturoprat     494      0.8      46      0.4     183      1.6       403      2.1       723       0.9      8       0.1   1,857    0.9
Temuco         240      0.4     103      0.8      108     1.0       247       1.3      451       0.5    19        0.2   1,168    0.6
Concepcion     239      0.4     129      1.0     115      1.0       359      1.9       483       0.6    33        0.3   1,358    0.7
Maule          152      0.2     115      0.9     100      0.9       207      1.1       367       0.4      1       0.0    942      0.5
61,190    100    12,298    100    11,113    100      18,903    100      84,601     100   11,056    100  199,161   100



Table 4. Distribution of fiscal funds across instruments (in thousand of 1998 US dollars)
Percentage of             Percentage of
total public             total public
Fiscal funds                           US$ 1997       funds       US$ 1998       funds
AFD                                     185,322        45.4        187,498       42.9
AFI                                     38,033         9.3         37,120         8.5
FDI                                     30,431         7.5         38,044         8.7
Performance contracts                    0            0.0         9,773         2.2
U. Chile agreements                     12,318         3.0         12,022         2.8
Student Aid                             73,443         18.0        93,482        21.4
Credits and loans MINEDUC             45,293         11.1        60,170        13.8
MINEDUC Scholarship                   21,822         5.3         24,904         5.7
Juan Gomez Millas Scholarships          0            0.0          2,273         0.5
Scholarships for pedagogical programs   0            0.0          705           0.2
CONICYT scholarships                   2,525         0.6          2,659         0.6
Others                                 3,803         0.9          2,771         0.6
FONDEF (only to traditional Us.)        20,133         4.9         19,664         4.5
FONDECYT (to all institutions)          37,437         9.2         37,396         8.6
Programs for students in pedagogy        6,732         1.7          5,913         1.4
Other                                    4,118         1.0          5,513         1.3
Total                                   407,967       100.0        436,652        100



Graph 1. Evolution of AFD, AFI and FDI, 1990-1998
90000 T
80000 I
70000 I
. 60000
O 50000
40000 t
30000:
20000 T                                                         AFI
10000 5
FDI
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995     1996      1997     1998
ENROLLMENT
Graph 2. Enrollment in Higher Education Institutions
400000
350000 L                                                       _ _
Total
300000                                       9
2500(00
. i.Traditionai
200000 .    _                                                                    I       universities
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~New private Us
100000                                                                           , lPs
500002
0 
I - 00      0     - c r  O,     ,            '
Co   Co   Co   Co 0'   0' G 0    0'   0'   0'   0'   0'
0'     _'   _     _    _    _     _    _    _     _    _    _ 0    0    0    0    0



Table 5. Enrollment, student aid, income distribution of students
within 25 traditional
universities.
Students from bottom
quintile
Enrollment   % of      % of      As % of    As % of
1994   enrollment student aid, institutional   students
1992     enrollment  from bbottom
quintile*
U Chile               20,258     12.6       9.4         8.0         18.2
Concepcion            15,102      9.4       9.9         8.0        24.6
Catolica              14,421      9.0        4          2.6         8.3
U. Santiago           14,248      8.9        10         9.3        30.2
Austral de Chile       9,403      5.8       6.4         6.5        31.9
Cat Valparaiso         7,898      4.9       5.1         4.6        27.1
Tec F. Santa maria     7,090      4.4       4.5         4.9         31.9
Bio Bio                6,995      4.3       6.1         5.6         37
Cat del Norte          6,301      3.9       2.7         4.5        33.1
de la frontera         6,213      3.9       4.5         4.2        31.6
Tec metropolitana      6,169      3.8       3.8         3.6        27.1
Metrop. Cs Educ        6,159      3.8        4          5.1        38.3
Serena                4,667       2.9       3.3         4.7         47
Valparaiso             4,472      2.8       2.9         2.5        25.4
Tarapaca               4,299      2.7       3.6         4.8         51.3
Antofagasta            3,561      2.2       2.2         2.6        34.4
Playa Ancha            3,231      2.0        3          2.9        42.2
Talca                  3,013      1.9       2.7         2.3        35.6
Los Lagos              2,988      1.9       2.3         2.8        44.1
Arturo Prat            2,899      1.8       2.1         2.1        32.8
Maule                  2,741      1.7       1.1         2.3        39.1
Atacama                2,602      1.6       1.7         2.5        43.8
Cocepcion             2,084       1.3       1.9         1.1        24.6
Catolica de Temuco     2,027      1.3       1.3         1.5        34.5
Magallanes             1,969      1.2       1.4         1.0        22.6
Total                 160,810     100       100         100
* Only students from bottom quintile enrolled within the 25
traditional universities



K' J  nP.   ~   -;._ 
REGIb          I -                                   o-tsls                 N5           \v--
H ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~/                                 SJ
H-II                        B                                     A$-A
TA,  ,- 
t~~~~~~~gJg Jv \Ulau  . \           o    = ~>                                                   EINXI'
p -
.7 ~   ~     ~      A,
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U,   RIE,.                                    1en2T~:          .               --Chqlml . f7o1  x\_  
'OIF~~~~~~~~~~~~~g~~~~~g'g  A. -    --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G'i
de~~~~~~N                                                          Lv  , E _ . < [.d, /t8 i     
RE IO    -                                            i ,,->RGO1i
Melillanes Ii en Xllo k k 2_g                                               \' "                                                         -: 
B                                               A,gg,       A1-' 9p) X:                                                         \     {Fd oo;   t   ; '^'<) ;.
101- .C                                2"- 
5  .Vl,00,S                   go........'.(  i   .   .-           -. z /
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t -- t    .  vx 8         X   m   E                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHILE
Cldro CamroPmtt o   '~'       Ans E10g ,. (HIGHER EDUCATION
MHH    !  EGION   I                   
72 eEGION i                  _iO  i  Ets                                     ~~~IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-/ii*RADITIONAL L NIVERS TIES
tamxiola o / dloJunlow ! t cA s FUh leJh W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EW PRIVATE LUNIVERS T E
-'N    I~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~RFESOA IS UE
H-a       %lea                                                                FE     2+xi0m                                 TECHN CAL TRAIN4ING CENTERS
A,JA +f o_ ^ t PMp +u j  ARG RGE xNTINA                    R. J                                                  POPOLATMON DENSAf
c ,,.Xv  X  t    !                                  e yhp , _n>9zJ g                       B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.000 -300.000
r ,.                                            <P>-j                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300,001 500 000
Coq.i.6.SnJulEh/   OVER 5,000, 00
RE"     I do                                                                                                 A                                /,
C   b   Eolrio *                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ch Km >c d                  NAT ONAL ROADS
IVW                                                                       (P      e                              MAINU RAILROADS
_ r S _ ................ (,>z- /p RIVERS
\y. ]  bc u-  . . .                                  ., t 4                     +   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
L3                                                                                                           4-'obbndor  Cochlme p    /  hlAJOR PORTS
-,  4T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         ii    ATOA  AIA
QH dHI                  -.dN 'g                                                                              g,REGION,'J  CAPITA,
Q  ,,V' j    Z*s der  .   SELECTED CITIES
VAduL' I                                                                              >                          -    REGIONT BOUNDARIES
/ , '      ' ,_REGION                                                    J                          -    INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
ROPOLCTT     ONA _ANA                                                                                 NV   TE
O ~ ~~~~~~~             ~~~                                ~ ~        ~    ~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~            ~ -.A  -^  - - - - -25   510  715  IL Kiom0 e M-
A1j,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,, / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     0       75       1MM



