Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22959
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35500; SCL-3550A; SCPD-3550S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 93.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FORA
THIRD COMMUNITY HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
12/19/2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of August 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (IDR)
IDR 1,000 = US$ 0.11
US$ 1 =  IDR 9,150
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31 till 2000
FY 2000 was 9 months, April 1 to December 31
Same as calendar year from 2001 onwards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMP         Maternal and Perinatal Audit    MOH           Ministry of Health
Bapelkes    Center for Health personnel     MOHA          Ministry of Home Affairs
Training
BAPPENAS  Ministry of National Planning     MONE          Ministry of National Education
Bidan C     Village midwives recruited locally  MSA       Multi Stream Academy
in Irian Jaya and Maluku
DGHE        Directorate General for Higher  NCB           National Competitive Bidding
Education
DIP         Project development budget      NOL           No Objection Letter
allocation
FEPS        Final Executive Project Summary   NTT         East Nusa Tenggara Province
GOI         Government of Indonesia         PDAs          Program Development Activities
HIS         Health Information System       PKM            MOH Center for Health
Education
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau  PMU            Project Management Unit
IBRD        International Bank for          Pusat Data    MOH Center for Health
Reconstruction and Development                Information
ICB         International Competitive Bidding  PUSKESMAS  Health Center
IDA         Iron Deficiency Anemia          QAG            Quality Assurance Group
IDD         Iodine Deficiency Disorders     REPELITA      Five year planning cycle
IDR         Indonesian Rupiah               SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
IMCI        Integrated Management of        SKRT,         National Household Health,
Childhood Illness              SUSENAS        Expenditure Surveys
IPB         Institute of Agriculture in Bogor   THP        Third Health Project
LSS         Life Saving Skills              UGM            Gadjah Mada Univerisity
MOEC        Ministry of Education and Culture  UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
MOF         Ministry of Finance             WHO            World Health Organization
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Samuel S. Lieberman, EASHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
ID-THIRD COMMUNITY HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
i. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 20
6. Sustainability                                                                     22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      23
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    25
9. Partner Comments                                                                   27
10. Additional Information                                                           28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performnance                                    38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 39
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation                                                        40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003914                                        Project Name: THIRD COMMUNITY HEALTH
AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Team Leader: Samuel S. Lieberman                           TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: THIRD COMMUNITY HEALTH AND                      L/C/TF Number: CPL-35500;
NUTRITION PROJECT                                              SCL-3550A;
SCPD-3550S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: HN - Nutrition
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/30/1987                               Effective: 04/21/1993          07/30/1993
Appraisal:  06/15/1992                                 MTR: 06/15/1996            06/291996
Approval:  12/22/1992                               Closing: 03/31/1999           03/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOI/DEPT. OF HEALTH
Other Partners:  Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau (KfW)
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                  Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:      Maureen Law                                 Clifford Gilpin
Team Leader at ICR:   Juliawati Untoro                           Susan A. Stout
ICR Primary Author:  Juliawati Untoro; Samuel S.
Lieberman
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original goal of the Third Community Health and Nutrition project (CHN3) was to raise
infant, child, and matemal health status by improving the effectiveness of safe motherhood, child survival,
nutrition, and health education programs in the provinces of Irian Jaya (now Papua), Maluku, Nusa
Tenggara Timur (NTT), West Java, and Central Java. This objective was to be achieved by (i) building
provincial and district capacity to plan, implement and evaluate programs; and (ii) strengthening the
capacity of the central Ministry of Health (MOH) and selected higher education institutions under the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) to support provincial efforts.
The project's objective, which was consistent with the goals of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), responded to a critical program priority for the Borrower. This was to reduce existing
high infant, child, and maternal mortality rates. Moreover, the project's emphasis on building provincial
capacity supported the Government of Indonesia's (GOI's) policy of gradually transferring responsibilities
and resources to lower level administrative units. In this respect, the project built on the achievements of
the then ongoing Third Health Project (THP, Ln 3042), in decentralizing some planning, budgeting, and
implementation-related activities in the provinces and districts of East Kalimantan and Nusa Tenggara
Barat. CHN3's provincial focus also contributed to GOI's goal of promoting inter-regional equity.
Selection of Irian Jaya, Maluku, and NTT was seen as leading to a more balanced distribution of sectoral
resources, by working to close gaps between Java and Eastem Indonesia in availability of health facilities
and staff.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project design responded to the above objectives through (i) a provincial service delivery and
capacity development component, and (ii) a central support services and capacity building component.
The provincial component comprised interventions through MOH's Safe Motherhood, Child
Survival, Nutrition and Health Education programs. The emphasis on child and matemal survival was an
understandable response to concerns and imperatives at the time. High national level estimates for the
infant, child, and matemal mortality rates served as a call-to-action. Health gains in some regions and
program successes in related areas, e.g., family planning, suggested that progress could be made in
Indonesia if the context was favorable. Policy specificity, i.e., tailoring interventions to local needs and
conditions, was seen as critical for creating circumstances conducive to significant health status advances.
Two risks were identified during preparation and addressed in the project design. The first was
the generally limited province level experience in preparing and implementing safe motherhood, nutrition,
and child survival interventions. To address this risk, CHN3 added a second component to augment central
capacity to help the project provinces to improve their planning, targeting and evaluation techniques.
Specifically, the central component aimed to strengthen the Directorate General for Community Health, the
Center for Health Education and the Center for Health Information in regard to policy development,
provision of technical assistance, organizing and monitoring training, and carrying out surveys and
operational research. The central component also supported staff and curriculum development, research
and training in MOH's Centers for Health Personnel and Manpower Development, and in research and
- 2 -



training in six institutions, five schools of public health and one specializing in nutrition, which were the
responsibility of the Directorate General for Higher Education (DGHE) in MOEC.
The second risk identified during preparation also contributed to the decision to incorporate a
sizable central component. This was the possibility that project-related results would not be transferable
unless MOH decision makers were actively involved in translating project experiences into replicable and
sustainable policy packages. In response, the design envisaged an activist role for central units tasked with
digesting and disseminating CHN3 lessons to non-project provinces.
The rationale for and scale of CHN3's central level support were debated during project
development and remained an issue during implementation. This component was a focal point in the
preparation of this ICR. By including various central activities, the project design counted on changes in
management practices and behavior within MOH. These adjustments were seen as needed if MOH was to
perform the facilitative and wholesaling functions which had been delineated.
However, by financing a large and diverse Jakarta-based component (thereby departing from the
THP template), CHN3 itself took on risks relating to ineffective or even counterproductive performance by
central units. THP was less vulnerable to such problems since it financed only a few centrally implemented
tasks, which were under a single unit, the Bureau of Planning, where it received high quality management
attention.
The risks entailed in supporting large scale central level activities were recognized to some extent
during preparation--the appraisal report referred to delays and other problems encountered in implementing
the Health Manpower project (Ln. 2542) which had recently closed with an Unsatisfactory rating. It was
anticipated, though, that responsibility for backstopping and overseeing project activities in the five CHN3
provinces would provide the purpose and defined framework needed for successful implementation within
MOH. But the expected changes did not eventuate, while implementation in three program dimensions in
five provinces and numerous central component activities under two ministries made the project complex
and difficult to coordinate (and supervise). As discussed below, what resulted were substantial
achievements in the provincial component, but only adequate overall performance in the central component
elements. Judged from the province level perspective, the project yielded significant and durable outcomes.
The record was weaker seen in terms of the project's central level capacity building and institutional
aspirations.
3.4 Revised Components:
The above components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
QAG assessed CHN3's readiness for implementation and other aspects of quality at entry, as
Satisfactory, although with qualifications. This review found QAG's evaluation, including the reservations
expressed, to be valid-quality at entry in this ICR is Satisfactory. The QAG review, done in April 1999,
commented favorably on the project's emphasis on province-level capacity building, and development of
quality assurance and evaluation techniques and on the effort made to integrate lessons from earlier
projects. But QAG thought that these strengths were weakened by design flaws which were attributed in
part to incomplete preparations. QAG referred to the monitoring and evaluation element within the project
design which it considered overly complex considering what was seen as the limited capacity of provincial
and district level staff. The QAG team found that implementing units relied on only a few indicators with
- 3 -



most of the many markers presented in SAR (Annex 8) not being used. QAG referred as well to the
absence of the operational baseline data needed to measure progress overall and in individual project
components.
QAG also cited changes at appraisal and negotiations which added elements to a project whose
scope and complexity already presented supervision obstacles. During appraisal it was agreed that the
project would strengthen staff capacity and support studies within five Schools of Public Health and the
School of Nutrition in the Institute of Agriculture, Bogor (IPB). These possible project activities had been
discussed during pre-appraisal and mentioned in the March 1992 Aide Memoire as a matter requiring
further discussion. Accordingly, they were not "added" at appraisal as indicated by QAG. Unfortunately,
these activities were not included in the Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS), and their rationale and
associated risks were not examined during the FEPS meeting which agreed that appraisal could go ahead.
The DGHE component led to problems almost immediately and contributed to a five month period
between Board approval (1/21/93) and formal effectiveness (7/30/93) and in a longer de factor delay after
project start-up. Specifically, there were misunderstandings (see December 1993 Aide Memoire),
concerning procedures for research activities and other aspects of the sub- component. There were also
time consuming internal GOI hurdles in compensating project secretariat staff and releasing funds for
province level activities. MOF's position was usually at variance with what MOH and the design team had
anticipated, requiring several months to resolve.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project outcomes were as Satisfactory on balance.
General Objective: to elevate infant, child and matemal health status by improving the specificity
and effectiveness of Safe Motherhood, Child Survival and Nutrition programs, including health and
nutrition education, in the provinces of Irian Jaya (now Papua), Maluku, Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT),
West Java, and Central Java.
Objective 1: Building provincial capacity to plan, implement and evaluate programs.
Objective 2: Strengthening the capacity of the central MOH's Directorate General of Community
Health, Center for Health Promotion and Center for Health Information System to support provincial
efforts.
Project objectives were embodied in a design in which health and nutritional status was addressed
through interrelated activities at the province, district, and central levels. In the provinces and districts, the
project focused on enhancing service delivery and building capacity through improvements in
infrastructure, staff skills, planning, epidemiology, health education, research, and program management
and monitoring. Provinces in Eastern Indonesia and Java were selected purposefully to demonstrate ways
of raising performance in contrasting settings--there are striking differences between densely populated
Java and the sparsely settled, culturally heterogeneous Eastern Islands. Among the key design feature was
the opportunity created through CHN3 for provinces and districts to leam by doing in developing health
and nutrition programs. During project preparation, each of the five provinces developed locally grounded
plans to improve service delivery, staff skills, and related institutional capacities. During implementation,
each province went through a rigorous annual planning process which culminated in a yearly workshop
- 4 -



with the other provinces. What's more, the project provided a mechanism, the Program Development
Activity (PDA) funding window, that enabled provinces and districts to overcome some of the rigidities in
the national budgeting process while planning and implementing locally specific programs.
Province and district level interventions were to be bolstered through CHN3-strengthened
assistance from the Directorate General of Community Health, other MOH units, and various technical
centers under MOEC management. Project-induced changes in responsibilities and capacities were
expected to help the MOH Directorate and Centers for Health Education, Health Information, and Health
Personnel Training and other participating institutions provide proactive, effective leadership and
coordination as regards policy development and planning. This support was to be organized through
initiatives which integrated central, and province and district-based activities. For example, PDAs were
expected to combine province and district level insights, proposed solutions, and resources with specialized
skills and experience supplied by MOH and the universities.
Programs and research covering several or more provinces were also expected to focus and
integrate central activities. Of these, perhaps the most crucial were several mutually reinforcing
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms including routine collection and analysis of the survey and other
information needed to track project performance. Other instruments included regular qualitative
assessments of PDAs and an annual review of progress and plans for each province by central program
units. The mid term review (MTR) was to be a more in depth version of the latter.
Evaluation vantage points. How indispensable to project results was the support provided to
central level units? Two perspectives on this project design and performance issue were present in the
SAR. The first tasked the central component with "changing the role and capacities of relevant program
units with each of the affected units expected to play a stronger leadership role as regards Policy
Development, Planning, and Coordination" (SAR, page 25). What was envisaged was a tightly integrated
program in which transformed and energized central level activities were seen as making a critical
contribution to health advances in the five provinces. Surveys of health behavior and outcomes were an
example of what was anticipated from the central component. Survey results, including findings from
special near term rounds of the National Household Health (SKRT) and Expenditure (SUSENAS) Surveys,
were understood to be crucial for adequate impact evaluation at project end, and in the design of
within-project fine-tuning and course corrections.
However, the central component went away almost immediately, as seen in the failure to deliver the
monitoring and evaluation plan agreed to at Negotiations. Ultimately, no start-up survey or equivalent
baseline exercise was ever carried out, and without such information, it was impossible to satisfy literally
the objective, stated on page I of the SAR, of achieving significant, measured improvements in infant and
child mortality and nutritional status during project implementation. Problems in respect of measuring
project results were matched by set backs and delays in other central activities.
A restated concept. Early performance shortfalls provided an opening for an alternative view on
the role of central units which is also contained in the SAR. As just discussed, the first version of the
project concept saw central level initiatives as pivotal--central level changes were expected to lead directly
and promptly to strengthened service delivery efforts in the five CHN3 provinces. In contrast, the
alternative project design was not dependent on central level leadership in the alternative perspective--the
provincial component was seen as largely autonomous, with inputs from slow maturing central activities
regarded as contributing to but hardly determining the direction and pace of project execution. Linkages
were expected to strengthen during implementation as central units became more experienced and effective
in assisting province and district level programs.
-5-



The second version of CHN3's design is discernible in the way health information and related
matters were handled. For instance, despite the attention given to measuring project results, the SAR only
mentioned possible baseline survey options and suggestions for performance measures, leaving actual
instruments, indicators, methodology, and implementation arrangements to be worked out after
effectiveness. For QAG, the absence of adequate baseline data and an agreed monitoring and evaluation
plan was evidence of hasty and incomplete preparations (see section 3.5 above). Instead, the issue seems to
have been that of changing views on the necessity and availability of a central "engine" to move
implementation along--an initial assessment, that a strong central role was both feasible in the near term
and indispensable, gave way to a commitment to institutional development in the central component.
It was this more realistic formulation of CHN's goals and processes which actually guided
implementation and which arguably, should inform performance assessment. The effort to clarify project
goals and means began when the July 1993 start up mission found little progress in developing the project
monitoring and evaluation plan agreed at Negotiations (see section 4.2b). Follow up visits pursued issues
surrounding baseline and follow up performance indicators, within increasing attention to addressing the
capacities of Jakarta-based units. The tone and content of mission reports during 1993 and 1994 focused
on what were seen increasingly as formidable, perhaps insurmountable, institutional challenges in the
Jakarta-based component. Meanwhile, review missions also focused on overcoming various procedural
barriers which had dissuaded provinces from using the PDA mechanism and interfered with CHN3's
learning-by-doing mechanisms. In January 1995, there was an important breakthrough. GOI and the Bank
agreed that almost two thirds of the consultants' services, research, and studies spending categories would
be channeled through PDAs, which were incorporated through an Amendment into the Loan Agreement.
PDAs could also draw on funds from the equipment, training, and instructional material disbursement
categories if these items were part of the activity being funded. It was decided as well that PDAs would be
eligible for 100% project financing if various criteria were met, and that PDA allocations could be carried
over for up to three years if unspent.
Finally, two years after the project became effective, the June 1995 mission reported that the pace
of implementation in the provincial component had finally picked up. The Aide Memoire added that with
"a critical mass of staff, mechanisms, and procedures in place, it may be timely to revisit the aims and
expectations associated with the project." No definitive restatement was proposed, but directions were
clear--the document dealt mainly with province- level service delivery program planning and supporting
PDAs, with ongoing Central activities described briefly towards the end as needing "to be consolidated and
linked to service delivery." Clearly, CHN3 had evolved into a project with two loosely connected
components.
Overall implementation results. How well did this restated project perform? Evaluation of
CHN3 is impeded, of course, by the already cited absence of indicators for the project provinces at
start-up. The lack of a project specific baseline, a clear design shortcoming, makes it difficult to exclude
confounding factors and estimate with any precision the effects of project interventions. Nevertheless, it is
possible to draw on different information sources to put together a credible picture of project achievements.
First, national surveys (SKRT and SUSENAS) showed that there were significant, very likely
CHN3-assisted improvements during the 1990s in service coverage and in child and reproductive health
and nutritional status in NTT, Maluku and Irian Jaya, and in West and Central Java. For example,
prenatal care coverage (including TT2 vaccination) and skilled-assisted birth delivery increased sharply in
NTT, Irian Jaya, and Maluku, the province's with the largest CHN3 financial support, and to a lesser
- 6 -



degree in West Java and Central Java during the project period (Annex Table 1). There were also striking
gains in all five CHN3 provinces in the proportion of births attended by medical personnel, as well as some
substantial improvements in the immunization coverage (DPT 1) of young children and in the proportion
reaching acceptable birth weight levels. There were also significant reductions in estimates of infant and
child mortality and fertility in most of the project provinces.
Gains in service coverage, and in health and nutritional status occurred during a period of
increasing access to trained health personnel. For example, the number of health centers and sub-centers
expanded during the project period, along with the number of qualified staff (Annex Table 1). CHN3 was
instrumental in this process. For instance, the project helped to train and deploy large numbers of
government-employed midwives in the five provinces. In Irian Jaya alone, CHN3 was instrumental in
deploying almost 6000 trained midwives, including constructing village health centers in which almost a
fifth of these women could be based. Moreover, CHN3 contributed to program capacity and effectiveness
in numerous other ways depending on specific needs by province. Again, the lack of baseline data makes it
impossible to develop robust estimates of the project's contribution to the large reductions in mortality and
morbidity which took place.
Among CHN3's lasting province-level, "software" contributions were the backing provided for
introduction and improvement of Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) strategies,
adoption of Maternal and Perinatal Audits (AMP) and related community-based and quality of care-related
approaches to reducing maternal mortality, and the use of mapping techniques and follow up measures to
address consequences of micronutrient deficiency disorders in specific areas. These are examples of work
supported through PDAs which became an effective policy instrument and learning-by-doing mechanism
after various procedures and disbursement rules were amended (see discussion above).
PDAs in turn were often most effective when they contributed to and/or were suggested as a
consequence of the annual work plan exercise and related Integrated Planning and Budgeting approach
which the CHN3 provinces were among the first to implement. The techniques and procedures of the
Integrated Planning and Budgeting methodology were disseminated through a series of training activities
and workshops which covered related skills, e.g., data collection and analysis. These skills were put to use
in regular planning, programming, reporting and other ongoing tasks which were brought together at the
annual planning meeting attended by all five provinces. There venue for these meetings shifted each year,
enabling CHN3 staff from each province to make site visits and compare experiences. In this way, CHN3
helped strengthen province and district level capacity to understand and exploit decentralized planning.
And though results for this objective could not be assessed quantitatively, it was generally agreed that the
CHN3 provinces and districts activities were more advanced than other provinces in terms of program
planning and management. This achievement was evident when Laws 22 and 25 on decentralization
became effective in January 2001. Apart from strife-torn Maluku, CHN3 districts appeared readier to cope
with decentralization than those in other provinces.
Implementation results by province are described in the following section. Also reviewed is
performance in a central component initially tasked with providing proactive leadership and seasoned
guidance. After effectiveness, some of the pre-conditions for a catalytic central role became clearer.
Central units would need to move from a "top-down" to a supportive engagement, allowing provinces and
districts to take the initiative and responding to their needs. This major change in the "rules of the game"
would require systematic changes in incentives, roles and responsibilities, and associated organizational
behavior. This ambitious goal was not achieved. Most central units persisted with traditional, rather
directive organizational behavior patterns. Without the anticipated changes in organizational behavior, the
provinces were able to achieve satisfactory gains in health outcomes. However, access to responsive,
- 7 -



technically competent central inputs may have resulted in more striking advances (see discussion below on
the remaining agenda by province).
Conclusion project = S Performance was Satisfactory
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) A Provincial Service Delivery and Capacity Development Component
Rating: Satisfactory
Province-based activities accounted for almost two-thirds of project spending, with over 70% of
these outlays directed to the three Eastern Indonesia project provinces (Annex Table 2). This component
accounted for most project successes and arguably for any lasting impacts due to the project.
The review below summarizes the areas of project emphasis and topics of note for individual
provinces. This discussion draws on the co-financier's assessment of equipment procurement and use. The
Borrower's ICR proved helpful, as did the cofinancier's procurement review, a number of high quality,
project-supported evaluations of different sub-components and instruments, e.g., PDAs. These
assessments, which typically involved surveys and focus group discussions with staff and beneficiaries,
contributed to the Borrower's ICR as well.
East Nusa Tenggara (NTT)
Rating = Satisfactory
CHN3 extended service access in this province, and fostered use of monitoring and evaluation to
define interventions and improvements in program effectiveness. One area of support was for construction
of vaccine warehouses in Flores and Sumba Timur which contributed significantly to the logistic system,
and purchase of radio systems which improved medical communication in the province. NTT absorbed
11% of overall project spending, with these resources accounting for at least a third of the development
budget for health in the province.
A distinctive and successful feature of CHN3 in NTT was the priority given to staff capacity at the
managerial and service delivery levels. The project financed in-country degree training for 87 staff, and
training externally for another 29 individuals, and developed a Multi-stream Academy (MSA) and
strengthened a Bapelkes (Center for Health Personnel Training) in Kupang. Policy makers wanted to
address: (1) the limited capacity and skill of district and sub-district health staff in planning,
implementation and evaluation; and (2) the failure to plan services in an integrated manner. NTT officials
felt that too much emphasis was given to traditional classroom based, often focused on vertical programs
and only those staff working in those programs. NTT wanted a total paradigm shift in training moving the
training away from vertical programming toward an approach that emphasizes "on-the-job" training to
teach practical applications and to change traditional attitudes and practices.
In response, the province developed its own strategy to strengthen planning capacity and staff
skills. Key components included: (1) in-service training to strengthen team work not merely individuals
capacity; (2) establishment of a team of core-trainers at the province and district level; (3) promotion of
program-based rather than project-based planning; (4) support for bottom-up planning based on general
policy guidelines from the province; (5) utilization of data to identify local problems and program needs;
- 8 -



and (6) development of planning guidelines and formats to support this process. Participants included a
range of district health staff, including most section and sub-section chiefs from both the District Health
Office and the District Hospital.
An ex post assessment revealed that the data analysis and management training was very important
to building skills in program planning. Staff at both the province and district level felt themselves more
competent to conduct planning and programming and more responsible for these activities. The emphasis
was on integrated service planning and to eliciting greater support to health services from the non-health
sectors. On-the-job training also encouraged the shift from exclusive responsibility of the health center
doctor for all management tasks to involving other non-physician staff in planning and management tasks.
Contract doctors had more flexibility to focus their skills on medical services rather than administrative
tasks. The management training program, which initially covered three districts, was later expanded to
cover the whole province and is supported through local government funding.
Provincial health officials were especially concerned about the quality of midwives training in
obstetric and neonatal care. Although training combining clinical and classroom based activities, many
midwives had fewer than five cases to manage during their training. Fewer still attended a sufficient
number of deliveries during a year to maintain competency in many of their clinical skills. Accordingly,
training in health centers and hospitals was expanded so that village midwives could be exposed to
deliveries and basic diagnosis and treatment in a clinical setting.
Provincial health officials also decided that since village midwives were sometimes the only source
of health care in many parts of NTT, it was essential to train them in basic health skills besides maternity
care. After completing their clinical training program, the village midwives also attended a two-week
program during which they learned social-cultural and community development skills. The project also
provided midwifery kits and transportation allowance and in kind support of boots, umbrella and raincoats.
Remaining agenda. The province has already extended and incorporated many CHN3 initiatives
into existing programs through other funding sources. Looking ahead, there were aspects of
implementation that could have been more effective and others which need to be followed up.
*  NTT's use of PDAs lagged behind the other CHN3 provinces. The most successful PDA, on
modifying Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) training, was adopted as a
nation-wide program. But overall, only a few PDAs were accepted due to limited staff skills
and experience in use of local data to identify priorities and prepare proposals.
*  Despite training and other support, an evaluation found that many village midwives did not
intend to continue their work in their village after their government contracts ended. Moreover,
supervision of village midwives was seen as irregular due to limited staff capacity.
Provincial and district staff felt that central program supervision was insufficient, and there was
too little support from local governments and related sectors.
Irian Jaya (now Papua)
Rating = Satisfactory
CHN3 responded to this province's size, and its small, impoverished, dispersed and often isolated
-9-



population with a major intervention program which accounted for over a fifth of project spending, and
more than half of the province's development budget for health. The overriding challenge was to extend the
network of facilities network and staff to increase access to health services, especially for the indigenous
population who often lived in very remote areas. The project was entrusted with a specific responsibility,
embodied in a covenant, to ensure that the proposed health measures took account of the preferences of the
indigenous population.
In response, one policy thrust was to strengthen the capacity of provincial and district staff through
training and technical assistance. CHN3 funded fellowships for various in-country and extemal courses
were awarded to over 244 staff. Capacity building also involved construction of seven nursing schools, a
media production center and a Multi Stream Academy (MSA) subsuming Academies of Nursing,
Environmental Health, and Nutrition.
But the most striking and important policy measure involved midwives. Since recruitment for
regular government midwives (Bidan A), who were required to have completed three years of technical
nursing school plus one year of midwifery training, was insufficient and due to the limited education of
most indigenous women, a special option was developed, known as Bidan C training. Over 3000 locally
midwives in Irian Jaya. Village midwives were also trained to provide basic health service beyond
maternity care. However, as in NTT, instruction in obstetric and neonatal skills was problematic, since
many midwives had only few clinical cases to manage during their training.
This initiative involving women from indigenous communities seemed like best way of reaching a
population which is disproportionately rural, often located in extremely isolated remote areas, and
disadvantaged in term of language and literacy. Such disadvantages were reflected in health services with
indigenous groups receiving limited health care from small numbers of trained health workers. The Bidan
C program was seen by all fulfilling GOI's obligations as regards the indigenous people's covenant.
Field evaluations, including a 1999 study of 48 Bidan C and 150 community members from six
districts, found that these women were active, eager, and dedicated, and had generally been deployed in
appropriate locations and been successful in getting services for the first time to many mothers and
children. The study concluded that the Bidan C initiative was a worthwhile program, but could be
improved by offering continuing training, e.g., in primary and emergency care, stronger supervision and
referral arrangements, and gradual improvements in infrastructure. With project support,
puskesmas-based supervision was supplemented when a cohort of 26 Bidan A were trained as field
supervisors of Bidan C. The study proposed partnership arrangements with NGOs to assist in training and
backstopping the village midwives, and called as well for field ethnographic studies of reproductive beliefs
and practices, and compilation of detailed lessons of Bidan C experience good and bad.
Remaining agenda. Irian Jaya used CHN3 to good advantage including launching a daring
approach to improving service delivery in the special rural conditions in the province. However, this
measure, i.e., Bidan C initiative, and associated policies need to be sustained and extended if health
advances are to continue in the special and difficult circumstances in the province. The principal follow up
issue for CHN3 relates to program sustainability. In this regard, the Bidan C initiative must address
several issues, some of which extend far beyond the boundaries of CHN3:
* The acceptability of these service providers in local comrnunities cannot be taken for granted.
A study found that local communities welcomed midwives but were disappointed that they
didn't routinely provide medicines or injections. Also many women did not understand the
need for antenatal care nor assistance with delivery. Clearly, there is much to be done to
- 1 0 -



prepare and educate communities preventive health and the role of the Bidan C. The
community development and communications skills of these midwives will need to get attention
as well.
* The willingness of Bidan C staff to continue their work is also at issue. It was estimated that
more than 75% of the village midwives remain in the same village in which they were
originally placed. However, some indicated they may not be willing to stay after their
government contracts ended-a pervasive concem was whether communities would provide
adequate support including a place to provide services. In focus group settings, midwives
voiced concem about their limited skills, equipment, and supplies, and sought training, career
counseling, and access to radio communication.
* The broader health agenda including the spread of HIV and other diseases cannot be ignored.
The Bidan C, despite their lack of training, will still be asked to treat victims of traditional
communicable diseases as well as individuals with AIDS-this disease is thought to be
approaching epidemic proportions in the province. CHN3 helped put HIV on the province's
health agenda by supporting an incisive anthropological field assessment of the epidemic.
Interventions post CHN3 will likely need to give greater attention to communicable diseases,
including HIV, and possibly other priorities. Mrian Jaya faces a vast health agenda.
CHN3-financed improvements provided a start, but the province will need not only sustained
support for the Bidan C but a major commitment to a sector-wide program.
Maluku
Performance not rated.
As with their counterparts in NTT and Irian Jaya, the govermment of Maluku decided to use CHN3
to organize health care in a manner consisting with local circumstances. Maluku is an archipelago with
many remote, lightly populated islands. The strategy was to use CHN3 resources to develop 21 centers
serving clusters of islands. This included rehabilitations of health centers, and construction of a
Multi-stream Academy (MSA) and a Bapelkes in Ambon. Service delivery in the 21 centers was to be
strengthened by training traditional birth attendants, improving midwife training and deployment including
recruiting almost 900 Bidan C staff, upgrading transport and referral systems, and introducing maternal
and perinatal audits (AMP). An iodine deficiency survey was conducted in all sub-districts to provide
prevalence information for better program targeting. Project outlays, over 40% of which was spent on
equipment, accounted for 1 1% of total CHN3 expenditures. Unfortunately, project activities in Maluku
ended in 1998 due to violent civil strife. The MSA and Bapelkes closed, and many health staff trained
through CHN3 had to leave the province; most equipment procured through the project was damaged.
Unfinished agenda. Sustained and destructive violence in the province negated what had been a
promising start on CHN3-funded program. Access to services of adequate quality and health status itself
have deteriorated. Meanwhile, with security likely remaining a concern even in areas with a semblance of
law and order, the province is facing greater hurdles than before in recruiting trained staff. In these
circumstances, the strategy developed for CHN3 funding, e.g., upgrading, staffing, and equipping 21
central service points, remains valid, and hopefully will be supported financially and implemented when the
crisis ends.
-11-



West Java
Rating = Highly Satisfactory
This province was included in CHN3 because infant and maternal mortality rates had remained
high even though access to health facilities, along with communications and transportation arrangements,
was adequate. Project outlays, which were smaller than for other provinces and modest relative to the then
population of over 32 million people, were large enough to make an impact in specified areas.
CHN3 was used to enhance the quality and effectiveness of infrastructure and staff that were
already in place. CHN3-funded fellowships were awarded to 265 individuals. Specific project
achievements included introduction of verbal autopsies or maternal and perinatal audits (AMP) to
determine the causes of infant and maternal death (see below). Also worth noting is CHN3's modification
(in Cianjur district) of WHO's Integrated in Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) algorithm. This
innovative step involved community health volunteers, village leaders, religious figure, traditional healers,
as well as local drug vendors. The approach was replicated in other districts in the province. Similarly, the
provincial health office developed standard opeTational procedures for neonatal and infant health services in
cooperation with Padjajaran University. This became an important tool for monitoring overall infant
development which was replicated throughout West Java, and later in other provinces. CHN3 supported a
survey in West Java and Central Java to define prevalence and identify detenninants of iron deficiency
anemia in pregnant women and children under-five. Results were used at the district level to improve
program targeting.
Within CHN3, West Java province made the most extensive and impressive use of the PDA
mechanism to fund innovative activities. Some interventions were later institutionalized and expanded
through the local budget and other funding mechanisms. These included a manual for health-post
supervision, a growth monitoring chart, standard health procedures for infant health service and IMCI, and
evaluation of Life Saving Skills (LSS) training.
Finally, CHN3 significantly strengthened provincial and district planning and management by
introducing integrated planning and budgeting, and techniques for decentralized community health
development. It is generally agreed that implementation of CHN3, including support for data analysis and
management training, has been very instrumental in speeding up decentralization in West Java. On the
other hand, the effective use made of CHN3 reflected strong teamwork at provincial and district levels, the
involvement of local government, and inter-sectoral collaboration
Sector agenda. West Java use of CHN's resources and opportunities was exemplary and valuable
for its own health development needs and in terms of benefits to other provinces. Health status, including
risks to mothers and children, remains a matter of considerable concern in this large and comparatively
poor province. Policy makers have responded by building on and going beyond CHN3 to grapple with the
opportunities, and needs and risks associated with much expanded local autonomy and responsibilities
following govermnent decentralization.
Central Java
Performance = Satisfactory
Like West Java, this province was included in CHN3 because of its sizable population (16% of
Indonesia's total) and relatively high infant and mortality rates. The project focused on improving service
quality through staff development and strengthened monitoring and supervision. The capacity of provincial
- 12 -



and district health staff was enhanced through in-country and external program fellowships, which were
awarded to 1135 people, as well as construction of a Bapelkes (Center for Health Personnel Training) in
Gombong. CHN3 supported iron deficiency mapping to improve targeting in the control program. This
survey was the most widely disseminated PDA in Central Java.
Another noteworthy PDA was an effort initiated by the health center doctor in Kepil to reduce
maternal mortality. The approach adopted in what was called the Tabulin scheme ensured that all women
in the community received a minimum package of maternal health services (four antenatal care visits, a
delivery assisted by a midwife, transportation and referral costs, and free emergency obstetric care for
women who were referred to the hospital). Those women who could not afford the initial fees were allowed
to pay their fees in-kind through local agricultural products such as peanuts or vegetables. The village
raised seed money to start up the Tabulin community fund, run by a Board, by determining in collaboration
with the community the fees for membership and the services covered.
A lasting CHN3 achievement in Central Java was the attention given to enhancing the quality of
maternity care services through LSS, emergency obstetric care management training, and AMPs. Central
Java along with West Java led to the institutionalization of AMP. A typical maternal audit used family
interviews and other techniques to go beyond the standard clinic-based medical audit approach to
determining causes of death. CHN3 supported preparation and dissemination of training and technical
manuals for AMP which was introduced in four districts and two in West Java in 1994 and in the rest of
these provinces in 1996 and later adopted in numerous other provinces and as an element in the
recommended reproductive health policy package. With assistance from CHN3, AMP was developed not
only into a valuable diagnostic and reporting tool but an important training instrument and a means for
finding solutions to policy constraints.
Remaining Agenda. While performance was satisfactory, there are indications that the province
could have exploited CHN3's mechanisms more fully:
*  Central Java could have made greater use of PDAs. Assessments showed that staff at district
level were not fully informed of opportunities to use PDA funds to test innovative program
activities.
*  The co-financier's end-of-project procurement inquiry found instances of underutilization of
CHN3-financed equipment. Purchase of low quality and sometimes irrelevant equipment and
low maintenance and repair funding were cited as the main problems.
*  The project made important contributions to implementing bottom-up planning through a
system that stratified health centers. However, some district staff felt that provincial
programs were given priority over local initiatives. In general, Central Java gave less
emphasis than the other provinces to specific health problems. Most interventions were generic
activities which did not reflect provincial or local characteristics.
*  Central Java used CHN3 to improve data analysis and utilization. However, the Health
Information Center which was supported was not linked to most districts and served mainly for
data processing and production of annual health profile reports.
(b) A Central Support Services and Capacity Building Component
Rating = Satisfactory (marginally)
The central component, covering diverse activities in numerous units under two ministries,
- 13 -



accounted for over a third of project spending. The broad goal for each of the sub-components within
MOH and MOEC was the same, i.e., to support provincial and district level efforts to improve service
quality and effectiveness. Achievements included assistance to provincial and district staff in designing and
carrying out PDAs, along with centrally initiated in-service seminars for program managers from each
province, and work force and ethnographic studies. Also noteworthy were the IDD mapping in the CHN3
provinces and use of results for program formulation, establishment of a longitudinal surveillance
mechanism, and support for public health and nutrition faculties via scholarships for advanced degrees.
The Borrower's ICR (Section 9a) discusses central component contributions in further detail.
Central component achievements were qualified or offset, however, by design and implementation
difficulties in individual sub-components. All in all, the performance of these Jakarta-based activities was
satisfactory at best. This was a disappointing result especially for a component looked to initially for
active leadership and timely guidance to newly empowered provincial and district teams. Expectations
were lowered in the "rebooted" design which actually guided project implementation. But even in terms of
a more modest outlook, the central component under-performed-the Borrower's ICR reached much the
same conclusion. Outcomes in key sub-components are discussed below.
Health Education
Performance = Unsatisfactory
The objective was to help transform the MOH Center for Health Education (PKM) into a unit
capable of supporting the distinctive health education activities needed as part of the service delivery
strategies adopted in each province. To this end, CHN3 supported education and training for health
education staff at central, provincial and district levels. This approach was not very successful. Provincial
and district capacity overall remained weak, with no system in place to help newly trained staff implement
what they had learned. The media production skills of provincial and district health staff were not
sufficient to meet the needs of community; good data and research were limited and rarely used for
pianning. In addition, many staff trained in health education moved to other units. Health education
development was also constrained by a lack of accountability and low motivation among provincial and
district level staff.
An end-of-project study indicated that many decision makers in the provinces and central program
units felt that PKM was not responsive to their needs. Health education activities remained Jakarta-based
with provincial and district staff habituated to waiting for guidance rather than taking initiatives
themselves. Central authorities showed little awareness of or interest in provincial and district level
activities, needs, and difficulties confronted in the field. Indeed, a Plan of Action, developed by the
international consultant team, dealt with overcoming supposed "threats" to PKM rather than its
responsibilities towards the provinces and districts. Central supervision and monitoring arrangements
remained weak, especially in the eastern provinces. In retrospect, CHN3 provided a limited initial
foundation in health education and promotion in province and district level units. Further initiatives will be
needed to build effective local capacity, and to work out the appropriate role for central units. A more
fundamental reformn of the health education system and substantial changes in the available resources is
required.
Health Information System (HIS)
Performance= Unsatisfactory
- 14-



The objective stated in the SAR was to enable the Center for Health Information (Pusat Data) to
operate effectively as MOH's multi-functional, technical secretariat for health information. To achieve this
and associated goals, CHN3 financed equipment, software, training, fellowship and technical assistance.
This sub-component accounted for almost a quarter of the funds initially allocated for central level
activities.
The objective of developing Pusat Data into a technically competent and responsive unit was not
achieved through the project. Burdensome and redundant data collection continued during and after
implementation, while the quality of different data collection system remained weak and as did analysis and
dissemination of findings from different sources to province and district level officials. Three areas of
underperfornance stood out:
*  As discussed, no baseline survey ever took place despite design provisions and follow up
efforts to find ways of proceeding, making it difficult to gauge performance. After years of
discussion, the SKRT was finally conducted in a sample of project districts in 1996, and a
Rapid Assessment was carried out in 1998/99 in each province except for Maluku.
*  There was little progress in developing health information systems appropriate for province
and district needs. CHN3 supported implementation of new ( in West and Central Java) or
improved ( in NTT, Maluku, and Irian Jaya) facility reporting systems. However, these
arrangements were not fully accepted by all program unit staff (who claimed their data needs
were not met). This resulted in the limited use of the pilot systems and redundant data
collection by each program. Pusat Data provided very limited backing for this work, retaining
a top-down approach, failing to explicate the technical and administrative issues entailed, and
providing negligible leadership, problem solving options, coordination between sectors, and
feedback and advice to the provinces. Conditions deteriorated due to low routine budget
allocations for information systems and weak data processing skills at health center and district
levels.
*  The CHN3-supported longitudinal survey sites in Purworejo (Central Java) and Belu (NTT)
were not exploited to improve data use in health and nutrition decision making. Set up and
managed by Gadjah Mada University (UGM), Purworejo was utilized mainly for academic and
scientific purposes by UGM students--the indicators collected did not match the needs of
district and provincial health offices and thus attracted little interest--Pusat Data did not
provide any leadership or informal assistance. Purworejo also was ineffective as a training
vehicle for district staff. This program has attracted other funding sources and continued as a
community laboratory for the students even after the project closed. Belu was shut down in
1999, due to political instability in Timor. The use of the surveillance sites as centers of
excellence for program evaluation was not achieved in the project. Research results did not
contribute to provincial and national agendas, due to ineffective communication and
coordination between the surveillance sites and the provincial health office.
This disappointing outcome is attributable, basically, to a faulty diagnosis of Indonesia's health
information needs, challenges, and capacities which resulted in unworkable initial and revised
sub-component designs. Inadequate analysis was evident in the original project concept in which the
sub-component's role was not only overloaded, but also under-specified. In this design, Pusat Data was
responsible for generating the information needed to "record significant, measured changes in infant and
child mortality, and in nutritional status" (SAR, p. 1). The text and annexes of the SAR mentioned various
- 15 -



steps, activities, and even performance indicators which would contribute to producing the needed data.
But apart from a specific reference to one survey (SUSENAS), the document was non-committal as to
priority actions and timing, citing GOI assurances that a project evaluation plan would be presented no
later than six months after loan effectiveness.
Weak analytical underpinnings also explain the lack of a pragmatic alternative when GOI failed to
fulfill its commitment to develop a monitoring and evaluation plan. The Bank's response acknowledged
Pusat Data's capacity weaknesses but then set goals which were not only as unrealistic and overloaded as
before but also inflexible. The revised game plan for the health information sub-component was set out in
a December 1994 Aide Memoire which took note of progress, but then indicated that Pusat Data's newly
drafted strategic plan was far from adequate. The reasons included inadequate attention to the number and
complexity of health center registration activities, and to how improvements in the "quality and validity" of
health center data would be achieved. This Aide Memoire then recommended activities which would lead
to effective monitoring and evaluation. Among these were in-depth analyses of i) the information needs
associated with each provincial service delivery strategy and ii) existing health center recording practices.
This work was expected to lead to a detailed proposal to test and evaluate a revised recording system for
facilities in Central Java, and by December 1996, to a training and hardware provision plan extending this
new system to the other CHN3 provinces.
The December 1994 Aide Memoire acknowledged that the agenda would require Pusat Data to
strengthen its own institutional capabilities as well as those of its province and district level counterparts.
The suggestion was made that, with project financing, the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, Georgia,
could help Pusat Data address its institutional weaknesses. The accompanying (January 1995) Back to
Office Report (BTOR) indicated that the above elements had been agreed and included in a revised
Strategic Framework which "usefully articulates a primary focus on improving the use of data for decision
making at local levels, and reinforces the role of Pusat Data in improving the efficiency of MOH "health
information systems." Finally, the BTOR made it clear that "Achieving the policy's objectives will be a
major challenge for Pusat Data, which suffers from weak leadership and limited staff capacity."
In any event, this revised approach was not successful--nor could it have been. A follow up
mission, in June 1995, reported that "numerous, promising activities" were underway that needed to be
consolidated. However, whatever commitment and momentum which had been created could not be
sustained; planned steps did not go ahead, and by the July 1996 Mid Term Review (MTR), the Bank and
MOH had essentially turned to other options. The MTR's stance was eclectic, with the provinces and
central program units encouraged to develop core and supplementary performance indicators for inclusion
in the SKRT or specialized rapid surveys. Pusat Data was again asked to submit a plan for assuring the
quality of different data collection systems, and improving ways of disseminating findings. Subsequent
missions dealt with dissemination of the SKRT "baseline" survey and then with piloting rapid assessments.
Interactions continued but Pusat Data no longer loomed large in Bank-GOI project discussions as it had at
project start. By project closing, barely half of the original allocation for this sub-component had actually
been spent. The actual "instrument" for these spending cuts were repeated rejections, by BAPPENAS of
Pusat Data funding proposals-the Bank team welcomed these decisions, while MOH did not lobby
intensively to overcome objections within Bappenas.
What lessons should be drawn from this experience? First, with the initial enthusiasm for a
national approach giving way to encouragement for province-based solutions, CHN3 ended up with an
appropriately modest and experimental stance towards health information matters. However, this outcome
resulted from an extended and costly learning process for which Pusat Data bears considerable
responsibility. In effect, this unit did not take advantage of an excellent opportunity to define and
- 16 -



operationalize a key role for itself in an upgraded health information system.
However, the Bank was not blameless. The original concept underestimated the difficulties
entailed in developing a project-wide baseline survey, and in implementing a multi-prong, multi-level
information system concept. This complex and sophisticated design did not benefit, it appears, from an
assessment of Pusat Data's capacities, e.g., staff skills and motivation, organizational and coordination
capabilities, resource availability, and formal and informal responsibilities and managerial authority.
Moreover, the Bank's response to early implementation problems was also unrealistic. The recommended
strategic framework was well beyond what clearly were very limited Pusat Data capabilities. To its credit,
the design team took on difficult issues for which there were no best-case solutions even in high income
countries. But the lack of an recommended solution in the SAR and the inconsistent signals in some
reports, support the impression that the Bank team was uncertain as to what would constitute a reasonable
approach.
This must account for the eventual decision to move to a more modest engagement in the information field.
Training
Performance = Satisfactory
The goal of the DGHE portion of this sub-component was to strengthen the quality of the
training, research, and technical assistance carried out in several universities and other institutions
with ties to the five CHN3 provinces. Trainees in the DGHE sub-component were drawn from
the University of Indonesia's Faculty of Public Health and Center for Childhood Development
(assigned to West Java), Gadjah Mada University's Faculty of Public Health (Central Java, NTT),
Diponegoro University's Faculty of Public Health (Central Java), Airlangga University's Faculty
of Public Health (NTT), Hasanudin University's Faculty of Public Health (Irian Jaya, Maluku),
and the Community Nutrition and Family Resources Faculty (West Java) within the Agricultural
Institute in Bogor (IPB). Also covered in this discussion is the training experience of central
health staff, including those drawn from the Nutrition Academy. (Reference is also made to
training achievements and concerns of province and district level staff). Also part of CHN3's
training interventions was the Center for Health Personnel Training which received support at
central and provincial levels facility construction and renovation, curriculum development, and
training of trainers.
** As an example, the December 1993 supervision team reported satisfactory progress in developing the methodology for a
start-up survey, but noted that the "study on baseline data" had been downgraded and linked to district and sub-district
capacity development. The Aide Memoire warned that baseline work "should not be undertaken without clarity on the
roles and responsibilities of different organizations."
- 17 -



In-country                           Overseas                  Overall-tot.
PhD   Master L dergra Diploma i. Cours Sub-Tota  PhD   Master S Course Seminar Sub-Total
Province
lnan Jaya                  0      19      84     104     10    217       1      12      14      0      27     244
Maluku                     0      37      70     35      147    289      0      4       20      0      24     313
NTT                        0      14      73     100      6     193      0      6      23       0      29     222
CJava                      0      122    107    122    708    1059       0      13      63      0      76    1135
W Java                     0      98      94      17      9     218      0      18      29      0      47     265
Sub-total   0     290    428    378    880    1976       1      53     149      0     203    2179
Central unit
DitNutrition               1       8      29      3      147    188      4      3       31     11      49     237
Dit Higher Educa!ion (MONE)   26  35      0       0      180    241      9      12      35      2      58     299
Center for Health Education  0     3      6       0       0      9       0       5      16      6      27      36
DIt Comm Participabon      0       3      7       0      87      97      0      0       6       2      8      105
Dit Family Health          0       3      1       0       6      10      0      4       4       3      11      21
Center for HlS             0       2      1       5      131    139      0      2       32      2      36     175
Center for Health Personnel  0    3      4       9       0      16      0      5       2       2      9      25
CenterfbrHealthTraining    0       5      8       5       2      20      0       2      7       1      10      30
cademy ef Nutrition        0       7      6       8       6      27      0       3      8       3      14      41
Dit Health Center Promotion    0   2      2       1       2      7       0       1      8       0      9       16
Secretrariat Comm Health   0       0      0       0       7      7       1      10      3       0      14      21
Sub-total  27     71      64      31     568    761      14     47     152     32     245    1006
Overall-total  27    361    492    409    1448   2737    15    100    301         32     448    3185
CHN3 made a large investment--US$9. 1 million in the central component and US$9.6 million
spent on staff development in the provinces and districts--in capacity building. This type of investment
deserves close scrutiny. However, capacity building results, which are difficult to observe except in
specific situations, may take years to emerge in full.
Nevertheless, a rough overview can be assembled, drawing on a project-financed beneficiary
assessment, focus group discussions, and other sources. The picture that emerges is of a sub-component
whose positive impact is already being noticed. Moreover, this investment, arguably the most successful
element in the central component, will continue to yield benefits in the medium term as trainees move along
in their careers. This assessment is based on the positive feedback recorded in the survey and other
accounts. Respondents in the DGHE sample, for example, voiced strong satisfaction with their
experiences, citing increased personal competence and confidence, and enhanced opportunities to raise their
incomes through promotions and grade increments. Academic staff cited improved teaching-learning
techniques, stronger grounding in curricula and syllabi, widened networks, and greater ability to carry out
research, present findings, and prepare proposals. A survey of health staff sent for training found
analogous results, which were generally confirmed through observation.
Feedback and lessons from this sub-component were not, of course, uniformly positive. Critical
observations from different vantage points include:
* Provincial and district health staff were often unimpressed with the technical assistance
provided by staff, many newly educated, from the Schools of Public Health and Nutrition. In
particular, consultation results were sometimes seen as not specific enough and difficult to be
applied as program activities. The most significant contribution was seen as the assistance in
developing specific PDAs. On other matters, communication and coordination between
consultants and provincial or district health staff remained weak.
- 18 -



*  A related point pertains to research conducted by staff from the School of Public Health and
Nutrition. Although much of this work was done in the CHN3 provinces, there was inadequate
involvement of local staff, and the focus did not reflect the need of the programs. A weakness
in this sub-component was the inability to establish effective professional collaboration
between the universities and the local government and health staff through the project.
*  Some province staff felt that a disproportionate share of trainees came from Central Java and
West Java instead of eastern provinces where the needs were greater. They argued as well that
recruitment of fellowship recipients especially for short courses was not transparent, and that
qualifications of some participants did not correspond to the prerequisites. The main limitation
on participation of staff from NTT, Maluku, and Irian Jaya in external training was their more
limited English language proficiency.
*  Some noticed that staff who had been trained through the project often moved to other units.
This reduced the impact of the fellowship component on program development. In addition,
some staff from Irian Jaya and Maluku moved to positions outside the province after their
training.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Rating = Substantial
CHN3 pursued and achieved an ambitious institutional goal, that of improving the effectiveness of
locally grounded health programs. However, the way this goal was attained differed from what was
anticipated. The project's design incorporated numerous institutional development measures, many focused
on strengthening central MOH units which were expected to contribute proactively to provincial programs.
As discussed, this initial institutional development strategy, i.e., to remake key central functions, faced
difficulties from the outset. On the whole, central level units continued to operate in traditional, directive
fashion, with little movement towards a catalytic and opportunistic approach to policy development.
Problems early on in the central component led to changes in emphasis and institutional tactics. In
the initial 18 months of implementation, PDAs were caught up in unworkable and time consuming research
review and approval procedures. The problem was recognized and correct via an Amendment, and PDAs
were then developed into versatile and effective policy and learning-by-doing instruments, which linked up
well with the annual work planning, and integrated planning and budget techniques and procedures which
provinces and districts adopted with project-financed assistance. The latter, meanwhile, emerged as
valuable coordination and learning exercises as well, especially when returnees from different national and
overseas training programs, began to participate.
These instruments, i.e., Integrated Planning and Budgeting, PDAs, and extensive staff training,
improved local government capacity to plan and manage their own programs, and brought the CHN3 areas
greater autonomy. For this reason, the CHN3 provinces and districts were better prepared than other
- 19-



regions for the substantial decentralization measures which went into effect January 1, 2001. It is this
readiness for decentralization which comprises CHN3's main institutional development legacy.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.] Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Indonesia experienced a severe economic crisis starting in 1997 and lasting through 1999. This
period was marked by government funding shortfalls and rapid inflation. GOI's crisis response included
significant, publicly disclosed cuts in sector allocations, along with further unannounced controls on actual
spending. The latter were especially disruptive, leading to sharp reductions in health service delivery in
public facilities in some regions. Along with these formal and informal policy measures, the civil strife
which exploded in Maluku in 1998 resulted in effect in the virtual cessation of project activities in the
province. Together these different factors led to implementation delays and ultimately cancellation of
almost US$20 million. All in all, the crisis and associated policy responses dealt a heavy blow to a project
which had hit its stride in the previous 24-30 months and was taking on health information and other
challenges from a province-grounded perspective. The crisis undernined the climate and motivation for
policy innovations. Behavior within MOH became more risk averse and remained so even after President
Suharto left office in mid 1998 and the "reform" era officially began. When the crisis began to ease in
1999, CHN3 was in its final phase, and not well placed to provide the reform ideas and energy which MOH
needed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Commitment on the part of key policy makers in relevant agencies was the most critical factor
subject to government control as regards CHN3. Backing from the government was especially important
under the authoritarian, highly centralized governance arrangements of President Suharto's New Order
regime.
Several dimensions need to be distinguished when characterizing the extent and nature of GOI's
support for the project. First, the broad policy environment was not conducive generally for policy-focused
projects such as CHN3. During the Suharto era, stability and continuity in institutions and policies were
highly prized. Officially, policy change was possible only at five year intervals when the REPELITA (the
planning cycle) exercise was initiated. Within each REPELITA period, policy adjustments including
institutional changes were discouraged. Second, particular policy avenues were either blocked entirely by
the regime or subject to limited or controlled access. Examples included participation by beneficiaries,
changes in governmental responsibilities, any regionally centered steps which seemed to challenge Jakarta's
powers, and civil service reforms. Moreover, MOH had little clout and standing within GOI. It was not
looked to on inter-sectoral matters and was ineffective in addressing health financing issues. This was
evidenced in low and unstable funding levels-salaries were such that government staff relied on private
practice income with adverse consequences for service quality.
However, there were other considerations which offset to some degree this generally unfavorable
climate for health policy improvement. For instance, comparisons with other countries, intemational
pressures to participate in high visibility meetings and causes, interactions with multilateral and bilateral
assistance agencies, and recognition at the technical level that the health system faced serious problems all
prepared the way for policy interventions in this sector. There was also concern within BAPPENAS and
other parts of GOI about inequality of health results between regions and between poor and non-poor. In
fact, health policy was by no means static within each REPELITA. During the 1990-93 period, GOI
introduced a number of policy innovations, e.g., the contract doctor scheme, and the village midwives
- 20 -



initiative. (Moreover, government spending per capita rose in by a third in real terms between the late
1980s and mid 1990s). These policy changes were acceptable because they were presented as elaborations
or technical adjustments of existing measures.
Among the permissible policy steps were loan-funded projects, with BAPPENAS, MOF, MOH,
MOHA, and MOEC reaching a common view of project content and timing prior to discussions with the
Bank. Here, another aspect of government cormnitment, especially during the Suharto era, was the
difficulty sometimes entailed in arriving at ajoint GOI position at Negotiations. What made this task more
problematic in the case of CHN3 was the need for different units within each ministry to come together on
an agreed position.
These factors-an unfriendly environment for policy reform, genuine concern to address health
issues, and difficulties in securing robust agreement between and within ministerial bureaucracies--resulted
in a characteristic pattern of government commitment, i.e., broad but not necessarily sustained, and
imprecise in key respects. This led to policy designs which were open-ended on still undecided matters. An
example was the health information sub-component for which key aspects of the design were to be worked
out after effectiveness.
In summary, commitment to the project was satisfactory, though government support was
measured and insubstantial on key matters, and subject to contextual influences and other factors during
implementation. Government commitment was not sufficient to move ahead with strong and proactive
central unit activities. However, government backing was more than adequate to underpin the alternative,
province-based version of CHN3 which emerged.
5.3 Factors generally subject to imnplementing agency control:
MOH's overall commitment to the project was strong, especially to the revised version of the
design. Program priorities and means, e.g., deployment of village midwives including Bidan C, had full
MOH backing as did the goal of helping to improve province and district level planning and programming.
MOH's support was qualified somewhat as regards specific central level activities. Clearly, the
original project concept with its proactive, lead role for central units did not attract sufficient support
within MOH. This is not surprising considering that overall GOI commitment to the project almost
certainly did not extend to backing what would be, in effect, significant reforms within MOH. Vigorous
GOI support would have been needed to bring about changes within MOH and also in relationships with
other ministries, e.g., MOEC. Understandably, MOH was more comfortable with the second formulation
of the project concept with its looser, task specific linkages between the provinces and central units. With
effective coordination provided by the Project Management Unit (PMU), this version of the project
performed especially well overall in the 1994/5-1997/8 interval.
Nevertheless, even in terms of the reformulated project design, there were disappointing aspects to
MOH's commitment to the project, notably its inability to arrive at a viable approach to health information.
MOH could not get its own house in order on this topic, nor was it able to capitalize on the project-funded,
program-relevant activities that were underway in UGM's longitudinal survey sites and also in
participating schools of public health and nutrition. As discussed, ineffective comnmunication of results
from the surveillance sites to MOH at the provincial and central levels resulted in limited utilization of data
for program planning and development and lack of replication in other districts and provinces. Work done
in the schools of public health was not disseminated well either.
- 21 -



5.4 Costs and financing:
The total size of the loan was US$ 95.3 million from the original total cost of US$ 164.1 million.
The Bank financed US$ 72.2 million of total project cost as compared to original Bank loan of US$ 93.5
million. Due to the economic crisis, GOI requested cancellation of US$ 16.0 million. This step did not
affect financing of the original components as substantial dollar savings resulted from the devaluation of
the IDR. Another US$ 3.7 million was canceled by project closing. Detailed project cost and financing
information is presented in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainability of project activities and achievements is Likely (except in Maluku), but not
assured. What augurs well for sustaining CHN3-financed advances is that, first, the project has already
met a market test. That is, participating provinces have drawn on their own revenues and other donor
financing to mainstream and extend many CHN3-financed innovations. Second, CHN3-sponsored
decentralized program planning and management advances not only enhanced efficiency and capacity but
contributed to making districts decentralization-ready. These regions should be able to handle their
budgeting and health responsibilities competently, making it less likely that health services, including
CHN-introduced measures, would be disrupted and/or dismantled due to spending cuts or public
disinterest.
Nevertheless, there is no guarantee that specific CHN3-funded innovations and interventions will
survive, especially in poorer regions which have lost, due to decentralization, access to equity balancing,
poverty oriented grants and other sources of concessionary health funding. Indeed, some eastern districts
may face difficulties in sustaining interventions on even a modest scale without secure access to funds at
low cost. Meanwhile, the organized violence which destroyed health facilities and equipment in Maluku
and drove staff away has abated. A resumption of CHN3 type health interventions is not likely in the near
term because of continuing instability.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regiular operations:
Despite the many CHN3 features which fostered sustainability, a proactive stance towards
program continuity overall is warranted currently. What is needed is a package of measures which
facilitate health decentralization, and adequate, stable health financing rather than interventions aimed at
maintaining specific program activities, e.g., training of Bidan C. In this regard,
*  MOH needs to strengthen its dialogue with local authorities and stakeholders, using its
credibility as a technical agency to advocate and lobby for adequate allocations to the health
sector. MOF needs to develop funding instruments which can be use to channel special health
grants to poor communities. Clarification of the roles of central, provincial and district level
goverrment in health is essential for effective implementation of decentralization..
  Effective monitoring and evaluation arrangements of suitable scale and scope should be
established at province and district levels with linkages to a national "grid" to be developed
when ready.
On behalf of constituent districts, provinces should determine essential specialist and other critical
public health skill and work force needs in light of market conditions, the availability of candidates, and
- 22 -



other supply arrangements. The central government should consider providing stipends to midwives and
other staff working in remote areas where it is impossible to sustain viable private practices.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Performance = Satisfactory (with reservations)
The project design went beyond the successful, province-focused THP, by focusing on priority
health needs, and enhancing the important capacity building, health education, and health information
dimensions of the health system. Project identification was consistent with the government's development
strategy and the Bank's country assistance concept strategy. However, the programmatic focus and
increased number of provinces covered (from two to five), and the inclusion of new elements, especially the
large central component, together resulted in an operation far more complex and institutionally demanding
than the THP template. In this regard, there was insufficient assessment of the Borrower's implementation
readiness and capacity--the project team built on relationships with GOI established during previous
implementation of projects. Relevant lessons then available from recently closed Bank projects should have
been reviewed more systematically. Apart from the issue of complexity, important features of the design,
e.g., the health information and MOEC components, were not fully prepared at appraisal and project
start-up (see section 3.5). This resulted in a slow start for the project, necessitating in effect a staged
reappraisal of a reinterpreted project design (section 4.1). The loan amount and project implementation
period for the project were well estimated at appraisal time, while the availability of counterpart funds was
overestimated. Some elements, e.g., Pusat Data, within the central component were reduced in scale
through reallocation of funds. The crisis-related cancellation and extension of the Loan occurred for
reasons that were neither anticipated nor controllable.
7.2 Supervision:
Performance = Satisfactory
CHN3's design created special challenges for project supervision. As pointed out in the previously
mentioned 1999 QAG assessment of supervision quality, the design came together quickly and involved last
minute changes; defined numerous and onerous objectives; involved too many activities, many of which
were not well tested; was vulnerable to pressures from a government keen on rapid replication; and
incorporated a central component covering almost every MOH Directorate with little consideration of
needs and absorptive capacity.
In light of these project features, the supervision strategy was to be selective, focusing most
attention on the more viable project elements. QAG praised this approach, noting that the team had a good
skill mix including senior staff based in Jakarta, showed leadership in managing the supervision process in
an "organic" way, that is, in letting project components that did not show any promise or seemed to go
nowhere quietly die, while promoting others that did show growth and promise, e.g., iodine deficiency, safe
motherhood, and village midwives. Health information was an example of a sub-component which got
intensive supervision and support initially and then less attention after disappointing results. Another
aspect of this triage-like approach was the inclusion, in the supervision context, of technical assistance
inputs directed at specific counterpart units or programs. For example, social anthropologists were hired to
carry out field assessments in Irian Jaya on topics of concern, e.g., the status of the Bidan C program and
its acceptability to indigenous communities, and the cultural practices and behavior which were facilitating
- 23 -



the spread of HIV.
The QAG review felt that the supervision team could have reacted more quickly to problems in the
Health Education and Information sub-components, However, Aides Memoire for the 1993-1995 period
suggested the opposite, i.e., that the team had focused on the health information issues and on facilitating
use of PDAs-- the MTR was used to inform project stakeholders about the changing status of these
activities. QAG was critical as well of the intensity of supervision at the provincial level. On this, it is
worth pointing out how inadequate the normal supervision budget was in the face of five provinces, and
multiple Central program elements. Other QAG observations are worth citing as well. Reporting of
progress was found to be adequate, but delays in No-Objection Letters (NOLs) from the Bank were
mentioned as a problem by central as well as provincial government staff. This was attributable to
unfamiliarity with procedures.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, Bank performance was Satisfactory under the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation by the Government was Satisfactory. Involvement of the central program units and
provinces in the development of the project's provincial component was adequate as indicated by the active
participation of staff from units at different levels during project identification, preparation and appraisal.
Each of the five provinces in the project formulated its own specific program to improve service delivery
and related institutional capacities, including staff development, prior to project appraisal. As discussed,
preparation of elements in the central component seem to have been done hurriedly and without in-depth
analysis of needs and capacities.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's performance during implementation was Satisfactory. Commitment to the
sectoral goals and to strengthening provincial roles and capacity showed little sign of eroding, while the
government worked patiently with the Bank to develop a reformulated project concept. Positive aspects
included backing for innovative funding/programmatic instruments such as PDAs; adequate levels of
counterpart financing up until the economic crisis; generally strong support from and good coordination
between the central and provincial PMUs; preparation of a good MTR; a pragmatic and helpful approach
towards implementing the indigenous people's covenant in Irian Jaya; and the strong effort made to
document and disseminate project practices and lessons.
Among the negative aspects of implementation performance were the frequent changes in personnel
assigned to PMU especially at provincial and district level which disrupted coordination of project
activities; and an unwillingness, due perhaps to lack of clear authority, to organize greater CHN3-related
team efforts within the Community Health Directorate General, within MOH overall, and within GOI; the
very limited, non-operational role played by the project advisory board and project steering committee,
consisting of designated echelon I and II officials; and a pattern of delay in submitting audit reports (most
of which were unqualified), notably for Maluku for which there remain funds not fully accounted for.
- 24 -



7.6 Inplementing Agency:
Overall performance was Satisfactory. The central PMU did an excellent job, responding well to
the needs of provinces and effectively coordinating and supporting project activities within MOH. The
central PMU was particularly effective at pulling together and presenting the findings of PDAs and other
project results. On the whole, the PMU handled procurement matters well, overseeing one Loan-financed,
International Competitive Bid (ICB) contract and three funded by KfW, which cofinanced the project. On
the other hand, the PMU could not overcome weak management in individual units, e.g., Pusat Data, and
thus could not organize the decisive action that might have produced agreed performance indicators and an
early baseline survey. The project advisory board and project steering committee, consisting of designated
echelon I and II officials, played a very limited role overall, and were not involved in operational matters.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall government's performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
CHN3 provided valuable lessons for health strategy design and implementation in Indonesia itself,
as well as findings with broader applicability. Concerning Indonesia, the project's implementation
experiences demonstrated that i) provinces and districts have or can establish the capacity to take on
significantly increased responsibilities, and ii) it is risky to rely on an unreformed central ministry to lead
the way in health decentralization. When CHN3 was being designed, the choice was seen in part as
between i) replicating a province-based model, e.g., THP, with virtually no central component, and ii)
proceeding with provincial activities but linking these to a centrally powered "replication" motor and
compass.
Looking back at CHN3's performance in terms of these options, the record suggests making
provinces and districts the focus of policy and investment attention, with provinces taking on various
backstopping and cost-saving responsibilities as required and sought by constituent districts and the public.
MOH is unlikely to play the sort of effective leadership and facilitation role which is needed without
substantial changes in its culture and orientation. It is not clear what mechanisms could be used to
accomplish this change in world view--CHN3's experience suggests that self-managed, incremental change,
i.e., allocating funds directly to central programs, would not work. Instead, the answer may lie in reducing
the MOH budget even further than has taken place with decentralization, transferring the funds to province
based health councils representing constituent districts. This approach underpins the recently approved,
First and Second Provincial Health Projects (Credit No. 338 I-IND and Credit No. 3357-IND, Loan No.
4207-IND). For example, responsibility for health education together with resources is assigned to
provinces in these operations, while monitoring and evaluation is contracted out, with procurement handled
by the central PMU on behalf of the provinces.
What about replication to non-participating provinces? A large proactive central component was
CHN3's initial, and not fully successful response to this question. Other mechanisms outside of MOH can
be developed, at lower cost. For instance, arrangements could be worked out for regional universities,
professional associations, networks of provinces, NGOs, and/or consultant firms to handle different
backstopping, information sharing, quality control, and cost control functions.
CHN3 also generated program-specific findings, some which have already been applied within the
Indonesian setting. For instance, the project provided specific lessons, incorporated in the follow up Iodine
Deficiency Disease (Loan No. 4125-IND) and Safe Motherhood (Loan 4207-IND) projects, relating to:
- 25 -



Iodine Deficiency Disease:
* The national IDD strategy should differentiate responses according to local situations;
* It is essential to recognize the role of private sector producers, wholesalers, and retailers in the
salt industry and the importance of improving efficiency in salt production and processing;
* Updated information is needed on both the IDD status of the population in different regions
and the iodine content of salt consumed at the household level.
Midwives:
* GOI's village midwives initiative needs to address both supply and demand factors, and to be
locally grounded and focused;
* Upgrading the skills of midwives requires strengthening of pre-service as well as in-service
training;
* Improving effectiveness will also require intensified supervision and support, directed
especially to the more recent graduates;
* The village midwife's role needs to be widened to a number of other community level health
services;
* Sustaining the village midwives initiative will require innovations in the terms and conditions
of their employment to take account of diverse work settings and to ensure that activities
evolve in a manner that fits local needs.
CHN3's lessons of broader applicability pertain to:
Project Design
- Multiple components at central unit and implementation in 5 provinces made the project
complex and difficult to be supervised. It is crucial to prioritize objectives in order to develop
appropriate intervention strategies and performance indicators.
*  Human resource capacity at central and provincial/district level should be carefully evaluated
prior to the project implementation. The project objective should accord with the capacity of
the government particularly the implementing units.
* Supervision of a project involving multi-year systems development should be frequent and
rigorous. Potential problems should be reported and effectively addressed.
Decentralization
*  A high level of government commitment is crucial for success in any major reform program.
This commitment is needed not only from central government officials but also those at the
provincial and district level.
* Reform would work best only if each program unit at central and provincial and district level
had a clear perception of its new role and the capacity to implement it.
- 26 -



Capacity building
*  Developing a strategy which responds to local conditions is more likely to be effective and
sustainable.
*  The results of studies and PDAs should be disseminated at all levels, so they can be used to
improve program strategies and for replication to other provinces and districts. Utilization of
data for program planning and management should be incorporated into a system.
* Fellowships should be integrated into a comprehensive human resources development plan in
order to have benefit both recipients and the program. Staff from the eastern provinces should
have greater access to fellowships.
*  Strong management and coordination are needed to develop a workable health information
system, suitable for province and district needs.
*  Organizational arrangements for health education should be sufficiently flexible, cross-sectoral
and responsive to community need. General management, budgeting, planning, staff
management and accountability requirements should not be overly bureaucratic and should
focus on specific objectives.
*  Management of logistics and the availability of spare-parts locally should be integrated into an
equipment procurement package.
Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Poor monitoring and evaluation of project performance resulted in difficulties in assessing the
effectiveness of project interventions.
*  Baseline performance indicators are essential to evaluate achievement of project objectives.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/implementing agency:
Please see Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Summary of KfW's Procurement Evaluation:
Upon completion of the CHN3 project evaluation in September 1999, KfW intended to evaluate the
condition and utiliziation of KfW funded equipment in four CHN3 provinces excluding Maluku. The
lessons learned and recommendations were:
*  As has been anticipated earlier, this evaluation was overwhelmed by the process of tracing the
records that would ascertain the source of funding. It was mostly constrained by the
non-functioning logistic system, if there were any.
*  The KfW equipment has been felt very useful, particularly those provided to the training
centers and referral hospitals. Many of the refrigerators were beneficial for remote sub health
centers in NTT. Unlike the health center, the hospital has budget allocation for operation and
maintenance. They also have in-house repair unit for simple problems.
- 27 -



*  The quality of equipment that were delivered to health centers required special attention,
especially because there were no maintenance and repair budget. Only a few health officials
and direct users showed the sense of ownership or felt responsible to maintain the equipments.
Part of the reasons could be that many might not need the given equipment, did not know how
to operate and did not have the budget for maintenance.
*  Equipment provision goes hand in hand with program policy as it supports program operation.
The skills and confidence to operate the equipments have to be taken into account besides the
number of referred cases, the types of cases, the local policies and location of the health
centers-with bed with regard to patient demands for obstetric emergency referral. Those were
some of the issues that should be evaluated separately under the program not equipment
evaluation.
*  Given the scarce resources it would be wise for future procurement to proceed with
preliminary needs assessment.
*  To optimize the use of available equipment, relocation of unused equipment to other needed
facilities within the same administrative boundaries will increase efficiencies and improve
program effectiveness, particularly in the era of decentralization. The new organization
structure that brings basic health care and referral services under one roof in the Directorate
General for Medical Services should enable the inclusion of hospital in this system.
*  While waiting for improvements of the logistic management system, the government may
instruct 1) one-door policy for incoming and outgoing goods and 2) stick appropriate label on
equipment indicating the source of funding.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators
Selected Indicators 1/                 West Java 2/         Central Java           NIT                Maluku            Irian Jaya
Appraisal  Latest  Appraisal  Latest  Appraisal   Latest  Appraisal   Latest  Appraisal  Latest
Population (million)                  35.4      42.4      28.5      30.8      3.3       3.8        1.9      2.2       1.7       2.1
Populabon density                     765.0    980.0    834.0    954.0        68.0      81.0      25.0      29.0      4.0       5.0
Infant mortality rate                 88.4      60.6      51.1      45.2      70.6      59.7      68.0      29.5      61.3      64.7
Total fertility rate                   3.2       3.0       2.8       2,6       3.9       3.4      3.7        3.3      3.2       3.3
Prevalence of underfive underweight(%)  34.0    21.4      34.4      21.3      46.4      33.6      38.6      26.0      29.5     30.1
Infant birth weight (>2.5 kg, %)      91.4      89.6      95.9      93.5      86.9      86.9      93.4      93.6      89.9     92.1
Children with DPTI vaccinabon (%) 3/  96.0      100.2     95.0      102.0     89.0      96.3      55.0      81.3      76.0      98.1
Pregnant women with TT2 (%) 4/        70.0      83.2      63.0      86.0      41.0      63.2      20.0      55.2      34.0      41.4
Women with prenatal care (%)          81.9      86.1      90.2      93.8      69.1      85.4      65.1      67.4      75.5      87.2
Birth attended by medical personnel (%)  27.0   59.3      27.2      64.9      16.8      55.9      22.2      35.6      26.0      34.7
Health centers (n)                    728       1112      730       852       151       210        92       161       110       200
Health centers with beds (n)           87        150       123      181        33        56        22        48        37        74
Populaton: health center             48,599    38,156    39,068    36,103    21,656    18,143    20,217    13,665    15,000    10,500
Physicians (n)                       2,205     4,377     2,336     2,651      164       237       158       286       167       167
Population: Physician                16,045    9,694     12,210    11,605    19,931    16,082    11,779    7,704     9,888     12,594
Midwives (n)                          1,452    8,995      2,771    9,134      321      2,173      273      1,900      132      2,711
Population: Midwive                  24,365    4,717    10,293    3.368    10,183                          1,158    12,530      775
Notes:
1/ Source: IDHS 1993 and 1997, Susenas 1992, 2000, Health Profile 1992/1993 and 2000
2/ Includes Banten
3/ DPT1: first dose of diphteria, pertussis, tetanus (DPT) vaccination
4/ TT2: two doses (or more) of tetanus toxoid vaccinations
- 29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a. Project Cost by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Compo tActualLatest           Percentage of
Component                        Appraisal Estimate    Estimate        Apraisal
A. Provincial Service Delivery and Capacity Building
1. Survice Delicery
Safe Motherhood                        17.9             12.0             67.0
Child survival                         16.4              8.0             48.8
Improving nutrition status              6.5              4.2             64.6
Health education                        5.6              3.8             67.9
2. Capacity Building
Policy and program development          5.6              4.4             78.6
Project organization & management       7.8              5.9             75.6
Staff development                      10.9              9.6             88.1
Sub-total      70.7             47.9             67.8
B. Central Support Services and Ca acity Building
1. Policy Development, Planning and
Project Coordination                   14.6             11.3             77.4
2. Technical services for provinces    28.6             11.9             41.6
3. Interprovincial programs             7.1              4.0             56.3
4. Capacity building                   13.3              9.1             68.4
Sub-total      63.6             36.3             57.1
Overall total    134.3             84.2             62.7
Notes:
1/ KfW grant (Co-financier) is not included
2/ Actual/latest estimate of Bank's disburesement as of 76/DJA (November 2001)
- 30 -



Annex 2b. Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                  Procurement Method 1/                   Procurement Method 1/
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB    NCB  Other 2! NBF 3/  Total   ICB    NCB  Other 2/ NBF 3/  Total
1  Works                  0.0    27.4    2.0    0.0    29.4    0.0    14.9    0.0    0.0    14.9
_ _________________  (0.0)  (10.8)  (1.0)   (0.0)  (11.8)  (0.0)  (13.6)  (0.0)   (0.0)  (13.6)
2  Goods                  0.0    6.6    4.5    0.0    11.1    0.0    8.4    0.0    17.3   25.7
________________   (0.0)   (5.4)   (3.0)   (0.0)  (11.4)  ( )   (6.9)   (0.0)   (0.0)   (6.9)
3  Services 4/            0.0    0.0    22.9    0.0    22.9    0.0    0.0    15.1    0.0    15.1
(O 0)   (0.0   (22.9)  (0.0)  (22.9)  (0.0)   (0.0)   (15.1)  (0.0)  (15.1)
4  Fellowships            0.0    0.0    22.1    0.0    22.1    0.0    0.0    16.5    0.0    16.5
(0.0)                  (0.0)   (0.0)  j9.0   (0.0)   (16.5)  (0.0)  (16.5)
5  In-country training &  0.0    0.0    28.2    0.0    28.2    0.0    0.0    16.9    0.0    16.9
workshop              (0. )   (0.0)   (19.9)  (0.0)  (19.9)   ( )   (0.0)  (15.4)  (0.0)  (15.4)
6  Project Management    0.0    0.0    5.4    0.0    5.4    0.0    0.0            1.4    0.0    1.4
________________   (0.0)   (0.0)   (5.4)   (0.0)   (5.4)   ( )   (0.0)   (1.4)   (0.0)   (1.4)
7  Project Development    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.8    0.0    2.8
Activities            (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)   ( )   (0.0)   (2.8)   (0.0)   (2.8)
8  Recurrent cost         0.0    0.0    0.0    13.7   13.7    0.5    0.0    0.0          1.5    2.0
(0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.5)   (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.5)
Total                  0.0    34.0   85.1    13.7   132.8   0.5    23.3   52.7   18.8   95.3
(3.0)  (16.2)  (74.3)   (0.0)  (93.5)  (0.5)  (21.0)  (50.7    0.0   (72.2)
Notes:
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Included international and national shopping, selection of consultants following
3/ NBF= Not Bank Financed (includes GOI and Co-financierlKfW grant)
4/ Services include consultants, reseach and study
- 31 -



Annex 2c:
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I                     ~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimateni        Atual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank     Gov    Co F.   Bank       Govt   CoF.
1. Service Delivery      14.70     3.20                 8.90      3.10      9.70    60.5   96.9
Safe Motherhood
Child Survival           10.90     5.50                 6.30      1.70      2.80     57.8   30.9
Improving Nutrition Status    4.20  2.30                3.60      0.60      0.20     85.7   26.1
Health Education         3.80      1.80                 2.90      0.90      1.40     76.3   50.0
2. Capacity Bldg; Policy &    5.60  0.00                4.30      0.10      2.00     76.8   0.0
Program Development
Project Organization and  7.80     0.00                 5.60      0.30      0.00     71.8   0.0
Management
Staff Development        10.90     0.00                 9.40      0.20      0.00     86.2   0.0
B. Central Suppot and
Services and Capacity
Building;
1. Policy Development,  12.80      1.80                10.90     0.40      0.00     85.2   22.2
Planning and Project
Coordination
2. Technical Services for  8.90    19.70                7.90      4.00      0.00     88.8   20.3
Provinces
3.Inter provincial       4.70      2.40                 3.60      0.40      0.00     76.6   16.7
Programs
4. Capacity Building     9.20      4.10                 8.80      0.30      0.00     95.7   7.3
TOTAL                    93.50     40.80     18.50     72.20      12.00     16.10    77.2   29.4   87.0
Notes:
1. Break-down information of co-financier (KfW grant) at appraisal is not available
2. Actual/latest estimate of co-financiaer (KfW grant) as of August 2001
3. Actual/latest estimate of Bank's disbursement as of 76/DJA (November 2001)
- 32 -



Annex 2d. Paroject Financing by Province (in US$ million equivlent)
Actual/Latest Estimate (US$ mili on)
Bank     Government Co-financier       Total
A  Provincial Service Delivery and
Capacity Building
West Java                           5.5          1.2          1.8          8.5
Central Java                        7.3          1.2          2.0          10.5
NTT                                 6.1          1.1          3.6          10.8
Maluku                              6.5          0.8          4.2          11.5
Irian Jaya                          15.6         2.6          4.5          22.7
Sub-total    41.0         6.9          16.1         64.0
B  Central Support Services and        31.2          5.1          0.0         36.3
Capacity Building
Overall total    72.2        12.0         16.1        100.3
- 33 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
June/July, 1991               7   1 Task Team Leader,                   S             S
I Principal Economist,
I Population Specialist,
I Public Health/Nutrition
Specialist,
I Operations Officer,
I Public Health Specialist,
I Health Education Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
June/July, 1992               9    1 Task Team Leader,                  S             S
I Principal Economist,
I Population Specialist,
I Senior Implementation
Advisor,
I Operations Officer, I
Operations Assistant,
I Public Health & Nutrition
Specialist,
I Public Health and MCH
Specialist,
I Health Education
Specialist
Supervision
June 2, 1993                  6   1 Health Specialist,
1 Population Specialist,
1 Procurement Specialist,
I Nutrition Specialist,
I Population & Health
Specialist,
I Health & Education
Specialist
November 8, 1993              6   1 Operation Analyst,
I Reprodutive Health Epidemiol,
I Population Specialist,
I Public Health/Nutrition
Specialist,
I Health Specialist,
I Health Education Specialist
June 12, 1994                 3   1 Operations Officer,                 S              S
I Public Health & Nutrition
Specialist,
I Health Specialist
- 35 -



December 9, 1994                3   1 Operations Officer,                  S              S
2 Health Specialists
June 30, 1995                   5   2 Human Resources Specialists, I       S              S
Implementation Specialist,
I Anthropologist,
I Economist
June 29, 1996                   4   1 Anthropologist,                      S              S
I Operations Officer,
I Consultant,
I Principal Economist
September 13,                   1   1 Senior Health Specialist             S              S
1996
February 6, 1997               3   1 Senior Health Specialist,             S              S
I Anthropologist,
I Medical Antrhopologist
August 28, 1997                2   1 Operations Officer,                   $              S
I Senior Health Specialist
June 29, 1996                   3   1 Senior Health Specialist,            S              S
2 Operations Officers
April 23, 1999                  3   2 Consultants,                         S              S
I Operations Officer
December 9, 1999                3   1 Health Economist,                    S               S
I Operations Officer,
I Anthropologist
April 5, 2000                   1   1 Operations Officer                   S               S
ICR
August 31, 2001                3     1 Operations Officer,                 S               S
I Health Information
Specialist,
I Procurement Specialist
Notes:    1/ Information at identification/preparation is not available
2/ Performance ratings for supervision in 1993 are not available
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                                 614.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                      172.5
Supervision                                                                600.9
ICR                                                                         13.6
Total                                                                    1 ,411.7
- 36 -



Annex.5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substanhal, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM   ON  *NA
E Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Physical                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Financial                               OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
2 Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
LII Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
LIO Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Oi Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
E Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LiOther (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
N Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
M Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
X Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
X Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS OS    O U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  OU  O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U   O HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report: Third Community Health and Nutrition. Population and Human
Resources Division. EAP Region. 1992.
2. Loan Agreement for CHN3 between the Republic of Indonesia and International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. January 21, 1993.
3. World Bank. Project Completion Report: Second Nutrition and Community Health Project (Loan 2636-IND).
Population and Human Resources Division. EAP Region. 1993.
4. World Bank. Aide Memoires: Supervision Missions. 1993-2000.
5. Mid Term Review for the Third Community Health and Nutrition (CHN3) project. Report. CEBU, Gadjah
Mada University. 1996.
6. RA Calkins. Project Quality at Entry. Indonesia Discussion Paper Series No 3.
7. Indonesia Demographic and Health Survey (IDHS). Central Bureau of Statistics, National Family Planning
Coordinating Board, Ministry of Health and Demographic and Health Surveys - Macro International Inc.
Calverton, Maryland. 1991 and 1997
8. Evaluation on the deployment of midwives in Irian Jaya. Provincial Health Office and YPMD Irian Jaya. 1997.
9. UNICEF. The State of the World's Children 1997. UNICEF. New York. NY. 1997.
10. AED. Health Education Component Evaluation Report. Academy for educational Development Inc. 1998
11. AIHI. Health Education Component Evaluation. Project Completion Report. Australian International Health
Institute. 1999.
12. Cargill LC. Bidan C Program in Irian Jaya. Consultant Report. 1999.
13. World Bank. Guidelines for Preparing Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs). 1999.
14. P Daly and W Soerojo. Summary of Final Evaluation Activities for CHN3 Project. 1999.
15. Final Evaluation of Higher Education Component of CHN3 project. Diponegoro University. 1999.
16. W Soerojo, S Hartini and S Soetarjo. Summary of PDAs results. CHN3 CPMU. 2000.
17. Longitudinal Surveillance Reports. LPKGM Purworedjo. 1997-2000.
18. Satoto. Evaluation of Implementation of Fellowship Activities of CHN3 Project. Diponegoro University. 2000.
19. P Daly. Best Practices of the Third Community Health and Nutrition. 2000
20. CHN3 Project Evaluation in Irian Jaya. Provincial Health Office and CHN3 CPMU. Report. 2000.
21. CHN3 Project Evaluation in Nusa Tenggara Timur. Provincial Health Office and CHN3 CPMU. 2000
22. CHN3 Project Evaluation in Jawa Barat. Provincial Health Office and CHN3 CPMU. 2000
23. CHN3 Project Evaluation in Jawa Tengah. Provincial Health Office and CHN3 CPMU. 2000
24. CHN3 Project Evaluation in Maluku. Provincial Health Office and CHN3 CPMU. Report. 2001.
25. Physical Achievement of CHN3 Project. Final Report. CHN3 CPMU. 2001.
26. Summary: Health Information System Evaluation of CHN3 Project. SPH University of Indonesia. 2000.
27. S Prasetyo. Implementation Completion Report on Health Information System. Consultant Report. 2001.
28. UNICEF. The State of the World's Children 2001. UNICEF. New York. NY. 2001.
- 39 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation
Description of the project:
Name of the project         Third Community Health and Nutrition
Loan Number                IBRD LN.3550 IND
KfW Grant 93.65.321
Date of Agreement           IBRD Loan, January 21, 1993
KfW Grant, October 27, 1993
Total Loan and Grant        Original IBRD Loan USD. 93.5 million
Amended Loan as of August 2000: USD. 73.8 million
KfW Grant DM. 30 million
Effective Date              IBRD Loan July 30, 1993
KfW Grant October 27, 1993
Date of Disposition Fund    IBRD Loan: August 31, 1993
KfW Grant  July 1, 1994
Closing Date                IBRD Loan  March 31, 2001
KfVW Grant : December 31, 2001
(i) The project objective, design, and implementation.
The CHN-3 Project was a large project in term of budget as well as scope. The goal and project
objectives are to elevate the infant, child and matemal health status through the improvements in the
effectiveness of safe motherhood, child survival, and nutrition program in the provinces of Irian Jaya,
Maluku, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Central Java, and West Java. The project supported provincial and local
health officials in these provinces to prepare and implement policies and program interventions to address
high priority local community health and nutrition programs. This was achieved by 1) improving service
delivery in provinces and building provincial capacity to plan, implement and monitor basic health service
program, and 2) strengthening the capacity of the central level of the Ministry of Health, primarily the
Directorate General of Community Health to support these provincial and district efforts.
At the provincial level, the project focused on improving service delivery and strengthening
capacity through improvement of infrastructure, staff development, and improvement of technical skills of
health planning, epidemiology, management information system, health education, research, management,
and monitoring of health program. The supporting system for CHN-3 project were: Health Information
System, Health and Nutrition Education, and Health Manpower.
The Budget allocation by category have been amended six times:
First amendment issued on November 11, 1994 due to additional category namely "Program
Development Activity (PDA)" 100 % paid by loan, this is for innovative activities proposed by districts.
Second amendment issued on May 23, 1997 due to reprogramming after Midterm Review. Third
amendment on October 12, 1998 due to the monetary crisis the loan was canceled amount to USD. 16
million. Fourth amendment issued on September 20, 1998 because of reallocation of category where the
-40 -



budget allocation for category 8 (PDA) was increased due to overcome the health crisis and consequence
the project was extended up to March 31, 2001. Fifth and six amendment issued in December 1999 and
August 2000 were to reduce the loan.
The total amended loan amount to USD.73,800,000.
The total disbursement as of August 2, 2001 amount to USD. 71,818,788.05 (up to 75/DJA) or
97.1 %
The budget allocation by Category are as follows:
Category                 Original Loan        Last Amendment
(USD)                (USD)
1. Civil Work                         10,800,000            13,650,000
2. Equipment                          6,900,000             4,700,000
3. Instructional Material             2,400,000             2650,000
4. Consultant and Study               22,900,000            15,100,000
5. Fellowship                         22,100,000            16,500,000
6. Workshop and Local Training        19,900,000            15,450,000
7. Project Management                 5,400,000             1,450,000
8. PDA
A. PDA Equipment                        0                  750,000
B. PDA Study, Workshop                  0                 3,550,000
Unallocated=                        3,100,000                 0
Total Cancellation 1+2+3      _     9350000 _            19,700,000
TOTAL                                 93,500,000            93,500,000
(ii) Performance during the evolution and implementation of the project.
The project implementation consist of two part: Provincial and Central Project.
A. Provincial Project
West Java
1. Service Delivery
a) To enhance the Safe Motherhood Program, the project increase the coverage and the quality of
Antenatal Care through the provision of medical equipment for Health Center and Referral Hospital. Those
equipment mostly funded by KfW. Providing equipment for Health Center, posyandu, district referral
hospital will improve the quality of health services. The other activities were training for 1,384 female
nurses/village midwives in Life Saving Skill, Obstetric Service and Basic Essential Neonatal, Obstetric and
Neonatal Emergency Services, Supervision to TBA, workshop on data validation of Mother Cohort,
Develop the new module of Mother and Child Health Awareness and Cader Training
To increase the quality of referral system the project conducted the training on Obstetric and
Neonatal Emergency Services for midwife and medical doctor of Health Center with bed and district
hospital, Audit Matemal and Perinatal, on the job training for midwife at district hospital, develop and
- 41 -



disseminate information of Standard Operating Procedure for village midwife.
Strengthening the cross sectoral collaboration through workshop on Community Based Maternity
Care.
b) West Java conducted some activities for 1) strengthening Child Survival Program through
training on Diarrhea and Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) for medical doctor, paramedical, and cader,
development of cross sectoral working group for Diarrhea and ARI 2) accelerating the coverage of UCI
through the provision of immunization equipment, training for immunization personnel, and meetings. 3)
Improving the neonatal health through training on neonatal health especially for neonatal tetanus and low
birth weight for medical doctor, paramedical and TBA. 4) Surveillance morbidity through training on
surveillance for health personnel at district and Health Center.
c) Some activities for improving nutrition status West Java province conducted introduction for
fermented soya (tempe) formula, Rapid Survey for malnutrition pregnant women, and campaign of balance
diet. The studies on IDD, anemia, and malnutrition were conducted as a basic for further program
development.
d) To support Health Education the project provided HE equipment at provincial level as well as
district level, conducted training for health personnel, community leader, female religion leader and women
workers.
e) The component of Health Information System, the project carried out rapid survey to get
specific data for district, develop Local Area Network, and tried to simplify the Reporting Recording
System of Health Center (SP3).
2. Capacity Building
a) Staff Development: the project gave fellowships for Dl in Nutrition, SI, S2 short term in
country and overseas, for the total of 151 persons. The fellowships gave improvement health manpower
quality. The provision of educational equipment improve the skill and quality of the graduates,
The recruitment of local short term consultant for West Java totaling of 30 MM and International
consultant 21 MM, especially in the field of management, and Health Education could help the province in
developing program management.
b) Policy and Program Development. Seven studies and 17 PDAs have been carried out The PDA
activities were to 1) improve the capability of the program holder in developing and designing program
activities 2) improve the coordination between program and education/research institution. 3) revise and
improve the on going activities base on PDA findings such as Infant Cohort, Life Saving Skill (LSS)
training, Posyandu Supervision System.
Central Java
1. Service Delivery
a) The main activities for Safe motherhood were: 1) improve the quality of health services through
Audit Maternal Perinatal, develop emergency unit at Health Center with bed, provided Health Center
equipment, give training on high risk mother, medical emergency, Life Saving Skill, and on the job training
in the hospital for village midwife.
- 42 -



2. To improve the program management by training on MCH program, and cohort analysis, Local area
monitoring of MCH program, meetings province and districts staff on monitoring and evaluation of village
midwife, LSS, and maternity hut.
3. Developing MCH program by publishing MCH book and its training, monitoring the use of MCH book,
training on Community Nursing for Maternal and Infant in 7 districts.
4. Improve the community participation through guidance and supervision to TBA, provision of TBA kit
(basic drugs, and umbilical cord package). Social marketing for Mothers Friendly Movement (Gerakan
Sayang Ibu) at all level of administration of MCH program
After the completion of CHN-3 project the follow up activities of Safe Motherhood are funded by the local
government.
b) Some activities for Child Survival were:
1) improve the quality of health services by the provision of immunization equipment, training on high risk
neonatal case finding for midwife and HC medical doctor.
2) improve the community participation by cader training on malaria, diarrhea, ARI management,
neonatorum tetanus elimination.
3) Campaign healthy house in preventing ARI in mountainous area by exhibition of the model of house
with chimney.
c) The program for nutrition were: 1) Program development through training on balance diet,
nutrition status monitoring and nutrition surveillance at province and district level. Develop a nutrition unit
at health center with bed.
2) improve the community participation by social marketing of severe malnutrition management, and
chronic energy deficiency.
d) The main benefit of Health Education component was the provision of HE mobile unit and HE
equipment which was able to support the successful of the community health education. The other
activities were:
1) improve the quality of health education by developing specific media package based on the local need,
and training for improving skill of health educators.
2) improve the program management by training on social marketing and intersectoral meeting on Health
and Clean Behavior. The result of short course on health promotion, and the provision of multimedia
computer to each district enable the HE staff to create media package based on their own needs After
completion of CHN-3 project the operational cost will be taken over by the local govemment.
2. Capacity Building
a) Policy and Program Development
1) Improve the quality services by designing waste disposal of HC with bed, rehabilitation of HC
laboratorium, and septic tank, development of HC quality assurance
2) Strengthening Health Information System by constructing Health Information building, providing of
LAN for SP3, renovating of computer room at province and districts. Develop Provincial and district
health profile books, health problem area mapping. Rapid Survey and Rapid Evolution methods, training
on situation analysis and evolution of maternal and infant health program. The benefit of developing
Information System is getting the accurate data, on time, and suitable for the required information. The
operation cost funded by local government.
- 43 -



The HIS now is expanded to other remaining districts funded by other resources.
3) Collaboration with Higher Education through technical assistance, gave the benefit in managing district
health program, and now is being continued by other project for other districts.
4) Conducted 7 studies on MCH, IDD, KAP, midwife role and 8 PDAs mostly on maternal health.
The result of some PDAs bring about the midwives skill improvement in communication, more acceptable
by the community, and improve the role of religious leader in health community education.
b) Staff Development
Central Java gave fellowships for DI and D3 program on nutrition, nursing and statistics, S1, S2,
short course in country and overseas for the total of 1.333 persons. This fellowships gave direct impact for
the staff capacity in term of decentralization preparation. After having reviewed the performance of staff
get in the fellowships, the high level manager of Provincial Health Office assured that the fellowship gave
benefit especially in program planning, then Central Java decided to sent more staff to continue their
education by taking fellowships from other project.
East Nusa Tenggara (NTT)
1. Service Delivery
Number of activities for Safe Motherhood program were: 1) partnership between village midwife
and TBA, Empowering Polindes, Audit Matemal and Perinatal, improving skill in Emergency Obstetric
Neonatal Services, Friendly Mother and Infant Movement and also provision of medical equipment such as
Emergency Obstetric Neonatal especially for HC with beds, provision of neonatal, perinatal Midwifery and
TBA kit, gave contribution in increasing the coverage of MCH program within the period of 5 years project
(1995-1999). The birth delivery by health personnel increased from 33 to 56 %,
2) complete antenatal care (at least 4 visits to HC) from 44 to 62 %
3) total pregnant women get complete iron tablet from 37 to 65 %,
4) number village midwife which still stay in the village at least 3 years from 87 to 98 %.
The project activities for Child survival mainly to overcome the problem of diarrhea and Acute
Respiratory Infection. Within 5 years project these activities reduced the diarrhea cases from 35 to 23 %.
Other activities are the prevention of infectious diseases through immunization by providing refrigerators
and vaccine carriers for Health Center, implementing the activity of Integrated Management Child Illness,
also Early Detection of Growth and Development of under 5 children.
For the Nutrition program the number of under 5 children possessed the Health Chart ("KMS")
increased from 87 to 95 %, and the severe malnutrition reduced from 12 to 4.9 % within the period of 5
years (1995-2000). The main useful activities of Health Education was intervention for Health and Clean
Behavior Pattem, and community education based on local culture.
2. Capacity Building
As a program for Human Resource Development, the province of NTT has been improving the
knowledge and skill of health staff by giving them for continuing education. To date there were 87 in
country fellows consist of 73 persons S1 degree and 14 persons S2 degree, overseas S2 degree totaling 6
persons and 23 persons for overseas short courses. Some of them hold the strategic position in provincial
Health Office, Training and Education Institution. Develop Integrated Work Pattern (Team Building) has
- 44 -



successfully implemented in Health Centers and Referral Hospital.
Maluku
The gugus pulau health system paradigm depicted aims to have an impact in reducing morbidity
and mortality. During the project, the province of Maluku has procured medical equipment, boats, radio
medic communications, instructional materials for emergency obstetric, but most of them was destroyed
during the riots in Maluku. The building for Training Center, Multi Stream Academy, Data Room are still
exist as well as educational equipment. Since 1998 there is no activity reports from Maluku.
Irian Jaya
1. Service Delivery
As a whole, the project gave significant contribution for Safe Motherhood program by increasing
the coverage of health service delivery and health service facilities among others by renovation 431
polindes, providing equipments, and training on MCH.
Within 5 years of the project the coverage birth delivery by health personnel increased from 24% to 50 %,
the coverage of Ante Natal Care increased from 30 to 50 %, number of HC have the ability for Obstetric
Neonatal Basic Essential Services (PONED) increased from 0 to 68 %. Number of Medical Doctor and
Midwife with Life Saving Skill training increased from 0 to 1,345 persons, the total number of district
conducted Audit Matemal Perinatal increase from 0 to 10 districts out of 12 districts. Total number of
trained staff on Safe Motherhood program were 1,218 persons
The number of staff trained in diarrhea increased, but did not significantly influenced the
prevalence of diarrhea. Total number trained staff on Child Survival were 280 persons. Nutrition program
have not given any significant impact on improving community nutrition, this is due to the geographical
situation, and many of villages could not covered by nutrition program due to the remoteness. Total
number trained staff on Nutrition were 222 persons. For health education program this project provided
packages of media education through the development of Media Production Center, but the qualitative
outcome have not been measured by the end of this project. Total number trained staff on Health
Education were 60 persons.
2. Capacity Building
To improve the quality of health staff for strengthening the program development, the project
provided fellowships for short courses, D-3, S-l, S-2, S-3 program, in-country as well as overseas. The
total number of health staff awarded fellowship were 2.763 persons. Now, some of the S-2 fellows were
posted in strategic position.
To achieve the equity of basic health services, Irian Jaya provide midwife education for type A,
and C. The total number of midwives type A were 2,477 persons, and type C were 3,244 persons. The
midwives type C were posted in the villages, and help a lot of people in the village for basic health service
instead of mother and child care. Based on the community demand in the village, Irian Jaya through
Program Development Activity develop a program for training to give additional knowledge and skill in
Primary Health Care and Standard Diagnosis and Therapy of Common Illness.
In relating with strengthening the input component for manpower development, the project built
physical facilities and its supporting facilities for 7 (seven) Nursing Schools, I (one) Multistream
- 45 -



Academy, 1 (one) Training Center. Total number trained staff on Capacity Building were 142 persons.
A series of studies and Program Development Activities gave contribution to health management planning
and health services.
B. Central Project
1. Directorate of Family Health
The Role of Directorate of Family Health was: intensification and extensification Mother and Child
Activities, improve the cross sectoral and cross program coordinator to get support to overcome the direct
cause of maternal death. The other activities were to facilitate and supervise the development of provincial
MCH program. The development of Integrated Management Child Illness (IMCI) now become a national
model
2. Directorate of Health Center Promotion
This Directorate has successfully improve the health service and referral system through radio
medic communication system especially in NTT, Maluku and Irian Jaya provinces.
3. Center for Health Education
Provision of Health Education Mobile units for districts are very useful for Health Education
operation in the field. The experiences from this activity, then replicated to other province using other
resources.
4. Directorate of Community Participation
This directorate has developed Community Participation Management (ARIFF) and being use
nationally.
5. Directorate of Nutrition
This directorate has successfully leading nation wide for Iodine Deficiency Disease through IDD
mapping in CHN-3 provinces.
6. Health Data Center
This component has tried to simplify the Health Center Recording and Reporting System (from
SP2TP to be SP3) in West Java and Central Java, but the result was not fully acceptable by program units.
The other activities were developed Rapid Survey Manual and conducted its training for health district level
staff.
7. Higher Education
The graduates of continuing education had been utilized as a team member of some MOH
activities, and as technical assistants (Bantuan Tehnis) at district level to guide the health staff in problem
solving and health planning.
The development of technical assistant for district were able to motivate the head of District
-46 -



Health Office and the technical staff to continue their education. The Longidinal Surveillance in the
district of Purworejo and Belu, were able to improve the capability of the district staff in planning,
supervising, evaluating health program based on epidemiology data, and health information system.
In the year of 1999 has been established the Collaboration between University and the local
government including health sector. Effort has been made to institutionalize the collaboration by issuing
MOU between Ministry of Education, and Ministry of Home Affairs, and developing of Collaborative
Body on Community Food, Nutrition and Health (BKS-PGKM)
The benefit of the project
Safe motherhood
Establishment of Audit Maternal Perinatal (AMP), has been implemented for maternal and
perinatal death cause finding. The development of Basic Emergency Obstetric and Neonatal Services
(PONED), Standard Neonatal Essential Health Services (PONEK), have been implemented as national
model.
The result of KAP study in Healthy Mother and Healthy Baby Campaign has been used to develop
Healthy Mother and Healthy Baby Project financed by Australian Grant. Moreover the operational study
on Integrated Management of Child Illness (IMCI) has been used nationally.
The development of MCH book has been successfully used in Central Java and the provision of
MCH equipment were very useful to improve the quality of services for obstetric and neonatal.
Child Survival
The development of big Road to the Health Chard integrated with IMCI and Baby Cohort have
been successfully implemented in West Java, then continue by ADB project. Unicef supported the
implementation of Baby Cohort in West Java for other non CHN-3 districts. The CHN-3 project provided
immunization equipment (Kerosene Refrigerator, vaccine carrier, syringe and autodestruct syringe) to
support UCI in project provinces.
Health Education
The provision of Health Education Mobile Unit for districts are very useful for HE operation in the
field. The experiences of these activities has been replicated to other provinces using other donor agencies
budget.
Nutrition
IDD mapping which can be used to calculate IDD target for IDD prevention intensification has
been expanded to 22 other provinces. In addition, computerization of Nutrition Status Monitoring was very
useful to get rapid and accurate information of nutrition problem in the field.
Health Data Center
Computerization Health Information System was very useful in supporting the implementation of
Recording Reporting System although it is not yet optimal due to the lack of professional manpower and
- 47 -



hardware specifications
Health Manpower
Development of in-house training model for Master Trainer and Training Center staff, has been
replicated to other provinces financed by HP V. Moreover, development of module in special subject of
nutrition, nursing, and midwifery has been used nationally.
Higher Education
Higher Education has successfully develop and continue partnership between university and local
government in food, nutrition, and community health. Develop model of technical assistance from School
of Public Health to district level through partnership collaboration which have benefit for both parties. The
longitudinal Surveillance gave the benefit for district level.
Lessons learned
1. Decentralized planning and management
CHN-3 has been the forefront of promoting decentralized planning and management for health and
nutrition services. The capacity of the district level in NTT, Irian Jaya, and Maluku at the start of the
project was much more limited than that in Java. NTT, in particular, give great attention to improve
district planning and budgeting capacity and district planners which are now much more able to plan for
health services based on local needs.
With the advent of decentralization, still remains an urgent need to further strengthen district planning and
budgeting skill.
2. Staff development
One of the Objectives of CHN-3 was to strengthen skill at all level of the health and nutrition
program. In country training courses such as executive training program initiated by CHN-3 project in
West Java and Central Java, and distant learning in NTT, appear to have been particularly successful as
well as appropriate for each environment.
The project financed total of 115 overseas advanced degrees and 880 in country advanced degrees
of staffs from the Ministry of Health and National Education. However, there were constrains to these
higher level degree program such as: 1) overseas training was negatively affected by the insufficient
English language skill of many participants. For candidates attending programs overseas appropriate
measures should be taken to assure that they receive sufficient English language training. 2) the majority of
in country and overseas high level degrees are candidates from the central level or from the provinces of
West Java and Central Java and not staffs in Eastern Indonesia wheTe the needs are greatest. More effort
from all parties should be given to identify candidates from Eastern Indonesia for in country higher degrees.
3. Infra Structure Development
The success of the implementation of a services model such as IMCI, PONED, PONEK, Infant
Cohort, AMP caused by the identification of the community problems, supported by studies and PDA, so
the result were applicable to overcome the health problem and can be replicated nationally.
- 48 -



4. Technical Issues
The project supported a wide variety of discrete health and nutrition activities at the national level
in each province. Quite a number of these innovative activities have been expanded on a much wider scale.
A view of the most notable activities are:
1) Integrated Management of the Childhood illness (IMCI) is an innovative initiative in West Java
to adopt the WHO model of the integrated approach to the management of childhood illness. This activity
was supported with local government fund and expanded to other provinces.
2) Matemal and Child Health Handbook funding by JICA, evaluated and revised using CHN-3
fund and expanded to other provinces.
3) A pilot project to reduce IMR and MMR by enhancing the perfonnance of village midwife and
health center in three districts in Irian Jaya. This pilot project has been expanded to another district and
financed by UNICEF.
4) IDD mapping is now being conducted nationwide.
5) Curriculum for multistream Academies for nutrition, nursing and midwifery courses have been
use nationally.
6) Research surveillance laboratory in Purworejo have generated a wide range of nested research
studies in priority areas of matemal, child health and nutrition.
7) Various provincial health staff have said that the PDA as program development and policy
information have been one of the valued parts of the CHN-3 project.
Nevertheless, the capacity to design technically competent studies was widely variable.
For some units both at the central and provincial level where there is insufficient planning and research
skill, it was difficult to prepare the proposal. In many cases the quality of these proposals remained low
despite opportunities for revision.
Project Management and Technical Assistance
1) The Central Project Secretariat was especially important to facilitating communication within
the program units and provinces and to explain guidelines and procedure for project activities. By all
account the secretariats were critical for conducting annual planning, preparing achievement reports and
providing administrative support for fellowships, civil work and procurement.
The role of the Project Steering Committee initially was to provide operational guidance to the
project, but because of the time constrains of most of these echelon II officials in the MOH it was not
possible for them to meet on regular basis for CHN-3 matters.
2) One of the more difficult elements of the project for both central level and provincial staff were
procurement procedures for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The secretariat took a proactive
role in the procurement process with ICB.
3) Experience in the project has shown than the most value is gained from technical assistance
where the program unit or province has put in time up front to assure that the terms of reference are
appropriate, the candidate is the best qualified to meet their needs, and there is an appropriate counterpart
in place.
-49 -



(iii) The performance of the Bank and Cofinancier
The supervision mission conducted twice a year is very useful for the project implementation
especially to overcome project problems. During supervision in 1994 the World Bank mission realized the
weakness of Service Delivery implementation, and the mission decided agreed to add one category namely
Program Development Activity (PDA) with the criteria that PDA proposal would be prepared by
kabupaten and or provincial team to meet an identifiable local need, the activity should examine an explicit
altemative or innovative approach to service delivery. The World Bank mission decision is very useful to
speed up the project implementation since the PDA 100 % financing under category 8 of the loan. The
mission also agreed to simplify the procedure for getting approval such as the studies, research, and PDA,
which is the Bank gave an authority to the Central Project Secretariat to review and approve all those for
under USD 25,000. During the Christmas and New year time usually the approval was delay because most
of the World Bank staff took long holiday.
The KfW grant as cofinancier of CHN-3 project provided Procurement Advisors which is very
useful for the procurement of equipments. His role as liaison between the project (MOH) and KfW to
speed up the approval of bidding process especially under the International Competitive Bidding. The KfW
supervision missions were very accommodative and helpful to support procurement problems immediately.
Suggestion for future operation of the project
1. Baseline data should be prepared during the preparation of the project proposal.
Experience showed, if the baseline data implemented during the beginning of the project it would be
delayed due to the bureaucracy of project implementation.
2. The future project should assure that appropriate support measures including Technical Assistance
training and manual are in placed if there is to be Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB).
3. The technical assistance for the provinces for International Consultant should understand Bahasa
Indonesia, or preferable has an counterpart with domestic consultant, because the province usually has less
experience in managing technical assistance and sometime failed to provide appropriate support and
guidance.
4. The project secretariat should provide technical staff with experience in managing foreign assistant
project and ability in developing of data base for monitoring and evaluating the project achievement.
- 50 -



