/S/kJ       5 -    ( -- -  A.JiL.
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
N I  CRUtF T ( HE a:, ,ry
h'eport No. :P- 5933 IJN)   Type: (PM)
Title:  THIR) CO)MMUINTTY HfEALT'H & tNEITRI                      ReportNo. P-5933-IND
Autho)r: STOUJT. S
Fxt. :8.2!37 Rooom:A1l0015 Dept. :A3FPH
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$93.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
THIRD COMMUNITY hEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
December 4, 1992
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November, 1992)
Currency Unit       =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 million        =  US$4950
US$1.00             =  Rp 2020
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS         =        National Economic Development Planning Agency
DEPKES           =        Departemen Kesehatan (Ministry of Health)
GOI              =        Government of Indonesia
Kabupaten        =        District
KfW              =        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Bank for
Reconstruction and Development)
PKM              =        Center for Health Education
PUSKESMAS        =        Community Health Center
POSYANDU         =        Health and Family Planning Village Gathering
PPAR             =        Project Performance Audit Report
PUSKESMAS        =        Health Center
REPELITA V       =        Fifth National Five-year Development Plan
SUSENAS          =        National Economic Survey
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TIURD COMIMUNITY HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
LOAN AM PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Repi-blic of Indonesia
Amount:               US$93.5 million equivalent
Terms:                20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate
Finandng Plan:
Local            Foreign         Total
US$ million
Government          52.1                  -            52.1
KfW                  2.0                16.5           18.5
IBRD                45.4                48.1          ;93.
TOTAL               22S
Economic Rate
of Return:           N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 11255-IND
Map:                  IBRD No. 24137
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PRODOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A THIRD COMMUNIT HEALTH AND NUTRN PRO
1.         I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$93.5 million to help finance a Third
Community Health and Nutrition project. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate,
with a maturity of 20 years, including five years of grace. The project would be co-financed by the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) for DM30 million, or about US$18.5 million. Co-financing would
be provided on a grant basis and would be allocated for the procurement of equipment and medical
supplies.
Part I: COuNRY POucIEs AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISrANCE
A. Background
2.         The Country Economic Memorandum, entitled "Indonesia: Growth, Infrastructure and
Human Resources" (Report No. 10470-IND), was issued to the Executive Directors in May 1992. Key
economic indicators appear in Annex I.
3.         Indonesia's basic development goals, adopted nearly 25 years ago at the inception of
President Suharto's New Order government, are national stability, growth, and equity - what has been
caUed the trilogy of development. Indonesia has come a long way toward attaining these goals. The past
24 years have been marked by rapid, broad-based growth leading to higher living standards and
substantial poverty reduction. Policies also supported diversification of the economy to reduce
dependence on oil, especially following the collapse of oil prices in the 1980s. These achievements can
be credited largely to sound macroeconomic and sectoral development policies, to an emphasis upon
achieving political consensus on important issues, and to the responsiveness of the Indonesian people -
as individuals, communities, workers, and entrepreneurs.
4.         Growth with Economic Stability. Indonesia started on the path of development from a
very low base, with a per capita income in 1967 of only US$50, about half that of India, Bangladesh and
Nigeria. Indonesia has made great strides, ranking among the ten fastest growing developing economies
over the past 25 years C(able 1), with a per capita income in 1991 of about US$610. Indonesia's prudent
macroeconomic policies and strong emphasis on macroeconomic stability in the face of fluctuating oil
prices are important reasons for Indonesia's rapid growth and the p-ogress made in economic
diversification. During the late 1960s, shordy after assuming power, the new Government introduced



-2 -
a stabilization and rehabilitation program in response to the severe economic disorder inherited front the
previous regime. This program was built on several measures that served tute economy well in later
years, ir.zluding: (i) a major budget reform to restore fiscal and monetary discipline including a
prohibition on domestic borrowing by the Government; (ii) gradual increases in interest rates to make
them positive in real terms; and (ii) a major currency reform to unify the multiple exchange rate system,
establish the full convertibility of the Rupiah, and remove controls on foreign capital flows. These
measures imposed discipline on domestic macroeconomic policy and led to improved export performance.
Table 1: KEY MACROECONOMIC VARIABS La
Actual                      Projected Jd
1975-83  1983-89  1990  1991 1992  1992-95  1995-2000
Averaee Real Growth Rates (% g.a.)
Gross domestic product (GDP)     6.5      6.0    7.3   6.8   5.2   5.6       5.9
Non-oil GDP                      7.0      6.5    7.8   6.5   6.2   6.5       7.0
Non-oil exports                 10.5     16.9    2.8  24.3  19.1   9.3       7.6
Fixed Investment                10.7      1.3   19.7  10.7   7.1    5.9      7.5
Stsucture of the Economy (%) lb
Non-oil manufacturingIGDP        9.9     14.1   14.9  15.5  16.2  18.4    22.8
Non-oil exports/non-oil imports  37.4    87.9   71.2  77.5  86.5  93.5    97.1
National Savings/GDP            21.0     21.7   22.1  22.2  22.9  24.4    25.6
Fixed Investment/GDP            25.1     21.2   23.5  24.7  25.4  24.9    26.1
Macroeconomic Balances (%1 lb
Current account/GNP             -7.8jC   -1.7   -3.8  -4.3  -4.0  -2.0    -2.0
Overali public balance/GDP      -4.31C   -2.1   -0.2  -0.7   0.0  -0.2    -0.3
MLT debt service/export         17.0     32.3   27.8  30.1  31.9  25.8    19.9
MemeJtem lb
GDP (US$ billions)              79.0     92.9  101.7 108.5 116.4  149.1   232.3
Population (millions)          156.4    177.4  179.5  181.5 183.5  192.6   206.5
/a Balance of payments and fiscal data are for fiscal years (starting April 1).
lb For the last year of multi-year period.
Ic For 1982/83.
/d Indonesia: Grow*. Infastructue and Human Resources, Report No. 10470-IND, May 26, 1992.
5.         During the oil boom of the 1970s, macroeconomic policies were used to spread the
absorption of oil windfalls across sectors, which encouraged development of the non-oil sectors. The



Government responded firmly and quickly when Pertamina, the national oil company, borrowed
exc'Fssively in the mid-1970s. Indonesia adhered strictly to agreements reached with creditors,
establishing its reputation as a responsible borrower, and placed strict limits on foreign borrowing,
especially by public enterprises. Substantial devaluation of the exchange rate in 1978 prevented excessive
appreciation of the Rupiah and also helped to preserve the competitiveness of the non-oil economy.
6.         A series of external shocks in the mid-1980s, which included a drop in oil prices from
US$25/bbl in 1985 to US$12.5tbbl in 1986, caused a 38 percent decline in Indonesia's total export
earnings and a 27 percent drop in total budget revenues within one year. The devaluation of the US
dollar and additional external borrowings contracted to cover the widening current account deficit raised
debt service to about 40 percent of export earnings. In response to these external shocks, Indonesia
moved rapidly to stabilize the economy. The Government devalued the exchange rate and backed this
up with fiscal measures to adjust spending to reduced income. Public expenditures were sharply
curtailed, mainly through a freeze on civil service salaries and sharp reductions in large capital- and
import-intensive projects. Spending for poverty-related sectors was relatively protected. The ban on
domestic borrowing by the public sector was an important instrument in the pursuit of this policy. Tax
reforms, started in 1983, aimed at building a sound income and value added tax system and strengthening
the non-oil revenue base. The earlier deregulation of interest rates, combined with the open capital
account, exerted discipline on monetary policy.
7.         Structural Diversification.  Indonesia's macroeconomic policies complemented and
reinforced sound sectoral priorities that encouraged broad-based development. This development program
was financed in large part by the oil windfalls of the 1970s. When the oil price first fell in the 1980s,
and fiscal restraint was needed, Government spending cuts fell most heavily on large capital-intensive
projects in industry and mining, permitting continued funding of essential operations and maintenance
expenditures and of ongoing programs to develop agriculture and the rural economy. Programs in basic
education, family planning, and other social and physical infrastructure also supported fundamental
development achievements, including sustained reduction in population growth. Within a prudent
macroeconomic framework, such programs helped establish the foundations for subsequent progress.
8.         Faced in the mid-1980s with the collapse of oil as the main source of foreign exchange and
budget revenues, Indonesia introduced structural reforms and an outward-oriented growth strategy to
diversify the economy and lessen the dependence on oil. Evidence of successful structural diversification
abounds. Oil revenues, which constituted 71 percent of Govermnent revenues in 1981/82, were only 36
percent by 1991/92; the fall in oil's share of export proceeds during this period was even greater, from
72 percent to 30 percent.
9.         Deregulation was the main factor in achieving structural diversification. The shift from
import licensing towards tariffs has been the centerpiece of trade reform. The industry sector has been
most affected by trade deregulation, and the share of production exposed to import competition has risen
from only 32 percent in 1986 to 68 percent by 1991. The resulting competitive pressures have helped
make manufactured goods the fastest growing non-oil export, with average volume growth of 27 percent
a year in 1986-91.
10.        Financial sector deregulation has led to financial deepening and more efficient investment.
The ratio of broad money to GDP grew from less than 20 percent in the early eighties to 45 percent by
1991. Deregulation reduced the importance of directed (subsidized) credits from 37 percent of total credit



-4-
in 1983 to 12 percent (with much lower subsidies) by e~arly 1992. Greater competition can be seen in
the expansion of private banking activities. The share of private banks in the assets of deposit money
banks increased from 18 percent in 1982 to 44 percent in 1991. The reduction in distortions and greater
competition have contributed to rising investment efficiency as seen in the decline in the economy-wide
five year incremental capital-output ratio from 5.4 in 1986 to 3.3 in 1991.
11.        Growth with Poverty Reduction. Perhaps the most powerful indicator of Indonesia's
progress over the past 25 years is the degree of poverty reduction. Indonesia started the 1970s with
around 70 million, or 60 percent of the population, in absolute poverty. By 1991 the number of the poor
had dropped to about 27 million, or about 15 percent of the population. Even during the difficult
adjustment period in the 1980s, poverty reduction was sustained. Othc. important indicators of higher
living standards include: reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4 percent in 1980 to 1.8 percent
in 1990, a substantial drop in infant mortality, universal primary education, a rapid expansion of
secondary and higher education, and an increase in literacy to over 80 percent. Progress in social and
economic indicators is discussed further in the 1992 Country Economic Memorandum.
B. Recent Developments
12.       Economic Performance and Prospects. Following the successful adjustment to the external
shocks of the 1980s, the Government has continued to respond to emerging development challenges,
particularly the challenge of managing dynamic, private-sector led growth in an increasingly deregulated
economy. During late 1989 and early 1990, a powerful surge in private investment, responding to the
new opportunities opened up by deregulation, combined with an easing of monetary policy to exert strong
demand pressures. These were reflected in a surge in imports, a slowdown in non-oil exports, and an
acceleration of domestic inflation. The Government responded with successive policy adjustments starting
in mid-1990. The tightening of monetary and fiscal policies has dampened demand and improved the
balance of payments while maintaining about 6-7 percent growth in the overall economy.
13.       Forceful actions were also taken to deal with the rapid growth of external debt and, in
particular, the large volume of foreign borrowing planned by public and publicly-related enterprises to
finance several mega-projects. In September 1991, the Government formed the Commercial Offshore
Loan Team (COLT) to coordinate access to international capital markets, deferred a number of large
projects, and established ceilings for commercial borrowings associated with these public sector projects.
'he Government adhered to its policy of maintaining a constant real effective exchange rate to maintain
the competitiveness of non-oil exports. The Government also improved tax collection and made selective
tax increases. The most recent economic data indicate the continuation of favorable trends in the
economy: non-oil exports are growing at about 26 percent, non-oil imports are growing at about 4
percent, inflation has continued to decelerate, and the current account deficit for 1992/93 now seems
likely to be lower than the 4 percent of GNP projected earlier (see Table 1).
14.       The passage of major financial legislation in 1991-1992, particularly the new banking law,
constitutes an important landmark in the development of the financial system in Indonesia. A number
of new banking regulations - capital adequacy requirements, conditions for bank soundness, changes to
regulations regarding foreign exchange and currency swaps, and guidelines regarding foreign borrowing -
- were introduced. In addition, the stock market was privatized, allowing separation of operational and



oversight responsibilities and contributing to increased investor confidence. Efforts are now focused on
ensuring that financial institutions abide by the new, toughened prudential regulations so as to continue
to bolster investor confidence. Attention is also turning to promoting a deeper market in long-term
financial instuments.
15.       The trade reforms continued in 1991 with a reduction and rationalization of tariff rates and
the elimination of NTBs on many important agricu!tural products such as edible oils, soybean meal,
poultry and other meats. As a result, the share of agricultural production protected by NTBs declined
from 38 percent to 30 percent, and the share of total production from 25 percent to 22 percent. In the
manufacturing sector, the most significant change was the easing of controls on imports of some steel
products. The 1992 reforms remnoved or reduced tariff surcharges on a large number of items and eased
NTBs on steel inmports. Monopoly import rights on many steel products were reduced, and producers
were authorized to import many kinds of steel required in their production.
16.       Prudent macroeconomic management, combined with continued implemenWation of
Indonesia's sectoral and institutional reform agenda, will enable Indonesia to meet the emerging
challenges and to continue a 6-7 percent annual growth in non-oil GDP in the medium term. This would
permit employment to continue to rise rapidly enough to absorb the growing labor force at higher levels
of productivity and would continue to reduce poverty.
17.       External Capital and Creditworthiness. During the 1970s, Indonesia's external financing
requirements were modest, due to abundant oil revenues, and they were met largely by official assistance.
Beginning in the 1980s, Indonesia's access to external capital becaire more diversified due to the
country's increasing creditworthiness and growing attractiveness to foreign equity investors. The large
financing requirements associated with the oil price fall of 1986, when the current account deficit leaped
to 6 percent of GNP, wero met by Government borrowing from commercial sources and massive official
(donor) support. Official creditors stepped up *heir commitments by US$2.4 billion between 1985 and
1987. By contrast, when investment began to surge in FY89/90, leading to current account deficits of
around four percent of GDP in FY89190-91/92, the jump in demand for external financing was met
largely by private borrowing from commercial sources and much higher foreign direct investment. Gross
disbursements of medium-term and long-term loans from private creditors rose from US$1.7 billion in
FY89/90 to US$5.6 billion in FY91/92, an increase of US$3.9 billion, four-fifths of the growth in total
disbursements. The changing balance of Indonesia's external financing is shown in Table 2.



-6-
Table 2: INDONESIA'S ACCESS TO EXTERNAL FINANCE: FY87 - FY92
(US $ billions, fiscal years)
1987    1988    1989    1990      1991     1992
Direct Foreign Invesnent         0.3     0.5     0.6      0.7      1.4       1.6
Disb. Medium- and Long-term
Loans to Private Borrowers     0.7      1.0     0.9      1.7      5.6       3.9
Disb. Medium- and Long-term
Loans to Public Borrowers      5.0     6.0      7.4      6.1 t. 1           6.2
Other Capital (net)             -0.7     0.2    -2.5    -1.5      -0.1       0.6
Memo Items:
Curnent Acot. Lieficit          4.3      1.8     1.8      1.6      3.7       4.5
Increase in Net Foreign Assets  -2.5     0.9    -0.3    -0.1       2.9       1.4
Disb. Medium- aad Long-term
Lons from Official Sources     2.3      3.4     4.4      3.9      3.8       3.9
18.        Foreign Direct Investment. The growing importance of direct investment inflows stems from
the increasing ease of investment as Indonesia has deregulated. Approvals of foreign investment projects
by BKPM (the Investment Coordinating Board) rose from US$0.9 billion In 1986 to US$4.7 billion in
1989, and US$8.8 billion in 1991, while realized inflows trebled from about US$0.5 billion in 1987/88
to about US$1.6 billion in 1991/92. The continuation of structural reforms and further improvements
in the business climate would allow Indonesia to remain an attractive host for foreign direct investment.
Of particular importance are reforms in three areas: (i) legal and regulatory reforms to develop capital
and securities market activities and to regulate corporate behavior; (ii) enforcement of competitive bidding
for infrastructure and industrial activities open to the private sector; and (iii) increased privatization for
commercially-oriented public enterprises.
19.        Offlcial Assistance.  The donor community has continued to support Indonesia's
development, mainly through the Consultative Group mechanism. 1/ In 1992, commitments of official
assistance in the CGI reached US$4.9 billion (US$4.8 billion in 1991), having grown moderately after
a surge from US$2.4 billion in 1985 to US$4.0 billion in 1988. Given the strong competition for limited
aid flows, growth in official assistance is likely to be modest in coming years.
20.        With the increase in official assistance accompanying the fall in oil prices in 1986, the
World Bank's share in CGI funding has fallen from around a half (1982-85) to about a third (1992).
Over the same period, support to Indonesia from the Asian Development Bank has grown steadily,
1/ Indonesia now has a Consultative Group (CGI) that is chaired by the World Bank, after 24 years during
which the Governnmnt of the Netherlands chaired the Intergovetnmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI). The
first meeting of the CGI took place in Paris during JuMy 16-17, 1992. The change in the arrangements was
at the request of the Indonesian Government and was endorsed by all of the former IGGI members.



reaching a quarter of the total in 1992. In response to Indonesia's financing needs during the adjustment
period in the mid 1980s, Japan emerged as the largest donor (35 percent of IGGI commitments) in 1988;
subsequently Japan's share has been in the range of 25-30 percent.
21.        i7oreign Borrowingfrom Commerciat Sources. Creditworthyprivate borrowers led the surge
in Indonesian approaches to international financial markets in 1990-1991, which resulted in a rapid
increase in Indonesia's indebtedness and a hardening of the terms of overall debt due to the higher interest
rates and shorter maturities of loans obtained from the markets. Enhanced creditworthiness of Indonesian
borrowers partly resulted *om the lack of i1ternative attractive investnert opportunities, but mainly
reflected Indonesia's improved economic performance.
22.        When creditworthiness indicators began to deteriorate in response to rising extemal debt,
the Government successfully implemented stabilizing measures that are returnihag the current account
deficit to more sustainable levels. Over the medium term, improving trends in the non-oil current
account should allow the current account deficit to stabilize at around 2 percent of GNP and the debt-
service ratio to decline to a satisfactory 25 percent. With careful management, Indonesia's total debt
burden should continue to easc, leading to improved creditworthiness and creating a framework for
continued, more diversified access to international financial and capital markets. The recent (July 1992)
assignment of an investment grade rating to Indonesia by Standard and Poors underlines the potential for
accessing an increasing variety of external sources of finance during this decade.
23.        Past World Bank Lending. The Bank's activities have responded to Indonesia's diversified
development priorities, ranging from poverty to private sector development, while at the same time
providing a reliable source of external financing on attractive terms, In keeping with the Bank's already
large exposure to Indonesia, growth in the overall program has been moderate in the past three years and
is projected to be stable in FY93-95. Comparing FY90-92 with FY87-89, however, major shifts,
consistent with emerging priorities, are apparent (Table 3). The main changes are: (i) the phasing out
of fast-disbursing assistance as Indonesia's need for structural adjustment assistance receded with the
successful implementation of the two Trade Policy Adjustment Loans and the two Private Sector
Development Loans; and (ii) the shift to human resource development and physical infrastructure, to
complement the growing involvement of the domestic and foreign private sectors in directly productive
activity.
24.        The share of agriculture is basically unchanged between the two periods, but the emphasis
is shifting increasingly to forestry and water conservation and to interventions that directly benefit the
poor. Expenditures on human resources have grown rapidly - as a share of the total program and in
absolute terms - with an increasing emphasis in both the education and health portfolios on the quality
of services provided and their targeting to poorer groups and regions. The rising share to industry,
finance, and telecommunications reflects investments in telecommunications, in the context of the Bank's
commitment to help alleviate the severe telecommunications bottleneck to growth and following an agreed
strategy for sector restructuring and increased private participation and competition. Inadequate electricity
supply is also a major constraint to growth of efficient private activity, and the Bank continues to provide
substantial support to least-cost expansion of the power grid.  Finally, a rising share for urban and
transport infrastructure recognizes the great, and growing, deficiencies in urban services and the need for
better roads to facilitate efficient growth.



-8-
Table 3: DSRIUTION OF BAND LENDING TO INDONESIA; FY 87-92
(US$ tnillions)
FY 87-89           FY 90-92
Amount             Amount      %
Ariculture                                 516       13        579      12
Human Resource Development                 316       8         705      14
Industry, Finnme & Teecolnmmuications      687       17      1,072      22
Power and Energy                           917      22       1,114      23
Urban and Transport nfrastructure          689       17      1,096      23
Non-Project (Adjustment, TA)               950      23         292       6
Total                                    AI7I       10       4.858 _ 
25.        As of September 30,1992, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits totalling US$901.6 million
(net of cancellations) and 170 Bank loans totalling US$17,047.54 million (net of cancellations). The
share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's public external debt disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1991
was 23.6 percent, and the share of debt service was 20.7 percent, compared with 23.1 percent and 19.5
percent, respectively, in 1990. Indonesia's share of the IBRD's portfolio in FY93 is projected at 10.7
percent; given a stable lending program and the cessation of fast-disbursing assistance, the share should
fal below 10 percent in the coming five years.
26.        To date, the Operations Evaluation Departnent has evaluated 126 completed projects in
Indonesia - 88 percent have been considered "satisfactory". The main factors contributing to this overall
satisfactory performance in Indonesia include the sound fiscal and economic policies adopted by the
Government, the steady progress made in institutional capacity building through substantial investments
in education and technical assistance, and the magnitude of the budgetlaid resources available.
27.        The health of the current portfolio ic equally good. As of September 30,1992, the portfolio
included 73 projects for a net commitment of about US$8.8 billion: including 22 projects (US$1.7
billion) for agriculture; 18 projects (US$3.9 billion) for energy and industry; 14 projects (US$1.9 billion)
for infrastructure; 18 projects (US$1.4 billion) for human resource development; and 1 project ($12
million) for environmental institution-building. Since the completion of the last adjustment loan, the
annual disbursement ratio has stabilize,d at 22 percent. The first Annual Portfolio Management Review
in Indonesia has been initiated and sector discussions have' been very fruitful. Preliminary lessons for
future supervision and lending are summarized in paras. 68-70.



-9-
C. The External Environment
28.        Indonesia is strongly integrated with the global economy through both its trade and capital
accounts, and it has explicitly used its open capital account to reinforce macroeconomic discipline.
Greater openness through trade and investment policy reforms has promoted b' er resource allocation
in line with Indonesia's comparat;ve advantage, Increased competition, and enhanced efficiency through
technology trmsfer. With a more diversified economic base, Indonesia is less vulnerable to oil/gas
related external shocks than in the past. Nevertheless, important sources of vulnerability remain,
particularly: (i) fluctuations in oil prices; (ii) slow growth in world demand for Indonosia's non-oil
exports; (iii) depreciation of the US dollar against major world currencies; and (iv) given the high debt
stock, maintaining adequate flows of external finance from commercial sources and the donor community.
These vulnerabilities motivate Indonesia's efforts to reduce the current account deficit to more manageable
levels.
29.        The Government is pursuing policies to reduce external risks. The continued diversification
of the economy (non-oil exports are projected to represent three quarters of total exports by 1995) will
reduce the vulnerability to oil-related shocks. 2, Stagnating OECD growth has not affected Indonesia's
non-oil growth to date. Non-oil exports are relatively diversified between Japan (18 percent), the EC (21
percent), the United States (17 percent) and ASEAN (16 percent), and the outward oriented policies
pursued by Indonesia are geared to maintaining competitiveness in Indonesia's major markets.
30.        The recently announced plans for an ASEAN free trade zone will provide Indonesia with
an added incentive to produce competitively for domestic and foreign markets and may open up attractive
investment opportunities for ASEAN neighbors. However, magnitudes of trade and investment flows can
only be assessed when details of the ASEAN Trade Agreement are worked out. The impact of the North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) on Indonesia's exports and flow of foreign direct investment
also will have to be ascertained. At present, NAFTA countries account for 18 percent of Indonesia's
non-oil exports.
31.        The recent buildup of foreign exchange reserves and the maintenance of external lines of
credit with commercial banks will help the economy weather short term shocks. The Government has
also begun to consider more active asset-liability management tools to reduce exchange rate and interest
rate exposure. Having recently been assigned an investment grade in its first international credit rating,
Indonesia will be well-positioned to diversify its sources of external finance. Further, the continuation
of structural reforms and improvements in the business climate will be important determinants in
attracting equity finance, which will curb the growth of debt.
y!   Currently a US$1 decline in the price of oil implies a idl in oil/LNG net export receipts of US$340
million a year or about I percent of total exports, as well as a 1 percent reduction in net budget
revenues.



- 10-
D. Indonesia's Development Strategy and Prtiorities
32.       In addition to the longer-term 25-year development plan, the Government's development
objectives and strategies have been articulated in a series of five-year plans (Repelitas) beginning in 1969
and a number of policy statements. Indonesia's commitment to the development trilogy of stability,
growth, and equity was reaffirmed forcefully in President Suharto's Independence Day speech in August
1992. At the same time, renewed emphasis was given to environmental concerns as an integral part of
a broad-based strategy for sustainable growth, and to improvements in efficiency and productivity as
essential for realizing growth objectives within the limits of available resources. These concerns define
some of the tough challenges facing Indonesia - improving the incentives to increase private savings and
investment and to enhance efficiency, maintaining fiscal and financial stability, building institutions to
help markets work better, reducing hard core poverty, and establishing the regulatory framework to
protect the environment.
33.        To meet these tough challenges, Indonesia has formulated a development strategy which
incorporates the following key components: (i) maintaining a commitment to broad-based growth with
macroeconomic stability, rapid enough to raise living standards and expand employment opportunities;
(ii) enhancing the opportunities for private enterprises; (iii) strengthening the instituionalframework and
biproving public sector management to provide a sound environment for private enterprise and effective
delivery of basic services; (iv) developing infrastructure to ease constraints on private sector growth; (v)
developing human resources, both to support growth and to improve opportunities and living standards
directly, especially for the poor; (vi) ensuring that the incentive and regulatory structure reinforces
environmentally sustainable growth; and (vii) integrating all these elements to reduce poverty and raise
the living standards of all Indonesians.
34.        Macroeconomic Stability. Prudent macroeconomic policies have been an outstanding
feature of Indonesia's policies. The Government's commitment continues to be reaffirmed through day-
to-day macroeconomic management and is reflected by the highest priority given to macroeconomic
stability in the country's development plan. The Government's policies and actions in recent years and
months attest to this commitment. The Government has coordinated monetary, fiscal and exchange rate
policies, together with attention to external debt management and the rephasing of large capital- and
im-port-intensive projects, to cool down an overheated economy. At the same time, it has moved to
mobilize public resources through improved tax administration, selective tax increases and reductions in
subsidies, and measures to improve the efficiency of public enterprises.
35.        Private Sector Development. Based on its recent successes, the Government's strategy
recognizes that private enterprise is central to achieving satisfactory growth and that building a more
diverse and robust production structure requires that the energies of Indonesia's business community and
farmers be directed towards competition in the domestic and world markets. Two sets of policies are
seen as supporting a competition-oriented growth strategy. First, macroeconomic policies will ensure a
stable environment for private enterprise and provide adequate incentives to export. Second, structural
reforms will dismantle the remaining regulatory barriers and market interventions that hamper competition
and private initiative and distort private choices. 3/
I/ Indonesia: Developing Private Enternrise, Report No. 9498-IND, May 9, 1991.



- 11 -
36.         The Government's strategy is to continue deregulation and institutional reforms (see paras.
38-40). The deregulation and ongoing reforms of the financial sector are seen as playing a critical role
in mobilizing and allocating resources efficiently and prudently. Consolidating the major achievements
in the financial sector is essential for sound private enterprise growth. In industry, the focus is on
developing a broad-based, resilient industrial structure, able to respond to changing opportunities and
supply competitive products to both the domestic and world markets. Noting that a resilient economy
requires efficient industries with the "potential and ability to compete with other countries' industries,"
President Suharto has stressed that "protection cannot be provided forever" and that "in the shortest
possible time the protected industries must become mature and self-reliant."
37.         Agriculture remains central to Indonesia's strategy for rapid growth and poverty reduction
because (i) poverty is still heavily concentrated in rural areas, (ii) three-quarters of all poor people derive
their principal source of income from agriculture, and (iii) the poor are especially vulnerable to
fluctuations in food supplies and prices. However, in line with domestic progress and rapid changes in
the international environment for agricultural development and natural resource management since the
mid-1980s, the Government is focusing increasingly on efficiency and productivity, and thereby enabling
private farmers to respond flexibly to changing markets.4/ In this way, diversification of agriculture
along the lines of Indonesia's comparative advantage will be encouraged. Recent trade policy reforms
have eliminated NTBs on some key agricultural products to promote greater efficiency. In the forestry
sector, which produces a substantial share of Indonesia's non-oil exports, a large domestic wood
processing sector has been created, largely through the application of prohibitive restrictions on export
of raw logs and more recently, rough sawn timber. Limited forest resources and continuing deforestation
now present the Government with some serious decisions in the areas of wood pricing, sustainable forest
management, and community involvement.
38.         Institution-Building. Sustained development of tfMicient private enterprise requires parallel
institutional reform in two broad areas. The first area encompasses measures that strengthen the
instiutional underpinnings of efficient markets. This involves the creation of an atmosphere conducive
to wider participation, easier entry and greater competition, where the focus of government will shift
further from providing goods and services to helping markets work better. In addition to progress in
deregulation and pricing policy, this includes: (i) building a modern legal framework (improvements in
commercial, credit and contract laws and adjudication) that would provide business with a stable,
predictable environment that raises confidence and reduces costs; (ii) development of the legal and
regulatory framework for more effective registration and transfer of land rights and dissemination of land
information; (iii) development of adequate accounting, auditing and disclosure standards and
requirements; and (iv) establishment of a framework for private participation in provision of public
services. An effective, transparent administrative system will be essential, allowing the private sector
to focus on increasing output and productivity.
39.         The second area focuses on public sector management, to improve the efficiency of service
delivery. Efforts here include reforming the civil service and building capacity at all levels of
government, decentralizing functions where appropriate, and managing public enterprises better. The
work recently initiated on civil service reform concentrates on streamlining organizational strictures,
4/ Indonesia Agricultural Transformation Challenges and OpRortunities, Report No. 10504-IND, September
1, 1992.



- 12 -
clarifying tasks, and linking compensation more clearly with identified tasks and responsibilities. In
addition to improving efficiency and staff motivation, an important objective is to adapt the civil service
to the changing role resulting from extensive deregulation and increasing decentralization. This role
involves a greater emphasis on planning, policy analysis, and advisory, monitoring and coordinating
functions, as many of the functions relating to the administration of direct controls have disappeared.
Decentralizaton is viewed as a way to tap local initiative, foster accountability, and allow expenditures
to better reflect local priorities. Over time, significant responsibilities in the provision of infrastructure
and other public services are being assigned to provincial, district, and municipal authorities. Local
government participation is especially important in urban infrastructure, irrigation, and road transport.
But the progress achieved to date reveals that effective decentralization in Indonesia still faces several
challenges: adequate institutional capacities of local governments to take on additional tasks and
responsibilities, their ability to finance these tasks, and proper accountability.
40.        In public enterprises, the Government has been evolving a policy framework for reform
since 1988. The major objectives are to: (i) reform the organization and management of enterprises that
will remain in the public sector to improve their efficiency and reduce their burden on scarce public
resources and (ii) initiate the phased divestiture of enterprises that need not remain under public
ownership. Ministerial decrees issued in 1989 set out the financial performance criteria for public
enterprises and outlined a number of options to improve their efficiency and productivity. A set of
corporate restructuring strategies has also been identified - ranging from change in legal status, to sale
of equity, to liquidation. The Government is embarking on an in-depth assessment of all public
enterprises for restructuring and divestiture, but increased momentum will be ne&erd to bring about
substantial improvements.
41.        Infrastructure Development. The Government's development strategy has long recognized
the importance of infrastructure in promoting economic growth and sustaining private sector development.
Infrastructure has also been seen as a tool for achieving more equitable development across regions and
income groups. Infrastructure has received consistently high priority in successive five-year plans,
accounting for, on average, over 40 percent of all development expenditure. Renewed emphasis is being
given to increasing productivity and efficiency since available resources will be insufficient to meet
projected demand without greater efficiency. The Government intends to (i) promote efficiency in the
use of infrastructure services through appropriate pricing and adequate operations and maintenance; (ii)
enhance efficiency in the supply of infrastructure services through greater private participation and better
public management (at central and local levels and in public enterprises); and (iii) ensure the development
of new infrastructure capacity in accordance with well-defined priorities for power, telecommunications,
transport, and water and sanitation. fI
42.        The transport sector generally has been able to meet the rapidly growing needs of the
economy at reasonable financial costs and with a reasonable level of service. The sector's regulatory
fiamework is being consolidated and extended through a set of new transport laws (road, rail, civil
aviation and maritime transport) that will replace regulations issued in the 1920s and 1930s. These laws
will promote efficiency and safety and will define the authority and responsibilities of provincial and
municipal governments. The role of the private sector has expanded significandy, and the main challenge
I/ Indonesia: A Stratejv for Infmstacture Development, Report No. 9672-IND, June 22, 1992; and
Indonesia: Growth. Infiamucture and Human Resources, Report No. 10470-1ND, May 26, 1992.



- 13 -
will be to institute the regulatory and institutional framework to ensure efficient participation responsive
to evo'ving demands.
43.        In the energy sector, the Government's policy has been to diversify energy consumption
away from petroleum products in order to maintain the level of its export earnings, to provide energy to
industries in a cost-effective manner, and to deliver affordable energy to households to improve their
quality of life. The management efficiency of PLN (the state electricity enterprise) will need to be
improved to enable it to meet growing demands, given the projected massive investments projected in the
1990s. The Government is considering options to reorganize PLN, and private participation is being
promoted to supplement supply and introduce competition.
44.        Telecommunications constitutes a bottleneck to economic growth, and the Government has
evolved a strategy to improve sector performance by: (i) allowing private provision of non-basic services;
(ii) changing the legal status of the telecommunications operator from a wholly-owned government
enterprise to a limited liability company, TELKOM, with shares (currently government-owned) to operate
on commercial principles; (iii) introducing revenue-sharing agreements between TELKOM and private
investors for cellular telephone systems; and (iv) initiating studies of the institutional capabilities required
to manage the sector and of the scope for further private sector involvement.
45.        Human Resource Developnent. In education, the strategy is to improve quality at all
levels, through increased decentralization, institutional strengthening, targeting, and private sector
participation.§I The Government is committed to universalizing basic education, now defined to cover
grades 1-9, by raisingjunior secondary enrollment rates. This requires improved teaching, better student
preparation, and targeting of resources to disadvantaged and isolated schools. Steps have also been taken
to upgrade teacher training. Repelita V assigned the private sector a key role in the expansion of tertiary
and vocational enrollment. The 1990 Education Law consequently sets out a role for government in the
context of rapidly growing private university enrollment, and a further decree has granted autonomy to
public universities in financial, academic, and institutional matters.
46.        In health, the main priorities are to improve the quality of care by providing more effective
primary health care services and to deal with the long-run concerns of adjusting the health system to meet
the needs of adult and chronic diseases. In the near term, a major concern is to ensure that health
priorities, including the provision of water and sanitation facilities, are defined at the local level and
reflect local needs. Thus, fostering decentralized managerial and budgetary authority to develop and
implement local plans, together with strengthening the central government's policy and technical
assistance role, are important elements of the strategy. More and better-skilled human resources are also
required system-wide, together with supportive personnel policies. To deal with adult and chronic
diseases, the current health system will need substantial adjustments in medical education, the scale and
sophistication of facilities, referral systems, and financing mechanisms, including the development of
health insurance. The agenda also includes development of an appropriate enabling environment for
private provision of services.
fI Indonesia: EmnLonnent and Trainine. Foundations for Industrialization in the 1990s. Report No. 9350-
IND, June 13, 1991.



- 14 -
47.        Environmental Sustainability. The pace and pattern of economic growth in Indonesia over
the past 25 years have depleted and degraded valuable environmental assets and stressed the ecological
systems upon which much of the country's economic activity depends. The emergence of these issues
has led to a growing awareness of the need to ensure the environmental soundness of Indonesia's
development strategy over the longer term. Key challenges include: (i) improving the management of
natural resources (forests, land, water, and energy); (ii) protecting the urban environment (with a focus
on water supply and sanitation, solid waste, and vehicle emissions); and (iii) controlling industrial
pollution (by encouraging clean technology and ensuring appropriate investments in pollution abatement).
To meet these challenges will require further improvements in incentives and the regulatory framework,
increased investment by both ihte public and private sector, and institutional strengthening in a number
of key areas.
48.        The Government has had a long-standing commitment to the basic concepts of sustainable
development, and has already established a legal framework and regulatory procedures designed to
implement those concepts. Recent initiatives include: implementation of environmental impact analysis
(EIA) requirements for all development projects; the preparation of a Tropical Forestry Action Plan and
a National Biodiversity Action Plan; the establishment of a national environmental protection agency
(BAPEDAL); new legislation on spatial planning and the establishment of an inter-ministerial commission
for land use policy; the introduction of water user charges in the irrigation sector and the review of
options for improving the institutional management of water resources; and a special initiative for the
control of industrial pollution in the 24 most highly polluted rivers in 11 provinces. The implementation
of these initiatives is constrained by limited financial resources, skills and data shortages, and institutional
shortcomings, particularly at the provincial and local levels, but the Government, with strong donor
support, is giving high priority to overcoming these constraints.
49.        Poverty Reduction. Poverty reduction remains a central goal of Indonesia's development
strategy, with other components of the strategy outlined above seen as contributing directly to that goal.
Despite the substantial reduction in poverty achieved, about 27 million people are still living below the
poverty line and, with per capita income still only US$610, a large number of people are "near poor,"
with incomes only slightly above the poverty line. There are also significant regional variations in
poverty. As poverty declines, those remaining poor are likely to constitute an increasingly "hard core,"
with disabilities and problems that may make them difficult to reach. Key elements in the Government's
strategy include: ensuring growth rapid enough to provide jobs for a labor force growing by about 2.2
million people a year, while raising levels of productivity and income; providing resources to the poorer
regions, particularly through the INPRES transfer programs that provide funds to local governments for
a range of activities; and increasing the poor's access to basic health and education services.
50.        These approaches are reflected in Repelita V, which sets out an intensified Government
effort to reduce poverty. 2/ First, the Government stressed its commitment to a process of growth and
structural change with an emphasis on developing an efficient manufacturing sector, supporting the
agricultural sector, and providing the infrastructure necessary to support a more rapid rate of economic
growth. Second, the Government initiated a number of new poverty-related programs and strengthened
others. Some examples indicate the range of activities involved. It expanded the "posyandu" (integrated
health service posts) to promote more equitable distribution of basic services, introduced village
71  Indonesia: Poverty Assessment and Strategv Report, Report No. 8034-IND, May 11, 1990.



- 15 -
demonstration plots managed by women to expand the food and nutrition program, and expanded social
welfare and non-formal education activities at the village level. It also introduced a program to provide
water to lower-income groups in water-stressed urban slum areas and strengthened programs to provide
rural water supply and sanitation. Local level line agencies were strengthened to expand income
generating activities in poor villages through integrated area development projects.
E. The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
51.        The Bank's assistance program has supported the broad development goals and strategies
of the Indonesian Government. As outlined in this year's Country Economic Memorandum, Indonesia
should be able to maintain a reasonably rapid rate of growth, based on the Government's continuing
commitment to macroeconomic stability and to push ahead with structural reforms that encourage private
enterprise, reduce poverty, and induce environmentally sustainable development. However, to sustain
such growth to the year 2000 and achieve middle income levels of per capita income will require
substantial resources and action across a wide-ranging and challenging policy, institutional, and social
agenda to convert strategic objectives into workable programs in a geographically and ethnically diverse
country.
52.        The Bank's strategy is to support the Government as it formulates its next five and 25 year
development plans to deal with emerging challenges in the following areas: (i) building and adapting
institutions to the changing roles of the public and private sectors; (ii) improving incentives to increase
the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy (balancing deregulation with the need for new
regulation); (iii) investing more in infrastructure and human resources but with increased efficiency; (iv)
reducing hard core poverty; and (v) protecting the environment.
53.        The Bank focuses on macroeconomic policies in the annual Country Economic Memorandum
and in on-going dialogue with the Government. The basic challenge will be to increase domestic savings
to support higher investment, consistent with a gradual reduction in the current account deficit to about
2 percent of GNP by 1995. Aggregate demand pressures will need to be contained through more active
fiscal policy. Given the size of Indonesia's total foreign debt (US$77 billion), prudent management of
both the composition and absolute level of external debt will have to complement macroeconomic policies.
54.        The Bank supports Government efforts to improve efficiency. In this regard, we have
emphasized the importance of adjusting the prices of, or charges for, various goods and services, such
as fuel, electricity, fertilizers, irrigation, and forest products, so as to improve resource mobilization and
allocation. We have also supported the Government in sustaining the momentum of trade and investment
deregulation and prudent debt management.
55.        Economic and sector work will support this strategy both in sector studies and in cross-
sectoral reports. For example, this year's Country Economic Memorandum examined issues in
infrastructure and human resources, and the next will focus on sustainable development, looking at
sustainability in terms of the complementarities and trade-offs between growth, equity, and environmental
conservation. Sector work during the past year analyzed the agricultural transformation in Indonesia and
identified measures to enhance the flexibility of the sector to respond to changing patterns of demand in
the domestic economy and to world market opportunities, including priorities for public investment,



- 16-
deregulation, and the Government's changing role with respect to the enviroment. An infrastructure
review analyzed the volume of financial resources required to meet sectoral targets, the scope for
improved efficiency, implementation capacity restraints, and the potential role of the private sector.
Future sector work will deepen the Bank's analysis on a range of issues in environmental management,
forestry, industry, education, energy, transport, and telecommunications. Ongoing studies examine
Indonesia's debt management in the context of changing patterns of external financing; the impact of a
range of expenditure programs on the poor; and the system of land resource allocation, including
ownership, pricing, and the regulatory role of the Government. Planned studies include the private
provision of public services, public administration, and local government development.
56.        Lending Activiies. During FY 93-95, we expect to maintain current lending levels. With
Indonesia's share of new Bank lending well below 10 percent, the share of Indones' . in the Bank portfolio
will fall below 10 percent within the next 5 years. As no balance of paymentz support appears to be
needed during this period, the lending program will comprise project and sector loans in agriculture,
including forestry and watershed conservation activities (15 percent), human resource development (15
percent), infrastructure (30 percent), and industry, energy and telecommunications (40 percent).
57.        The sectoral composition, with attention to special themes such as poverty and environment,
continues in line with country and lending priorities. However, the challenges of implementing the
"second generation' of policy and institutional reforms to increase productivity and efficiency across
sectors, regions, and at all levels of administration, clearly require not only policy input and concept"ally
consistent and technically correct designs, but also special sensitivity to local concerns and capacities.
The paragraphs below describe the sectoral emphases of future lending, and the lessons to be incorporated
in supervision and lending from the ongoing Portfolio Management Review.
58.        Poverty Alleviation. The Bank supports the Government's multi-pronged approach to
poverty reduction. First, the Government's outward-oriented growth strategy benefits the poor by
creating jobs in the non-oil manufacturing sector and by continuing support to the agricultural sector,
which employs 55 percent of the labor force and accounts for 26 percent of non-oil exports. In the
agricultural sector, poverty alleviation will be fostered by diversified sources of growth, promoting tree
crops for smallholders, particularly in the Outer Islands, increasing the role of the private sector,
increasing productivity, and promoting exports. These objectives will continue to be pursued through
policy dialogue that aims at reducing trade and domestic distortions and through lending focused on
research and extension services, agricultural financing, human resource development and rural services,
and improved management of water, land, and forestry resources. Second, the extension of economic
infrastructure and services to the poor, both in urban and rural areas, is evidenced in the large
infrastructure and energy programs (see Table 3 and paras. 63-66). Third, to help the Government
improve basic social services (education, health, nutrition, and family planning), policy studies underway
focus on the regional dimensions of poverty through increased targeting to reach disadvantaged groups
and remote areas, increased decentralization, and private participation. Emphasis has shifted to improving
the balance between hardware and the quality and effective delivery of services.
59.        In promoting human resource development, future projects will emphasize the quality of
education and family planning services for previously unreached groups. In order to improve health
service delivery, a programmatic approach is being tested by decentralizing planning and budgeting
functions to provincial and local governments, and by improving cost recovery through service fee
adjustments at local levels. A community-based approach to providing water supply and sanitation is



- 17 -
being developed to encourage maximum coverage and sustainability. The role of the private sector,
institutional capacity building, and central program management are also being explored.
60.       Improving the quality of primary education, increasing attention to secondary and graduate
education, and implementing new approaches to industrial skills training are expected to complement the
Government's development strategy by raising skill levels to compete effectively in one of the world's
most dynamic regions. The concerns of women in development will continue to be addressed most
explicitly under our population, health, and education programs. Economic and sector studies of health
manpower issues, income generating strategies, an education sector strategy, and delivery of basic
services will support the policy dialogue and lending program.
61.        Environment. Bank support for sustainable development in Indonesia has evolved rapidly
over the past several years, building on the 1989 environmental sector review.8/ Our strategy for the
future will continue to emphasize improvements in the management of natural resources, including
economic and sector work and Bank lending for forestry, land, water, and energy resources, and a
proposed Global Environment Facility project for the protection of biodiversity. A second environment
report is currently being prepared to increase the emphasis given to issues of urban environmental
management and industrial pollution control. Policy analysis and advice in all of these areas will focus
on the incentives and regulatory framework for sustainable development. Lending operations will
continue to strengthen institutions to improve environmental planning and management, including the
capacity for carrying out project EIAs and the involvement of community groups and NGOs in their
design and implementation.
62.        Private Sector Development. Private sector development has been a central element of the
Bank Group assistance strategy and has encompassed a range of initiatives in three areas: (i) the policy
framework for private sector development (extensive analytical work on the macroeconomic environment,
trade and investment regime, and the financial sector), supported by a series of four policy-based loans
(Trade Policy Adjustment Loans I and II and Private Sector Development Loans I and Ll) focusing on
trade reform, deregulation, and an improved environment for private enterprise; (ii) supportive
investments in physical and human infrastructure; and (iii) financial support to private investment
(supporting industrial restructuring, export development and agroprocessing). Lending operations,
particularly in infrastructure, support efficient pricing policies and a regulatory framework for private
participation. The recently-approved Financial Sector Development Project will support private enterprise
by laying the foundations for a sound, efficient banking system. The Bank will be working with the
Govermnent to remove the remaining obstacles to private enterprise, including distortions in the incentive
and investment regimes; constraints on competition and barriers to entry; institutional, legal and
regulatory constraints; infrastructure and human resource constraints; and financial system constraints.
63.        Infrastructure. The strategic importance of the urban agenda to Indonesia's economic and
social development makes a clear case for Bank support. Successful pursuit of the Government's growth
and equity objectives depends in large part on adequate provision of urban services. Indeed, urban
development incorporates the two main institutional priorities of the Bank - poverty alleviation (over 30
percent of the poor in Indonesia now live in urban areas compared to 19 percent in 1976) and the
I/  Indonesia: Forest. Land and Water: Issues in Sustainable Development, Report No. 7822-IND,
June 1989.



- 18-
environment (particularly "brown" issues). Priority support for urban development will be linked to
lending for water and sanitation and integrated urban development projects.
64.        Implementation of the integrated urban development concept, which is based on acquired
experience, involves significant coordination of planning, implementation, and supervision among all
levels of governments in order to improve the delivery of urban services and enable local governments
to assume greater responsibility for urban management. The complexity of the urban agenda requires
(i) flexibility in adjusting implementation arrangements to the reality of regional capabilities and needs
and (ii) implementation of sound policy measures related to the budget system, pricing, urban land
management, and private provision of public services.
65.        The main objective of future transpor projects will be to expand capacity and emphasize
efficiency by enhancing local planning and implementation capacity. Further improvements are required
in traffic regulations, user fees, and diesel pricing, as well as decentralized implementation. The Road
Sector Study (FY94) and Intermodal Transport Study (FY95) will support the p licy dialogue and lending
operations. Urban transport, particularly in the Jakarta area, requires substantial capital investment that
will merit rising donor support. In this context, issues of traffic management, operations and
maintenance, efficiency, and cost recovery will have to be addressed.
66.        The policy dialogue in the energy and telecommunications sub-sectors will focus on
appropriate pricing policies, providing an enabling environment for private entrants, and improving
efficiency of the public enterprises. The lending program will include projects for (i) electricity
generation, transmission and distribution, and rural electrification, (ii) gas utilization for domestic
consumption, and (iii) improvement of services from the telecommunications sector.
67.        The Portfolio hanagement Review - Lessons for Future Lending and Supervision.
Portfolio management has long been a concern of the Bank and the Indonesian Government, as reflected
in the establishment in 1986 of a special project implementation and monitoring unit within the National
Planning Ministry, BAPPENAS, to deal with procurement and disbursement problems. The new
portfolio review process represents, therefore, a continuation of similar mechanisms but in a more
systematic and structured framework.
68.        The existing portfolio of Bank loans is diversified by sectors, regions and institutions and
supports important policy changes and service delivery objectives. As noted in para. 26, the portfolio
meets "satisfactory" development objectives as defined by OED, leaving no doubt of its positive
developmental impact. The Portfolio Management Review focuses, therefore, on how to improve the
implementation of on-going projects and to better design future lending operations. Two inportant issues
emerge:
(a)   The complexity of project designs - in terms of policy changes, institutional and training
objectives, broad geographical coverage, innovative technical solutions, and local
involvement - are overtaxing the supervision capacities both of the Bank and of
Government agencies. Consequently, the results often fall short of the institution- building
and other objectives that should be achieved.
(b)  In a few cases, less than satisfactory components of otherwise economically viable projects
have not been restructured or cancelled expeditiously. At present, the restructuring or



- 19 -
cancellation of two components is being discussed: one under the otherwise successful
Industrial Energy Conservation Project (Loan 2879-IND) because KONEBA (Energy
Conservation Center) has proven to be ineffective; and the other under the Fisheries Support
Services Project (Loan 2773-4ND), as inadequate technical design, land acquisition
problems, and managerial difficulties require a downsizing of pond areas.
69.        The lessons for the future are (i) to devote greater care to project design to ensure that
complex projects can be handled within the technical and administrative capacities of the Government and
the supervisory capacity of the Bank and (ii) to reassess doubtful project components as soon as serious
problems are identified during supervision. Eliminating the problems associated with these lessons
inevitably will require more effective lending preparation and supervision and more regionally-targeted
supervision by Bank staff.
70.        Other ways to raise the development effectiveness and quality of Bank supervision and
lending include: (i) reducing chronic delays in procurement through the introduction of standard general
conditions for bidding in documents for ICB and LCB in line with Bank guidelines in other countries and
reappraising projects if delays exceed reasonable targets; CiH) improving the services provided to Indonesia
by closer supervision and better decision-making with regard to technical assistance contracted under
World Bank projects; (iii) ensuring more effective supervision of construction quality by Government
agencies and Bank staff (periodic inspection of construction quality and verification of consistency with
contract terms should be undertaken by third party specialists); and (iv) treating land acquisition and
management issues and resettlement issues more realistically during project design (the Government is
committed to address land market registration and regulation issues, but nationwide progress is bound to
be gradual).
71.       IFC and MIGA Activities. Since commencement of reforms in the mid-1980s, the number
and size of IFC projects have grown rapidly. Since 1988, a total of 28 projects have been approved with
an aggregate commitment of US$785 million in loan and equity. IFC's investment portfolio encompasses
many of the sectors that are contributing most to Indonesia's private sector growth, including textiles,
chemicals, agribusiness, tourism, capital markets and development finance. The experience and working
relationships that IFC has developed with a large number of corporate groups in Indonesia make it well
placed to expand its project and capital market activities through the 1990s, with a potential for
commitments of US$200 to US$300 million a year.
72.       Indonesia has been a member of MIGA since 1988. Currently MIGA has two outstanding
guarantees for Indonesia totalling US$51.5 million. The country limit of US$150 million, based on
existing capital, is not expected to be a constraint for several years.
73.        Cooperation with Other Multilateral Institutions. The most recent IMF Article IV
Consultation, which took place in February 1992, was an interim consultation since Indonesia is now on
a two-year consultation cycle. The Government has not had any standby or extended financing
arrangements with the IMF since 1973. The Government's last purchase from the IMF was for SDR 463
million in May 1987 under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF), all of which has been
repurchased. There was close coordination with the IMF throughout Indonesia's adjustment period, and
the Fund's Executive Board strongly endorsed Indonesia's adjustment strategy, particularly the policies
undertaken to diversify the economy and accelerate export growth. Effective May 8, 1988, the
Government has accepted Article VIII status. The Govermment makes effective use of Article IV



-20-
Consultations and receives technical support from the IMF in several areas. Cooperation between the
IMP and the Bank continues to be excellent.
74.        The National Planning Ministry, BAPPENAS, has successfully led donor agencies in
coordinating official development assistance. Coordination between donors on sectoral and regional
involvement as well as institutional mechanisms and policy issues has been close and mutually supportive
(see paras. 19-20).
75.        Summary Assessment. The challenges facing Indonesia are of a second generation nature:
improving the incentives to increase private savings and investment (both domestic and foreign) and to
enhance efficiency throughout the economy, maintaining fiscal and financial stability, building effective
public institutions to help markets work better, reducing hard core urban and rural poverty, and
establishing the regulatory framework to protect the environment. These challenges are increasingly
urgent for Indonesia, which faces the competitive pressures of its neighbors in one of the world's most
dynamic regions.
76.       Indonesia's development strategy addresses these challenges and the Bank Group is
supporting its efforts with a program that focuses on maintaining macroeconomic stability, sustaining the
momentum of structr reforms in finance and trade, building institutional capabilities at central and local
levels to increase both the quality and quantity of basic services, reducing domestic pricing distortions,
expanding and improving infrastructure, and enhancing overall skill levels.
77.        Indonesia has a solid record of achievement, which is the best indicator of future
performance. Continued successful performance, in the future as in the past, will be reflected in the
further improvement of basic social and economic indicators. To attain higher living standards and
middle income status by the year 2000 will require overall growth of 5-6 percent per annum, growth of
some 6-7 percent per annum in the non-oil economy, increased savings and investment, and containment
of the current account deficit at sustainable levels (2 percent of GNP).



- 21 -
Padt H1. TE THRD COMMUNITY HEALTH AND NurRMON PROJEcr
78.        Background. Despite impressive progress since the 1960s, Indonesia still faces serious
community health and nutrition challenges. Maternal mortality and morbidity remain high. An increasing
proportion of infant deaths occur in the perinatal period, suggesting that the quality and effectiveness of
care during the birth process needs to be improved. Pockets of low nutritional status are evident across
the country, while micronutrient deficiencies contribute to high levels of infant and child mortality,
especially among the poor, and in the Eastern islands. Solutions to these problems requirc a shift away
from blanket programs, and the development of planning and budgeting procedures which enhance the
specificity and effectiveness of programs at the provincial and kabupaten levels.
79.        Lessons from Previous Bank Operations. The principal lesson from investments in
mntrition (Ln. 1373-IND) and in nutrition and community health (Ln. 2636-IND) is that carefully designed
interventions, for instance to promote better treatment of diarrheal disi..ase, can work but must be
differentiated to reflect local geographic, economic and epidemiological conditions. Replication of
successful efforts is more a matter of transferring management and design principles, rather than of
wholesale adoption of 'model' programs or interventions. The Third Health Project (Ln. 3042-IND)
shows that interventions can be focused and made more effective by enhancing the authority and
responsibility  of provincW   and  kabupaten  health  officials.    However,  increasing  the
'localization/specificity' of intervention planning depends on skill improvements at the local level, and
adjustments in the central role, which enable staff to support, not direct local interventions.
80.        Rationale for Bank Involvement. Involvement in the health sector is central to the Bank's
human resource and poverty alleviation strategies. Further association of the Bank with GOI's
community health and nutrition program would facilitate replication of the positive lessons learned from
previous operations to five more provinces of which three are in Eastern Indonesia. Utilization of
integrated local-level planning mechanism as the basis for expenditure review and budget allocation in
project provinces, which was developed as a pilot under the Third health project (LN.3042-IND), would
make development and recurrent fund allocation for community health and nutrition programs more
systematic and effective. The support provided by the Bank would help improve the productivity of
current staff and facilities, particularly in the Eastern region comprising some of Indonesia's poorest
provinces.
81.        Project Objectives. The goal of the project is to elevate infant, child and maternal health
status by improving the effectiveness of community health and nutrition interventions in five provinces
(West Java, Central Java, Maluku, Nusa Tenggara and Irian Jaya). This would be accomplished by
(a) building provinciai capacity to plan, manage and evaluate Safe Motherhood, Child Survival and
Nutrition interventions, and (b) strengthening the capacity of the central Ministry of Health, primarily
the Directorate General for Community Health, to support provincial efforts.
82.        Project Description. To support the above objectives, the project would have three major
components:
(a)  ProWncial Service Delivewy and Capacity Development, which would include assistance for
Safe Motherhood, Child Survival, and Health and Nutrition Education in West Java, Central
Java, Irian Jaya, Maluku and Nusa Tenggara, through:



- 22 -
(i) construction and rehabilitation of health facilities, provision of medical equipment,
furniture and vehicles, drugs;
(Ii) studies, surveys and assessment for the development of service delivery strategies;
and
(iii) technical assistance and training, Including NGOs and indigenous people beneficiaries
of the project.
(b)  A Central Support Serices and Capacky Building component wDll help the Bureau of
Planning and the Directorate General for Community Health, the Center for Health
Education, and the Center for Health Information to build their capacities in policy
development and program planning and the conduct of interprovincial programs and
research by:
(i) constructing a training center for radio communication; and
(ii) pr;viding for instructional materials, equipment, furniture, vehicles, technical
assistance, training, fellowship and studies.
(c)   Central Human Resource Support: This component would strengthen the quality and
relevance of the research and training activities in higher education through:
(i) health personnel policy studies relating ,o the role and functions of doctors,
deployment of village mid-wives, health staff career path and local-level health
managers;
(ii) construction and rehabilitation of traiing centers and provision of instuctions
materials, equipment and furniture; and
(iii) training and technical assistance.
83.        The project cost is estimated at US$164.1 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$64.6 million equivalent (39 percent) and taxes and duties estimated at about US$6.0
million equivalent. The Bank would finance US$93.5 million equivalent or (62 percent of the total cost
of the project, excluding taxes and reserve procurement). A breakdown of project costs and the financing
plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the
disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the
status of Bank Group operations in the Indonesia are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map
is also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 11255-IND dated November 25, 1992, is being
distributed separately.
84.        Project Inplementation. The proposed project would be carried out by the Ministry of
Health. A bottom-up approach will be adopted in implementation through integrated annual planning
based on district level initiatives and through consultation with project beneficiaries. These annual plans
and a systematic mid-term review of project progress will refine intervention programs and resource
allocations from year to year. Guidance and support on operational matters, intersectoral coordination



-23 -
and overall project evaluation and monitoring will be the responsibility of central-level organizations such
as the Advisory Board and the Steering Committee. A Project Secretariat which will be located in the
Ministry of Health will facilitate project implementation by coordinating activities between the central and
provincial levels. A Management Advisory Group composed of internationally recruited specialists will
assist the Secretariat in carrying out its functions. Provincial and district level project managers will take
care of day-to-day project activities.
85.        Project Sustainability. In view of recent positive trends in budgets for recurrent costs,
representing 0.3% of GDP in 1990/91, no major problem is anticipated in providing for such
expenditures. However, there is a need to ensure significant and measurable long-term improvements
in the quality and effectiveness of community health and nutrition programs. To this end, the project
would emphasize bottom-up planning and adjustments to expenditures after reviewing results on the
ground which would enable central and provincial authorities to identify which expenditures (investment
or recurrent) shoild become sustained elements of community health and nutrition programs beyond the
proposed project.
86.        Agreed Actions. Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted (a) detailed Terms of
Reference describing the roles and functions of the Provincial Planning Units and the Dokabu in the
management and implementation of the project, (b) an organizational chart and detailed terms of reference
for the Central Project Secretariat within the Directorate General of Community Health, including
specification of its proposed relationships with other central units of the Ministry of Health, including
Pusat Data, the Center for health Education (PKM) the Center for Research and Development and
(c) Draft LCB documents for the procurement of civil works and goods and ICB documents for the
procurement of goods.
87.        At negotiations, the Government provided assurances on: (a) the arrangements for project
management at the central and local levels; (b) project implementation plans, monitoring and evaluation,
including mid-term implementation review; (c) annual research programs; (d) carrying out anthropological
and ethnographic studies in project areas iri:abited by indigenous people and adopting measures for health
and nutrition services delivery to indigenous people by taking into account their preferences after
consultation with them; (e) carrying out a feasibility study to measure health outcomes; and (f) to procure
from its own funds, the vehicles required for the project as vehicle imports to Indonesia are banned
(reserve procurement).
88.        A condition of loan effectiveness is that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
KfW Grant Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, would have
been met.
89.        Environmental Aspects: The proposed project would not have any adverse impact on the
environment. Consultation with and support for indigenous people have been incorporated in project
design and implementation arrangements.
90.        Project Benefits. A conservative estimnate is that the safe motherhood, child survival and
nutrition interventions would directly benefit approximately 1.5 million families, about 10% of those
resident in the project areas, identified on the basis of their demographic characteristics and health needs.
Services in each of these areas will be improved in quality, and their reach will be expanded through
more efficient targeting of resources. Women in each of the provinces would be beneficiaries both as



- 24 -
recipients of better health and nutritional services, including the care necessary to assure healthy births
and improved child health. Moreover, as health service providers, many women, including village
midwives, puskesmas staff and traditional birth attendants, will experience improvements in job conditions
and status.
91.        By the end of the project, it is expected that routine evaluation of community health and
nutrition activities in each province would record significant, measurable improvements in infant and
maternal health, nutritional status and in related practices. Each of the five provinces would have adapted
operational procedures and policies linking the management of health centers and posyandu to the
particular conditions found within their borders, and would show measurable changes in the effectiveness
of programs delivered through these channels. Mechanisms for improving coordination between the
provincial government, especially in the Eastern Islands, and NGOs in health and nutritional policies and
programs would be strengthened and the knowledge base for delivery of culturally acceptable and
effective maternal and child health and nutrition programs among indigenous peoples would be improved.
Province and kabupaten health management teams would have stronger planning and evaluation skills.
At the center, it is anticipated that the Community Health Directorates would have significant additional
skills in planning and evaluation of safe motherhood, child survival and nutrition programs and proposals
from the provincial level, and in the provision of technical guidance and support to provincial and
kabupaten levels. By focusing attention on the Eastern Islands, the project would also contribute to more
equitable distribution of sectoral resources.
92.        Project Risks. The major risk for the project is that since provincial and kabupaten health
administrators have not yet had sufficient experience in the preparation and implementation of specific
Safe Motherhood, Child Survival and Nutrition interventions, the quality of these plans will be
disappointing, especially in the early years of the project. To address this risk, the project design calls
for a range of capacity-building and staff development interventions at the provincial, kabupaten and
health center levels. In addition, Schools of Public Health and research and training institutions in
nutrition, the Academies of Nutrition and Institute for Food and Nutrition at Bogor, will adapt their
research and training programs to meet provincial needs. An internationally recruited and appointed
Panel of Specialists will also provide technical advisory and, if necessary, specialized consultation
services to support provincial efforts and ensure cross program and cross province sharing of successful
experiences.
93.        Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 4, 1992



Annex I
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssia ~ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       rwi
is                          ~~~~~~~I t    PasIa- E05UUC INDIATUS
PMU 1 OF 3
Nid-1991 PxAlation  oils.)     181.4
1991 Per Capita UP In US8:      610
A. Sharm of Gross Daustic Prcd.ct               S. Orwth Rates(% per aivun)
(f rom arrant price data)                    (fan cm tent price data)
1965   1973  1IW0   1969   1990 199l1p             1965-7 1973.80 1980-91 990   1991/p,
Gross Daiwtic Prodzt M.P.     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0              6. .W.                  .        .
Net indirect Tame             2.3    4.6    3.3       ..     ..      ...3.
*            ~~~~~AiriaAtUr                 56.0   33.2   21.0   23.4   21.5   193i             4.8    3.8    31    2.0         1.
ifdjsry                      12.6   26.5   41.7   37.1   39.3   41.2             15.2    7.3    5.9    9.7        9.9
(Of bAtich Nowaniufootin)     8.4   10.6   13.0   18.1   20.3   21.3              9.0   14.7   12.3   12.2        9.8
$ervices                     31.4   35.2   34.3   39.5   39.1   39.5              5.0   10.1    6.7    7.3        5.8
*          ~~~~Resource Balance             -0.1    1.7   12.8    2.3    0.5    0.7                 .     .
berts of ONFI                 5.3   20.3   33.0   25.4   a6.4   27.               12.6    5.8    3.9    0.5      24.3
Ispert of OF                  5.4   18.6   20.2   23.1   25.9   26.8             17.6   12.6    2.3  23.1        13.6
thtal Ejpeftwoliu              100.1   96.3   87.2   97.7   99.5   99.3             5.7    9.1    5.3   11.7        3.9
Totat CwA,uption             92.3   77.5   62.9   62.5   62.9   64.3              3.9    8.3    4.7    7.9        8.4
prbsete Conia.aption        87.2   67.8   52.3   53.1   54.0   55.1              3.4    7.6    4.7    8.7       8.6
Gerwal Ge*Twmut              5.1    9.7   10.5    9.4    8.9    9.2              9.8   13.9    4.7    3.2       7.2
Gross  anstic hirassumit      7.8   20.8   243   35.2   36.6   35.1              17.5   11.9    6.91  19.8       -4.9
Fixed Ihwsuont..                      .      .      .       .      ...                   .
Charms in Stockis             .      .       .      .       .      *               ..
Gross Doaneti  wivrq            7.7   22.5   37.1   37.5   37.1   3S.7             23.8   15.9    4.4   14.3       -4.3
Not Factor IrE.               1.2   -1.7   -4.1   -4.8   -4.9   -4.7                 .      .
Not Cwront Transfers           ..     0.0    0.0    0.2    0.2    0.1                .      .
Gross Natiealt Savirg                  ZDA0.    33.0   32.9   32.4   31.1             ..187         .    14.1    -.5.6
In biltlions of R"ish          1965   1973   19W    1969   1990   1991
(at cwmtwrt 1987 puloes)       ...      .. ...         .. ...        ..
Gross Damtic Prochct        3331  54171  O80M  141831  151694 1617W               6.6    7.2    5.6    7.0        6.6
capacty to Japert            328    95   33472  2893  3237   36969               23.9   16.2    0.3   14.0       14.2
Term of Trada Adj'aumnt      -6202 -11879   3090  -4949  -1121  -46(66               .
Gross Osmatic Im ur         2696   42292  91182 136882 15573  1I7M                6.1   10.3    4.6   10.0        4.3
Gross National Produft      312W   5092    MO  1354  14M2  1550                   6.6    7.1    5.8    6.7        6.4
Gross National I o          24956  39102  8544  131600 144817 ISM                 6.1   10.4    4.7    9.8        4.0
C. Prce Iriew          1~7 ...........(196 a 100) ........----inftation Ratesc% p.c.).----
C. Price Ia~~icea     1960   1966   196    196    1990 199l/p            1965-7 1973-80 19809    1990  1991/p
CWWonsr POrcs (IFS 64)         54.4   91.6  108.0  1151.0  1234   135.0            34.0   16.7    8.       7.5      9.2
ll atolea  Prices CIFS 63)     50.1   83.9  101.9  113.9  125.4  131.8                ..  20.3    9.2   10.0        5.1
lapticit GOP Oaftater          55.5   86.3  107.6  117.9  129.8  140.8             65.4   19.8    8.5   10.1        8.5
Isplicit S2psdiwes DOfI.       54.5   86.2  111.2  121.6  130.7  144.9             65.6   16.6    9.4    7.4       10.9
0. Oth  er uiaters:           1965-73 1973-80 1980-91
GrcsthRtOCe .a):2.4    2.3    1.8
Labo rFor                     2.1    2.1
Gross Natt. Incon P.C.        3.6    7.9    2.9
Privat Casuiptian p.c.        1.0    5.1    2.8
Import Etasticity......     ...............
IWMpt CGNFS) / ShCn)          2.7    1.8    0.4                                Note: Dafta in these tebles (expressa  in
1987 prices) are not directly
Mafgnal savinp Rates:                                                                   coiparabe to the data in the text
gross NWatioa Sang              .. 46.6   30.3                                        bhich are based on revised natiomt
arass Daomtic Swi,e          42.1   49.9   33.9                                       accsmots in 196 prices.
lam (period awragsm):            .             4.7                                      Grms Osmatic In4usunrt is not
dissggrqated as dwaea In stools
Share Of Total                 1905  1973   1960   1990   1991                          1s darfhsd as a romatLt.
Labwr Forc in:... ..                          ...      ..
laoultwe                    70.5   63.5   57.2   52.5   51.6;                        na   neit aplioabem
linistr                       9.0   11.1   13.1   16.4   16.9                         ..  n at wavtaibl
services                     20.5   25.4   29.7   31.1   31.5                         p  a preliminary
Total                        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0...............
tic    03-Dec1-92



Annex 1
Irdinesia
Ir nsia - ECIGIC JIDICATRS
...............................
PAGE 2 OF 3
......... ................ .......... ................. ................ .........................._ ................................................. .. ... _..... ...........  ............... 
Volue Irdax (19a7=100)                Vatw  at 0Armt Prices (m Itla  US$)
.-_-.- . .....................
E. Mardiwdise Exports              1981    1987    1988    1989    1990  1991/p      1981   1987    1988    1989    1990   1991/p
,,,,,,,,.,... ...,,........... ........... .. ....... ....... ....... ....... .... ... ....... .......   ...... .... ... ....... -....... ..---...-.
oil & LUs                         109.?  100.0   99.0  104.3   110.2  114.7   18124  8818            64.3   9305   12W28      10645
RLher                              73.7   100.0  101.8  101.6   103.8  111.6          770   1055    1236      952     902       932
Coffee                             79.9  100.0   116.8  144.2  150.7  149.3           343    497     572      448    366        362
Palm Ofi                           26.0   100.0  114.6   13.9   154.8  158.4          79    214     313      279     Z22       349
lNufecture                         1S.S   100.0  123.5   168.8  180.9  234.7          693   4538     922    8245    9472      12171
Other Exports                     105.2   100.0   94.S    89.5    86.0   88.4    2295   3199    4141    4370    4358           4958
Total Exports FOB                  85.9   100.0  104.7  117.3  122.8   139.0   22994  18320   19827  23598   2800             29418
F. Mardrnise lxports
....................... ........................ .
Food                              149.6   100.0  104.3  108.2  112.1   114.4         1673    820    1012      988    940        979
Fuel and enrWgy                   197.6  100.0   79.4   93.2   112.3  106.1    5407   3123    2629   3146    4006              3859
Other wmurer vood                 161.8   100.0  108.4   113.1   139.3  141.6         667    382     490      529     970      1000
Intm fdi ate god                 112.9  100.0  107.9  125.1   143.6  160.7    4831   4986    S587    6610    8014              9150
Capital good                      148.6  100.0  108.0   132.6  180.2  198.1    7389   5675    6497    8138   1165             13100
Total  fps  CIF                   148.6  100.0  102.1   120.1   150.4  161.5   19968  14886   16215   19411   25615           209
6. Morcwindi se Ten. of Trede      198     17    1         1989    1990  1991/p
...............................................  _............ ....... ....... ...............  _  . .. ..... .. ... ..
Nerh. Epr  Prfce Index            143.5   100.0  103.4  109.8  124.5  11S.S
adh. Iporta Price Irbx             89.9   100.0  106.6  108.5   114.4  116.8
VANd:. Tem  of Treb               1S9.S  100.0   96.9  101.2   188.8   9L9
U0 .itersm (at curret prices):
-- - -- -                     ..... ......... .._..........
M. Btalnce of Paymnts /a           1980    1987    1928    1989    1990  1991/p
... .....................................   ....     ..... ....     ..... ....  ..... .. _........
Exports of Goo  & NFS            22122   18271   20878   24849   29295   32282
Nwerhdise (FMB)                21795   17206   19509   22974   26807  29430
Nan-Fawtor Services              327    1065    1369    187S    2488   2852
Inrs of Gook a  Fs               16101   16972   18S37  21749   27511   31120
Merchandise (FOB)              1244   12532   13831   16310   21455   24626
Naw-Factor Servie               3477    4440    4606    5439   6i16   6494
Resource oalarce                  6021    1299    2441    3100    1784    1162
Not Factor Irc                    -3211   -364   -4092   -447   -5190   -5504
(interest per eRs)              1452    3201    3564   3715    3B55   4444
Nat Crrent Trwsfes                    0      86      99     167      166     130
(wokes  ri       s)                ..      86      99     167     166      130
Dirr A/C Bal Befoe Off. Grwts   2800   -2269   -1552   .1280   -3240   -212
Net Official Trafer               201     171     155     172     252      13
aur A/C Bat After off. Greets   3006   -2098   -1397  -1108   -2988  -4080
LoTa-T    Capital Inflow          2153    2511    1809   3016    4724    5912
Direct Inwestuint                 180     385     576     682    1093    1482
Net LT Lon   MRs dta)            1613    2334    2145    2859    5171    35n
Othr LT Inflo  (et)               360    -208    -912    -53   -1540       MP
Total Other Ite   nat)            -2553     217    -53   -1413      S15   -303
Net Short Term Capital           -815     970     408     -98    -229      214
Cepital Fltos I.E.I.                0       0       0       0       0        0
Errors  d Onssias               -1738    -753    -3    -1315      744    -517
Owss in Net Reserves             -2606    -60       113   -495   -2251  -1529
Net Credit from the UIF            ..    665      -93     -15    -114    -328
Odter Resees   wa               -2606   -1294     206    -480   -2137  -1201
As Share of (DP:
Resource 8alare                   7.7     1.7     2.9     3.3      1.7     1.0 Notes:  Nardwdise trade dckt of
Interest PeA its                  1.9     4.2     4.2     3.9     3.6     3.8           Sectic  E & F is an a ffstaly
urrent AccocLit Balane            3.6   -3.0   -1.8   -1.4   -3.0   -3.6                beefs.
.mrdn Itetm:                                                                              p  a pretimfnsy dta
Resers exol. Geld (nil. US$)   S392    5592    58    5454    7459   938                   .. = not available
Reserves frl. God (all. UW)    6M0         7095    63      65S9    8657   10358           a  a Thle  figue  my diffe  fre
Official X-Rate (LaUhS)             627    1644    1686    1770    1843    1950                tihe In th  text as tho   ar
Ind  Real Eff. X-R Be 1980    100.0   50.8   49.0    49.7   48.7   47.6                        based on a calenkr yar
GDP (alU lam   fa current US)    78013   75902   84300  94452  106858  116476..................................................
...................................................................................... ............................................
1EC     03-Dec92



innnx 1
talcrwsia- EOliC tiDICWATW
PAW 3 OF 3
....................................................................................... ............................................
ON" of DP                                           growth Rates
Gevemunt Fil                     1981    187   1988   19W   1990 1991/p              t419148   1918   19       1990  I991/p
.....  ................................................................... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......  ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
airrt Reewipts                   20.7   17.1   16.4   17.6   213    18.2                9.6    9.3   26.0   42.6         .1.4
ovt  t Lrehditwes                13.7   12.3   11.8   11.9   12.2   11.1                10.8    9.6   18.4   20.8         4.8
*Wrrent 8ud    itblm              7.0    4.8    4.6    5.7    9.1    7.2                   w     re      no    r-         n3
Capital Receipts                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0                  re             "a3               na
Capitat   Wdies                   83      7.1    T.6    6.9    7.1    7.4               11.8   22.6    6.2   21.         19.2
Overalt Deficit                  -1.3   -2.2   -3.0   -1.2    2.0    0.2                  to    13       33      1         no
Official capital arwit            0.1     0.3    0.4    0.4    0.3    0.2              45.8    .8    8.8   -7.7    -16.7
btwt SorrcuiM  (nat)              1.4    1.8    3.7    1.5    0.8    0.6               29.9  137.4  -52.0  -35.2    -13.5
Demstic nr-B*U Bre.sii            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         .0              re     no      no      re        no
Dosti8 e Bu* Fiuwr.w             .0.2    0.1   -1.1   -0.7   -3.3   -0.6                  re     t       re      n         I
Not Dls Asuut  (U   Aie)              Debt Outstading & 0lebsed (US mtllitci)
ad Debt 0urdm  Rtios /a       19lO   197   19"s       189   10                1980   197    188   18o    19    1991/p
.------          .       .......................... .. .......  .. ....... ..  ..... .......    .... .....    .... ...... .. ....    ....  .....   ....   .....   ......
Paec & P"licly ar. LT            1611    207    19      203     613   1434   1527 408  41261  410W9  450               4800
Official CredItors              806   2#3    2951    2        209   27              24783  26552  28833  MM55         37214
liti lateral                  393    322    1702   1409   1116   1296    1834  9610  1078n   118 7  14266    15955
of iid h 1I                 301   1006   1219    714   436    M90    1060  7391   80    8O42   9542             1097
of dich MA                   40       9      .5      -7    -11    -13       566   866    861    854    842         8a9
Bilateral                     413   1221   120    1477   139I3S 45    77   131S8   1SMZ9  16166  1908               21259
Prive  Creditors                808   -486   -I6S   -4   -18    -1            54    16120  1469  126   11716    10789
aliea                         -5    -4       -S56    -      -5      -8       1568  47      4183   3048   2698        8372
Finmfatl Nrket                m       -80   -411   -224   -8   -83    3897 1188  10564    9788   9018    8m7
Privat MMnWAWted                    2    UT    160    86   4558   2136    3142  4106   4365   5091   968                11745
Total LT                         1613    334    2145    9l  5171          1    1819 45013  45506  4619  566             597
uu Credit                           0    66       -6       0    -157   -317        0   T16    63        608    490        166
Net short-Tim Cpital             .815     970    A0       -98    29    214    2775  6M60   6727 W 73  135               1486
Total lncl. DV & Nat ST           798   3910   246   27N1   4M          3S68   204 SW209  5s6   54762  68181            AM53
Bui* awd IDA Ratios              1980   197   198g       1      1990 199/p
............... .................. .... ...  ....    ..... ....    ..... .... ..... ..... ...
NWar of Touta Law-Teong go
1.      tet as 2 af Touta         5.7    16.4   17.6     LS    17.5   17.7
2. tOI as Xof Total               3.1     1.9    1.9    1.9    1.5    1.4
3. tUSODA asoI Total              8.8    13    19.    20.4   19.0   19.1
dhaf LT Debt SeviCe
1. I11RD   2 X of Total           4.3   13.0   13.1   13.7   15.7   15.1
2. MA asXof Total                 0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
3. UD4D  as X of Total            4.4    13.2   13.2   13.9   15.9  1U.3
O-to0-Eprts Ratios
......... .. !.......... _
1. Lai-TerOm Ost 81.7   37.9  212.0  180.5  1M.0  181.3
2. OMF Crdit/EU0t                 0.0    3.8    2.9    2.4    1.7    0.5
3. Short-Te,udAblP tS            12.5    3A.6   313    31.2   43.6   44.2
4. LT*UHPfS D5/Et&r              91.2  2753   246.2  214.1  22.3  226.0
DW-to-W Ratfos
...... ........ --...
1. Law-TOe DebtV/W               23.3   59N    51.0   48.9   51.2   S1.3
2. PW Credit/sP                   0.0    0.9    0.7    0.6    0.5    0.1
3. Short-Tern Debt/P              3.6      .4     8o     84    12.2   12.5
4. LT+INFIGT DO/GP               21.9   68  6      .7   S8.0    5.8   64.0            ..................
Nt: The  O        at fhn       t  is an a
Debt Savce /Sports                                                                          a fiscal War osis.
.....................
1. Ptblic l  e uateed LT          7.9   30.0   32.4   27.1   223    20.7                    p  aprelimiary daft
2. Privae waft girWtd LT          4.7    5.S    5.5    5.2    5.0    7.7                    no  r ot e1bIle
3. Total Law-TerM Debt Svice  1L7    35.5    3.9   32.3   27.3  23.4                        ..  r ot a    le
4. IMFP Rapaaesav. Chg.    0.0    0.1    0.5    0.2    0.7    1.1                           a   t aludas Lfn expufln credits
5. Intest enlyan ST Debt          1.2    3.0    2.9    2.8    2.         3.0          .............................................
6. Totel (LTINF4ST Int.)         135   38.6   41.2   35.3   30.? 3.
.............................................e.....................................................................................



Sdtedute-A
Page 1 of 1
ENDONESIA
TDM COIIMRJNITY HEALTH AND NUTRMON PROJECT
EffMATED COST  AND FiNANCaNG PLAN
(US$ million)
Local    Foreign       Total
Provincial Service Delivery and Capacity
1. Service Delivery                              30.5      20.0        50.5
2. Capacity Building                             21.8       14.9       36.7
Subtotal                                     52.3       34.9
Central Support and Capacity Building
1. Policy Development, Planning and
Project Coordination                           6.3        2.6         8.9
2. Technical Services for Provinces              14.7       8.5        23.2
3. Inter-provincial programs and research         3.5        1.3        4.8
4. Capacity building                              2.9       7.3         10.2
Subtotal                                     2A         19.7        47.1
Total Base Costs La                           7975                 134.3
Physical Contingencies                          2.3        2.8         5.1
Price Contingencies                             17.5       7.2        24.7
Total Project Cost La                        92         64.6       164.1
Financing Plan:                                 Local    Foreign       Total
IBRD                                           45.4       48.1        93.5
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)            2.0       16.5        18.5
Government of Indonesia                        52.1         -         52.1
Total Flnancing                                U        O           MA
la Inclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$6.0 million equivalent.



bekhedune B
Page I of 1
INDONESA
THRD COMMUNITY HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREME   ARRANGEMEM
(IUS$ million)
Procurement                   Total cost
proedures                    including
ICB     LCB   Odiers La    N.B.F.  contingencies
Civil Works                      27.4      2.0                  29.4
(10.8)    (1.0)               (11.8)
Fumniture                                             1.3        1.3
Equipment, boats and
mediclsupplies   3.0    4.4        3.1       20.0lk    30.5
(3.0)   (3.5)    (2.0)                (8.5)
Vehicles LQ                                           7.0        7.0
Instructional materials           2.2      1.4                   3.6
(1.9)    (1.0)               (2.9)
Co4nsultant services                       9.5                   9.5
(9.5)                (9.5)
Research and studies                      13.4                  13.4
(13.4)               (13.4)
Fellowships                               22.1                  22.1
(22.1)               (22. 1)
Workshops and in-country traiing          28.2                  28.2
('19.9)              (19.9)
Project management ad
5.4                  5.4
(5.4)                (5.4)
Incremental recurrent costs                           13.7      13.7
Total                    Q    3.       85.1       42.       1641
(3.0)  (16.2)   (74.3)               (93.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
La Includes international and local shopping, selection of consultants following Bank Guidelines
and selection of fellows using government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Lb US$18.5 million is cofinanced by KfW using Bank guidelines.
LQ Res.ve procurement financed by GOI.
Id Project management includes expenditures directly related to the management of the project
such as travel, consumable materials, honoraria etc., but excludes salaries.



Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
THIRD COMMUNITY HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
TIErABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:       23 months, August 1990-July 1992
(b)  Prepared by:                             Government with Bank Assistance
(c)  First Bank mission:                      July 1990
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:             July 1992
(e)  Negotiations:                            November 1992
(t)  Planned date of effectiveness:           April 1993
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:
Credit/Loan No.           Project                    PCR Date        PPAR No.
Ln. No. 1373        First Nutrition Project         June, 1985
Ln. No. 1472      Second Population Project       September, 1985
Ln. No. 7564       Third Population Project       December, 1988
Ln. No. 2235       Provincial Health Project        June, 1990
Cr. No. 0300            Population I                                    3748
Ln. No. 1472            Population II                                   6276
Recent Sector Reports
Indonesia - Issues in Health Planning and Budgeting; Report No. 7291-IND, February 28, 1989.
Indonesia - Family Planning Perspectives in the 1990s; A World Bank Country Study. Washington, DC:
World Bank. April, 1990.
Indonesia - Health Insurance Issues in the 1990s; Report No. 999-IND, January 9, 1992.
The project was appraised by a team led by Ms. Susan Stout and included Mr. Samuel Lieberman,
Principal Economist, Ms. Fadia Saadah, Population Specialist, Mr. Harry Go, Senior Implemenwation
Advisor, Dr. E. Iswandi, Operations Officer, Ms. Carol Ball, Operations Assistant, Professor Peter
Heywood, Public Health and Nutrition Specialist, Dr. Moye Freymann, Public Health and MCH
Specialist and Mr. Terry Scott, Health Education Specialist. Ms. Christine Heimburger and Dr. Claus-
Pieter Janisch appraised the project on behalf of KfW. Ms. Marianne Haug, Director (EA3DR) and Mr.
C. Gilpin, Chief (EA3PH) have endorsed the project.



Schedule D
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS SN XNDOESja
A.  iTATE1ENT OF DANX LOANS AND IDA CREDITS i
(as of September 30, 1992)
- , Amount fUSS millioni
Loan/                                                   Bank          IDA
Credit  Flscal                                         Original Prlncipal      Undis-
number   Year          Purpose                         (les cancellation}    burned
One-hundred-fourty-four Loans and                      8,446.45    901.60
fourty-eight credits fully disbursed
Of which SECALS, SALs and Program Loans _b
2780   1987   Trade Policy Adjustment                   300.00
2937   1988   Second Trade Policy Adjustment            300.00
3080   1989   Private Sector Development                350.00
3267   1991   Second Private Sector Development         250.00
Subtotal:                                           1,200.00
2341   1984   Third Agricultural Training                63.30                  0.15
2431   1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                   64.00                  6.61
2474   1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation        11.30                 2.90
2494   1985   Smallholder Rubber Development ir          74.00                 13.40
2529   1985   Fourth Population                          35.13                  1.62
2542   1985   Second Bealth (Manpower Development)       38.30                 5.14
2S43   1985   Kedung Ombo Multipurpose Dam              156.00                  5.96
and Irrigation
2547   1985   Second University Development             147.00                 15.58
2560   1985   West Tarum Canal Development               41.40                  0.35
2577   1985   National Ports Development                 82.69                  9.80
2578   1985   Transmigration V                           97.00                 4.06
2628   1986   Smallholder Cattle Development             30.00                 2.48
2632   1986   Second East Java Water Supply              43.30                 2.81
2636   1986   Second Nutrition & Community Health        33.17                  1.32
2638   1986   Nusa Tenggara AgarLculture Support         33.00                12.93
2649   1986   Central and West Java Irrigation          166.00                 1.97
2690   1986   Gas Distribution                           34.00                 12.19
2705   1986   Manpower Development and Training          58.10                 7.31
2725   1986   Housing Sector Loan                       200.00                 2.76
A  The status of the projects listed in Part A Ls described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA-financed projects Ln execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive DLrectors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Approved durLng or after FY80.



Sichedule -D
Page 2 of 5
Amount fUSS million 
Loan/                                                    Bank         IDA
Credit  Fiscal                                          Original Principal     Undis-
number   Year           Purpose                         (less cancellationl    bursed
2748   1987   Third National Agricultural Extension       55.00                 7.41
2773   1987   Fisheries Support Services                  24.50                14.27
2778   1987   Power Transmission & Distribution          226.00                20.27
2800   1987   BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit                   101.50                 0.62
2817   1987   Regional Citile Urban Transport             51.00                 1.12
2879   1988   Industrial Energy Conservation              21.00                 4.46
2881   1988   Second Rural Roads Development             190.00                30.39
2891   1988   Railway Technical Assistance                28.00                 6.77
2930   1988   Forestry Institutions & Conservation        30.00                13.64
2932   1988   Jabotabek Urban Development                150.00                69.92
2940   1988   Accountancy Development                    113.00                62.74
2944   1988   Higher Education Development               140.30                12.03
2979   1988   Second Export Development                  165.00                18.29
2992   1989   Tree Crop Human Resource Development        18.40                 9.31
3000   1989   Tree Crop Processing                       118.20                86.72
3031   1989   Agriculture Research Management             35.30                19.90
3040   1989   Industrial Restructuring                   284.00                76.75
3041   1989   Small & Medium Industrial Enterprise       100.00                14.96
3042   1989   Third Health                                43.50                27.57
3097   1989   Power Sector Efficiency                    337.00               243.48
3098   1989   Paiton Thermal Power                       354.00               240.47
3112   1990   Public Works Institutional                  36.10                17.63
Development & Training
3133   1990   Highway Sector                             350.00               142.35
3134   1990   Professlonal Human Resource Development  117.50                  72.15
3158   1990   Second Secondary Education                 154.20               123.02
3180   199C   Rural Electrification                      329.00               254.95
3182   1990   Third Telecommunications                   350.00               270.24
3209   1990   Gas Utilization                             86.00                78.38
3219   1990   Second Jabotabek Urban Development         190.00               171.31
3243   1990   Second Forestry Institution                 20.00                18.75
and Conservation
3246   1991   Third Jabotabek Urban Development           61.00                55.39
3249   1991   Second BRT/RUPXDES Small Credit            125.00                82.92
3282   1991   Fertilizer Restructuring                  221.70                105.35
3298   1991   FLth Population                            104.00                91.92
3302   1991   Provincial irrigated Agriculture           125.00               115.03
Development
3304   1991   East Java/BalL Urban Development           180.30               166.90
3305   1991   Yogyakarta Upland Area Development          15.50                13.53
3311   1991   Second Higher Education                    150.00               127.26



Schedule D
Page 3 of 5
Amount (USS million)
Loan/                                                     Bank          IDA
Credit  Fiscal                                           Original Principal      Undis-
number   Year           Puroose                          fless cancellation)    bursed
3340   1991   Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban                   100.00                 95.49
Development
3349   1991   Power Transmission                          275.00                268.54
3385   1991   Technical Assistance Project tor             30.00                 27.00
Public and Private Provision
of Infrastructure
3392   1992   Second Irrigation 8ubsector                 225.00                181.39
3402   1992   Agricultural Financing                      106.10                104.36
3431   1992   Third Non-Formal Education                   69.50                 67.00
3448   1992   Primary Education Quality Improvement        37.00                 35.51
3454   1992   BAPEDAL Development fc                       12.00                 12.00
3464   1992   Treecrops Smallholder                        87.60                 87.60
3482   1992   Fourth Telecommunications                   37S.00                375.00
3490   1992   ICabupaten Roads III L2                     215.00                215.00
3496   1992   Primary School Teacher Development           36.60                 36.60
3501   1992   Suralaya Thermal Power LS                   423.60                423.60
Total                                                   17,047J4                 9Q1.60
of which has been repaid                               3,024.39                 83.17
Total now held by Bank and XDA                          L4,I22                   818.3
Amount sold         88.08
of which repaid  70.10
Total undishursed                                                              4.926.60
Le Not yet effective as of September 30, 1992



Page 4 of 5
B. STATEMNSt OX n C INVMSTM?s IN XNDONgSZA
(as of September 30, 1992)
fuSs millicOnl
Undisbursed
Original       Total   including
Fiscal                                              Comitments    sold  Participants'
Year    Comnany               Type of business  Loan Eguity Total bv IC   Portion
1971/74  P.T. Primatexco       Textiles & fibers  4.0   0.8  4.8        -         -
1971     P.?. S nitex          Textiles a.fibers  2.5   0.8   3.3      0.3        -
1971/73/ P.T. Semen Cibineng   Cement             46.0   5.8  51.8      -         -
74/76/84
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia  Cables             2.8   0.4   3.2       -         -
1972/77/ P.T. Daralon Textile8 Textiles & fibers  5.8   1.S   7.3       -         -
79        Hf g. Corp.
1973/89  P.T. Jakarta          Tourism            9.8    2.7  12.5     2.7        -
Int'l Hotel
1974     P.T. Private Dev.    Development           -    0.5   0.5     0.4        -
Finance Co. of        finance
Indonesia
1974     P.T. Monsanto         Electronics        0.9    -    0.9       -         -
1974/77  P.T. Kamaltex         Textiles           3.8   0.8  4.5        -         -
1980     P.?. Papan Sejahtera  Housing finance    4.0   1.2   5.2      1.2        -
1980     P.?. Supreme Indo-    Dinnerware         11.1   0.9  12.0      -         -
American
1980/87  P.?. Semen Andalas    Cement             48.6   5.0  53.6   20.9         -
1982/85  P.T. Saseka Gelora    Leasing             5.0   0.4   5.4     0.4        -
Leasing
1988     P.T. Bali Holiday     Tourism            11.3    -   11.3     2.2        -
1988     P.T. Asuransi Jiwa    Insurance            -    0.3   0.3     0.3        -
1989     P.?. Monterado        Mining              8.0   2.0  10.0      -        -
1990/91  P.T. Astra LI         Manufacturing      12.5  12.5  25.0   12.S         -
1990     Federal Motor JA      Manufacturing      12.5    -   12.5      ^         -
1990     Nomura Fund           Ctry. Fund           -    3.0   3.0     1.5        -
1990     Bank Umum Nasional    Dev. finance       10.0    -   10.0   10.0       10.0
1990     Bank Kiaga            Dev. finance        7.5    -    7.S     5.0       5.0
1990     Raja/Pendopa          Oil exploration      -    3.6   3.6     3.6       1.7
1990     P.T. Agro Muko        Plantations        10.5  2.2  12.7   12.7         5.7
1990/91  Indo Rama Synthetics  Textiles          27.0   6.2  33.2   33.2
1991     P.?. Astra            Manufacturing       9.9    -    9.9      -         -
1991     Argo Pantes           Textiles          83.0  13.0  96.0   43.0          -
1991     P.?. Asahi Chemicals Chemicals            4.0   1.8   5.8     5.8       0.4
1991     P.T. Rimba Partikel  Wood products      20.0   0.6 20.6    10.8         2.8
1991     P.T. Saseka GeloraL/  Leasing           20.0    -   20.0       -         -
1992     P.T. Nusantara        Capital markets    2.5    -    2.5      2.5        -
1992     P.T. Citra Agramas    Capial markets     2.0    -    2.0      1.7        -
1992     P.T. Bakrie Kasei    Chemicals          125.0   9.6 134.6   39.6       44.7
1992     P.T. Lantai Xeramik   Ceramic Tiles      15.4   1.7  17.1     7.1      17.1
Has
1992     P.T. Swadharma        Tourism           86.0    -   86.0   3S.0        86.0
Rerry Satya
-.19g2  P.T. Mitracrop        Manufacturing        -   16.0  16.0    16.0       0.1
Total                                       611 3 93.3 204 5   268L3      173.5
la  Loan subsequently cancelled.



Schedule D
Page S of S
CuSS million)
Undisbursed
Original      Total  including
Fiscal                                            Comitments    Held  Participants,
Year,  Comanv               TSve of business Loan  oul,ty Total -b - TC Pbytion
Projets a=oMd but not 3e niaMed
1989  P.T. Xalteng,L          lUning              -   1.4  1.4        -       -
1990  P.T. Rayu SIC&          Wood prodncia    12.2  0.9  13.1        -        -
1991  P.T. Petrochemical      Petrochei4cals  325.0  1S.0 340.0   90.0    340.0
1991   VIC Xndonesia          Capital xarkets    -   1.5  1.S        1.S       1.5
1992  P.T. BSD Beller         Capital marcets    -   0.6  0.6        0.6        -
1992   P.!. South Pacifie     Textile*          S0.0    -  S0.0   20.0        50.0
Viscose
1992   P.T. Astra Microtronics Electronics      29.0  1.6  30.6   12.6         -
1993   P.T. B8L Dhacmala      Capital markets   15.0   -   15.0      5.0     5S.0
b Loan approved but subsequently dropped.



,                  ~~~~~~lt;;A,\HAILAND                                                                                                                                                                  LOxi  fi .12INOcI  RD 24137 
°-,  .                                                               '                 ~~~~~~~~         ~          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPNES  THIRD COMMUNITY HEALtH
A J  '<<>,    '      '\           ~~~~~~~SOIJTiI  (:HINA   SEA-                            -;j                             '                    AND  NUTRITION  PROJECT
%t                                                                  B ^^SAj->  RUNEL    .t                                                                     POIJ KAIIUPATEN BY
W )  ' * ^   U   g;o                                . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALAYS[Aj     'colobes    seo.22                                            2 E
5 ' X > \  / .', .. 4 . @ O PROVINCE CAPUALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 PRVICECAfrL
-                             9                                                                                                                                                PRVIC  BOUNDA;SonE\   > 
2&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NUAT INTENDIOAL BOUNARESN2 
I6 OXN AOMA t  0 2 0 09
27.AW fM M2Rt                      >         _dvr+'   -X                                                                                                                       EES'
31                                10fA                       la                           l                          241D_'r  URLA--3$-1tt'g
4. IXL YOGYAKAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TPEbR1V



