                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34482

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-21817 IDA-32490)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5 MILLION
                                   (US$6.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                   THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                                   FOR

             SECOND INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT




                                             APRIL 25, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective as of April 12, 2006)

                                Currency Unit = Somoni
                                      TJS 1.00 = US$ 3.2400
                                     US$ 1.00 = TJS 0.3086

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 to December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA      Analytical Advisory Activities
ASRC     Agriculture and Social Rehabilitation Credit
BFP      Budget Framework Paper
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEM      Country Economic Memorandum
CSR      Central Share Register
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESAF     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GFS      Government Financial Statistics
GOT      The Government of Tajikistan
IBTA 2   Second Instiutional Building Technical Assistance Credit
ICA      Investment Climate Assessment
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Financial Corporation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IRIS     Integrated Records Information System
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
IT       Information Technology
KBO      Key Budget Organization
LAN      Local Area Network
MDRI     Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MLS      Medium and Large Scale Firms
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOET     Ministry of Economy and Trade
MTBF     Medium-term Budget Framework
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAR      Public Administration Reform
PARMU    Public Administration Reform Monitoring Unit
PBC      Policy-Based Credit
PCD      Project Concept Document
PEIR     Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
PHRD     Japan Policy and Human Resource Development
PIP      Public Investment Program

PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PTFPAR  Presidential Task Force for Public Administration Reform
PSAG    Private Sector/Government Advisory Group
SDR     Special Drawing Right
SPC     State Privatization Commission
TBS     Tajik Budget System
TOR     Terms of Reference
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit
SSA     State Service Administration




                             Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director:    Annette Dixon
                            Sector Manager:     Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Jariya Hoffman

                                        TAJIKISTAN

      SECOND INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       41
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             42
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             44
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             46
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             47
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             48
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                49
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            50

Project ID: P059755                                                  Project Name: Second Institution Building/Technical
                                                                     Assistance Project
Team Leader: Jariya Hoffman                                          TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 26, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Institution Building/Technical Assistance L/C/TF Number: TF-21817; IDA-32490
                            Project
    Country/Department: TAJIKISTAN                                                        Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (89%); Law and justice (7%); Sub-national government
                            administration (4%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Public expenditure, financial management and
                            procurement (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Legal institutions
                            for a market economy (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/12/1999                                     Effective: 07/05/1999                08/30/1999
      Appraisal: 01/21/1999                                        MTR: 12/31/2002
      Approval: 06/17/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/25/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN/OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Annette Dixon                                  Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager:                 Carlos Felipe Jaramillo                        Ataman Aksoy
Team Leader at ICR:             Jariya Hoffman                                 Reza Ghasimi
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Blanc


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
These ratings are based on the 4-point scale which is mandated at this time. If the new 6-point scale had been
used, a number of the ratings would have been upgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory, or Moderately
Satisfactory. Specific ratings for project components use the 6-point scale.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context

Following the break up of the former Soviet Union and its independence in 1991, Tajikistan was confronted
with all the distortions in the economic and institutional structures inherited from the Soviet system. It
also faced six years of devastating civil war which ended with the June 1997 Peace Agreement signed with
the United Tajik Opposition. A few months earlier, IDA had started supporting the economic stabilization
and the reform program in the priority areas of privatization, agriculture and agro processing, and the
financial sector through the Agricultural and Social Rehabilitation Credit (ASRC, approved on September
12,1996) and the Institutional Building and Technical Assistance Credit (IBTA; approved on May 16,
1996). After the peace agreement was signed, a coalition government was formed, and it was only then
that the Government of Tajikistan (GOT) could start focusing on the consolidation of political power and
address more fully the reform agenda. Along with the second Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the first
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) was approved in July 1998 in support of: (i) the restoration of
macroeconomic stability by providing foreign exchange; (ii) implementation of a transparent privatization
program; (iii) financial sector reform to establish a business environment conducive to the private sector;
and (iv) mitigating the adverse impact of adjustment on the poor by increasing budget appropriations in the
social sector. It was designed to build up on the achievements of prior Bank's programs (ASRC, IBTA,
other emergency reconstruction projects and the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project) as well as the IMF
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and Technical Assistance (TA).                SAC I had a
satisfactory outcome despite the restructuring of its second tranche into two tranches (for a total of three),
and the delay in disbursement from December 31, 1999 to December 31, 2000. The IBTA, that was closed
at the same time, was also considered to have a satisfactory outcome. Both SAC I and IBTA paved the
way to subsequent operations, Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA II) and Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II). The preparation of IBTA II started at end of 1998 and it was
approved eight months later on June 17, 1999. The approval of SAC II, initially scheduled for 1999 in
tandem with IBTA II, was delayed until May 2001 (five months after the third tranche conditions of SAC I
were met and the credit was fully disbursed). SAC II was closed on June 30, 2004, one year and a half
after its initial closing date of December 31, 2002. Thus, IBTA II had a one year and a half overlap with
SAC I (June 1999 to December 2000) and a three year overlap with SAC II (May 2001 to June 2004).

Objective.

The objective of IBTA II was to build and improve the country's institutional capacity to: (a) reform public
administration; (b) improve budget management systems; and (c) privatize medium and large enterprises
and develop the private sector. Each of these sub-objectives would in turn be met as follows:

   l Reform Public Administration by: (i) reorganizing core ministries and further consolidating
         overlapping government agencies and ministry departments; (ii) rationalizing public sector pay and
         incentives systems; and (iii) strengthening civil service management
   l Improve Budget Management Systemsby: (i) introducing a medium term budget management
         framework; (ii) improving budget and expenditure management and control systems; and (iii)
         strengthening inter-governmental finance system
   l Privatize Medium and Large-scale Enterprises and Develop the Private Sector by: (i) preparing
         and implementing a comprehensive privatization program to increase the number of auctions and
         case-by-case transactions for medium and large-scale public enterprises; and (ii) eliminating



                                                      - 2 -

         unnecessary regulations and steps for the establishment and operation of private businesses.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There were no revisions in the objectives of the project during its implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The Credit would provide consulting services, training and office equipment to strengthen public sector
management capacities to implement the following three main components with their respective
sub-components:

Component One: Public Administration Reform (PAR; US$2.3 million) comprising the four following
sub-components:

(i) Assistance in Reform of Government Structures and Organizations (US$1.5 million) which
included:

    l An overall review of the Government structures and orgnizations (including Parliament);
    l A reorganization of up to five pilot ministries on the basis of guidelines, functional reviews and
         detailed restructuring proposals;
    l Development and implementation of detailed restructuring plans for the pilot ministries; and
    l Training, study tours and information technology support.


(ii) Assistance in Developing a Public Service Pay Strategy (US$120,000) to significantly improve the
remuneration of public servants over a 5-10 year period and thus facilitate a successful public
administration reform. The following outputs were expected:

    l Review of payroll and wage bill issues;
    l Analysis of alternative wage bill scenarios;
    l Development of a Public Sector Pay and Incentives Strategy; and
    l Implementation of agreed measures.


(iii) Assistance in Strengthening Civil Service Management (US$720,000) in accordance with the new
Law on State Service approved by Parliament in November 1998. This involved the following activities:

    l Develop the role and functions of the newly set up Department of State Service (later renamed
         State Service Administration -SSA);
    l Set up a civil service post management system including a register of posts and a data base on
         employees;
    l Develop a civil service personnel management function; and
    l Prepare and introduce a Civil Service Code. A study tour was also included.


Component Two: Budget Management System Reform (US$2.5 million) included the following four
sub-components:

(i) Support for Management of the Budget Cycle (US$720,000) which would require:

    l Annual updating of the budget calendar and work plan:-coordination and management by the



                                                     - 3 -

         Ministry of Finance (MOF) of the technical inputs provided under the project;
    l Review and assessment of technical proposals;
    l Preparation of supporting legislation, guidelines and manuals;
    l Monitoring of the implementation of the budget reform; and
    l Coordination with the Public Administration Reform component.


(ii) Introduction of a Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF; US$720,000) that would allow
ministries to plan their development expenditures over a three-year basis and ensure better linkage between
sector policies, strategies and public expenditure allocations. The following five activities were considered:

    l Assist with the preparation and review of Budget Framework Papers (BFP), and with the necessary
         coordination and programming;
    l Establish a macroeconomic forecasting capacity;
    l Update the Public Investment Program and integrate it into the budget and MTBF;
    l Develop sector strategies; and
    l Develop strategic expenditures frameworks.


(iii) Strengthening of Budgeting and Expenditures Control Systems (US$500,000) would complement
developments introduced under previous IMF experience and would include the following outputs:

    l A new budget program classification;
    l Revised budget guidelines and formats for submissions;
    l Improved justification of budget requests;
    l Improved ministry-based budgets and budget management systems;
    l Expenditures warranting and control systems; and
    l Budget management information systems including the database systems and manuals.


(iv ) Inter-Governmental Finance System (US$580,000) would help ensure an effective, efficient and
equitable distribution of public expenditures and resources between the republican and local governments.
It will also improve the management of budgetary resources within local governments. The consultants
were to deliver the following outputs:

    l Review local governments budgetary responsibilities;
    l Reform the revenue sharing and transfer system;
    l Improve local government procedures for budgeting and expenditure management; and
    l Organize training and study tours and provide the required information technology support.


Component Three: Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises and Private Sector Development
(US$1.2 million) Two sub-components were included.

(i) Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises (US$672,000). This would ensure that the
government would complete the privatization of an estimated 550 remaining medium and large enterprises.
The outputs of this sub-component included:

    l Strengthening of the central share registrar;
    l Incorporating enterprises; and
    l Preparing enterprises for, and conducting of share auctions and tenders; and carrying out post
         auction activities.



                                                      - 4 -

(ii) Private Sector Development (US$537,000). The consultant were to assist with the following
activities:

    l Improving the business environment through reviews, interviews and surveys, and the setting up of
         private sector/government advisory groups (PSAG); and
    l Review and improve the legal environment through assessments of the local legal and regulatory
         systems and identification of the improvements needed and of the training needs for judges and
         other trustees.

The project also included the setting up of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to manage the project with
the help of a procurement expert (US$170,000); other technical assistance to be identified later
(US$120,000); and physical and price contingencies (US$340,000). The government was expected to
contribute an additional US$700,000 equivalent toward total project costs, that would support inter aliathe
setting up of a Secretariat (the Public Administration Reform Monitoring Unit, PARMU) for the
Presidential Task Force for Public Administration Reform (PTFPAR) established by Presidential Decree
on February 22, 1999 responsible for heading the reform program.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no significant changes in the components during implementation of the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry of the operation was rated satisfactory by QAG (QEA3). However. the evaluators
gave a negative rating to the risk assessment, and noted that, while the risk was acknowledged, the
mechanism and strategies for dealing with it were weak. The objectives were considered ambitious, but
plausible insofar as the technical assistance operation was only laying out options and providing guidance
to Government, while the achievement of these objectives would depend on meeting conditions under SAC
II, which was under preparation. The evaluators also noted the weakness of the monitoring indicators and
of the formal analysis and economic rationale.

The ICR considers that, with the benefit of hindsight, the quality at entry should be rated unsatisfactory or,
preferably, Moderately Unsatisfactory on a six-point scale. On one hand, the project as designed was
consistent with the 1999-2001 CAS, which set an ambitious post conflict agenda of economic
reconstruction and growth, and of restoration of good governance. As a follow-up to a successful, albeit
much more limited first IBTA, the design drew lessons from that first operation (e.g. hiring large consulting
firms to manage the whole process instead of short-term individual consultants). It had extensive terms of
reference and met all the standards as well as fiduciary requirements then expected of a technical assistance
operation. It thus appeared to have been well designed to early evaluators.

On the other hand, with hindsight it is now clear that the objectives were overly ambitious, as pointed out
by reviewers at the Project Concept Document (PCD) stage. In addition, the project lacked a real risk
mitigation strategy depending instead heavily on the SAC II which later proved an insufficient buttress, and
ownership from many of the key implementing agencies (Ministry of Finance, State Service Administration,
line ministries, Parliament) was not sufficiently tested and later on proved to be weak. SAC II eventually
was delayed and its conditionality with respect to the public administration reform was watered down,
thereby a posteriori revealing the lack of commitment and/or consensus and readiness of Government to
move in this area. The fact that the project was to be a companion and a prerequisite of SAC II
undoubtedly played a key role in the swift endorsement process both in the Bank and in the country.




                                                     - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall outcome rating of IBTA II is Unsatisfactory (or Moderately Unsatisfactory on a six-point
scale). This is the result of the weighted ratings of the three project components: (i) Reform public
administration (Unsatisfactory); (ii) Improve budget management systems (Moderately unsatisfactor); and
(iii) Privatize medium and large enterprises and develop the private sector (Satisfactory).

Prima facie, this overall rating may seem inconsistent with the satisfactory ratings of the two adjustment
operations, SAC and SAC II, which overlapped the IBTA II implementation period (1999-2005) and the
fact that IBTA II was instrumental in helping SAC II meet some of its conditionalities. The source of the
disconnect is the limited substantive overlap between the and the two adjustment credit. In the end, SAC II
and IBTA II only shared common components on budget reform and privatization.

The Unsatisfactory rating was due in part to an overly ambitious set of objectives and outputs in the above
three areas, two of which proved too challenging to be satisfactorily implemented. In addition, there was
insufficient commitment and strong resistance to change from the coalition government, which was
simultaneously facing many other critical challenges within the country, and badly lacked capacity to
undertake reform.    Another factor seems to be the change of all government officials who initiated and
negotiated the project. During implementation, the Bank had several opportunities to officially revise
downward, especially the public administration component, and refocus its objectives and outputs in IBTA
II, but these opportunities were not seized upon. Following the consultants' initial work in 2000, the
government informed the Bank that the recommendations contained in the reports could not be implemented
due to the fact that the country just came out of the civil war. However, the government asked that the
consultants proceed with their work on the ground that their recommendations would be used for the
formulation of a public administration reform strategy later which could be supported by an adjustment
operation. The Bank agreed along with this new approach and as a result public administration reform
condition were not included in SAC II.

It is worth noting, however, that despite uneven and insufficient progress of the above three components,
the IBTA II has been instrumental in educating senior government officials on institutional and structural
reform issues and processes and thus they are more ready to tackle many of the same challenges today, than
when the project was launched.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component One: Public Administration Reform (US$2.65 million)

The majority of the objectives related to public administration reform were not achieved and both the
outcome and outputs of this component are rated Unsatisfactory. The reform was led by PTFPAR
established by Presidential Decree on February 22, 1999. The component financed a major consultancy for
the three sub-components (actual cost was $1.74 million as estimated at appraisal); training and study tours
(US$0.06 million); and an IT system creating a civil service register for the third sub-component (US$0.85
million).

As early as 2000, the Bank and the Government surmised that there was insufficient political consensus to
undertake a broad public administration reform program and related conditions were dropped from SAC II.
Although the government informed the Bank that the consultants' recommendations would not be



                                                    - 6 -

implemented in the immediate future, the component and consultancy already underway was retained in
IBTA II in the hopes that the environment for implementation would improve over time. However,
combined with mixed quallity of outputs from consultants, insufficient coordination by and commitment of
PFTPAR, and inadequate Bank supervision, the result was that project resources were spent without any
major outputs and there was little and no capacity building. No reorganizations of government structures
were undertaken based on the consultant recommendations financed by the project. However, in line with
the division of labor agreed between the Bank, Asian Development Bank, and European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), some new ministries were created but these were largely
unrelated to IBTA II recommendations. No Public Pay Strategy was developed nor approved during the
life of the project. The Government did implement a series of across the board pay increases allowed
within the IMF programs, but there was no accompanying reform of pay structures. However, this must be
judged with caution as wages as percentage of GDP and in absolute terms continue to be the lowest in the
former Soviet Union. Given the circumstances, raising wages per se was not improper though tying these
increases to wage reform would have been desirable. The first elements of a civil service register are in
place but even this remains work in progress (see below).

Since 2004, the political commitment to public administration reform has strengthened, in part due to
continuing political consolidation and an awareness that the government is only as effective as its ability to
implement the stated reform agenda. Some recent progress, described in detail below, has been made
during preparation of various Bank reports ­ Public Expenditure and Institutional Review, Country
Economic Memorandum, and the new Policy-Based Credit (PBC) and an upcoming technical assistance
operation.

Assistance in Reform of Government Structures and Organizations

The outcome of this subcomponent is rated Unsatisfactory. When the consultants started their work in the
fall of 2000, a few reorganizations were already taking place and continued to take place in parallel with
the consultants' work. For instance, the Ministries of Labor and of Social Protection were combined
without warning and consultation with the consultants. Many "reorganizations" were superficial and did
not result in splitting up the policy planning and the economic/production activities, which were considered
to be the cornerstone of the administrative reform. In a few cases the reverse happened, e.g., the electricity
company Barqi-Tajik was combined with the Ministry of Energy.

The consultancy delivered six functional reviews of mixed quality: the review of parliamentary structures
(September 2001) was considered of good quality and substantive as well as the review of the MOF (April
2002). The other functional reviews of key ministries (Agriculture, Communication, Health and Education
completed in April 2001) were rather superficial and consisted mostly of general recommendations to split
the commercial and the policy planning functions with a listing of the corresponding entities; they also
failed to consider the decentralized departments or agencies of these ministries at the local level. The
supervision team and some members of the secoral teams discussed these reports with the government and
the consultants, but no serious progress was made due to little interest on the part of the government. No
comments from Bank staff are on file and there was little interaction between the consultants and the
relevant sectoral Bank teams. Although comments were received from the corresponding entities, none of
these studies were actively discussed with those entities and they were not implemented. Although some
reorganizations took place, they were sometimes carried out with the assistance of other donors, e.g.
Ministry of Communications with EBRD support; Tajik Air and Tajik Rail respectively with EBRD and
ADB support as agreed with the Bank. There were no changes within the MOF. The overlap and
duplication of functions, e.g. the plethora of educational and training institutions that reside within
specialist ministries and agencies rather than within the Ministry of Education, remains prevalent.


                                                     - 7 -

Two study tours were also organized under this component in 2000 and 2002, respectively for several high
level Government officials to study the public administration system of Australia. The tours were well
organized and provided ample opportunities for exchanging views with Australian peers.

The continuing weaknesses in government structures and organizations are thoroughly described in the
2004 PEIR (whose Bank authors were familiar with the IBTA II studies) which has helped to rekindle the
Government's interest in the administrative reform ­ at a time when the political environment is more
favourable. A new reform agenda is being prepared by two working groups ­ one responsible for central
government reform and the other for local government ­ of senior civil servants and local/international
consultants under the oversight of a Presidential Working Group on Public Administration, which de facto
replaced the IBTA II PTFPAR. Local and international consultants of the first working group are being
financed by a Japan Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) for preparation of the PBC, while
USAID is financing consultants for the second working group. The work of the two groups, to date, has
been combined and integrated into a Unified Strategy for Public Administration Reform. Government
approval of the strategy is a policy condition under the forthcoming PBC. The implementation of the
strategy will likely be supported by the upcoming technical assistance project.

Assistance in Developing a Public Service Pay Strategy

The outcome of this subcomponent is rated Unsatisfactory.           The consultant delivered two reports,
respectively in January and May 2001, which outlined several prerequisites for an effective civil service
pay and incentives structure. For example, Tajikistan needs to substantially increase the average salary
level of government employees albeit in line with available resources, decompress the pay scale in order to
reward skills and build incentives, harmonize salary structures across all government institutions, clarify
the definition of "civil servants" and establish a registry of civil servants to improve human resource
management.      A round table organized with the participation of the consultants in June 2002 was
inconclusive. The Government implemented a series of across-the-board salary increases during 2001-2004
of 9, 23, 18 and 28 percent, respectively. Although these were in compliance with IMF guidance at the
time, they were not accompanied by any changes in the pay structure.

This issue has also been revisited as part of the preparations for the PBC and a country economic
memorandum in 2005. A later consultant, financed by the PHRD grant for preparation of the PBC to
prepare a new technical report on public sector wage strategy, has underlined key shortcomings in the
previous reports related particularly to (i) the presentation and collection of basic reference data; and (ii)
the lack of a fiscal sustainability analysis of the proposed reform, i.e. the budgetary impact of the pay
reform and the medium term sustainability of the financing sources. By recent order of the President dated
June 21, 2005 a Working Group was set up to "introduce a new pay policy for civil servants," and
technical subgroups were set up in a few pilot ministries. The public sector pay strategy has been
integrated into the work of the aforementioned subgroups on Administration Reform and into the Unified
PAR Strategy. In October 2005, the government adopted the wage system reform (through a Presidential
decree) and subsequently a government resolution on wage increase starting with 5 pilot ministries that
streamlines the civil wage structure in order to meet prior actions required for the programmatic
development policy operation currently ongoing.

Assistance in Strengthening Civil Service Management

The outcome of this subcomponent is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. This reform was to have been
implemented by the State Service Administration established first in 1998 (originally was the Department


                                                     - 8 -

of State Service). Several notes and reports were produced by the consultant in accordance with their
Terms of Reference (TOR). They included notes on civil service job descriptions, selection criteria and
procedures for selecting civil servants (March-July 2001), an Aide Memoireon Values and a Code of
Conduct and Ethics (August 2001). Unfortunately, the State Service Administration (SSA) was not yet
functional leading to a lack of response on the government side. Its Director and senior staff were not
nominated until early 2002 and dealt initially with other priorities.

To strengthen civil service management, the development of a civil service register was envisaged.
However, the initial output of this sub-component was ill-designed and premature. The consultant carried
out their work on the State Service database (end 2001-2002), developed a User Manual (June 2002), and
provided an Information Technology Report (September 2002) as their last contribution. The database was
mostly conceived as a payroll management tool ­ a function which was not entrusted to SSA according to
the 1998 Civil Service Law ­ rather than an HR tool as per the core SSA management function. In
addition, although the Register of Positions and the Civil Service Register had been legally established in
2002-03, the conceptual framework for the Register had not been designed and so the User Manual was
both premature, and as a result unusable.

Similarly, the functionality and specifications of the IT equipment to be procured were more in line with the
objective of having SSA lead the general introduction of IT and promotion of e-government in general, than
with the design of a civil service register. Although the intention at appraisal was for the project to finance
IT equipment to meet the needs of the reorganized ministries and initial work was undertaken, in 2002 the
supervision team took the appropriate decision not to go forward with these IT packages since the planned
reorganizations were not taking place. Instead, it was decided to use the same credit amount (US$830,000)
to purchase equipment for the dedicated network infrastructure for the civil service. An IT package was
contracted in 2004 under a single stage ICB bid which included the LANs, servers and work stations to
equip nineteen (19) other ministries and agencies in Dushanbe in addition to SSA. The equipment was
installed, two local IT consultants financed under IBTA II were hired by SSA for running the system, and
staffs in the agencies were trained about data entry using MS Access database program. It is as yet unclear
whether this system will be fully implemented and sustainable. There is a need to procure software for
providing easy access to network participants so that they can update information on-line and to allow
direct access in a user-friendly way to users of general statistics.

A study tour to visit the civil service in Azerbaijan and various training activities took place, including
training of IT personnel on Microsoft in Moscow and a twinning arrangement between the respective Civil
Service Departments of Tajikistan and Ukraine. Training sessions for HR personnel from 20 institutions
involved in the Civil Service Register network on data entry techniques and design of the civil service
Register were organized by the SSA, including a one-week training session in Astana, Kazakhstan in 2004.

The joint IBTA II supervision/PBC preparation team revisited this reform area in 2004-05, and in early
2005 decided to hire additional external consultants (using the PBC PHRD grant) to continue assisting
SSA in implementing the civil register system. Completion of the comprehensive register was included as a
policy conditionality under the proposed PBC. It will require continued external support as well as local
financing for maintaining the system with the necessary personnel. All the entities currently included
within the civil service register network will need to continuously and accurately enter personnel data into
the system, which will also need to be extended to the full range of local and central institutions covered by
SSA.




                                                      - 9 -

Component Two: Budget Management System Reform (US$2.52 million)

This outcome of this component is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory overall. The sub-component on the
intergovernmental finance system reform is rated Unsatisfactory. The subcomponent, the Medium Term
Budget Framework (MTBF) is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. On the other hand, support for
management of the budget cycle and strengthening of budgeting and expenditure control systems are rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

While there has been some definite but uneven progress made on reforming budget management systems,
the achievements made after six years fall short of initial expectations, and insufficient capacity building
has taken place with respect to the resources spent. Progress was achieved mostly on actions related to
SAC II conditionalities, but there was insufficient depth and ownership of the reform overall leading to very
limited institutional development and capacity building. This component was designed with the guidance of
an economic team including the Finance minister, who were replaced in late 1999. The new team in the
government and at the ministry, while supported the project towards its end, initially did not show as much
interest as expected and this had a significant impact on progress under this component.

The main achievements include the establishment of a budget management information system ­ the Tajik
Budget System (TBS); the development but not utilization of a fledging MTBF in its entirety, adoption of
the 14-sector GFS 1986 classification, preparation of the budget based on program-based budgets at the
level of Key Budget Organizations (KBOs) and enhanced ability to monitor budget execution in a more
comprehensive manner. Much more was planned, and could have been achieved had there been less
resistance within the MOF. However, it should be noted, with hindsight, that expectations were not
realistic given the fiscal constraints and the very limited institutional capacity. As in the case of the first
component, there remains an important outstanding reform agenda, well-documented in the draft PEIR, to
be tackled under the forthcoming PBC, and by a better prepared and more reformed-oriented Ministry.

The component was implemented through a four-year consultant assignment with the related
subcomponents. Implementation was marred by a poor relationship between the consultant and MOF.
After some initial complaints, the supervision team reviewed project outputs; consulants' work and the head
of the consultant team was changed and the Ministry provided better premises. This particular component
was also affected by the September 11, 2001 event that disrupted the consultants' visit to Tajikistan. This
delayed the implementation of some reforms envisaged under all sub-components.                 However, the
supervision team together with the PIU reached an agreement with the consultant on a new work schedule
to compensate for lost time that was originally agreed in the contract. The new schedule resulted in an
extension of consultant services provided by the chief of the party and other consultants for an extra three
months beyond the agreed contract.

The achievements under sub-components two and three enable the government to control expenditure and
run prudent fiscal policies that resulted in to a nearly balanced budget in recent years and improved an
expenditure control system. The IMF's assessment of public financial management issued in December
2005 noted improvements as one of the reasons supporting an approval of the Multilateral Debt Relief
Initiative (MDRI) to Tajikistan in the amount of US$99 million.

Introduction of a Medium Term Budget Framework.

The outcome of this subcomponent is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Despite various consultant inputs
and capacity building activities, capacity building has been less than expected owing, primarly, to lack of
ownership by the implementing agency. A fledging MBTF was prepared but not all of its elements are


                                                    - 10 -

being utilized in budget and expenditure planning. While the situation is now improving, macroeconomic
forecasting continues to be fragmented between a process that aggregates production plans reminiscent of
central planning, and aggregate forecasts agreed with the IMF. Although improvements in 2005 reduced
the extent of disconnect between the budget and PRSP, there is still a need for a strategic budget approach
to the overall policy formulation process. The public investment planning process, while improved under
the project, deserves much more attention from the government as it remains fragmented and not all
elements are integrated into the budget (and MTBF).

The consultant-prepared Budget Framework Papers (BFP)successively improved in 2001 (on a sample
basis only), in 2002 (draft) and in 2003 (almost complete but without the forward estimates). The 2003
draft paper was distributed at the May 2003 Consultative Group meeting. However, MOF never officially
submitted these papers to the Government nor to Parliament for formal approval. The 2004 and 2005
budget circulars were approved as they contained elements of MTBF, especially public investment and
social sector areas. Much more could be done during the life of this sub-component. During the project,
the MOF continued to identify MTBF with the three-year forward budget prepared on the basis of inflation
projections. However, this approach has begun to change for the 2004 and 2005 budgets, particularly for
the social sectors. In line with the PRSP, the government significantly increased the share of social
expenditure (from 6.6% of GDP in 2004 to 8.8% of GDP in 2005). Budget instructions have incorporated
forward looking elements of the MTBF and all budget organizations have been asked to submit their
budgets as well as projections for the two subsequent years. However, the instructions while containing
better articulated sectoral priorities, do not contain ceilings for sectoral ministries' current spending.

Integration of Public Investment Program (PIP) and the Budget. Although budget instructions sent to
government agencies have included the domestically funded PIP (a key condition of SAC II), its planning
process remains fragmented. A PIP Department was established in the Ministry of Finance in 2002; the
externally funded PIP is not fully integrated in the budget and planning for the PIP process and still needs
considerable improvement. However, during the life of this sub-component counterpart funds for all
foreign funded PIPs has been integrated into the budget and all foreign financed projects are now covered
under the PIP. The responsibility for public investment planning financed by donors remains with the
Government's Foreign Investment Unit in the Ministry of Economy and Trade (MOET). However, its
capacity to develop a reasonable PIP is limited. Moreover, since the externally funded PIP is not fully
grounded in sectoral strategies, with the exception of the social sectors, the prioritization issue remains.

Sector strategies tentatively prepared by the consultant in 2003-04 on the basis of the PRSP were excluded
from the draft budget circular of 2003 but these were added in for 2004 and 2005 circular which resulted in
higher social spending as noted already. However, the lack of an overall strategic sectoral expenditure
framework is a serious constraint that hampers the development of a full fledged MTBF.

With respect to the macroeconomic forecastingcapacity, there were six visits of macroeconomic advisers
who delivered courses on macroeconomics and forecasting techniques, and training of MOF and MOET
staff on the use of econometric software and on forecasting using the macroeconomic models. The courses
were not well attended and Ministry officials complained about their theoretical content.           Moroever, the
training on the use of forecasting models (particularly with respect to GDP growth forecast) was severely
constrained by the lack of data and the difficulty of estimating forecast parameters in the context of a
fledging and quickly evolving market economy. After the third visit simpler models were presented to the
attendees and these were received with more interest. However, there is still a need for more training in this
area and a unified approach by the key ministries.

Progress in macroeconomic forecasting has also been been less than expected in part due to institutional


                                                       - 11 -

issues. The Law on State Finances assigns the forecasting role to the Ministry of Economy and Trade who
also prepares the PIP. This institutional arrangement is not desirable as the macro forecast is based on the
aggregation of the production plans of economic enterprises and thus reminiscent of the former central
planning approach. Moreover, this forecast is developed too late to be taken into account in the MOF
budget instructions which traditionally propose forecasts based on macroeconomic parameters discussed
with the IMF and the National Bank. As a result of the split function of setting the resource envelope
between MOET and MOF, a macroeconomic framework has limited role and importance in the MTBF.
Today, the process to estimate the resource envelope with the macroeconomic forecast remains split
between MOET and MOF.

Frustrated by the slow progress on the budget reform, especially in the MTBF area, and the resistance to
change within MOF, the consultant and the Bank tried to encourage stronger demand for the budget reform,
in part through the creation of a Budget Commission, a benchmark under SAC II. The establishment of a
first commission in 2002 was short lived. Subsequently, a decree was promulgated on June 30, 2004 (the
closing date of SAC II) establishing a high level Commission chaired by the Prime Minister, with MOF as
the Deputy Chair, the Economic Reform and Foreign Investment Department of the Presidential
Administration as the Secretary, and twelve line ministers as members. The Commission was convened in
late 2004 and three times in 2005, which the Bank attended one as an observer. According to an IMF
report in June 2005, the main tasks of the Commission are to prioritize and coordinate the economic and
fiscal policies and to ensure that the draft budget is consistent with the macro-economic objectives and
indicators and sector priorities.   While it is still too early to judge whether this will be a lasting
arrangement, the Commission's initial work was an approval of the higher level of spending for social
sectors that were reflected in the 2004 and 2005 budgets. However, the Commission has still a limited
understanding of the MTBF. The Commission needs to direct its focus to the overall spending policies and
not just focus on the social sectors and ensure that a full MTBF is prepared as soon as possible. While
these are positive developments, the real impact of the Commission on the overall budget process remains
to be demonstrated.

Strengthening of Budgeting and Expenditures Control Systems

The outcome of this component is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The budgeting systems in Tajikistan were
clearly strengthened and there is no doubt that the 2003-2005 budgets are in much better shape,
presentation-wise, than earlier ones under the project. The 14-sector GFS 1986 classification has been
adopted from the 2002 budget in collaboration with the IMF and with the help of the consultant, and there
has been progress in establishing program-based budgets at the level of Key Budget Organizations (KBOs)
and government agencies.

However, the budgets still remain far from the project objectives of having, e.g. budget guidelines and
budget format submissions consistent with a Budget Framework Paper - that still does not exist,
justification of budget requests based on efficiency-based norms and criteria, or ministry-based budget
based on a three year strategic expenditure framework. These were only a few of the specific outputs
mentioned in the TOR for this subcomponent.

The consultant also helped develop and implement the Tajik Budget System (TBS)­ an automated
multi-year budget tracking system at the agency level. TBS allows the budget department to aggregate
agency-based program budgets and permits analysis by sector and function at the same time, as it contains
the new budget classification and the KBOs. The project has also financed at the cost of US$97,000, a
small Local Area Network connecting the various buildings of the Ministry of Finance and accompanying
software and training. The implementation of this LAN has been a very cost effective and efficiency


                                                   - 12 -

increasing investment and has been much appreciated by MOF. TBS has also been linked with the
Treasury system and has the capacity to down-load the quarterly expenditure estimations, thus integrating
the budget and revenue planning with the expenditure monitoring capacity. TBS thus constitutes the first
stage of an integrated Budget Management Information System. It is the most satisfactory outcome of this
component, and an illustration of what good collaboration between the consultant and counterparts can
achieved when there is convergence of interests and joint ownership.

Support for Management of the Budget Cycle

The outcome of this fourth sub-component is also rated as Moderately Satisfactory which is closely related
to the second sub-component reviewed above. After a slow start, achievements under this sub-component
have been reasonably good. In line with the consultants' and PEIR's recommendations the budget calendar
was changed starting with 2004, and the budgetary process now starts in February. Both the 2005 and
2006 budgets were prepared using this new calendar that is now institutionalized. The budget circulars for
2004 and 2005 requested ministries to submit their budget requests including the PIP. After the MOF
made initial assessment, these requests were later discussed at the Budget Commission. Currently, budget
discussions and review by the government are now held earlier and thus give more time to Parliament to
evaluate the budget. However, progress in synchronization of macro forecasts with the budget preparation
has been less than expected. More progress has been achieved in the IT area to support the management of
the budget cycle. The ministry now has software that can capture budget data during preparation and
execution. This enabled the ministry to better prepare budget and monitor expenditures.

Inter-Governmental Finance System

The outcome of this subcomponent is rated Unsatisfactory. Although the consultant produced agreed
outputs, there has been limited impact, mainly due to a lack of ownership both at the technical and political
level for this reform. The consultants initially offered their support to a special "Presidential Working
Group" set up in 2002, to review and amend the draft law on Public Finance submitted to Parliament, and
produced two reports in April 2002 and 2003. Unfortunately, the law on State Finances adopted by
Parliament in June 2002 and enacted in December 2002 did not reflect the recommendations of the
consultant concerning the assignment of expenditures and revenues. The Working Group indicated that
their Terms of Reference were too narrow to entertain the much broader reform advocated by the
consultant. Two study tours respectively to Latvia (2002) and to Austria (2003) were organized by the
consultant but with disappointing results. The consultant then worked on formula-based targeted transfers
to the Ministry of Education and Health as MOF had given initial instructions in 2002 for the use of per
capita allocations by these ministries. But here again the impact was very limited as MOF decided on an
allocation which was at the same level as in the previous year. Moreover, the poor quality of National
Health and education data proved to be a serious constraint. In late 2004, under the auspices of the new
PAR initiative, a "local" working group was set up, with the support of the USAID-financed Urban
Institute to reexamine the issues of local government and of inter-governmental finance. Their initial report
has been issued, which reportedly benefited from the earlier consultant input. The conclusions of this
working group are now being integrated into the Unified PAR strategy document..


Component Three: Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises and Private Sector Development
(US$1.31 million)

The outcome of this component is rated Satisfactoryoverall. As a result of the first SAC and IBTA
operations, privatization had accelerated during 1998-99 with small scale privatization almost completed


                                                   - 13 -

and the privatization of medium and large scale firms (MLS) making a start. However, special skills and
know-how were required to help the State Privatization Commission (SPC) tackle those MLS
privatizations, either through auction or through case-by-case privatizations. That was the responsibility
given to the consulting firm, which had already been hired under IBTA and had acquired considerable
expertise in the field.    During the nine years preceding the project (1991-99) only 216 MLS were
privatized, while within the project period (2000-05) 629 MLS firms were privatized as compared with an
initial PAD estimate of about 550. Although the outcome (numbers of privatized MLS firms) were clearly
met and also substantially exceeding the SAC II targets, there were nevertheless issues about the quality
and the transparency of the process, and about the pace of case by case privatization. The condition for
SAC II second tranche disbursement on the case-by-case privatization strategy was much more difficult to
achieve. Consequently, the disbursement was delayed, and meeting the condition required substantial
pressure from the Bank and efforts by the IBTA II. The private sector development sub-component was
less successful: the diagnostic phase was effectively carried out, but that did not lead to any reform and
facilitation of private sector activities. The subcomponent can still be rated Moderately Satisfactory since
there were really no clear expectations in the objectives and TOR about the impact of the reform.

Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises

The outcome of this subcomponent is rated Satisfactory. The consultant complied well with its TOR. It
started by strengthening the Central Share Register (CSR) through provision of corresponding IT
equipment and software; and training of staff and operational support. It facilitated the incorporation
process of all remaining state-owned enterprises (about 50 out of 77 initially unincorporated, with the
others being liquidated), thereby meeting the corresponding SAC II target at the beginning of 2002. The
consultant helped the SPC to prepare, advertise and conduct the sales of state enterprises through English
auctions, and when unsuccessful, through Dutch auctions after having established the rules for passing
from English to Dutch auctions (a SAC II trigger). The total MLS firms privatized during the project
period was 629 (78 in 2000; 72 in 2001, 163 in 2002, 111 in 2003, 131 in 2004, and 74 at mid-2005).
The consultant prepared and undertook public information and dissemination campaigns, and dealt with
post privatization issues. It is nevertheless well acknowledged that the process has not been smooth and
has been marred by numerous irregularities. The consultant reported many of these shortcomings, made
recommendations to improve the transparency and quality of the process, and assisted the government in
addressing the shortcomings in a most appropriate manner. While the privatization process via auctions
was moving forward, the case by case privatization was delayed. The preparation of a time bound strategic
action plan, which was a second tranche SAC II trigger, was not being met and this constituted one of the
four triggers delaying the second tranche disbursement initially scheduled for end of 2002. At the end of
the consultant company contract in June 2003, one of the key consultants in the team was hired back
individually to help prepare the action plan. This effort proved successful, and the 2004-2007 Strategic
Plan for Privatization of Medium and Large enterprises and the Restructuring of National Monopolies and
Largest enterprises, covering the privatization of an additional 457 remaining MLS companies, and 30
natural monopolies, was adopted under Presidential Resolution (#486) on November 7, 2003. A key
bottleneck for the second tranche of SAC II had thus been removed thanks to IBTA II support.

Private Sector Development

The outcome of this subcomponent is rated Moderately Satisfactory. In order to investigate the business
environment, the consultant started by conducting four surveys between 2000 and 2002: (i) 450 private,
privatized and SOEs were surveyed out of 2000 in three cities to map out the regulatory, bureaucratic and
other obstacles to business development; (ii) 130 entrepreneurs were interviewed about the registration
process; (iii) 150 enterprises were asked to keep a Book for Registration of Inspections (BRI or Black


                                                    - 14 -

Book) to document the incidence and impact of inspections on their business; and (iv) 16 license-issuing
state bodies were surveyed about their licensing responsibilities and practices. Summary findings and
recommendations were issued and a series of eight articles were also published between 2001 and 2002 in
the national media. Furthermore, several cases of impediments were investigated and reported, and two
Private Sector/Government Advisory Groups (PSAG) were established in regional centers to openly discuss
obstacles to business and identify solutions. This was a good start, but the political will was not there to
follow up with concrete measures, and the implementation of these activities stopped.

The sub-component also included activities to improve the legal and regulatory environment for business.
This was carried out through: (i) two seminars for judges, parliamentarians and other officials on
bankruptcy and liquidation of enterprises; (ii) a review of impediments to using the court system for
settlement of disputes; (iii) a survey of 134 businesses about the impact of land rights registration on the
conduct of their business; and (iv) a study of the impediments to land use in Tajikistan compared with the
international experience. Following the completion of the consultant assignment in 2003, the private sector
reform agenda has been carried forward with the assistance of IFC which has carried out additional surveys
(IFC-PEP) and has pursued actively the dialogue with Government on the inspections and licensing issues.
Lack of implementation capacity has also been a serious constraint and following the preparation of an
Investment Climate Assessment (ICA), IDA is currently pursuing the agenda through PBC and other
analytical work, particularly concerning the licensing and inspection issues. In summary one can say that,
while the substantial expected outputs were delivered in the form of surveys and training, there were no
measurable outcome or impact of the consultant assignment on the business environment, and the issues are
currently being pursued under the policy and adjustment dialogue.

Project Management

The Project Implementation Unit played a satisfactory coordination and input management role, but was
unable to overcome the lack of commitment of the key project stakeholders needed to ensure good
outcomes, rather than simply the delivery of inputs and outputs. PARMU, the Secretariat of the PTFPAR,
seemed to have acted more as a screening mechanism and a gate keeper than a facilitator between the PAR
consultants and the PTFPAR.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The project was designed to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the public services by reforming
government structures and organizations, including the pay and incentive system. There was a very crude
cost effectiveness/cost recovery analysis carried out in the PAD, showing that the present value of
incremental government expenditures savings of a permanent 0.4 percent would be adequate to cover the
present value of project costs. It was conjectured that a one percent saving over the 1998 budget level
would yield a benefit of 1999 US$13 million and an IRR of 13.3 percent. Given the generally unsuccessful
outcome of the first two components and the attribution problem, it would be spurious to attempt to
estimate any benefit. The project was also to assist in output recovery and sustained economic growth
through policies that promote private ownership and private investment, but there was no attempt to
estimate the benefits of the third component, as is customary for an institution building component of this
type. As a result of strong economic growth during 2000-05, and the success of the privatization
component, there could indeed have been benefits derived from this component, but here again the
attribution problem would render any specific estimation intractable and the results spurious.




                                                    - 15 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The overall institutional development impact of the project is rated modest.

The first component had a negligible institutional development impact. It was supposed to help the
Presidential Task Force and the SSA implement the public administration reform, but only a small number
of very incremental steps were made, and certainly not the major reform expected at the start of IBTA II.
PTFPAR soon proved incapable or unwilling to drive such a major reform and, although it continued to
meet during the project's period, it was ineffective in taking critical restructuring or reform decisions. The
SSA, which was approved by a decree in 1998, only began operating in 2001 and has been without a
director for much of its existence. The main project impact has been the development of a civil service
register that will allow tracking and managing personnel once the system is properly expanded and
maintained.

The institutional development impact of the second component can be rated as modest. The MOF
reluctantly endorsed the MTBF process, which was ambitious to begin with, but implemented reform
measures proposed by consultants for the second and third subcomponents in a reasonable manner though
more could have been done. As a result of the project and the SAC II operation, the Government embarked
on the MTBF and budget-programming approach and this resulted in improvements in budget management.
The most significant output of this second component, TBS, may lead to a full-fledged budget management
information system, if properly followed up and supported.

The impact of the third component can be rated as Substantialsince the capacity of SPC has been
strengthened substantially as a result of the project, thus allowing it to pursue successfully the privatization
agenda.

Overall in the three project areas, capacity building through the project has been quite limited, and
substantial technical assistance will continue to be needed to deepen the reform agenda.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The most important factor affecting the project implementation has been the difficult post conflict political
environment. As the country emerged from a long civil war, the fragile coalition government needed first to
consolidate its power among different constituent groups and factions in order to govern effectively. The
resistance of these groups and of strong vested interests to key market-oriented and transparency-increasing
reforms can explain some of the delayed reforms and weak performance under the project.

As early as 2000, one year after the project was approved, there were strong indications that the
government did not have sufficient political consensus nor the capacity to push ahead with the public
administration reforms as envisaged under the project. An agreement was made between the President and
senior management of the Bank to drop a key public administration reform policy condition from the SAC
II project, then under preparation. However, the technical assistance component on public administration
remained in the IBTA II in hopes that momentum and consensus for this reform would be forthcoming later


                                                     - 16 -

during the life of the project. Such a reform is difficult and time consuming to implement even under the
purview of a strong, united and committed government, and such was not the case in Tajikistan during the
late 1990s and early 2000s.

The political environment has improved since 2004, and the dialogue on key IBTA II issues has intensified
in the context of the PEIR, CEM, and PBC preparation over the last two years. In early 2005 public
administration reform has come back to the forefront of the Government agenda, in part because of an
awareness that political consolidation is only as effective as the government machinery's capacity to
implement the stated policy agenda. On February 4, 2005, a Presidential Decree was issued launching the
preparation of a comprehensive Public Administration Reform Strategy. However, by that time little or no
funding remained available under IBTA II to support this effort and the Bank team has had to tap other
financial sources (e.g. PHRD and AAA) to continue the dialogue in these areas.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

By design, all project activities were supposed to be driven by government entities, i.e. public
administration reform by the PTFPAR and SSA, budget reform by MOF, and the privatization and private
sector development component by SPC. However, as explained above, by and large the political
environment did not allow these entities to take full control of these activities and to implement them
smoothly. In particular, the change of the economic team which in effect designed IBTA II was a serious
blow to the project as the new team did not fully own it.

PTFPAR was dysfunctional from the start, SSA's establishment was delayed and the agency has been
without a head most of the time. There was little appetite in the Ministry of Finance for embracing a broad
ranging project component on budget reform that would eventually limit the discretionary powers of the
ministry over the budget process. This is best illustrated by the struggle over the establishment of the
Budget Commission, first set up in 2002, then quickly disbanded after two meetings, and finally
re-established on June 30, 2004, on the closing date of SAC II. The Ministry only adopted proposed
changes selectively and reluctantly, partly under the pressure of SAC II conditionalities.           SPC's
performance was much better, but the quality of the privatization was poor and it took a long time for the
Government to endorse the strategy for privatizing medium and large firms.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

This lack of ownership at the government level (except for SPC) translated into poor relationships at the
agency level with the consultant teams. In the context of poor governance and weak ownership of the
project, the PIU model, which had worked well in the first IBTA, ended up broadening the gap between the
consultants and the government agencies, rather than narrowing it. The PIU and PARMU often acted as a
filter or a screen between the consultants and the final clients (for instance, there were no meetings
involving PTFPAR and the PAR foreign advisers, with all communications and interactions between them
taking place through the PARMU Head or the PIU Head). As mentioned in Section 4.2, the relationships
between the PAR foreign consultants and other implementing agencies (line ministries and Parliament)
were weak and led to the production of functional reviews of mixed quality, which were in the end not
implemented.     As a result, implementation of the first component was almost negligible, while the
implementation of the second was partial. In the case of the first component's improvements, the
implementation tended to be limited to those activities, primarily technological in nature (e.g. the civil
service register for SSA), which were not challenging the existing order. Moreover, despite some training
and study tours, the capacity to reform which was minimal at the start of the project, did not increase and



                                                    - 17 -

still remains a bottleneck for further reform implementation.

The privatization component also impacted several of the line ministries which resisted the separation of
state-owned enterprises under their control and delayed the adoption of the privatization strategy for
medium and large scale firms. However, the professionalism and quality of the Privatization Adviser hired
and rehired under IBTA II was instrumental in pushing through the comprehensive privatization strategy
for medium and large enterprises. The strategy was finally approved in November 2003, thus removing a
critical bottleneck for disbursing the second tranche of SAC II.

5.4 Costs and financing:

As of June 25, 2005 the closing date of the credit, almost the full balance of the US$6.7 million was
disbursed, with a small amount of about $50,000 remaining to be claimed during the four month grace
period. However, it is likely that there will be a small balance unspent and to be cancelled because of the
favorable exchange rate (SDR to US$). At the closing date, government's contribution amounted to about
US$250,000 or 34% of the appraisal estimate of US$700,000. Total project costs thus amounted to
US$6.92 million or 93% of the appraisal estimate of US$7.4 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's impact, though limited, is rated as likely sustainable. It should be noted, however, that it has
been difficult to track any specific outcomes in terms of stronger institutions and government capacity from
the work undertaken by the two consulting teams in public administration and budget reform, since they
completed their assignments two years ago. Key reform measures achieved under the privatization and
budget reform components are irreversible and likely to continue with the Bank's and other donors' support.
Both the civil service register and the TBS will need to be expanded and perfected to become effective and
the GOT will need additional resources ­ both financial and human ­ to maintain these systems. There
has been a recent, renewed focus by the authorities on public administration and civil service reform which
is being supported under the upcoming Bank policy and TA operations, and the IMF program. However, it
is too soon to tell whether this has sufficient traction to achieve the needed changes.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project could have ended with the departure of the three consulting teams in late 2003 early 2004, and
the project impact would have been quite negative.               Fortunately, transitional or forward looking
arrangements were put in place with the small amount of remaining funds from the project or from other
sources to pursue selected project objectives, whilst placing them in a different framework or perspective.
Many agenda items under the PAR and budget reform components were taken up in the PEIR review using
the reports delivered under IBTA II. The public service pay and incentives issue has also been the subject
of a special report within the CEM under preparation and is being followed up under the PBC. The
implementation of the civil service register is being continued under a PHRD grant and its
operationalization has become a condition of the forthcoming PBC. This grant is supporting the activities
of the recently formed Government Working Group for PAR and its two working groups.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:




                                                       - 18 -

Bank performance in lending is rated Unsatisfactory (or Moderately Unsatisfactory on a six-point scale).
Although consistent with the 1999-2001 CAS and a follow-up to the successful IBTA I, IBTA II was
substantially more ambitious. Given the still fragile political economy and very limited capacity of the
Borrower, the project carried a much higher level of risk which was not adequately recognized and
mitigated by the preparation and appraisal teams (the overall project risk rating was "Modest"). The
assessment of borrower ownership and commitment was overly optimistic ­ indeed, few, if any, of the ten
indicators of ownership stated in the PAD have materialized. Concerns regarding the ambitiousness of the
project, the typical challenges of public administration reform in developing countries and weaknesses in
the proposed monitoring framework raised in the January 1999 PCD review meeting do not appear to have
been taken into account in the final project design. The project preparation was accelerated. It was
declared retroactively-appraised on the basis of a pre-appraisal review meeting and mission; however, no
substantive risk or ownership issues were raised in the course of this meeting. A recent audit of IRIS
found that several preparation documents including those related to effectiveness and legal procedures are
missing from the files.

One notable design flaw was the use of large multi-year technical assistance contracts for public sector
reform. More recent experience has shown that these tend not to be flexible enough to accommodate
opportunistic, pragmatic and incremental approach to reform which has been found preferable to the "big
bang." In addition, these types of contracts often strain the limited implementation capacity of the
borrower and, because the high cost and the salary differentials between the expatriate consultants and the
civil servants, create strong frictions sometimes leading to rent-seeking behaviors. As a result it may be
preferable to program smaller, short-duration consultancies consisting of short-term, focused high quality
TA inputs that can be adjusted as needs evolve.

A second design flaw was that the operation appears to have been conceived in the high echelons of
government without sufficient buy-in from line management and technical staff, as well as a thorough
understanding of the political economy challenges still facing Tajikistan as it continued on a path of
democratic consolidation following civil strife.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance in supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory on a six-point scale,notwithstanding
(i) relatively smooth managerial and fiduciary execution throughout the project life ­ there were no major
procurement issues and disbursements remained generally on track; (ii) synergies with SAC II which were
instrumental in the completion of that operation's second tranche conditions in budget reform and
privatization, (iii) later intensified supervision in the form of extended supervision missions and oversight
following the decentralization of the country unit, including more frequent portfolio reviews and an external
review of SAC II and IBTA II; and (iv) reprogramming of resources during the last years of
implementation toward activities ­ civil service register, public administration reform, and pay and
incentive issues ­ in which some traction had then been achieved in terms of borrower commitment.

The major reason for the rating is that the Bank did not take appropriate remedial action to reprogram the
interventions being financed by the various components and realign them with more limited objectives
despite early signs that the project was at a high risk of not achieving its development objectives,
particularly with respect to the first component that was ambitious. When it became apparent that
ownership and the requisite support from the Borrower in the public administration component, and to a
more limited extent the budget reform component was waning, the possibility of restructuring should have
been formally evaluated within the Bank and discussed with the Borrower. Moreover, with the decision to



                                                       - 19 -

delink the PAR component from SAC II, the risk of going ahead with a costly consultancy in a less than
receptive environment should have been formally assessed both within the Bank and with the Borrower.

Instead, as a result of the agreement between the Bank's senior management and the government, the
project was allowed to continue disbursing on interventions and activities under the first component that
ultimately had very limited impact, and would require intense (and costly) supervision to achieve very
limited outcomes. There is no evidence that a mid-term review was held, at which these issues could have
been formally discussed. Implementation reporting, as evidenced by gaps in the IRIS files, was spotty and
supervision ratings were overly optimistic throughout most of the project. However, it must be recognized
that the decision of the Bank's senior management tied the hands of the supervision teams but nevertheless
the teams took appropriate decisions when the situation allowed them to do so. For example, the
supervision team decided not to go forward with the procurement of IT packages for line ministries as the
planned reorganizations were not taking place and funds were later used to purchase equipment in the same
amount (US$830,000) to buy equipment for the dedicated network infrastructure for the civil service.

A second supervision issue relates to the technical value added of the Bank. There is little evidence of
systematically planned reviews of the project-finance technical assistance by Bank specialists (whether
staff or consultants) as part of supervision. For borrowers with limited capacity, such as Tajikistan during
this period, this oversight by the Bank is particularly crucial. Reviews of the consultant reports did take
place later in connection with the preparation of the CEM, PEIR and PBC, but those reviews were post
mortem,too late to influence the consultants' work.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's performance is overall rated Unsatisfactory (or Moderately Unsatisfactory on a six-point
scale) as both preparation and supervision had substantial shortcomings that could have been corrected if
the Bank's management had acted decisively early on when problems manifested themselves.                 The
preparation delivered a project that turned out to be over ambitious, relatively inflexible in its design and
risky without a credible mitigation strategy. Then opportunities to correct these design flaws during the
relatively long implementation and supervision period were routinely foregone. This is most obvious in the
case of the first component which should have been restructured but instead was allowed to run its course.
Overall, even though the project did achieve positive results under the second and third components, the
efficient use of project's resources is a question. However, this must be judged against the Bank's role in
low capacity environments like Tajikistan. To the extent that scarce IDA funds could have been used in
some other activities and projects achievements were considerably less than expected despite the significant
supervision effort, the Bank's performace must be rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government's performance at the preparation stage was Moderately Satisfactory on a six-point scale.
This reflects the fact that, although the inputs were not extensive during preparation, the authorities did
delivered what was requested, and collaboration with the Bank team and consultants appear to have been
good. With the benefit of hindsight, the Borrower's lack of commitment for the first component should
have been exposed and the component should have been dropped or downsized early on. There is also a
question about the depth of MOF's involvement in the preparation stage, and whether an earlier and deeper
involvement would have enhanced the chances of success of the second component. However, it appears
that the change of management at the MOF played a significant role in this regard and it is not clear what
could be done ex-post.



                                                    - 20 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's overall performance during implementation is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory on a
six-point scale. In particular, it is rated unsatisfactory for the PAR and moderately unsatisfactory for the
budget reform components and satisfactory for the privatization component. The PTFPAR proved unable
to steer and implement the expected administration reform, and there were significant delays in the
establishment of the State Service Department. There was little real exchange with, and feedback given to
the consultant team preparing the PAR reports. The relationship between the budget reform consultants
team and MOF counterparts was also unsatisfactory in the initial period, with complaints about the quality
of the Chief of Party and the poor reporting on the part of the consultants, and about the office
accommodation and the delayed payment of invoices on the part of the Government. However, while these
problems were later solved with the involvement of the supervision team, the Ministry's interest in all four
sub-components could not be brought to the same level.             SPC's involvement with the privatization
component was overall satisfactory but its role did not include policy formulation and at times this caused
delays.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The PIU nevertheless handled all the fiduciary aspects of the project well, which contributed to the steady,
although not necessarily effective utilization of resources under the project. In terms of supporting the
reform program, however, the PIU was less effective in bridging the often wide gap between the consultant
and Bank teams pushing for more progress, and the authorities who were reluctant to move more quickly or
had waning commitment. Moreover, the PIU often functioned as a screen or gatekeeper between the two
consultant teams and the government agencies, adding to the consultants' frustrations when their outputs
were not being given sufficient consideration.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower's performance is rated overall rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Implementing broad ranging institutional reforms, such as a civil service reform, through a simple
technical assistance/capacity building instrument in politically-fragile environments such as post
conflict situations, is very risky. Even when combined with a policy instrument, commitment for reform
needs to be seriously tested with the key implementation partners before launching these types of projects.
Political economy or stakeholder analyses can often help to better understand the dynamic of political
changes, and whether the drivers that create the pressure to change and the incentives structures are in
place.

When commitment exists, the combination of a policy and a capacity building instrument can yield
important synergy (e.g. privatization component), provided there is a good synchronization of the two
instruments. Synchronization is more difficult to achieve when a multi-year technical assistance/institution
building project is expected to straddle two or more shorter policy-based cycles. Although it is preferable
to have the capacity building project in place before the policy-based project, this carries some risk as the
policy-based project may be delayed or cancelled, leaving the TA without implementation leverage. There
is also the risk that the capacity building project is only seen by the Borrower as a prerequisite for the
follow up adjustment operation, which can badly augur for the project success in implementing broader



                                                     - 21 -

institutional development.

It may be appropriate to separate task management of synchronized policy-based and capacity building
operations in order to keep the appropriate focus in the respective operations, both in terms of timing
and depth. A well thought-out strategy for achieving the capacity building objectives needs to be devised
taking carefully into account the country and project specifics: a boiler plate approach is likely to fail and
risks need to be genuinelymitigated.

Despite their small size and lack of visibility, capacity building projects are staff intensive, and often
require expensive specialist inputs, if they are to be effective and successful. Consultant reports need to
be reviewed by specialist staff or consultants. Relying solely on the Borrower/implementing agencies'
review reduces the Bank's value added as a technical, rather than solely, financial partner. Complex multi
component IB/TA projects should not be single-handedly supervised over a long period by a single Task
team leader no matter how qualified and experienced s/he may be. A fully costed supervision strategy
should be agreed at the time of appraisal/negotiations.

Large multi-year technical assistance contracts for public sector reform tend to be inflexible in their
design, strain the limited implementation capacity of the borrower and are usually neither suitable nor
compatible with an opportunistic, pragmatic and incremental approach to reform which has been
found preferable to the "big bang" approach. Moreover they have become politically unacceptable in
most countries if they are not grant-funded, because their high cost and the salary differentials between the
expatriate consultants and the civil servants are strong disincentives and sometimes leading to rent-seeking
behaviors.    As a result it may be preferable to accompany a policy-based operation with a small,
short-duration consultancies consisting of focused, just-in-time studies, and limited short term high quality
TA inputs.

Institution-building operations are notably difficult to monitor and evaluate. Thus a thorough annual
and afortioria midterm review involving independent reviewers are crucial. Performance indicators are
not easily quantifiable, and often become, as in this case, general, vague or overly input or output-based
rather than outcome- or impact-based (e.g .Study X completed, Y study tours undertaken, Z civil servants
trained...). This renders the performance tracking of the project difficult and/or ambiguous, and explains
why many such projects can remain below the managers "radar screen" for an extended period.

Documentation and record keeping of key decisions taken during the implementation period is critical.
Specifically, those related to or following performance reviews and having a bearing on the restructuring
and/or changes in project activities, scope or objectives need to be documented and filed in the Bank's
internal recording system.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

A completion report below was submitted by the PIU manager on October 19, 2005. The exchange rate is
based on the government quotation.




                                                     - 22 -

                                                    REPORT
                     Second Institutional Building Technical Assistance Project (IBTA-2)

          Project:Second Institutional Building Technical Assistance Project (IBTA-2) ·059755
          Costs:USD7.4 million including: IDA Technical Assistance Credit (3249-TJ) ­ SDR 5 mln.
          (equivalent to USD6.7 mln.) Counterpart funding (Tajik Government's contribution ­ USD0.7
          mln.)

                              Situation Analysis at the Time of the Project Outset

    The country's economy, methods and forms of its administration, governance framework, economic
    management practices, relations among entities (industrial relations), and summarizing it all, the so
    called socialist industrial system was successfully functioning under the Soviet Union when a single
    policy and ideology, single economic space and socialist regime were all in place. After a collapse of the
    Soviet Union, gaining of the independence and Tajikistan's accession into the global economy as an
    independent state, the country has launched economic reform and pursued the policy aimed at creating
    necessary conditions for transition to the market economy. The country started to smoothly move from
    the planned to the market economic system.

    However, the difficulties we are constantly facing as we move forward the economic reform are caused
    by our attempts to push for economic changes using the old public administration institutions, with the
    capacity and methods inherited from the Soviet era which proved to be totally ineffective under the
    market-based economy. This factor created major difficulties and problems for further development of
    the country.

    In this connection, during the course of implementing the economic reform program, the Tajik
    Government came to realize that no sound success can be achieved in the future unless institutional
    (structural) reform is implemented in due manner. Thus, in 1999 according to the Memorandum between
    the Government of Tajikistan (GoT) and the World Bank, the decision was taken to launch the Second
    Institutional Building Technical Assistance Project (IBTA-2). Presidential Decree No. ··-158 dated May
    29, 2000 and Government's Resolution No. 82 dated March 3, 2000 provided for the establishment of
    the Working Group on Public Administration System Reform which included membership of the heads
    of relevant economic ministries and the Project Implementation Unit for IBTA-2.

    Project Objective and Structure

The institutional reform objective under the project included institutional capacity building in the country to
enable effective management of the country's economic system under the new market conditions, and
ultimately creation of the new sound and effective public administration system. Therefore, the GoT had
decided to implement institutional reform in three areas:

        l Public administration system reform;
        l Budget process management reform;
        l Privatization and private sector development.


    All three objectives were interrelated and interdependent, and each component had to ensure
    complementarily to other ones.




                                                     - 23 -

                                                Project Cost

The total project amount is USD7.4 mln., including the credit provided on concessional terms by the
International Development Association for this project under the Development Credit Agreement
3249-TJ dated June 21, 1999 between the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan and International
Development Association (IDA) for an amount of SDR 5 mln.(equivalent to USD6.7 mln.) and the
GoT's counterpart fund contribution in the amount of USD0.7 mln.



                                       Project Activities and Impact

Consultative companies were selected in line with the World Bank guidelines to implement reforms in
the above three areas. As a result, the Government of Tajikistan signed agreements with SMEC
Consultative Company (Australia) for provision of consultative services in reforming the public
administration system; with the Barents Group Company (US) for provision of consultative services in
the reforming of budget process management and with CARANA Corporation (US) for provision of
consultative services in the field of privatization and private sector development.

In the course of the project, certain achievements were registered in all the three reform areas and the
specific steps implemented were as follows:

   l Review the public administration system;
   l Design and develop a strategy for reforming ministries through their restructuring;
   l Define the role and tasks of public administration entities both at the central and local levels;
   l Establish a sound and effective civil service system;
   l Develop a strategy for civil service wage reform;
   l Consolidate the system of control over budget revenues and expenditures, introduce a new
         budget classification system and medium-term budget framework, and improve the methods of
         replenishing and spending of the state and local budget funds;
   l Design and implement the privatization of state-owned enterprises;
   l Improve the legal framework for post-privatization support and private sector development;
   l Create favorable conditions for effective private sector operation.


1.   Improving the public administration system

The following activities were implemented in this area:

   l Reforming the public administration bodies at the central and local levels;
   l Enhancing the civil service management;
   l Developing the civil service wage reform strategy.


Under this component, the project carried out functional reviews of a number of pilot ministries and
agencies. The results of the functional reviews of the pilot ministries and agencies have revealed poor
coordination of joint ministerial activities, weaknesses in the process of designing and implementing of
the state policy in their respective sectors as well as lack of modern management tools and methods, data
collection and analysis and its relevant application. The public administration bodies did not apply any
governance methods and tools which would be in line with the conditions of the market economy.




                                                   - 24 -

Strategic review of the Parliament and its organizational structure was also undertaken. The reports
produced contain recommendations on the 27 areas with the purpose of improving the work of the
Parliament. Strategic review of the Parliament's structure and its organization represents an integral part
of the overall review of the structure and organization of the Tajik Government, as specified by the
IBTA-2 project.

Within the period of the project, the Presidential Working Group and IBTA-2 team, based on the
functional reviews held and the global best practice experience, have developed and submitted to the
President and GoT certain proposals relating to restructuring of the executive authorities, including the
Executive Administration of the President of Tajikistan, the Ministry of Economy and External
Economic Relations, the Ministry of Social Protection, the Ministry of Labor and Employment, the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Communications, the Ministry of Transport and Roads, the
Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. Proposals were also made to establish the State
Financial Control Department under the President of Tajikistan, the Civil Service Agency under the
President of Tajikistan, the Ministry of Economy and Trade, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of
Transport, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, the State Statistical Committee, the State Land
Reclamation Committee, the State Antimonopoly and Enterprise Support Agency under the Government
of Tajikistan.

The specific features of the reviews undertaken include separation of policy-making, regulation and
control functions from output production, works and services provision functions; regulation of
state-owned enterprises under the jurisdiction of certain ministries through bilateral agreements between
the enterprise and the ministries concerned; budgetary funding of the public sector organizations;
reducing the total number of independently functioning public administration bodies and state companies
exercising the state functions; focusing the activities of ministries at the development of programs,
standards and proposals to improve the environment for the market economy.

The first stage of reforming and improving the sectoral governance was launched in the Ministry of
Energy and the Ministry of Transport.         Unlike other existing public administration entities, these
agencies were reoriented to focus more on the monitoring and analysis of the current situation in their
respective sectors, development of short-, medium- and long-term development trends, and on the basis
of the above, to prepare the state development programs, standards and guidelines, and issue licenses to
carry out activities in their respective sectors. The energy and transport state-owned companies,
organizations and institutions which used to be under the jurisdiction of the above ministries, with
introduction of the new structure, started to function as economically independent entities pursuant to
the conditions set forth in bilateral agreements with respective ministries. The agreements specify the
legal status of the enterprise, degree of its operational and financial independence, volume of output to
be produced for the state needs, the property status of the enterprise, etc.

Similar changes were recommended and at the extent possible introduced for the Ministry of Economy
and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State Duties and Revenues, the Ministry of Labor
and Social Protection, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Communications, the Ministry of
Education, the State Statistical Committee, the State Land Reclamation Committee and the State
Antimonopoly and Enterprise Support Agency.

Analysis of the structure, functions and responsibilities in the construction sector was also carried out
along with analysis of the supervision bodies in energy, industry and construction sectors. Specific
proposals were made to implement radical reforms in these sectors. Similar analysis was done for
culture, television and radio. Based on the recommendations of the reports by international consultative


                                                  - 25 -

firms, proposals were made on restructuring of the Tajik Air Company.

In 2001, the Civil Service Agency has been established under the President of Tajikistan. Currently, this
governance institute is engaged in development and improvement of legal framework in public
administration area and the capacity in this area is being enhanced.

To promote the reform process, the civil service database had been created             which includes the
information on positions in civil service, organizational structure, on civil servants and payroll
calculations. The Agency's staff have been trained in operating the database. The public sector wage
reform strategy also provides recommendations on the use of civil service databases of all ministries and
agencies.

The model of the Civil Service database was prepared and it was used as a basis for the preparation of
the actual Civil Service database in Tajikistan.

Under the framework of the project, the information technology system was developed allowing to
analyze the information technology needs of reformed ministries and provide them assistance in the
development of information technologies. On the basis of these developments, the project team and the
Civil Service Agency under the President of Tajikistan had created a single computer network
connecting 20 ministries which currently serves as a basis for developing the country's civil service
register.

The draft civil service wage reform strategy was also developed. This strategy was discussed several
times at the round tables involving the broad range of experts, representatives of the Presidential
Executive Office, concerned ministries and agencies and international consultants. Given the wage
structure reform being an integral part of the economic and structural reform process, it can be viewed
only in the context of these reform and should be consistent and implemented within a single context.

Major objectives of the civil service wage reform strategy include:

   l Attract qualified specialists with relevant management skills for effective development and
         management of the market economy;
   l Create the fair wage and bonus payment system adequate to the employees' capacity allowing to
         reduce the need of accepting informal payments;
   l Use international wage system standards enabling to attract and keep qualified civil servants,
         provide incentives for good diligence and efficient execution of service duties and motivate
         responsible attitude by the civil servants.

Currently the strategy is being introduced and the GoT undertakes necessary steps to fulfill the
recommendations.

Within the period of the project implementation, three study tours                 were organized      (in
November-December, 2000 and in May, 2002). Participants to the tours included the senior members of
the Executive Administration of the President of Tajikistan and Government's ministries and agencies.
The purpose of these tours was for Tajik civil servants to review the international experience in public
administration area, functions and responsibilities of the public administration entities in the developed
countries.




                                                  - 26 -

2.  The Budget Process Management Reform

Concerning the budget system reform, the IBTA-2 project carried out the review and prepared
appropriate recommendations in the following areas:

  l Support to the budget cycle management;
  l Development of the medium-term budget framework;
  l Enhancing the budgeting process and control over public expenditures;
  l Reform of the inter-budgetary financial systems.


The following recommendations and documents have been developed and submitted to the
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Tajikistan:

  l Draft of the new Budget System Law             that included all necessary provisions for effective
       mid-term expenditure planning. The Law also specified mechanisms ensuring consistency
       between the policy, planning and budgeting process as well as mechanisms for effective
       distribution of budget funds. It also provided for setting of the Budget Committee as a central
       entity in the formulation and implementation of the Government's budget policy;
  l Drafts of medium-term budget frameworks (MTBFs) for 2001-2003, 2002-2004 and
       2003-2005. Apart from setting forth the strategy for budget policy for the mid-term perspective,
       the MTBF included sectoral strategies ensuring the coherence between the policy and
       expenditures;
  l Recommendations in terms of integration of the Public Investment Program (PIP) into the
       2002-2004 budget to ensure comprehensiveness of the state budget and efficient use of the
       external aid funds (the PIP integration into the state budget will promote the control over public
       investments and improve their effectiveness);
  l Methodology for developing of the PRSP financial plan and its integration into the state budget,
       representing one of the crucial components of the PRSP preparation process. The need to
       develop the PRSP financial plan given existing budget constraints, as specified in the World
       Bank's comments to the draft PRSP;
  l Draft new budget calendar and budget preparation process to enhance the effectiveness of
       budget preparation process.      It was recommended to set budget limits before the budget
       preparation process and establish the planning reserve fund for reallocation of budget funds;
  l Recommendations to improve the control over budget expenditures. There are certain problems
       adversely affecting the control over budget expenditures, including lack of sound and clear
       procedures for release of budget funds as well as lack of cash flow management function within
       the Ministry of Finance;
  l Recommendations relating to the control tools over the budget arrears and liabilities in the
       sectors of education, health and social protection. The existing unregistered budget arrears and
       budget liabilities represent a major problem which will negatively affect the efficient functioning
       of the public sector in the future;
  l Recommendations to reform the system of inter-budgetary relations with the main purpose of
       establishing the open, transparent and predictable system of relations between budgets on
       various levels. Having such a system in place would improve incentives of the local authorities
       to increase the number sources for their own revenues and develop their regions;
  l Templates for programmatic budgeting (the electronic version of the budget reporting and the
       relevant budget database), which are currently used by the Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of
       Education, Ministry of Health, and Ministry of Communications (according to the GoT



                                                - 27 -

      decision, starting from the 2002 fiscal year these ministries prepare their budgets in electronic
      format, as programmatic budgeting is oriented at final outcomes). Introducing the programmatic
      budgeting is a critical direction of the budget reform, which contributes to increasing
      transparency and efficacy of the budgetary funds use. To this end, all ministries and agencies
      are recommended to start preparing draft budgets based on programs, which is a more
      progressive way of presenting budgets;
  l A proposal on establishing the Budget Commission, which will take strategic decisions on
      allocation of funds given information submitted and national priorities. Without appropriate
      requests for information and the system evaluating the programmatic budgeting implementation,
      introducing the programmatic budgeting would be ineffective;
  l Proposals on revising the current functional classification used by the Ministry of Finance that
      does not ensure transparency and grouping of budget expenditures by specific feature and,
      therefore, which is inconvenient for using. In this regard, IBTA-2 presented draft new functional
      budget classification and a new structure of the Republican Budget based on budget-spending
      entity programs. An advantage of the new budget structure is more transparency and providing
      the required information on directions as to the budgetary funds use;
  l Draft Annual Budget Circular explaining the major goals and priorities of the budget policies;
  l Budget instructions and forms on bettering the programmatic budgeting process for the current
      year were improved and presented;
  l Training workshops on budget issues for the Ministry of Finance staff, both at the republican
      and local level, ·s well as training courses in Eastern Europe to study the best practices with
      regard to budget reforms applied in developed countries were organized. International
      consultants conducted training seminars on macroeconomic forecasting for the Ministry of
      Finance staff. A three day workshop on macroeconomic issues was organized for officials from
      the Ministry of Finance, National Bank, and Ministry of Economy and Trade.

3. Privatization and the Private Sector Development

Pursuant to the ToRs with respect to privatization, IBTA-2 undertook the following:

  l The organizational structure, staffing, internal rules, and information management at the
      Specialized Registrar's Department (SRD) within the Ministry of Finance were strengthened;
  l The monitoring system ensuring primary and subsequent equity registration, the stock
      movement, legal and operational mechanisms for implementing state registration and observing
      the requirements were developed;
  l The relevant documentation and forms were designed, a number of booklets and other materials
      were published;
  l One two-week seminar was held to train the SRD staff in equity state registration procedures,
      the supervision system and documentation required for equity transfers;
  l Six one-day workshops were organized on the procedures stipulating transformation of
      state-owned enterprises into open end joint stock companies for the managerial staff and joint
      stock company staff responsible for maintaining registers;
  l Two computers, the relevant software, as well as computer accessories were procured;
  l A review on the documentation furnishing procedures was undertaken at the Ministry of Justice,
      local notary offices, and Ministry of Finance to provide recommendations on the accelerated
      corporatization process;
  l With direct involvement of the project, corporatization of medium and large enterprises subject
      to privatization in 1999-2000 was completed;



                                              - 28 -

   l A number of actions pertaining to the dispute settlement between state-owned enterprises,
        physical and legal entities, and the administration with regard to assets of enterprises, ·s well as
        enterprise registration and other issues involving registration and corporatization were
        implemented;
   l Standardized accounting forms to be used in the corporatization process were prepared, which
        are in current use;
   l The SAC 2 condition on corporatizing state-owned enterprises was fulfilled;
   l Consultations on legal aspects as to the enterprises privatized in a disputable way were
        provided;
   l The appropriate policy and clear criteria on retaining a small number of stock by the state were
        developed;
   l Types of equity were determined (ordinary or preferred stock), recommendations on the
        inclusion of partially privatized enterprises into the list of enterprises to be privatized were
        prepared; a decision on the stock percentage to be sold from each enterprise was made;
   l An instruction on standardized enterprise information package for interested buyers was
        developed;
   l A joint-stock company documentation package that may be purchased by interested buyers
        before bidding was developed.

In addition, IBTA-2 was directly involved in tendering and auctioning, placing information in mass
media and disseminating information packages, supervising the bidding preparation and facilitating
consultations on stock auctions and tenders. To the extent possible, IBTA-2 assisted in promoting
publicity campaigns on privatization of medium and large enterprises through mass media, in developing
the advertising materials and publishing success stories on enterprises privatized, as well as providing
consultations on equity sales disputes.

In fact, the small privatization process was completed within the project implementation period.
Supported by the project, the Strategy for Medium and Large Enterprise Privatization and the Natural
Monopoly Restructuring was developed and approved. To successfully privatize medium and large
enterprises, the new regulations and instructions on tendering and auctioning were prepared and
approved.

According to the action plan pertaining to the privatization strategy, currently medium and large
enterprises are being successfully privatized in the country.

With regard to post-privatization support and the private sector development:

   l  review of conditions for the development of entrepreneurial activities in three large cities,
        including the factors preventing from efficient operations of existing enterprises and establishing
        new enterprises, such as licensing, regulation or taxation was conducted;
   l The factors hampering the further development of entrepreneurial activities were identified
        through interviews with entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs' associations and public administration
        officials;
   l A detailed report on obstacles hindering entrepreneurial activities, as well the recommendations
        on removing those were submitted to the GoT and World Bank;
   l A series of workshops in various regions was held to discuss the conclusions of the review
        undertaken, to reach consensus and identify the ways for the further reform implementation;
   l The working groups comprising of consultants to help settle the private sector problems and




                                                  - 29 -

        identify the solution decisions were established;
   l An assessment of the existing legal and regulatory framework for implementing entrepreneurial
        activities was partially conducted. This assessment is aimed at defining whether the legal and
        institutional framework meeting the requirements, facilitating the dispute settlement and
        agreement implementation, as well as defining the regulatory acts requiring revision are in
        place;
   l The relevant legal acts, procedures and regulations on how to use these documents for settling
        the problems identified were determined based on experience of other countries;
   l A training program for judges and economic court attorneys, as well as other relevant staff of
        bodies involved in bankruptcy procedure was defined. Four one-week training courses were
        conducted in Dushanbe, Khujand, Khatlon and Khorog.

                                              Recommendations

In the light of the above mentioned, for comprehensive and effective implementation of institutional
changes in the public administration system, budget management system, as well as privatization and the
private sector development public administration bodies responsible for the implementation of these
actions should facilitate the implementation of the recommendations developed under IBTA-2, notably:

On Improving the Public Sector:

   l To develop a single reform strategy, which will present a future public governance structure in a
        comprehensive, systemic and sequential manner (but not through piloting), and to envisage an
        implementing action package;
   l To clearly determine the overall structure of the Presidential Executive Office and GoT,
        number, role and tasks of ministries and state committees, and based on that to restructure
        public bodies defining the management forms and methods and their mutual relations with
        state-owned enterprises;
   l To restrict the public administration functions in pursuing the state policies in specific sectors
        without interfering in the economic entity activities;
   l To consider and approve the Civil Service classification, a management authority with
        appropriate powers and, consequently, the CS pay strategy.

On Improving the Budget Management System:

   l To radically change the formation and spending principles of budgetary funds in line with
        international practices, with the mandatory establishment of a full-fledge structure managing the
        budget process at the President's Executive Office;
   l The Ministry of Finance should take timely and prompt decisions on all proposals and
        recommendations developed under IBTA-2 in the course of joint activities.

On Privatization and Private Sector Development:

   l To accelerate privatization of medium and large enterprises;
   l To eliminate subjective obstacles affecting the timely and quality privatization process;
   l To create conditions for establishing full-fledge corporate governance institutions;
   l To improve the market regulation methods, especially with respect to post-privatization support
        and the private sector development.



                                                 - 30 -

                                                 Conclusions

It should be noted that IBTA 2 timely implemented the institutional transformation targets set; however,
public administration bodies did not fully take into account and fulfill the IBTA 2 recommendations and
suggestions on reforming and improving the public administration system, budget system, privatization
and support to the private sector.

The experience of other states in the process of the institutional reforms shows that the national
development system should be comprehensively improved, notably, the reform of the public
administration and budget system, privatization and the private sector development should take place.

In particular, the link between the reforms of the budget system and public administration system is
specified by the fact that the budget system is a logistical basis for the national development and public
governance system, which defines the financial framework based on which such a system of the national
development and public governance may function. Therefore, without proper and effective reforming the
budget system it would be impossible to reach positive results on the public administration system
improvement on the whole. Also, without privatization and the private sector development, as well as
transfer of some inappropriate for the public body functions to the private sector, it would not be
possible to painlessly implement the public administration and budget reforms.

The current public administration system is not able to fully ensure the management efficacy and quality
market regulation in implementing state functions. Having recognized this, the GoT assumes that
without the establishment of an effective and efficient public administration system and favorable
conditions for economic activities it would not be possible to achieve sufficient outcomes in ensuring
sustainable economic growth and development and, ultimately, poverty reduction.

In this connection, the Governmental Implementation Plan for the second stage on the 2004 poverty
reduction strategy approved b· the President of Tajikistan envisages the following:

    l To reconsider the structure and number of executive public administration bodies;
    l To develop a single strategy for the public administration system reform based on
        recommendations and proposals developed under the IBTA-2 and by the ADB;
    l To develop and adopt the CS pay strategy.


These issues were also covered in the annual address of the President of Tajikistan to the Parliament and
were incorporated in the GoT action plan.

To create an effective, efficient and logical public governance system, Presidential Decree No.1559 of
September 28, 2004 established a Working Group consisting of high- ranking officials from the
President's Executive Office, Parliament, Constitutional Court and GoT. The major task for the current
Working Group is the development of a single position for the comprehensive approach to reforming the
public administration system in Tajikistan based on the public governance theory, international practices
and the recommendations and proposals developed under IBTA-2. The Working Group has developed
such a strategy and soon it will be submitted to the President of Tajikistan for approval.

The public administration reform strategy development is the final stage of IBTA-2 activities. This
strategy includes all the project aspects/directions as it is a logical continuation of IBTA-2 goals and



                                                 - 31 -

  objectives with regard to institutional building, and it has covered all the project recommendations on
  improving the public administration system.



  Using Funds by Source and by Item

  Under the Credit Agreement between IDA and GoT, a loan of USD6,700,000 (SDR 5 mln.) was
  allocated for the IBTA-2 implementation. Along with the abovementioned IDA loan amount, under this
  Agreement GoT committed itself to contribute to the project an amount equivalent to USD700,000. In
  order to prepare three ToRs for the three IBTA-2 components, the Swiss Government grant equaling to
  USD150,000 was attracted, out of which only USD95,000 were used, and grant was officially closed on
  November 28, 2001.

  Under this Credit Agreement, the loan resources were divided into the following categories:



                              Disbursement of IDA Credit No. 3249-TJ
                                          (in Thousands of US$)

                 Category of Expenses                            Amount             Financing, in %

A. Works                                                            0
B. Goods                                                          860
Public administration reform,                                    1740
including:
Reform of the Government structure                             (1000)

Development of the pay strategy                                 (120)

Strengthening the Civil Service Agency                          (620)

Budget management system, including:                             2420

Budget cycle management                                         (620)

Medium-term budgeting                                                      (720)

Supervision over public expenditures                            (500)



Intergovernmental financing                                     (580)

Privatization and the private sector development, of             1080
which:
Privatization of medium and large enterprises                   (572)

Development of the private sector                               (508)


                                                   - 32 -

Project implementation, of which:                               260

Pro·urement specialist                                         (140)

Other technical assistance                                     (120)

D. Undisbursed funds                                            340

Total project amount                                           6700




                               Project Financing from Counterpart Funds
                                          (in Thousands of US$)

No.      Category of Expenses        1999-2 2001     2002    2003    2004     2005     Total
                                       000
 1   Goods                               50      48     20       40       42               200
 2   ··chnical assistance               310      52     60       40       38               500
 3   Total                              360    100      80       80       80               700



  IBTA-2 was expected to be implemented in four years (from June 21, 1999 t· June 30, 2003). However,
  due to technical delays occurred (conducting tenders for the selection and recruitment of consulting
  companies, etc.) the actual project implementation was started in April 2000 and extended till June 25,
  2005.

  The following international companies were contracted to provide consulting services as below:

 l Under the public administration reform component - SMEC International Company for USD1,740
      mln;
 l Under the budget system reform component ­ Barents Group, currently Bearing Point Company for
      USD2. 420 mln;
 l Under the privatization and private sector development component - Carana Corporation for
      USD1.080 mln.

  As estimated, the following expenses were also envisaged:

 l For procurement of goods ­ USD 860 thousand;
 l For the project implementation - USD 260 thousand;
 l Undisbursed funds ­ USD 340 thousand.


  On the whole, as of October 1, 2005 for the IBTA-2 implementation the following amounts were spent:

 l From IDA borrowed funds ­ USD6,727.09 thousand;




                                                 - 33 -

 l From counterpart funds - USD 260.41 thousand.


  In the table below the IDA funds and counterpart funds spent are given by category:



                                Using Funds of IDA Credit 3249TJ
                                       (in Thousands of USD)

Category of Expenses                                            Projected      Actual Variation
B. Goods                                                                860         880      -20
C. Technical Assistance                                               5500     5396.54      +96

Public Administration Reform, of which:                               1740        1740
Reform of the Government Structure                                    1000        1000

Development of the Pay Strategy                                         120         120

Strengthening the State Service Agency (SSA)                            620         620

Budget Management System, including:                                  2420        2420

Budget Cycle Management                                                 620         620

Medium-term Budgeting                                                   720         720

Supervision over Public Expenditures                                    500         500

Intergovernmental Financing                                             580         580

Privatization and the Private Sector Development, of
which:                                                                1080        1080
Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises                           572         572

Development of the Private Sector                                       508         508



Project implementation, of which:                                       260         164     +96
Procurement Specialist                                                  140          30   +110
Other Technical Assistance                                              120       134.0   -14.0
Total (B+C)                                                            6360     6284.0      +76

D. Undisbursed Funds                                                    340




                                                - 34 -

Total Estimate (B+C+D)                                                6700     6284.0      +416.0

E. Saved funds (76 +340)                                              416.0

F. Exchange spread                                                    87.19

Total (E+F)                                                          503.19

G. Incremental costs, including                                      503.19    443.09       +60.1
Privatization and the Private Sector Development                       100          96         +4
Support to the State Property Committee Capacity                       138       135.3       +2.7
Support to the SSA Capacity                                            180     128.79      +51.21
Establishment of the Local Network at the Ministry of                    80         83         -3
Finance
Undisbursed Funds                                                      5.19                 +5.19

Total for the Project                                               6787.19   6727.09       +60.1



  Upon approval of the reports submitted, all the three consulting companies were remunerated under the
  TA category from IDA credit resources.

  The following expenses were made:
     l Under Goods Category ­ USD 880 thousand.
     l Under the Project Implementation Category ­ USD 164 thousand, of which:
     l For the remuneration to the international procurement consultant ­ USD 30,0 thousand;
     l For other TA ­ USD 134 thousand.


  Funds from the Undisbursed Funds Category and saved funds were additionally spent for:

     l The remuneration to the international accelerated privatization consultant - USD 96 thousand;
     l Support to the State Property Committee capacity ­ USD 135.3 thousand;
     l Creating the local network at the Ministry of Finance ­ USD 83 thousand;
     l Support to the CSA capacity ­ USD 128.79 thousand.


  Moreover, as a result of the exchange spread USD 87,190 thousand was saved.

  The balance of the credit resources as of October 1, 2005, including the exchange spread, was USD
  60,100 thousand.




                                                 - 35 -

                              Using Funds from Counterpart Funds
                                        (in thousands of USD)

No. Name of Goods                                     Projected            Actual      Variation
1       Goods                                               200               57.75       142.25
2       Technical Assistance                                 500             202.66       297.34
3       Total                                               700              260.41       439.59



Using funds from counterpart funds are divided into two components. Since the project commencement,
the following has been spent for the two components:
     For Goods Category - USD 57,750 thousand;
     For TA Category- USD 202,660 thousand;
     Total counterpart funds - USD 260,410 thousand.




                                               - 36 -

                         SMEC Reports Submitted Under the IBTA-2 First Component

 1. Inception Report on the Public Administration Reform, prepared in July 2000, submitted by Edwin Hankin
    with the Group on the Public Administartion Reform.
 2. Report on the Strategic Overview of Parliament Structure and Organization, submitted in February 2001,
    prepared by Kirill Nurjanov.
 3. Report on the Pay System Reform in Tajikistan, submitted in March 2001, prepared by Andrew Hatson.
 4. Report on Strengthening the Civil Service Management System, submitted in March 2001, prepared by Dr.
    Rex Kinder.
 5. Report on the Pay System Reform in Tajikistan, submitted in April 2001, prepared by Andrew Hatson.
 6. Report of the Functional Communications Sector Review, submitted in April 2001, prepared by SMEC.
7. Report on the Education Functional Review, submitted in April 2001 ····, prepared by SMEC.
8. Report on Strengthening the CSA capacity, submitted in April 2001, prepared by Dr. Rex Kinder.
9. Report on the Functional Agriculture Review, submitted in April 2001, prepared by SMEC.
10. Report on the Functional Health Sector Review, submitted in April 2001, prepared by SMEC.
11. Report on the IBTA2 Aide Memoire and Recommended Actions, submitted in May 2001, prepared by Dr.
    Rex Kinder.
12. Report on Draft Aide Memoire 2; Selection Procedures, submitted in June 2001, prepared by Dr. Rex
    Kinder.
13. Report on Aide Memoire 3: Values, the Behavior and Ethics Code, submitted in July 2001, prepared by Dr.
    Rex Kinder.
14. Report on the Database and Database User's Manual, submitted in November 2001, prepared by J. Perer.
15. Interim Report, submitted in December 2001, prepared by Edwin Hankin.
16. Report on the Functional Review of Tajikistan Fiscal Sector, submitted in April 2002, prepared by SMEC.
17. Report on the CS Database and Database User's Manual , submitted in May 2002, prepared by J. Perer.
18. A Model of the Civil Servant Handbook, submitted in June 2002, prepared by Dr. Rex Kinder.
19. Final Report by the Civil Service and Public Administration Reform Consultant, submitted in July 2002.
20. Report on Information Technologies, submitted in September 2002.
21. Final Report, submitted in March 2003, prepared by Edward Hankin.
22. Overview of Public Bodies and Their Organization at the Regional Level: Problems and Perspectives,
    submitted in April 2003.
23. Overview of Public Bodies and Their Organization at the Regional Level: Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous
    Region, Pilot Area, submitted in April 2003.
24. Additional Report on the Overview of Public Bodies and Their Organization at the Regional Level:
    Problems and Perspectives, submitted in June 2003.




                                                  - 37 -

                                         Barents Group Reports
                        Submitted Under the IBTA-2 Second Component

 1. Quarterly Report for the first quarter of 2000-2001, Lawrence K. Daum (Team Leader).
 2. The First Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Lawrence K. Daum.
 3. The Second Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Lawrence K. Daum (Team
    Leader).
 4. Quarterly Report for the first quarter of 2000-2001, Lawrence K. Daum.
 5. The Third Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Lawrence K. Daum.
 6. The Fourth Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader).
 7. The Fifth Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader).
 8. The Sixth Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader).
 9. The Seventh Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader).
10. The Eighth Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader).
11. The Ninth Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader).
12. The Tenth Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader).
13. Report on the Development of Commitments for Expenditures, Sources of Revenues and
    Intergovernmental Transfers of Local Administration Bodies, prepared by Dr. Glenn Wright.
14. The Eleventh Quarterly Report on the Budget Improvement Project, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader).
15. The Second Report on the Development of Commitments for Expenditures, Sources of Revenues,
    and Intergovernmental Transfers of Tajikistan Local Administration Bodies, prepared by Dr. Glenn
    Wright.
16. Final Report, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader), January 2004.
17. Final Report, Gordon Yurich (Team Leader), March 2004.




                                                 - 38 -

                Carana Corporation Reports Submitted Under the IBTA-2 Third Component

   1. The Inception Report on the IBTA 2 Third Component: Privatization and the Private Sector
       Development, prepared by Carol Finnegan and submitted on July 28, 2000.
   2. Privatization and the Private Sector Development (Report No. 2). This report and subsequent
       reports are presented by Yulian Simijiiski.
   3. Privatization and the Private Sector Development (Report No. 3).
   4. Privatization and the Private Sector Development (Report No. 4).
   5. Privatization and the Private Sector Development (Report No. 5)
   6. Privatization and the Private Sector Development (Report No. 6)
   7. Privatization and the Private Sector Development (Final Report).


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 39 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Fiscal deficit ( Sector related CAS goal)  3.1 % in 1999; 3.3 % of GDP by 2001, no     2.7 % in 2004 . This CAS related goal has
                                           forecast made for later years.              improved but it is not possible to relate any
                                                                                       improvement in the fiscal deficit to the project
                                                                                       outcomes.
Strengthened govenment policy, program                                                 There has also been progress in those
management and improved budget                                                         general areas, particularly over the last two
                                                                                       years, but it is not possible to track precisely
                                                                                       what has been,if any, the project
                                                                                       contribution.
Reduced financial dependence of the                                                    There is evidence of reduced dependence,
enterprise sector                                                                      but no indicator is available to track it, and the
                                                                                       project contribution cannot be isolated from
                                                                                       all other actions.




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of ministries reorganized           Up to five ministries were envisaged to be  Many reorganizations have indeed taken
                                           reorganized as a result of the project at   place within the ministries over the last six
                                           appraisal                                   years, but none followed the
                                                                                       recommendations of IBTA II. A few were
                                                                                       superficial and did not result in the splitting
                                                                                       up the policy planning and of the
                                                                                       economic/production activities, which was
                                                                                       considered to be the cornerstone of the
                                                                                       administrative reform. In a few cases the
                                                                                       reverse happened , eg when Barq- i-Tajik (
                                                                                       the electricity company ) was combined with
                                                                                       the Ministry of Energy. Several
                                                                                       reorganizations took place with the
                                                                                       assistance of other donors ( eg Ministry of
                                                                                       Communications with EBRD's support; Tajik
                                                                                       Air and Tajik Rail with respectively EBRD's
                                                                                       and ADB's support ).
Number of duplicate government agencies                                                Although some consolidation has taken place
and ministry departments consolidated                                                  as a result of the various reorganizations,
                                                                                       there has been no monitoring of this indicator
                                                                                       under the project. Yet, there is ample
                                                                                       evidence that the overlap and duplication of
                                                                                       functions is still prevalent ( eg. the plethora of
                                                                                       educational and training institutions that
                                                                                       reside within specialist ministries and
                                                                                       agencies, rather than within the Ministry of
                                                                                       Education) . This is thoroughly described in
                                                                                       the PEIR -whose authors were familiar with
                                                                                       these studies.
Improved transparency and effectiveness of                                             Transparency and accountability remains
government expenditures                                                                limited since the Parliament continues to
                                                                                       approve the budget on the basis of broad
                                                                                       allocations to sectors or functions rather than
                                                                                       to institutions. As a result, MINFIN continues
                                                                                       to exercise excessive control over the
                                                                                       allocation process. No indicator has been
                                                                                       used to monitor this output, nor would it be
                                                                                       possible to isolate IBTA II impact from the
                                                                                       SAC or other inputs.
Number of annual budgets reflecting the    3 drafts of MTBF were prepared but only one The consultant prepared Budget Framework
MTBF                                       budget (2003) reflected the MTBF            Papers successively improved in 2001 ( on a




                                                              - 40 -

                                                                                           sample basis only ) , in 2002 ( draft ) and in
                                                                                           2003 ( almost complete but without the
                                                                                           forward estimates ) that were forwarded to
                                                                                           the Ministry, and the 2003 draft paper was
                                                                                           distributed at the May 2003 CG meeting.
                                                                                           However the Ministry never submitted
                                                                                           officially these papers to the Government or
                                                                                           to Parliament for formal approval and , as a
                                                                                           result, the budget process is still not based
                                                                                           on MBTF.
Decrease in number of deviations from         Deviations were 20.3% in 2001 and 5.9 in     No tracking was carried out, but Republican
budget allocation                             2002                                         Budget deviations were estimated at 17.8 %
                                                                                           in 2002 and 25.0% in 2003, which are high
                                                                                           by international standards, and illustrate the
                                                                                           shortcomings of the current budget process
Number of regions in which the system of
categorical grants has been implemented
Number of auctions and case by case           No target was specified at appraisal for     629 MLS enterprises were privatized during
privatization of medium and large enterprises auctions and case by case privatization; The the project period (2000-mid 2005). 230
completed                                     PAD refers to about 550 medium and large     auctions were held from 1998 to mid 2003
                                              scale enterprises expected to be privatized  putting up 3041 enterprises for sale .
Number of regulations and steps necessary     No target set at appraisal                   No monitoring was done. Although surveys
to establish private business eliminated                                                   and training were carried out as expected by
                                                                                           the consultant, there is no measurable
                                                                                           outcome.

1End of project
No projections were made in the PSRs




                                                                - 41 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1.Public Administration Reform                               2.30             2.65            1.15
2.Budget Management Systems Reform                           2.50             2.52               1
3.Privatization and Private Sector Development               1.20             1.31             1.1
4.Project Implementation Unit, Other TA and Price            1.40             0.44             0.3
contingencies

Total Baseline Cost                                          7.40             6.92
                          Total Project Costs                7.40             6.92
                   Total Financing Required                  7.40             6.92


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.60            0.26         0.00          0.00         0.86
                                    (0.60)         (0.26)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.86)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         4.88          0.00         4.88
Technical Assistance                (0.00)         (0.00)      (4.88)          (0.00)       (4.88)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00         0.96          0.00         0.96
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.96)          (0.00)       (0.96)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00         0.70          0.00         0.70
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.60            0.26         6.54          0.00         7.40
                                    (0.60)         (0.26)      (5.84)          (0.00)       (6.70)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.85           0.00         0.20           0.00        1.05
                                    (0.85)        (0.00)       (0.20)         (0.00)       (1.05)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         5.39           0.00        5.39
Technical Assistance                (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.39)         (0.00)       (5.39)
4. Training                         0.00           0.00         0.11           0.00        0.11
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.11)         (0.00)       (0.11)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00           0.00         0.12           0.24        0.36


                                                - 42 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.12)            (0.00)           (0.12)
       Total                               0.85               0.00              5.82             0.24              6.91
                                          (0.85)             (0.00)            (5.82)            (0.00)           (6.67)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1.Public Administration        2.30         0.00         0.00        2.65         0.00       0.00       115.2     0.0       0.0
Reform
2.Budget Management            2.50         0.00         0.00        2.52         0.00       0.00       100.8     0.0       0.0
Systems Reform
3.Privatization and Private    1.20         0.00         0.00        1.31         0.00       0.00       109.2     0.0       0.0
Sector Development
4.Project Implementation       0.96         0.70         0.00        0.19         0.24       0.00       19.8      34.3      0.0
Unit, Other TA and Price
contingencies




                                                          - 43 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                   Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
                                                    TAJIKISTAN:
                        Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
                                       (Indicate currency, units, and base year)

                                       Present Value of Flows

                                       EconomicFinancial Benefits

Benefits
Incremental expenditure saving of a    US$5.5 million (1999 constant dollars) over 29 years
permanent, one time I percentage      @ 10 % in discount rate
point reduction (relative to 1998
levels) in budget starting in 2002.
Costs
Includes transaction costs for         US$5.5 million (1999 constant) at 10% discount rate
restructuring and privatization costs,
retrenchment costs regulatory agency
establishment costs, operating costs,
Government's contribution and 5%
contingency fund
Net Benefits                           US$7.5 million.
IRR                                    13.3%


Summary of Benefits and Costs:

The proposed Project will provide a number of economic benefits. It will increase the effectiveness and
efficiency of public services by reforming Government structures and organizations, including the pay and
incentive system. It will also assist in output recovery and sustained economic growth through policy
actions that promote private ownership and private investment. This will come from: (i) reforming the basic
structure of Government. including reducing the number of organizations reporting directly to the
Government and consolidating sectoral functions and line ministry programs; (ii) phasing out of
inappropriate and redundant functions that could be provided more effectively by the private sector; (iii)
reorganizing government ministries by consolidating departments and strengthening policy and
programming capacities; (iv) implementing a sustainable public sector pay strategy linked to reductions in
the public service payroll; (v) improving public expenditures and linkage between sector policies, strategies
and public expenditure allocations; and (vi) accelerating the privatization program and development of a
legal framework conducive to private sector promotion.

The data is not adequate to allow a precise project cost-benefit analysis. Accordingly, the quantitative
analysis presented in this section is very simple and represents a tentative cost recovery exercise. The
analysis focuses on ensuring that small projected savings in government expenditures, resulting from
implementation of reform measures under the project, will be sufficient to cover the project cost. In this
case, the present value of incremental expenditure savings of a permanent one time 0.40 percent is adequate
to cover the present value of project costs. The analysis shows that budget expenditure savings of 2 percent
are sufficient to cover project costs more than five times over.

Main Assumptions The analysis does not take into consideration many benefits that are difficult to
measure. It assumes that Government expenditures will grow at an annual rate of 5% percent during the
analysis period, and in the absence of the project, there will be no changes in the growth of government



                                                          - 44 -

expenditures.




                 - 45 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/25/98                  2     TASK MANAGER
                                                 PUBLIC SECTOR MGNT
                                               CONS.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               1/25/1999                 4     TASK MANAGER
                                               PUBLIC SECTOR MGMT
                                               PRIVATE SECTOR
                                               SPECIALISTS CONS.

 Supervision

               7/21/1999                  1    TASK LEADER (1)                      S               S
               10/29/1999                 1    TASK LEADER (1)                      S               S
               07/28/2000                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S               S
               12/23/2000                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S               S
               04/10/2001                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S               S
               07/29/2001                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S               S


               07/15/2002                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                     S               S
               05/15/2003                 1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S               S
               11/15/2003                 2    TASK MANAGER (1);                    S               S
                                               CONSULTANT (1)
               10/10/2004                 2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               U
                                               PUBLIC SECTOR MGMT (1)

 ICR
               07/01/05                  2     TASK TEAM LEADER
                                                 OPERATIONS ADVISER



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               N.A                             N.A
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    N.A                             72.8
  Supervision                                 89                         478.6
  ICR
  Total




                                               - 46 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Project Appraisal Document for the Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Credit of May
    10, 1999. Report no 19074-TJ
 2. Aide-Memoire, Back to Office Reports, Project Status Reports from 1998 to 2005 for IBTA II and
    SAC II
 3. Quality at entry assessment of IBTA II ( QEA 3 of 1999 )
 4. CAS report
 5. Implementation Completion Report of SAC II of December 22, 2004. Report No 30997
 6. DFID Final Report : Evaluation of Tajikistan's Structural Assistance Credit and Institution Building
    Technical Assistance CNTR 04 5261 March 2005
 7. SMEC State Service and Public Sector Reform Adviser . Component 1 : Public Administration
    Reform. Final Report of July 2002.
 8. SMEC Aide Memoire IBTA II Recommended Actions by Rex Kinder, State Service Consultant , May
    2001.
 9. Public Administration Reform in the Republic of Tajikistan. Technicla Subgroup under the Presidential
    Working Group for Development of " Single Strategy       Document on Public Administration Reform"
    . Draft Option 7 of July 2005.
10. Tajikistan: Public Expenditure and Institutional Review. Draft of June 2004
11. Bearing Point. Budget Reform Project. Final Report by Gordon Yurich, Chief of Party, January 2004.
12. Carana Corporation: Privatization and Private Sector Development Component of IBTA II, Final
    Report of June 2003.
13. Tajikistan CEM June 2005 Civil and Public Service Wage Draft Note.




                                                   - 49 -

- 50 -

