Report No. PID7274
Project Name                     Tajikistan-Second Institution Building...
Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Technical Assistance
Project ID                       TJPE59755
Borrower                         Republic of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency              Office of the Prime Minister
Date this PID                    January 4, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 17, 1999
1.      Background.   Following the adoption of its economic reform program in
1995 and the progressive restoration of political stability since the 1997
peace agreement, the Government of Tajikistan has made considerable progress
in reorienting the role of the State and implementing structural reforms in
the economy. The fiscal deficit has been lowered, inflation controlled and
necessary conditions for economic recovery established. These initiatives
helped restore economic growth. Real GDP increased by an estimated 6.5
percent during the nine months of 1998, making it the first increase in over
six years. However, the organization of public administration and the
budgeting of the public expenditure program still strongly reflect structures
and practices that existed under the former command economy. As the economic
reform process further deepens, Tajikistan's public administration must be
restructured to enable government ministries and departments to better
facilitate and stimulate economic activity and to ensure more efficient and
effective public services. Tajikistan's Country Assistance Strategy supports
the proposed IBTA2 Credit which focuses on public sector institutional
capacity building. This proposed Credit will be the primary vehicle for
preparation of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2) in Tajikistan
which will support the Government in implementation of the necessary public
sector reforms.
2.      Project Scope and Objectives.   The objectives of the proposed IBTA2
Credit are assisting the Government to: (i) implement public sector reform;
(ii) improve essential public services delivery; (iii) prioritize and
rationalize fiscal expenditures; and (iv) reform public enterprises and
develop the private sector. The main sector issues and Government public
sector strategy are on how to reform: (i) Government Structure, Organization
and Management of the Civil Service; (ii) Budget Management Systems, and (iii)
Public Enterprise and Private Sector. The proposed technical assistance under
the proposed IBTA2 Credit to support the three elements of public sector
reform outlined above would cover: (i) Consultancy Services, (ii) Training
Support, and (iii) Information Technology.
3.      Environmental Aspects.   In accordance with the Association's operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed credit
is expected to be placed in Category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.
4.      Benefits. The proposed project would help the Government support private



sector development while simultaneously strengthening the public sector's
capacity to perform its core functions. The focus of the proposed credit on
institutional restructuring of public organizations, supported by performance
reviews, surveys and incentives to participating public organizations,
reflects the Government's desire to promptly improve essential public sector
delivery. Together with civil service and budgetary management reform,
continuation of private sector development and privatization of state-owned
enterprises, selective investment in information technology and training for
key staff, the proposed IBTA2 Credit should help improve efficiency,
effectiveness and transparency of public sector operations. Success in terms
of improved public service delivery and budgetary savings would allow the
Government to better implement its investment and social program, positively
affecting business confidence and investment.
5.      Potential Risks.   Three potential risks exist that are associated with
the proposed credit: (i) deterioration in the political and security
environment may undermine the Government's support and commitment to the
proposed project and could delay project implementation; (ii)
decisions on identifying and phasing out of redundant Government functions are
taken outside of public resources constrained decision making exercise; and
(iii) opposition to reforms by some vested interests may result in
implementation delay.
6.      The risks minimizing measures include:    (i) With the signing of the peace
agreement on June 27, 1997, and the operation of the Commission for National
Reconciliation in Dushanbe, the country's political situation is gradually
improving. At the same time, Government's efforts to foster economic recovery
will facilitate the transitional process towards national reconciliation and
peace. (ii) Stronger linkage between public administration and budget
management. (iii) Various stakeholders, including the government officials
and managers of the enterprises that are expected to be privatized, would be
fully informed about the objectives of the privatization program, the nature
of the process and the opportunities available. They will also be brought
into the design and implementation of the proposed project to the extent that
it is possible.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Team Leader:
M. R. Ghasimi, ECSPE
Tel.: (202) 473-5868
Fax.: (202) 522-2755
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 22, 1999.
- 2 -



