Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19074-TJ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5 MILLION
(US$6.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
FOR
SECOND INSTITUTION BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
MAY 10, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1999)
Currency Unit = Tajikistan Rubles (TR)
US$1 = TR998
FISCAL YEAPR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
BFP           Budget Framework Paper
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
ECA           Europe and Central Asia Region
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GOT           Government of Tajikistan
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IFAC          International Federation of Accountants
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IBTAI         First Institution Building Technical Assistance
IBTA2         Second Institution Building Technical Assistance
IS            International Shopping
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS           Management Information System
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MTBF          Medium-Term Budget Framework
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NS            National Shopping
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PARMU         Public Administration Reform Management Unit
PTFPAR        Presidential Task Force on Public Administration Refonn
PIM            Project Implementation Manual
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PMR           Project Management Report
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
SACI          First Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC2           Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
SPC           State Property Committee
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Ishrat Husain
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Task Manager: M.R. Ghasimi



Republic of Tajikistan
Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Credit
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators ................................2
B. Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project ......2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................4
C. Project Description Summary .................................................................5
1. Project components .................................................................5
2. Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................6
3. Benefits and target population ......................                              ...........................................6
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ............................................................7
D. Project Rationale .................................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .........8
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the proposed project design  ..................                                   ....................8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .                                     ...................................................9
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project .................................................................9
E. Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                      10
1. Economic ................................................................                                                         10
2. Financial ................................................................                                                        10
3. Technical ................................................................                                                         11
4. Institutional Arrangement ................................................................                                         11
5. Social .................................................................                                                           1
6. Environmental Assessment ................................................................                                          11
7. Participatory Approach ................................................................                                           12
F. Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                      12
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                   12
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                                   13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ................................................................                                   13
G. Main Loan Conditions ................................................................                                                          13
1. Board Conditions ..........................................................                                                       13
2. Effectiveness Conditions ..........................................................                                               13



H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                        14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ....................... 14
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Procurement Plan
Table C.     Procurement Information
Table D.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table E.     Assessment of Project Implementation Unit's capacity to
implement procurement for IBTA2 Credit
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Status of Bank Group Operations in Tajikistan
Annex 9a.    Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 10.    Financial Management
Annex 11.    Summary of Project Implementation Plan
Annex 12.    Tajikistan at a Glance
Map          IBRD 25721



Republic of Tajikistan
Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Credit
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia
ECSPE
Date: May 10, 1999                                 Team Leader: M.R.Ghasimi
Country Director: Ishrat Husain                    Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Project ID: TJ59755                                Sector: Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: IDA Technical Assistance Credit   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    [] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit      [] Grant            [  Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): (US$6.7 Million/SDR 5 Million)
Proposed terms:                             [XI Multicurrency       [  Single currency
[   Standard Variable   [  Fixed            [  LIBOR-
based
Grace period (years):         10 years
Years to maturity:            40 years
Commitment fee:               N/A
Service charge:               0.75%
Financing plan(US$
Million)
Source                                                       Local            Foreign        Total
Government                                                    0.7               0.0              0.7
IDA                                                           1.1               5.6              6.7
Others                                                        0.0               0.0              0.0
Total:                                                         1.8              5.6              7.4
Borrower: Republic of Tajikistan
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency: Office of the President
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2000         2001        2002         2003        2004
Annual       0.7          2.0         2.3          0.9         0.8
Cumulative       0.7         2.7          5.0         5.9          6.7
Project implementation period: January 1, 1999 to June 30, 2004
Expected effectiveness date: July 1999              Expected closing date: June 30, 2004



Page 2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of the proposed Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit are
building and improving the country's institutional capacity to: (i) reform public administration; (ii) improve
budget management systems; and (iii) privatize medium and large enterprises and develop the private
sector.
Achieving these objectives will require that the Government strengthen its public sector management
capacities by: (i) reorganizing core ministries; (ii) further consolidating overlapping government agencies
and ministry departments; (iii) strengthening strategic focus of budgeting process by introducing a medium-
term budgetary framework; (iv) decreasing the number of deviations from budget allocation; (v) increasing
the number of auctions and case by case privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises; and (vi)
eliminating unnecessary regulations and steps for the establishment and operation of private businesses.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project supports CAS goals of strengthening public sector institutional capacity to: (i) reform
the public sector; (ii) privatize state-owned enterprises; and (iii) develop the necessary legal and
institutional framework to promote private sector activities.
CAS document number: 18075-TJ     Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/30/1998.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
After adopting its 1995 economic reform program and progressively restoring political stability following
the June 1997 peace agreement, Tajikistan's Government has made considerable progress in achieving
macroeconomic stability, implementing structural reforms and reorienting the State's role in the economy.
The fiscal deficit has been reduced, inflation controlled and the necessary conditions for economic recovery
and growth established. These initiatives led to 5.3 percent real GDP growth, the first increase in over six
years, and an inflation rate of 2.7 percent in 1998. However, public administration organization and budget
management systems still strongly reflect the former command economy. As the economic reform process
deepens, Tajikistan needs to restructure its public administration to enable government ministries and
agencies to better facilitate and stimulate economic activity and provide efficient and timely public services.
In accordance with Government's public sector strategy, the proposed IBTA2 Credit will furnish consulting
services, training and office technology to help the Govermment: (i) reform public administration; (ii)
strengthen budget management systems; and (iii) support privatization and private sector development. The
proposed Credit will be the primary vehicle for building the Government capacity to implement public
sector reform, improve budget management systems, privatize medium and large-scale enterprises and
promote private sector activities, which will be supported under the second Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC2) currently being prepared by the Government in close consultation with the World Bank.
(i) Need to reform government structure and civil service management. Since independence,
Tajikistan has made considerable progress toward establishing a market economy, and some functions
formerly performed by the State have already been transferred to the private sector. Assistance provided by
the first World Bank Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTAI) Credit has played a crucial role in
supporting this process. However, only limited progress has been made in reforming public administration
structures and institutions. The functions of ministries and state institutions still overlap, and policy and
programming roles remain poorly developed. In many cases, the outlook, organizational structure and staff
deployment of ministries and local governments continue to reflect their former functions under the
command economy and the relationship and division of responsibilities between central and local
governments remains unclear. Public service employment is still governed by general legislation, with no
separate regulations covering civil service standards and procedures.



Page 3
The Prime Minister's Office illustrates the need for public administration reform. An excessive number of
organizations report to the Prime Minister's Office. As a result, responsibilities between ministries and
organizations overlap considerably, creating additional staffing and administration demands and the need to
refer even relatively minor decisions to the Prime Minister's Office. Consequently, responsibility for key
sectors of the economy is dispersed among various ministries and no single body is in charge of policy
development and program coordination within a sector. The concentrated authority and responsibility for
government policy, coordination and program development in the Prime Minister's Office also undermines
development of these functions in the line ministries.
Unrealistically low public sector pay has adverse consequences for the operation and integrity of the civil
service. Low morale and motivation undermines efficiency and discipline, since officials have to depend on
supplementary employment or solicit payment from the public for services provided. It is difficult to recruit
and retain qualified staff, particularly in areas for which there is a strong demand in the private sector (e.g.,
information technology, banking and finance). Overly compressed salary scales provide inadequate
financial rewards for promotion and increased responsibility. The reward system and administrative
structures are distorted as ministries resort to providing a range of non-monetary benefits to retain and
motivate key staff.
The Government recognizes these weaknesses and is taking a number of positive actions. The Law on State
Service was approved by the Majles Oli in November 1998, and the Government plans to prepare anti-
corruption legislation and reorganize the Office of the President in 1999. The Government is also
committed to begin rationalizing ministries and state organizations in the transport and energy sectors in
2000, which is expected to help strengthen public administration structures. At present, however, there is
no established institutional capacity to implement broad-based public administration reforn, and the
Government has limited access to international experience and expertise in this area.
(ii) Need to reform budget management systems. Under central planning, the budget was used to
allocate financial resources according to the Plan. Budgeting practice in Tajikistan continues to reflect this
role. It is characterized by the aggregation of expenditure requests, which are themselves based on
historical operating norms. As a result, budgetary request levels often greatly exceed the available resource
envelope. Cuts to budget requests made by the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and local government finance
departments nullify much of the early budget preparation work by line ministries and agencies. The budget
formulation process also contributes to an inefficient allocation of budgetary resources, since it provides
little incentive to ministries to review and prioritize their expenditure programs. An inadequate budget
classification system hinders analysis and monitoring of the public expenditure program. Local government
budgeting procedures mirror those at the republican level.
Against this background, the MoF has achieved some success in implementing aggregate budget and
expenditure controls and reducing the budget deficit. It has established a Treasury function, introduced a
new budget law and is receiving IMF technical assistance to establish a new functional and economic
classification for the budget. The MoF is committed to implementing broader-based reforms of the
budgetary system, which will involve introducing a medium-term budget framework, further developing the
budget classification system, strengthening expenditure control, restructuring the inter-governmental
financing system and updating budget legislation, regulations and manuals.
(iii) Need to privatize medium and large-scale enterprises and develop a conducive business
environment for private sector activities. Private sector development has a critical role to play in the
Government's public sector strategy by allowing more efficient use of assets and redu-cing financial and
administrative demands on the Government.  Over the last two years, the Government has been
implementing an accelerated privatization program, focusing mainly on small-scale enterprises. More than
two-thirds of small-scale enterprises have been privatized, and incorporation and sale of medium and large-
scale enterprises have been initiated. Technical assistance provided under the IBTAI Credit has been
important in assisting the Government to design and implement its privatization program. Specifically, the
IBTAI Credit has enabled the Government to establish a database of enterprises, change legislation and



Page 4
procedures to accelerate privatization, and organize and conduct auctions and public education. While this
technical assistance is scheduled to conclude by end June 1999, the IBTA2 Credit will permit assistance to
be provided to the critical phase of the privatization program until the end of 2000 to allow tangible
progress on privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises. This will also provide an opportunity for
the Government to strengthen its capacity to establish a conducive business environment for private sector
activities.
Currently, the private sector in Tajikistan must emerge and survive under an adverse and unpredictable
regulatory environment which increases the costs of starting and operating private businesses and exposes
private entrepreneurs to greater risk and uncertainty. These factors hinder the contributions that the private
sector could make in generating employment opportunities and economic growth. The Government is
committed to creating a more conducive business environment for private sector activities by reducing
unnecessary regulations (both at the national and municipal levels), strengthening transparency in the
application of regulations and simplifying procedural requirements for compliance.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed Project seeks to help the Government implement its reform strategy through funding
consultant services, training and office technology. Specifically, the proposed Project will help the
Government:
* Review its overall structure and organization and develop guidelines for reorganizing ministries.
* Develop public sector pay and incentive strategy that rationalize pay and incentive systems in the public
service.
* Establish civil service management functions, including development of a database on civil service
employees.
* Strengthen the budgeting and expenditure control systems in the MoF Budget Department and
introduce a new budget classification system.
*  Introduce a Medium-Term Budget Framework (MTBF) in the MoF Budget Department to allow
ministries to plan their development expenditure programs over the medium term and facilitate greater
linkage between sector policies, strategies and expenditure allocations.
* Improve inter-governmental finance and strengthen budgetary planning and management systems in the
MoF Budget Department and local governments.
* Prepare and implement a comprehensive privatization program for medium and large-scale enterprises
in the State Property Committee (SPC).
• Reduce barriers to entry, licensing and other regulatory requirements that impede private sector
activities.



Page 5
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The proposed Credit will provide consulting services, training and office equipment to strengthen public
sector management capacities to implement:
(i) public administration reform;
(ii) budget management systems reform; and
(iii) privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises and private sector development.
(i) Public Administration Reform. This component will help the Government develop and implement a
program of public administration reform that focuses on:
* restructuring government and internal organization of ministries;
*  restructuring a number of pilot ministries;
*  strengthening civil service management; and
*  developing a public service pay and incentive strategy.
The project's approach acknowledges the political sensitivity of public administration reform and allows
reforms to be demand-led, in response to the Government's own agenda and timetable. Establishment of a
Presidential Task Force on Public Administration Reform (PTFPAR) indicates the Government's
commitment to moving forward in this area. A major focus of the project will be to support the PTFPAR's
responsibilities.
(ii) Budget Management System Reform. This component will support an integrated package of budget
management systems measures aimed at: (i) ensuring prudent fiscal management; (ii) matching policy
priorities and resource allocation; and (iii) improving the management of budgetary resources. The
component will support the MoF Budget Department in four main areas:
* strengthening management of the budget;
*  introducing a medium-term budget framework (MTBF);
*  improving budgeting and expenditure control systems; and
* strengthening inter-governmental finance systems.
The component will be implemented over the project's life. The technical assistance team will be headed
by a long-term Senior Expenditure Planning and Budget Management Specialist who will act as an advisor
to the MoF Budget Director. The Specialist will be responsible for determining the detailed specification
and timing of short-term consultant inputs and for ensuring that these are consistent with expenditure
requirements planning and budget cycle and development of MoF capacities. The Specialist will also
provide on-going assistance to the MTBF exercise and the design and introduction of improved budget
management systems and expenditure control.
(iii) Privatization of Medium and Large-scale Enterprises and Private Sector Development. The
component complements technical assistance provided under the IBTAl Credit, which has played a critical



Page 6
role in the design and implementation of Government privatization program. Under the proposed IBTA 2
Credit, technical assistance will be provided for:
* privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises; and
*  private sector development through reducing entry barriers, licensing and other regulatory
requirements for establishing private sector activities, training judiciary officials, and
strengthening the capacities of the State Share Registrar.
Component                                 Category   Indicative    % of    Bank-         % of
Costs     Total  financing     Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
1. Public Administration Reform          Capacity        2.3        31        2.3      100
building
2. Budget Management Systems Reform      Capacity        2.5        34        2.5      100
building
3. Privatization and Private Sector Development  Capacity  1.2      16        1.2      100
building
4. Project Implementation Unit, Other Technical  Capacity  1.4      19        0.7      50
Assistance and Price Contingencies       building
Total                                                    7.4        100       6.7      90
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Key policy reforms supported by the project are: (i) reform of government structure, development of a
blueprint for reform of the pay and incentive systems and civil service management; (ii) reform of budget
management systems; and (iii) privatization of medium and large-scale enterprises and private sector
development.
The project will support the following institutional reforms: (i) enhance the implementation capacity of the
PTFPAR and Public Administration Reform Management Unit (PARMU); (ii) strengthen MoF capacity in
budget management and budgeting and expenditure control; and (iii) improve SPC's implementation
capacity.
Reforming and modernizing Tajikistan's public administration and developing the private sector are crucial
if measures to strengthen the management of public finance are to be translated into more effective
government and improved public services. By providing advisory services and training to the PTFPAR, the
MoF and the SPC, the project will help build the Government's capacity to reform public administration
and budgetary systems and promote private sector activities. An important feature of the project is that
several elements of public administration reform, especially identification and phasing out redundant
functions and reforming pay and incentive systems are fully integrated with developing the medium-term
budgetary framework.
3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project would help the Government promote private sector activities while simultaneously
strengthening public sector capacity to perform its core functions. The project's focus on institutional
capacity building to restructure public organizations, supported by performance reviews, surveys and
incentives to participating organizations, reflects the Government's desire to promptly and effectively
improve essential public sector delivery.
The medium-term budget framework expected to be developed under this project will provide a platform
for better decision making and will be used by policy makers to reconcile policy choices. The medium-



Page 7
term budget framework will also enhance accountability, since it will be published in an accessible form
and will be a key focus of consultation with the legislature on budget strategy.
Together with civil service reform, improved budget management systems, privatization of state-owned
enterprises and private sector development and selective investment in information technology and training
of key staff, the proposed Credit will improve efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of public sector
operations. Success in terms of improved public service delivery and budgetary savings will allow the
Government to better implement its investment and social programs and positively influence business
confidence and investment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
To help the Government implement public sector reform, an institutional framework for public
administration reform and civil service management has been established in the Government Secretariat,
reflecting the President's constitutional role in determining the organization of Government and proposing
the creation and abolition of ministries. The Government has established the following oversight and
management arrangements to implement the project:
(i) The PTFPAR was established by Presidential Decree on February 22, 1999. Members of the PTFPAR
are:
*  The State Advisor to the President on Economic Matters (Chairman);
*  Minister of Finance;
*  Minister of Economy and Foreign Economic Relations;
*  Minister of Labor and Employment;
*  Chairman of the State Property Committee; and
*  Head of the Legal Department of the Office of the President
The terms of reference for the PTFPAR are presented in Box 2-1 of Annex 2.
(ii) The PARMU has been set up to act as Secretariat of the PTFPAR to follow up on implementation of
agreed reform initiatives. The PARMU reports to the Chairman of the PTFPAR.
(iii) The Department of State Services will be established to oversee civil service management on a day-to-
day basis, as provided by the Law on State Service Reform, and will coordinate its activities closely with
PARMU.
As one of the conditions for Board presentation, the head of PARMU and its essential staff have been
appointed to enable the PTFPAR to support and oversee the reform initiatives planned for 1999, including
implementation of the Law on State Service Reform and reorganization of the President's Office. The
PTFPAR plans to establish the public administration reform agenda that will be supported by technical
assistance provided under the proposed project.
The proposed Project is expected to be implemented over a five-year period through a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), which has been established within the Office of the President. The PIU will
use the experience and skills gained under the IBTAI Credit and will assist the Government to contract
consultant services, procure equipment and information technology, manage project funds and monitor
project progress. As another condition for Board presentation, the PIU Director and essential staff have
been appointed. The PIU Director reports to the Chairman of the PTFPAR.
Coordinating with other donors will be crucial for successful project implementation. The MoF is already
receiving limited technical assistance from the IMF, focused on strengthening the Treasury function, budget
preparation and introducing a functional economic classification system for budgetary expenditures. The
Swiss Government has agreed to provide a technical assistance grant for US$100,000 to support a bridge



Page 8
consultant to assist the Government in advance of the start-up of IBTA2 Credit.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two project alternatives were considered and rejected. First, the concept of an IDA umbrella technical
assistance to include other areas, such as pension, tax and financial refonns, was rejected because it would
have been too difficult to manage and implement the expanded project. Second, a simpler project with less
advisory services and more office technology was rejected because of the need to strengthen the
Government capacity in key priority areas. Additionally, direct project management and implementation by
the PTFPAR, MoF and SPC was also rejected in favor of a central PIU in the President's Office. This was
due to the repetitive nature of mobilizing consulting services, training and procuring office equipment and
lack of familiarity of these agencies with IDA procurement, disbursement and financial management
systems and the difficulties related to quickly building or improving their capacities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Sector                               Project                     Latest Supervision (Form  590)
Ratings
(Bank-financedprojects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
The first Institution Building Technical    IBTAI Credit                S               S
Assistance Credit supporting institutional
building on Privatization, Financial,
Agricultural Sectors.
The first Structural Adjustment Credit  SAC I                           S               S
supporting reforms in Privatization,
Financial, Agricultural and Social
Sectors.
Other fnancial and development agencies
IMF                                  ESAF
Asian Development Bank               Post Conflict Infrastructure
Program Loan
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Assistance provided by the World Bank through its first IBTA Credit has been essential in strengthening
Government capacity to implement privatization of small and medium-sized enterprises and carry out
reforms in the banking and agricultural sectors. The first IBTA Credit carried out detailed studies, training
and advisory services to facilitate achievement of the first Structural Adjustment Credit's objectives.
Experience from implementing IBTA1 Credit in Tajikistan shows that intemational consultants are well
received and integrated in Government organizations and that the training programs offered by the
consultants have been well attended, have received complete support from the client, and have proved to be
productive. Experience from this and similar projects in other transitional economies highlights the critical
importance of: (i) sustainable political support and commitment to and leadership of public administration
reform and privatization at the highest level; (ii) ensuring transparency, ownership and participatory design
from the earliest phase of the reform program, which will increase investor confidence in the privatization
program and facilitate public administration and budget reforms; (iii) establishing an ongoing and
sustainable reform process driven by the Government and focusing on developing clear guidelines for



Page 9
restructuring Government organizations, supported by detailed functional reviews of key ministries and
agencies; (iv) realistic goals and hands-on World Bank supervision; (v) emphasizing training Government
officials directly involved in project design and implementation rather than just presenting long-term
consultants, and (vi) addressing project implementation issues proactively and effectively.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The following indicates the borrower commitment and ownership ei the proposed IBTA2 Credit:
Locus of Initiative
*  the initiative for formulating and implementing public sector reform has clearly been the
borrower's and the program was inspired and is being developed by the Government in close
collaboration with IDA and IMF; and
*  there is some observable consensus among identifiable key ministries/decision makers about
the nature of public sector management problems and the necessary remedial actions.
Level of Intellectual Conviction among Key Policymakers
* the diagnosis of issues and a common approach to reform have gradually become established in
policymaking circles; and
* some agreement exists among policymakers on the nature and causes of the issues and possible
courses of action.
Expression of Political Will by Top Leadership
* the Government is initiating specific up-front actions at the inception of the program, including
establishing the PTFPAR, passing the law on State Service and setting up the new Department
of State Services in the President's Office;
* top political leadership has expressed some public support for public sector reform, and
* there are indications that the Government is determined to move forward despite some
opposition to the proposed policy reforms.
Efforts on Consensus-Building Among Various Constituencies
* the Government plans to launch a public campaign to help elicit further support from outside
the central government;
*  top policymakers are making efforts to show that key implementing agencies are cooperating in
the reform program; and
*  important sectoral and provincial executing agencies are being consulted in advance and will be
involved to the extent possible in implementing the program.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The World Bank has extensive knowledge of, and has been heavily involved in, public sector reform in
several countries in the region and is therefore in a unique position to furnish practical advice and support to
the Government. Additionally, because of its extensive project experience, the World Bank is very well
qualified to advise on the approach to privatization and private sector development. The Government has
limited capacity to carry out public sector reform, privatization and private sector development, and no
other agency has indicated an intention to provide support in these areas. The World Bank will assist
implementation of reforms in these areas through hands-on supervision of the proposed Project with an
adequately staffed team. Public sector reform is contentious and may threaten existing vested interests
within the Government. The proposed Project will strengthen the position of those in favor of public sector
reforms by clarifying available options and the consequences of alternative public reform policy measures.



Page 10
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis
[ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[X] Other Cost Recovery Analysis: NPV=CS$ 5 million; ERR= 12.4%
The project presents numerous economic benefits.
First, better public sector services will result from reforms in Government structures and organization,
including: (i) reducing the number of organizations reporting directly to the Government and consolidating
sectoral functions and line ministry program; (ii) phasing out inappropriate functions that could be more
effectively provided by the private sector; and (iii) reorganizing government ministries by consolidating
departments and strengthening policy and programming capacities.
Second, productivity and efficiency of public servants will be enhanced by implementing a sustainable
public sector pay and incentive strategy linked to reductions in the public service payroll.
Third, effectiveness and efficiency of government expenditures will be improved by introducing the MTBF
that provides a multi-year basis for planning public expenditures and better links between sector policies
and strategies and public expenditure allocations.
Fourth, output recovery and sustained economic growth will be achieved through policy actions that
promote private ownership and investment. In this regard, the privatization program will be accelerated and
a legal framework will be developed to protect private property rights, promote free entry and exit and
strengthening the business environment by reducing and simplifying existing regulations.
2. Financial:
Based on current estimated project costs, the required counterpart funding is: CY99-US$200,000
equivalent; CYOO-US$160,000 equivalent; CY01-US$100,000 equivalent; and from CY02 to CY04
US$80,000, for each year. The President's Office, in consultation with IDA, will review the project's
planned and actual expenditures, corresponding annual disbursements, and update the following year's
counterpart funding accordingly.
Financial Management. The financial management system used by the PIU of the first IBTA credit
appears to be working well, and should serve as a model for the proposed second IBTA credit. Some
enhancements should be made to this system to allow the second IBTA credit to move to a Project
Management Reports (PMR)-based disbursement system, and the accounting system should be fully
documented with appropriate accounting and internal control manuals.
By credit effectiveness, an acceptable financial management system will have been in place.
Disbursements will start using traditional disbursement methods - Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
reimbursements, direct payment, etc. Until the PIU has gained experience with the financial management
system and the reporting under PMRs - the simplified model, Annex 9, in the Project Financial
Management Manual should be sufficient. Provided that a financial management specialist has reviewed
and found the approach satisfactory by the Association, the proposed project will move to PMR-based
disbursements at some time in the future.
The appraisal FMS assessment found that, provided that the financial staffing and systems of the PIUfor
the first IBTA credit are substantially utilized for the second project, the existing financial management
system is adequate with respect to internal controls and basic accounting system per Annex 4-B of the
LACI Implementation Handbook. However, the system currently in place will not support PMR-based



Page I 1
disbursement, and an action plan was developed during this assessment which should allow the PIU to
quickly move toward this type of disbursement approach (see Annex 10).
Special Accounts. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain
and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, a Special Account as specified in
Annex 6.
3. Technical:
The project's main components are well focused, mutually reinforcing and technically sound. The terms of
reference for all sub-components have been prepared by the Government in close consultation with IDA.
Additionally, the design of public administration reform and strengthening Government capacity to
implement it is being undertaken in the context of the country's particular circumstances. The project
design acknowledges the political sensitivity of public administration reforms and ensures that the process
will be demand-led, rather than a borrowed model. The reform agenda and timetable will be adapted to the
country's circumstances.
4. Institutional Arrangement:
Responsibility for project coordination and implementation will be vested in the President's Office. The
project will be implemented over a five-year period, in accordance with the project description in Annex 2.
The PIU will be responsible for timely project implementation. To facilitate early implementation efforts,
including selection of consultants, a procurement expert will help train the three implementing agencies--
the PARMU, MoF and the SPC--on all procurement procedures, including purchase of equipment according
to World Bank Procurement Guidelines. The implementing agencies will also be supported by a bridge
consultant on public sector reform, to be financed by a grant from the Swiss Government. The director of
the PIU will act as the coordinator between the implementing agencies, IDA, consultants and trainers.
5. Social:
The proposed Project is a technical assistance operation and is not expected to have a major social impact.
However, two key areas in which the proposed Project could have social impact are privatization and
restructuring of government organizations and ministries. The related regulatory reforms supported by the
project, design of the privatization program and the demand-led aspects of the public administration reform
are expected to minimize the project's social impact.  Continuous feedback will be sought from
stakeholders through a public information campaign.
6. Environmental assessment:       Environmental Category   []A     [ B   [X] C
The project will provide technical assistance and will utilize existing physical facilities and will have no
negative environmental impact. It has, therefore, been placed within category C under Operational
Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessments.



Page 12
7. Participatory approach
Participatory approach:     Identification           Preparation       Implementation
a. Primary beneficiaries and
other affected groups:
Private sector              IS/CON                   IS/CON            IS/CON/COL
b. Other key stakeholders:
Government                  CONICOL                  CON/COL           CON/COL
Other donors               IS/CON                    IS/CON            IS/CON/COL
NOTES: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
To some extent, the project's sustainability is ensured through a complementary package of technical
assistance, training, equipment and information systems provided by the project in support of the
Government's reform program. Project sustainability will be strengthened by the Government's firm
commitment to economic reforms, and successful implementation of public administration reforms and
budget management systems. It also depends on how successful the Government will be in maintaining
important links between the project's public administration and budget management components. Several
elements of the public administration component, especially the identification and phasing out of redundant
government functions, are expected to be fully integrated with development of a medium-term budget
framework. Similarly, reform of pay and incentive systems is expected to be integral to the medium-term
budget framework. Project sustainability will be enhanced if decisions on Government functions,
restructuring and pay levels are taken within a resource constrained medium-term budget framework.
Project sustainability will also be improved through the perceived transparency of the privatization process,
the willingness of domestic and foreign private investors to invest in Tajikistan enterprises, and the success
of incentives to the private sector to absorb unemployment resulting from public sector reform and
privatization of state enterprises.



Page 13
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex I)
From Outputs to Objective
Political support and Government commitment    M        Strengthening World
to implement public administration and budget           Bank/Government policy dialogue.
management reforms may weaken.
Implementation of the agreed regulatory and    M        Public information campaign to
institutional measures may weaken.                      explain the regulatory functions and
the second Structural Adjustment
Credit to support key legislative
reforms.
Lack of coordination within Government to      S        Public information campaign to
make timely decisions and approval on actual            help address stakeholders' concerns.
transfer of public enterprises to private sector.
Significant lag in private sector response to  S        Public education and advanced
divestiture opportunities.                              notice to potential domestic and
foreign private buyers.
From Components to Outputs
Restructuring and reorganizing ministries and  M        Strengthening and broadening
public organizations will be impeded by                 World Bank/Government policy
political pressures from affected parties, such as      dialogue.
current ministers and managers.
Lack of qualified and adequate staff selected for  M    Implementation of new pay and
restructured ministries and organizations.             incentive system will help attract
and retain high quality staff.
Timely provision of adequate counterpart       M        Follow up and consultations.
budgetary resources.
Overall Risk Rating                            M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No significant issues are anticipated.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Board Conditions:
The Board conditions have been satisfied.
2. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Appointment of Chief Accountant to the PIU;
(b) Letter of interest from short-listed auditors; and
(c) Acceptable documentation of the existing accounting policies, procedures and internal control systems.



Page 14
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
r] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: M.R. Ghasimi           i . R  .kX
Sector Director: R Mitra
Country Director: I. Husain



Page 15
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
Sector-related ICAS Goal:                                                                (Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthen Government          Fiscal deficit of 3.3 % of  National statistics.          GOT continued
institutional capacity to reform  GDP by 2001.                                           commitment to structural
public sector.                                             Review GOT's budget.           adjustment reform and
macroeconomic
stabilization.
Transfer state owned enterprises   Improved role and functions   World Bank review.       Favorable conditions for
to the private sector.          of the public sector.                                    private investment.
Project Development Objective:                                                            (Objective to Goal)
Reform public administration.   Strengthened government    Progress reports, supervision  Changes in Government
policy, program management  mission reports and evaluation   structures and political
Strengthen budget management    and improved budget.       mission reports (mid-term and    pressures from interest
systems.                                                   final).                        groups will not delay or
derail implementation of
Privatize medium and large      Reduced financial           Periodic Economic Reports.    public administration
enterprises and develop private  dependence of the enterprise                            reform.
sector.                        sector.
GOT commitment to
privatization remains
strong.
Transparency of the
privatization process.
Sufficient private sector
interest to facilitate
successful transfer of state
assets.
Develop and maintain
appropriate regulatory
environment for private
sector promotion.



Page 16
Project Outputs                 Output Indicators           Project Reports               (Outputs to Objectives)
Improve Government Structure,    Number of ministries      Restructuring plans for        Continuing political support
public service pay and incentive    reorganized.            Government ministries.        and Government
systems and civil service                                                                commitment to implement
management.                     Number of duplicate         Study on pay and incentives.    public administration and
government agencies and                                   budget management
ministry departments                                     reforms.
consolidated.
Improve budgeting and           Improved transparency and    Medium-Term Budget
expenditure control and inter-  effectiveness of government   Framework.
governmental finance systems.   expenditures.
Number of annual budgets    Supervision mission reports
reflecting the Medium-term    and project evaluation reports.
Budget Framework.
Decrease in number of
deviations from budget
allocation.
Number of regions in which
the system of categorical
grants has been
implemented.
Increase operational and financial  Number of auctions and case  Privatization Evaluation  Effective coordination
performance of medium and large  by case privatization of  Report.                        within Government to make
enterprises through privatization    medium and large scale                              timely decisions and
and private sector participation.    enterprises completed.  Private Sector Environment   approve actual transfer of
Assessment                    public enterprises to the
Number of regulations and                                 private sector.
steps necessary to establish
private business eliminated.                              Implementation of agreed
regulatory and institutional
needs.
No significant lag in private
sector response to
divestiture opportunities.
Project Components/Sub-         Inputs: (budget for each    Project Reports               (Components to Outputs)
components:                     component)
1. Public Administration Reform.   1. US$2.3 Million       Periodic project status reports,   Restructuring and
2. Budget Management Systems.   2. US$2.5 Million           supervision reports,          reorganizing of
3. Privatization and Private Sector  3. US$1.2 Million     disbursement reports,          Government will not be
Development.                                                privatization evaluation reports  impeded by political
4. Project Implementation, Other   4. US$1.4 Million        and private sector environment  pressures from affected
Technical Assistance and                                    assessment.                   parties, such as current
Contingencies.                                                                            ministers and managers.
Qualified and adequate
staff will be selected for
restructured ministries and
organizations.
Timely provision of
adequate counterpart
budgetary resources.



Page 17
Annex 2: Project Description
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
The objectives of the Second Institutional Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit are to build
and improve Government capacity by providing consulting services, training and office equipment to:
(i) reform public administration; (ii) strengthen budget management systems; and (iii) privatize
medium and large-scale enterprises and (iv) develop the private sector. The project includes three
components described below.
Project Component 1: Capacity Building and Support for Implementing Public Administration
Reform (US$ 2.3 Million)
This component will support reform and modernization of Tajikistan's public administration. It
consists of three sub-components:
(a) Assistance in Reform of Government Structure and Organization (US$ 1,501,000). This sub-
component will finance a team of international and local consultants, training, and office equipment to
support the work of the PTFPAR. The team will help PTFPAR review the overall structure and
organization of Government, develop proposals for reform and monitor implementation of the agreed
measures. The team will also help developing general guidelines for reorganizing government
ministries and will undertake pilot functional reviews of a number of ministries leading to the
development of detailed restructuring proposals. The proposed technical assistance will include a
resident Senior Specialist on Public Administration Reform/Team Leader (28 months over four years)
and up to 10 months of international short-term consultants. The short-term consultants will: (i) advise
on reform of the Majles Oli (2 months); (ii) undertake several functional reviews of ministries (7
months), and (iii) specify information technology requirements for the restructured ministries (I
month). In addition, two Local Public Administration Consultants (80 months) will be employed under
the project. Two months of in-country training, one study tour for up to eight ministers and senior
officials, and the provision of office equipment for the PARMU and the restructured ministries will also
be financed. Terms of reference for the technical assistance are presented in Annex 2-1-A.
(b) Assistance in Developing a Public Service Pay Strategy (US$ 120,000). This sub-component
will finance international consultants to help the PTFPAR develop a public sector pay strategy aimed at
rationalizing pay and incentive structure in the public service over a 5-10 year period. The consultant
will undertake a review of public service payroll and wagebill issues, analyze alternative wage
scenarios, and elaborate a recommended pay and incentives strategy. The proposed technical assistance
will cover a Public Sector Pay and Wagebill Analyst for a period of 4 months to help prepare the
strategy, with an additional 2 months to undertake follow-up analysis and to assist in implementation of
the agreed recommendations. Terms of reference for the consultant services are presented in Annex 2-
1-B.
(c) Assistance in Strengthening Civil Service Management (US$ 720,000). This sub-component will
finance a team of international and local consultants and office equipment to help the Department of
State Service in developing a civil service management function. The consultants will provide support
to design and introduce a civil service management system, including establishing a database on civil
service employees. They will also assist with establishing a civil service personnel management
function and introducing a civil service code and subsidiary regulations. The ptoposed technical
assistance will include the part-time services of the resident Senior Specialist on Public Administration
Reform (7 months over four years), and up to 12 months of short-term consultant inputs from civil
service management specialists (9 months) and a database specialist (3 months). In addition, two local
i  The resident Senior Public Administration Reform Specialist would also provide an input of 7 m/m under sub-
component 2-1-c (strengthening civil service management).



Page 18
consultants on civil service management and database management will be employed under the project
(80 months). Two months of in-country training and one study tour for up to eight senior staff involved
in the design of the project will be financed. Essential office equipment will be purchased for the
Department of State Service. Terms of reference for the consultant services are shown in Annex 2-1-C.
Project Component 2: Capacity Building and Support for the Budget Management Systems
(US$ 2.5 Million)
The second component of the proposed Project will support a package of budget management systems
reforms aimed at ensuring prudent fiscal management. This component consists of four sub-
components:
(a) Support for Management of the Budget Cycle (US$ 720,000). This sub-component includes
financing for international and local consultants and a study tour to support the MoF in its overall
management of the budget and reforming Tajikistan's budget management system. A Senior
Expenditure Planning and Budget Management Specialist will be responsible for this sub-component.
The consultant will help the Director of Budget in the MoF: (i) manage the annual budget calendar and
work plan; (ii) coordinate and manage the technical assistance inputs provided under the project;
(iii) review technical recommendations developed under other budget management systems reform sub-
components; (iv) identify requirements for preparing of budget legislation, regulations, guidelines and
manuals; (v) monitor implementation of the budget management systems reforms introduced under the
other sub-components; and (vi) ensure effective coordination with the public administration reform
component of the project. The proposed technical assistance will include the Senior Expenditure
Planning and Budget Management Specialist (18 months over four years;?, and up to 4 months of
international short-term consultants to assist with preparation of legislation and regulations (3 months)
and identification of information technology and software requirements for the Budget Department (I
month). In addition, the project will employ a local Budget Management Consultant (40 months) and a
local Infornation Technology Specialist (40 months). One study tour for up to eight senior officials
and provision of adequate office equipment for the Budget Department will be financed under the
project. Terms of reference for the technical assistance are presented in Annex 2-2 A.
(b) Assistance for introducing a Medium-Term Budget Framework (US$ 720,000). This sub-
component includes financing international and local consultants and training to help the MoF Budget
Department introduce a Medium-Term Budget Framework (MTBF). The MTBF will allow ministries
to plan their development expenditure programs over a three year time frame and will encourage greater
linkage between sector policies, strategies and expenditure allocations. It will also be the basis for
donor dialogue on funding priorities. The Government will ensure that the MTBF will include
maximum reference to specific, monitorable service delivery commitments. The technical assistance
team will help the Budget Department develop different elements of a MTBF (macroeconomic
framework, sector strategies and sector expenditure programs) and integrate these into the budget and
expenditure programming cycle. This will involve introducing a Budget Framework Paper (BFP),
which will identify strategic budget issues to the Cabinet at the outset of annual budget preparation.
The proposed technical assistance will provide 28 months of international consultancy services. This
will include 10 months (over a 2Y/2 year period) to support the establishment of a Macroeconomic Unit
within the Budget Departnent and 16 months (including inputs from the Senior Expenditure Planning
and Budget Management Specialist) to assist in developing sector strategies and expenditure programs
and preparation of the BFP. Consultant services are expected to be provided mainly during the first two
years of the project (20 out of 28 months), with inputs in the third and fourth years focusing on
supporting rolling forward the MTBF. Two local Budget Programmers (80 months) will also be
employed under the project. Training support will include two in-country courses on expenditure
2   The resident Senior Expenditure Planning and Budget Management Specialist would also provide an input of
20 mn/rn under sub-component 2-2-b (introduction of a medium-term budget framework), and sub-component 2-2-c
(strengthening budget and expenditure control systems).



Page 19
planning and appraisal for staff in the Budget Department and line ministries and three short-term
foreign training placements for staff in the new Macroeconomic Unit. Terms of reference for technical
assistance are shown in Annex 2-2-B.
(c) Assistance in Strengthening the Budgeting and Expenditure Control Systems (US$ 500,000).
This sub-component will finance international and local consultants and training to help the Budget
Department strengthen budgeting and expenditure control systems and complement support being
provided by the IMF for the introduction of a new budget classification system. The sub-component
will also assist development of expenditure tracking studies in key areas of service delivery, which
would also be a means of monitoring the effectiveness of interventions on budget execution. The
proposed technical assistance will provide 18 months of international consultancy services, including
inputs from the Senior Expenditure Planning and Budget Management Specialist. Consultant services
are expected to cover the following areas: (i) introduction of a simple program classification, to be
applied in the MTBF and Budget; (ii) further improvement of guidelines and formats for budget
submissions; (iii) better justification for budget requests; (iv) adoption of budget appropriation by
ministry; (v) introduction of an expenditure warranting and control system; and (vi) establishment of a
budget management information system. The international consultant inputs will be provided mainly
during the first two years of the project (11 out of 18 months), with inputs in the third and fourth years
focusing on sustaining and further developing the new systems. In addition, a local Budget Systems
Consultant (40 months) and a Local Consultant on Budget Database Management (40 months) will be
employed under the project. Two months of in-country training on expenditure planning and appraisal
will be provided to staff in the Budget Department and line ministries. Terms of reference for the
technical assistance are presented in Annex 2-2-C.
(d) Capacity Building and Support for Reform of Inter-Governmental Finance System
(US$ 580,000). This sub-component will finance international and local consultant services, training
and equipment to help the Budget Department and the Local governments reform Tajikistan's system of
inter-governmental financing and strengthen budgetary planning and management systems at the local
level. The technical assistance will include 17 months of international consultant services, which will
comprise short-term Inter-Governmental Finance Specialists (7 months input during years 1-3), a
resident Local Government Budgeting Specialist during year 3 of the project (10 months), and a short-
term Information Technology/Database Systems Specialist (2 months in years 2-3). In addition, two
local consultants will be employed (40 months over 2 years) as Local Specialists on Government
Budget Systems. The project will finance two months of in-country training on the management of
inter-governmental financing and local government budgeting and one study tour for the Head of
MoF's Local Government Finance Unit and the Provincial Finance Directors. The project will also
provide computer equipment for the provincial Finance Departments. Terms of reference for the
technical assistance are presented in Annex 2-2-D.
Project Component 3: Capacity Building and Support for Privatization and Private Sector
Development (US$ 1.2 Million)
This component will support the Government's Privatization Program and Private Sector Development.
It consists of the following two sub-components:
(a) Assistance in Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises (US$672,000). This sub-component
includes financing for a team of international and local consultants to help SPC prepare and implement a
comprehensive privatization program for medium and large-scale enterprises. The consultants will help
SPC maintain the established management information system to reliably monitor program
implementation and complete all steps necessary to prepare the remaining targeted enterprises for
privatization (including enterprise registration, corporatization and development of simplified auction-
mechanisms). The consultants will assist SPC in implementing auctions for the remaining participating
enterprises. The proposed technical assistance would include a Privatization Advisor/Team Leader for 12
months and a Financial Specialist for 4 months, who would be resident in Tajikistan. In addition, 8 Local



Page 20
Consultants, not fewer than 6 in regional offices (12 months each), and I Local Privatization Consultant
(24 months ) will be employed under the project. Two months of training in Tajikistan and 3 study tours
for 2 SPC staff, as well as adequate office equipment, will be provided under the project. In addition, the
project would finance 120 man months for share registrar staff and 280 man months for temporary short-
term registrar agents, as well as software and equipment for the Central Registrar. A training program
will be financed and will consist of a trainer for 4 man months, training materials and publications. Terns
of reference for the technical assistance are shown in Annex 2-3-A.
(b) Assistance in Private Sector Development (US$ 537,000). This sub-component includes
financing for a team of foreign and local consultants and training to support private sector development.
The team will help the Government reduce barriers to entry, reduce licensing requirements and
eliminate or simplify other regulatory requirements on private sector activities. The team will also help
improve the legal environment for business, train judiciary officials to properly deal with commercial
issues, expand access to land and strengthen the capacities of the State Registrar. The proposed
technical assistance would include a resident Senior Specialist on Private Sector Development/Team
Leader (12 months), and up to 8 months of international short-term consultants. In addition, two Local
Private Sector Development Consultants (60 months) will be employed under the project. Two 3 week
modules of in-country training and one study tour for up to eight senior officials will also be financed.
Terms of reference for the technical assistance are presented in Annex 2-3-B.
Project Management and Other Technical Assistance.(US$630,000)
The proposed Credit will finance an expert to assist and train Government officials in all procurement
procedures (US$140,000), provide office equipment for the operation of the PIU (US$30,000) and
finance "other technical assistance" (US$120,000) which, although not yet identified by the
Government, may become crucial at a later stage of project implementation. Additionally, the credit
envisions price and physical contingencies of (US$340,000). The Government will contribute
US$700,000 equivalent toward project cost.
Project Implementation
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established in the Office of the President to assist the
Government with procurement, disbursement and other project implementation issues. The PIU will: (i)
coordinate with the MoF, the SPC and the PARMU to ensure timely project implementation; (ii) advise
these implementing agencies on World Bank methods and procedures for selecting consultants and
procuring office equipment financed under the proposed project; (iii) assist in bid preparation and bid
openings, including evaluation and recommendations for awarding contracts; and (iv) ensure that contract
awards meet the criteria and objectives of the proposed project. Subsequently, the PIU will: (a) monitor
overall progress in project implementation; (b) administer a special account; (c) manage overall project
accounting; (d) ensure proper project auditing; and (e) prepare detailed progress reports and a project
completion report. Assistance provided by the PIU for the proposed project implementation will be
temporary, lasting for the duration of the project. The PIU would be responsible for coordinating all
aspects of project implementation and would report to the President's Advisor, who has been designated
as the project counterpart. The Government will ensure that the PIU has the necessary resources and
facilities to carry out its responsibilities. Consultants assigned to each sub-component of the project will
work with the implementing agencies in accordance with their Terms of Reference and ensure satisfactory
completion of each sub-component. They will communicate their work program progress to the PIU and
IDA.
To help the Government initiate the project without delay and implement it effectively, after Credit
approval the Association will organize a project launch workshop, at which a team, consisting of the task
manager, a procurement specialist and component specialists will fully review implementation procedures
and requirements. At this stage, the criteria for trainee selection and short lists of consultants will also be
approved. The list of trainees will be finalized prior to the mobilization of consultants for each sub-



Page 21
component so that selected trainees are in place to receive training when the consultants commence work.
The necessary office space, facilities and transport will be made available prior to the mobilization of
consultants. Supervision missions would follow, with a mid-term review 24 months after project
effectiveness.  A mid-term  audit will also be conducted.  Some additional technical assistance
requirements may be identified in this process, which would allow the project to finance studies, activities
and other inputs as the need arises.
Financial Management
Project Accounting. The Borrower would be responsible for appropriate accounting of project funds,
reporting on the use of these funds, and ensuring timely submission of audits of financial statements
and reports to IDA. The PIU, would establish an acceptable accounting system, under advice from
IDA, to furnish information on the proper receipt and use of funds. Accounting for all Special Account
transactions and all other project accounts will be maintained in accordance with practices and
standards satisfactory to IDA, with the objective of timely and accurate accounting of all transactions
under the Credit.
Project Financial Reporting. Financial reporting would be geared to the specific requirements of the
project and would comprise a full statement of receipts and payments from the inception of the project.
The reporting would be in accordance with disbursements classified and reported under the expenditure
categories agreed to by the Borrower and specified in the Credit Agreement. The PIU would submit
quarterly financial progress reports, including a separate report for the Special Account. A Project
Completion Report would be submitted to IDA by the PIU promptly after the conclusion of project
activity, and in any event not later than 6 months after the Credit closing date.
Project Auditing. A key condition of the Credit would be that financial statements and reports on the
proceeds of the credit, including funds channeled through the Special Account, are audited in
accordance with internationally accepted standards by independent auditors, preferably an international
accounting/auditing firm, acceptable to IDA. The selected auditors are to be: (a) impartial and
independent from the entity to be audited; (b) well established and reputable; (c) experienced in the type
of assignment to be undertaken; and (d) able to fulfil the terms of reference within the stated timetable.
The PIU has the responsibility to prepare report for Mid-term Review and furnish it to IDA by
December 31, 2002.
Contract Arrangements
Prior to issue of invitation to bid, the implementing agencies, in consultation with IDA, will review the
Terms of Reference and evaluate and finalize such details as the recruitment of local consultants, the
duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualifications, experience and background, and language
proficiency. The Terms of Reference will also indicate the following assistance to be provided to the
consultants:
(i)    administrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other administrative
permits required by the consultants in the performance of the assignment;
(ii)   existing data, maps, studies;
(iii)   office space, secretarial and other staff in Dushanbe;
(iv)   transport;
(v)    liaison with Government and local bodies; and
(vi)   any other assistance not readily available which the consultants may reasonably request.



Page 22
Annex 2-1-A
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM
Sub-Component 1: Reform of Government Structures and Organization
Objectives
The objectives of sub-component are to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of public services in
Tajikistan through assisting the Presidential Task Force on Public Administration Reform (PTFPAR) in
implementing a major reform of government structures and organizations in order to reflect the changed role
of government following economic liberalization.
This will involve developing and implementing reform proposals covering: (i) parliamentary structures and
organization; (ii) basic structure of government including reducing the number of organizations reporting
directly to the Government and consolidating sectoral functions and programs under line ministry control;
(iii) sector structures involving the identification and the phasing out of inappropriate and redundant
functions which could be better performed outside of government; and (iv) reorganization of government
ministries involving consolidation of departments and strengthening of policy and programming capacities.
Activities and Outputs
Attached to the Public Administration Reform Management Unit (PARMU), the consultants will advise and
assist the PTFPAR. The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as follows:
(a)    Review Government Structures and Organization
- Carry out a strategic review of parliamentary structures and organization.
- Undertake a review of government functions, structures and organization at the republican and
territorial levels that:
--    distinguishes between: (i) core functions which form part of the long-term role of
government; (ii) transitional functions which relate specifically to reforms now being
implemented, but which will eventually be phased out; and (iii) redundant functions
which are no longer appropriate or which could be more effectively provided by the
private sector;
--    uses practice in OECD countries as a reference point and considers the organization,
distribution and coordination of these functions between the government secretariat
(the President's Office and Prime Minister's Office), ministries, state committees,
committees, agencies and state enterprises); and
--    assesses the impact on the efficiency and effectiveness of government, focusing
particularly on the formulation and execution of government policies and programs.
* Identify the key reform issues and requirements, based on this analysis, by elaborating on
strategic proposals for reform that are consistent with public sector resource constraints, taking
into account the political environment in Tajikistan, and which cover inter alia:
the role and structure of the government secretariat within the public administration;
the role of ministries in relation to their sector mandates, focusing particularly on
their policy and program management functions;
the role of semi-autonomous committees, agencies and enterprises and their
accountability to government.



Page 23
*  Develop an action plan and timetable for implementation of the agreed upon reform measures
comprising both general measures applicable to the overall structure of government and more
detailed reform proposals covering specific sectors, following consideration of these strategic
reform proposals by the PTFPAR.
*  Elaborate the detailed measures and prepare draft legislation, decrees and regulations necessary
to implement the agreed upon reforms.
*  Monitor the implementation of the agreed reform measures.
(b)    General Reorganization of Government Ministries
* Develop general principles and guidelines for the organization of government ministries, and
local governments that:
--    distinguishes between: (i) policy and program management functions; (ii) technical
departmental functions specific to the ministry/local government department; and
(iii) common service functions (e.g.; finance and personnel management) for which
core responsibility within government lies elsewhere.
--    emphasizes the strengthening of the policy and program management roles of
ministries necessary to support the reform and restructuring of public services;
--    specifies a common organizational pyramid detailing the respective roles and
responsibilities of the different levels within the pyramid; and
--    maintains consistency with the expected availability of budgetary resources.
* Assist ministries, state bodies and local governments with the application of these guidelines
involving:
preparation of detailed decrees, regulations and instructions, etc.;
--    organization of seminars and workshops, etc.
* Identify a number of pilot ministries and state bodies (up to five) for more detailed functional
reviews and preparation of detailed restructuring plans (to include at least one "leading reforner"
and one facing major changes in its role and functions).
(c)    Development and Implementation of Detailed Restructuring Plans for Key Ministries
* Undertake functional reviews of selected key ministries (up to a total of 5 ministries) that
consider:
--    the appropriate role of government in the sector and its responsibilities for service
delivery;
--    how these functions can most efficiently and effectively be performed and take into
account how the role of the ministry in performing them;
--    how the ministry should be organized (including which departments should be
merged or dropped) with mission statements for the remaining departments;
--    the skills and training requirements for ministry staff, and
--    the target number of employees and likely budget requirements for the ministry
demonstrating that these are consistent with the financing envelope.
* Assist the ministries with implementation of the restructuring proposals, following approval by
the PTFPAR.
(d)    Training and Study Tours
* Undertake a study tour for members of the PTFPAR, selected ministers and the head of the
PARMU (maximum 8 participants). These visits should include one OECD member country and
one East European country that has successfully implemented public administration reform
programs.



Page 24
* Provide two training courses within Tajikistan on the design and implementation of public
administration reform programs.
(e)   Information Technology Support
* Assess the information technology requirements of the newly restructured ministries and provide
systems development support.



Page 25
Annex 2-1-B
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PUBLIC ADMMISTRATION REFORM
Sub-Component 2: Development of a Public Service Pay Strategy
Objectives
The objectives of the sub-component are to facilitate successful public administration reform through
development and implementation of a pay strategy that aims to significantly improve remuneration of
public servants over a 5-10 year period.
The consultant will assist the PTFPAR in identifying critical payroll and wagebill issues and in developing
a sustainable public sector pay strategy linked to reductions in the public service payroll and realistic
assessment of the expected growth and demand on govemment revenues. The strategy will also identify
essential transitional measures necessary to retain key skills within public service.
Activities and Outputs
Attached to the PARMU, the consultant will advise and assist the PTFPAR. The consultant will undertake
activities and deliver outputs as follows:
(a)    Review of Public Service Payroll and Wagebill Issues
* Assemble and review available information on existing public service posts and actual payroll
numbers.
* Identify the different elements of the remuneration package for public service employees,
achieving the following:
--    develop a consolidated remuneration analysis that takes into account the different
components of both monetary elements (salary, allowances, bonuses, etc.) and non-
monetary benefits along with their relative significance in the different branches of
the public service;
--    identify how different elements of this remuneration structure are financed from the
budget; and
--    assess the effects of these practices in terms of equity, transparency and
accountability.
* Review the current pay and grading differentials, both within and between govermnent
organizations, in comparison to international and private sector practices.
*  Review the appropriateness of current personal taxation policies and tax rates with regard to
impact on the composition of remuneration packages.
(b)    Analysis ofAlternative Wagebill Scenarios
*   Estimate the current consolidated public service wagebill, including allowances, bonuses and
non-monetary benefits.
* Develop alternative projections of possible growth in the consolidated public service wagebill,
together with the Macroeconomic Unit in the MoF, reflecting assumptions about: (i) economic
growth; (ii) revenue performance; and (iii) the relative shares of wagebill in ministry budgets.
*   Assess the scope for retrenchment in the different branches of public service, taking into
account the potential impact on public service remuneration levels.



Page 26
* Present alternative scenarios for growth in the wagebill and remuneration levels projected over
a 10-year period.
(c)   Development of a Public Sector Pay and Incentives Strategy
*   Elaborate on the key elements of a public sector pay and wages strategy covering inter alia:
--    growth in overall wagebill allocations;
--    retrenchment policies;
--    pension provision;
--    consolidation of allowances, bonuses and non-monetary benefits within public
services salaries; and
--    grading structure and decompression of pay scales.
*   Identify and estimate the costs of possible transitional incentive measures necessary to retain
key management and technical skills within the public service.
(d)   Implementation of Agreed Measures
*   Develop an implementation plan for public sector pay reform, following consideration and
approval of the proposed strategy as well as its budgetary implications by the PTFPAR and the
MoF
*   Assist with implementation of the strategy as part of the Medium-Term Budget Framework
and annual budget process.
*   Monitor implementation of the plan and identify the necessary actions formulated to achieve
its objectives.



Page 27
Attachment 2-1-C
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM
Sub-Component 3: Strengthening of Civil Service Management
Objectives
The objective of the sub-component is to strengthen civil service management through assisting the
Government in implementation of the new Law on State Service which was approved by the Majles Oli in
November 1998.
The consultants will assist the new Department of State Service in developing its functions in the key areas
of: (i) setting up a civil service post management system; (ii) developing a civil service personnel
management function; and (iii) preparing and introducing a civil service code.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Director of the
Department of State Service to include:
(a)    Developing the Role and Functions of the Department of State Service
*   Review and make recommendations regarding the designated role and functions of the
Department of State Service.
*   Prepare an action plan and identify the resources necessary for the development of these
functions.
(b)    Setting Up of a Civil Service Post Management System
*   Set up a register listing all posts in the central civil service along with the corresponding
grading.
*   Establish a central database on civil service employees:
--    identifying the posts against which they are held; and
--    containing basic information on civil service employees (bio-data, qualifications,
service record, salary, etc.)
*   Develop procedures and forms for the notification of vacancies, recruitment, appointments,
promotions and dismissals/retirements/resignations.
*   Provide training to staff in the Department of State Service
(c)    Development of the Personnel Management Function Within the Civil Service
*   Develop a basic personnel management system for the civil service to include model schemes
of service; recruitment procedures; appointment procedures; training provision; performance
review; termination procedures, etc.
*   Provide training to staff in the Department of State Service and Personnel Units in ministries,
introducing the operation of the personnel management system.
(d)    Preparation and Introduction of a Civil Service Code
* Prepare a basic civil service code and subsidiary regulations reflecting current international
practice and covering:
--    standards of professional and personal conduct and probity in the civil service;



Page 28
--    entitlements of staff as public service employees; and
--     complaints, disciplinary and arbitration procedures.
* Provide training to staff in the Department of State Service and Personnel Units in ministries
on the operation of the civil service code.
(e)    Study Tour
* Undertake a study tour for a maximum of 8 senior staff from the Department of State Service
and Heads of Personnel Units in selected ministries to educate on how the civil service
management function operates in an OECD member country.



Page 29
Annex 2-2-A
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF BUDGET MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS REFORM
Sub-Component 1: Support for Management of the Budget Cycle
Objectives
The objectives of the sub-component are to ensure the development and effective operation of a modified
budget calendar and work plan for the Budget Department, incorporating the budget systems reforms
developed under the different sub-components. This will require: (i) annual updating of the budget calendar
and work program; (ii) coordination and management by the MoF of the technical assistance inputs
provided under the project to support the realization of this work program; (iii) review and assimilation of
technical proposals; (iv) preparation of supporting legislation, guidelines and manuals; (v) monitoring of the
implementation of budget systems reform; and (vi) coordination with the public administration reform
component of the project.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will assist the Director of the Budget Department in the MoF with coordinating and
managing implementation of budgetary systems reforms. The consultants will undertake activities and
deliver outputs as follows:
(a)    Budget Calendar and Work Plan
-  Develop and revise annually, a detailed calendar and work plan to incorporate the MTBF and
Budget Cycle.
*  Identify key budget planning and management issues and specify how these will be addressed
under the different sub-components.
*   Prepare and edit budget documentation, including the Budget Framework Paper (BFP) and the
annual budget.
3  Undertake a study tour for senior economic and finance officials (maximum of 8 participants),
to include one OECD member country and one East European country that have successfully
implemented budget systems reform programs.
(b)    Management of Technical Assistance Inputs
* Schedule technical assistance inputs necessary to implement the work programs for the
different sub-components.
* Prepare detailed terms of reference for short and medium-term consultancy inputs,
* Prepare quarterly progress reports detailing the work undertaken by the technical assistance,
issues and recommended actions, and outlining the work program for the coming period.
(c)    Review of Technical Recommendations
* Review, analyze and advise on technical analysis, recommendations and proposals developed
under the different sub-components and implement follow-up actions.
* Review and edit technical reports generated by the sub-components prior to their formal
presentation.



Page 30
(d)    Preparation of Legislation, Regulations, Guidelines and Manuals
*   Identify requirements and oversee the preparation of legislation, regulations, guidelines and
manuals in support of budget cycle management and implementation of budget systems
reforms introduced under other sub-components.
*   Prepare terms of reference for short-term consultant required for preparation of legislation,
regulations, guidelines and manuals, when these cannot be covered from within the consultant
inputs available under the other sub-components.
(e)    Monitoring
* Monitor and report on implementation of the different sub-components against benchmark
indicators, and identify necessary actions to improve implementation performance.
Go?    Co-ordination with the Public Administration Reform Component
*   Review the budgetary implications of public administration reform  proposals and their
implications for fiscal sustainability and for the composition of the public expenditure
program.
*   Ensure linkage between the sector strategies developed under the MTBF and the functional
reviews and sector ministry reform proposals developed under the Public Administration
Reform component.
*   Advise the Minister of Finance in his capacity as a member of the PTFPAR.
(g)   Information Technology Support
- Assess the information technology requirements for the Budget Department, determine
specifications, and provide necessary software programming support.



Page 31
Annex 2-2-B
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF BUDGET MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS REFORM
Sub-Component 2: Introduction of a Medium-Term Budget Framework
Objectives
The objective of the sub-component will be to improve the effectiveness of government expenditure
through the introduction of a Medium-Term Budget Framework (MTBF) that provides a multi-year basis
for the planning of public expenditure and ensures better linkage between sector policies, strategies and
public expenditure allocations.
The MTBF, which will be revised and "rolled forward" annually, will be introduced progressively over a
four-year period starting in 2000, allowing for improvements in the coverage and quality of its analysis.
This will require the: (i) establishment of a macroeconomic analysis and forecasting capacity within the
MoF; (ii) development of sector strategies linking sector policies, strategies and public spending priorities;
and (iii) development of multi-year expenditure plans that reflect these priorities. Each of these activities
will involve a considerable amount of capacity building within the Budget Department.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will advise and assist the Budget Department of the MoF with the following activities and
outputs:
(a)    Coordination, Programming and Review
*   Elaborate on the tasks involved and develop guidelines for MTBF preparation.
*   Assist with preparation and review of the Budget Framework Paper (BFP) as the main output
of the MTBF exercise.
* Incorporate BFP sector resource ceilings into the annual Budget Call Circular.
(b)    Establishing a Macroeconomic Forecasting Capacity
*   Establish a Macroeconomic Unit within the Budget Department of the MoF, including the
recruitment and training of staff.
*  Advise on and support the development of medium-term macroeconomic forecasts, including
the development of reliable databases necessary for the preparation of forecasting models.
*  Integrate budget policy into the macroeconomic models and establish a monitoring process so
that forecasts can be continuously evaluated and improved.
*   Ensure regular and full cooperation, communication and assistance between the MoF and the
National Bank of Tajikistan in macroeconomic forecasting.
*   Develop a rolling three-year forward budget forecast (covering expenditure, revenue and
financing, including the public investment program).
* Analyze critical fiscal management issues as part of the preparation of the BFP.
* Provide regular formal and informal training for counterparts in the MoF and the National
Bank of Tajikistan.
* Provide three short-course placements in macroeconomic analysis and forecasting at foreign
training institutes.



Page 32
(c)    Updating of the Public Investment Program and Integration into the Budget and MTBF
* Inform the MoF on the requirements and implications of incorporating the Public Investment
Program within the MTBF.
*   Advise the Aid Coordination Unit in the Prime Minister's Office and the MoF on updating the
Public Investment Program in 2000. In subsequent years, responsibility for the Public
Investment Program will be transferred to the MoF and will be fully absorbed into the MTBF
sector strategies and expenditure plans.
*   Identify, for inclusion in expenditure plans, aid financed project allocations by sector and
ministry based on an analysis of carryover commitments and "pipeline" financing.
(d)    Developing Sector Strategies
* Revise and support the development of the work programs of the sector units within the MoF.
*   Develop simple sector strategies, together with the MoF and sector ministries, to provide a
basis for redefining public expenditure priorities.
*   Organize and prepare background materials for a series of sector strategy workshops.
*   Review and analyze existing resource allocations against these strategies and identify
necessary changes implied by the new policies and strategies.
*   Prepare sector strategy matrices for inclusion in the BFP.
*   Undertake more detailed sector strategy reviews in three pilot sectors and prepare summary
reports to be annexed to the BFP, in later years.
(e)    Development of Strategic Expenditure Frameworks
*   Develop methodologies and procedures for setting three-year sector resource ceilings, covering
both investment and recurrent spending.
*   Identify key information sources and database requirements necessary to support the
development and monitoring of three-year expenditure plans.
*  Assist the MoF in determining proposals for sector resource ceilings consistent with
macroeconomic framework and with the sector strategies for inclusion in the BFP.
*   Develop integrated expenditure programs in three pilot sectors that explicitly consider the
balance between recurrent and investment spending and different program areas which can be
used as the basis for securing further aid financing for the sector.
*   Provide two in-county training courses of 3 weeks duration to counterparts in the MoF on the
sector strategy analysis and the appraisal of expenditure plans.



Page 33
Annex 2-2-C
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF BUDGET MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS REFORM
Sub-Component 3: Strengthening of Budgeting and Expenditure Control Systems
Objectives
The objectives of the sub-component are to improve the efficiency of public expenditure through the
introduction of further improvements in budgeting and expenditure management systems.
The measures, which will complement developments introduced under previous IMF assistance, are
expected to include (i) introduction of a program classification into the budget which reflects strategic
program priorities; (ii) improvements in the presentation and justification of budget requests; (iii)
introduction of new systems for expenditure control and monitoring; and (iv) strengthening of the budget
management role of ministries. Each of these activities will require considerable capacity building within
the MoF and also within line ministries.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will advise and assist the Budget Department of the MoF with the following activities and
outputs:
(a)    Coordination, Programming and Review
* Review with the MoF, during the inception phase, the requirements and priorities for
strengthening budgeting, expenditure management and control systems as well as agree upon
on an action plan for implementation.
* Coordinate the different activities under the sub-component.
* Provide on-going support and assistance with implementation of the different budget and
expenditure management measures.
* Monitor implementation of measures and address problems and issues that arise.
* Provide two in-country training courses of 3 weeks duration to staff in the budget departments
of the MoF and ministries.
(b)    Budget Program Classification
*  Advise the MoF on the design and introduction of a simple program classification, in
collaboration with the consultants working on the MTBF sub-component, to be used in the
MTBF and Budget, reflecting the strategic program areas identified in the sector strategies.
*  Identify the requirements for incorporating the proposed program classification for the budget
coding system.
* Identify, together with the MoF and line ministries, a draft list of programs for each sector.
* Introduce the new program classification for the 2001 and 2002 Budgets requiring:
--    preparation of instructions for inclusion in the budget call circular;-
--    facilitation of workshops and seminars for staff in the MoF and line ministries;
--    review and analysis of budget requests; and
--    incorporation of program classification into budget documentation.



Page 34
(c)    Revised Budget Guidelines and Formats for Budget Submissions
*   Develop new formats for the presentation of budget requests by line ministries that:
--    require consistency between the budget requests submitted by line ministries and
the resource ceilings determined in the BFP;
--    incorporate the new program classification;
--     show recurrent and investment allocations against each program;
--    require the inclusion of externally financed project (PIP) allocations; and
--     seek better justification of budget requests against program objectives.
*  Incorporate the new formats and instructions into the budget call circular.
* Review the operation of the new formats and propose improvements.
(d)    Improved Justification of Budget Requests
*   Review the usefulness and application of existing norms and criteria used by line ministries in
3 pilot sectors to determined and justify budget requests.
*   Propose alternative efficiency-based norms and criteria in these pilot sectors.
*   Prepare guidelines and training materials to support the introduction of the proposed
improvements.
*   Extend the use of efficiency-based norms and criteria to at least three other sectors.
(e)    Ministry Based Budgets and Budget Management Systems
*   Review the budget management responsibilities of line ministries and propose changes
(including budget appropriation by ministry) that strengthen accountability and reflect
proposed public administration reforms to consolidate line ministry responsibility for sector
policy and program management.
*   Prepare guidelines and manuals on the application of the new budgeting and expenditure
management systems within line ministries.
*   Assist line ministries in the introduction of the new systems and procedures.
*   Monitor implementation of the new systems and procedures within line ministries.
6/     Expenditure Warranting and Control System
*   Assess the current system for managing budget expenditures within the MoF, line ministries
and agencies.
*   Advise the MoF on how to evolve towards a system of less frequent, but larger, expenditure
releases to spending agencies based on accurate forecasting of monthly revenues.
*   Identify the institutional responsibilities for managing the new expenditure management
system.
*   Develop criteria for the MoF to prioritize expenditure releases (such as through protected
programs and items).
*   Assist the MoF in implementing such a system, focusing on the detailed information and
system requirements covering: (i) determination of release amounts; (ii) authorizing and
announcing allocations; (iii) recording of accumulated allocations and monitoring of
commitments and expenditures against them; (iv) inspection to identify over-expenditures; and-
(v) imposition of penalties for non-compliance.



Page 35
*   Assist the MoF in providing training to line ministry staff to ensure the operation of the system
focusing particularly on the technical and accounting aspects.
*   Prepare appropriate technical documentation on the design and operation of the system.
(g)    Budget Management Information System
*   Identify the requirements and develop a simple budget management information system for
use in the MoF and spending agencies for monitoring budget allocations, releases,
commitments and expenditures.
* Introduce the new budget management information system.
* Prepare manuals on the system and provide training to staff in the MoF and line ministries in
its use.
*   Assist the MoF in the preparation of quarterly reviews on the operation of the system.
(h)    Development of Database Systems
*   Assess database system requirements necessary to support the improvements in the budget and
expenditure management system and provide necessary technical support in database design.



Page 36
Annex 2-2-D
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF BUDGET MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS REFORM
Sub-Component 4: Inter-Governmental Finance System Sub-Component
Objectives
The objectives of the sub-component are to ensure an effective, efficient and equitable distribution of public
expenditure resources between the republican and local governments and to improve the management of
budgetary resources within local governments. This will require: (i) clarification of the expenditure
responsibilities of central and local government; (ii) reform of the revenue sharing and transfer system to
ensure greater equity and to sustain minimum levels of public service provision; and (iii) modernization of
budget management systems in local governments to reflect the reforms and improvements being
introduced at the republican level.
During the first two years of the project, the emphasis will be on clarifying expenditure responsibilities and
on the reform of the revenue sharing and transfer system. During the third and fourth years, the focus will
shift to the development and introduction of improved budgeting and expenditure management systems and
procedures for local governments.
Activities and Tasks
The consultants will advise and assist the Budget Department of the MoF with the following activities and
outputs:
(a)    Reviewing Local Government Budgetary Responsibilities
*   Review the current arrangements for local government financing, identifying requirements for
reform that take account of the: (i) proposed changes in expenditure assignment; (ii)
international best practice; and (iii) on-going and proposed reforms to the taxation system.
e   Develop a revised expenditure assignment system between the Central Government and
provincial and regional governments that distinguishes between: (i) central government
functions; (ii) shared functions; (iii) local functions subject to central regulation; and (iv)
purely local functions.
*   Identify requirements for and propose legislative changes necessary to introduce the revised
expenditure assignment system.
(b)    Reform of the Revenue Sharing and Transfer System
*   Implement the proposed local government financing reforms, which are expected to introduce
new formula-based systems for equalization grants and categorical grants.
*   Review and provide recommendations, taking into account the revised assignment of
expenditure responsibility, on:
--    the relative shares of tax revenues retained by central and local government;
--    determining the share of central government resources to be allocated to
equalization grants; and
--    the share of central government expenditure to be allocated to categorical grants to
guarantee minimum service levels.
*   Assess and propose appropriate formulas for the determination of the equalization grants that
take account of: (i) tax capacity; (ii) expenditure needs; and (iii) relative levels of tax effort.



Page 37
*   Develop a refined formula-based categorical grant system, working together with advisers in
the health and education sectors, that provides for minimum service levels in the provision of
health and education services.
*   Prepare necessary documentation, regulations and guidelines to support the introduction of the
proposed changes.
*   Provide on-the-job training to staff in the MoF, line ministries and local governments involved
in operating the new inter-governmental finance system
(c)    Development and Introduction of Improved Procedures for Local Government Budgeting and
Expenditure Management
*   Review procedures for local government budgeting and expenditure management and propose
a program of reforms that mirror those introduced at the national level.
* Identify requirements for technical assistance, office equipment support and training under the
project to support implementation of these reforms.
*   Organize consultations with local government finance officials on the proposed reform
package and the arrangements for its implementation.
(d)    Training and Study Tours
*   Undertake a study tour for the Minister of Finance, Provincial Directors of Finance and Head
of the Local Government Unit in the MoF (maximum 8 participants), to include visits to one
OECD member country and one East European country that have successfully implemented
local government financing reforms.
e   Provide two in-country training courses of 3 weeks duration on the proposed local government
budgetary management reforms.
(e)   Information Technology Support
- Assess the information technology requirements necessary to support the improvements in the
local government budget and expenditure management systems and provide necessary
software programming support.



Page 38
Annex 2-3-A
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PRIVATIZATION
Sub-Component 1: Privatization of Medium and Large Enterprises
Objectives
The objectives of the sub-component are to assist the State Property Committee (SPC) in implementing
privatization of the remaining medium and large state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to: (i) ensure that the
Government's program is completed by the end of 2000; and to (ii) strengthen the institutional and technical
assistance of the central Share Registrar to carry out its mandate of reliably registering shareholders in joint
stock companies. SPC estimates that 550 medium- and large-scale SOEs remain to be privatized. SPC
currently lacks the skills to incorporate SOEs and implement share auctions and tenders without external
assistance. The consulting team will be expected to assist SPC in program implementation and provide on-
the-job and formal training to central and local SPC staff in incorporation and share auction processes. In
addition, policy development will form an important element of the consultants' work program.
The consultants will provide direct assistance in corporatizing enterprises to be privatized and in organizing
and conducting share auctions and tenders during 1999-2000. In addition, the consultants will be expected to
assist in strengthening the capacity of the Central Share Registrar to maintain an efficient and reliable
shareholder registration system.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as follows:
(a)    Strengthening of the Central Share Registrar
a   Strengthen the organizational structure, staffing, internal procedures, and data management
capacities of the Central Share Registrar.
*   Assist the Central Share Registrar in: (i) developing a monitoring system to ensure initial and on-
going compliance with share registration requirements (for both in-company registries and the
centralized registry); (ii) formulating legal and operational mechanisms for enforcing share
registration requirements (such as financial penalties, court action, etc.); and (iii) enforcing of
requirements.
*   Develop necessary documentation and forms (for application, notification of share transfer,
registration of charges, etc.), and explanatory brochures and other materials as necessary.
*   Assist in implementation of shareholders' registration through routine day-to-day support to the
Central Share Registrar, company visits, coordination with the SPC, and supervision of short-
term share registry agents.
* Organize and conduct training sessions and seminars for staff of the Central Share Registrar and
management and employees of companies responsible for maintaining in-company registries.
(b)   Incorporation of Enterprises
* Review procedures at the Ministry of Justice, local notary offices, and MoF to recommend actions
to accelerate incorporation.



Page 39
*  For any enterprises not yet incorporated at the initiation of the contract, provide assistance in
planning, supervising and implementing incorporation of medium and large state-owned
enterprises earmarked for privatization in the auction waves which will occur during 1999-2000.
*  Clarify and strengthen arrangements for the settlement of disputes between state enterprises, other
physical or legal persons, and the authorities over the assignment of assets to the enterprises and
issues relating to registration and other corporatization matters.
*  Ensure the application of a standardized accounting format and presentation to be applied in
corporatization.
(c)    Preparation for Share Auctions and Tenders
*  Review companies previously sold but disputed, and advise on legal issues and solutions.
*  Review, and if necessary, strengthen the guidelines and procedures for the conduct of auctions
and tenders of medium and large enterprises to ensure an open, competitive and transparent
process.
*  Assist SPC in selecting enterprises to participate in each auction or tender; develop policy and
clear criteria for deciding on the retention of minority shares in state ownership, and on the nature
of these shares (i.e., normal or preference), provide policy advice on inclusion of enterprises
which have already been partially privatized, and input on decisions of share percentage to be
auctioned for each participating enterprise.
*  Develop guidelines on standardized enterprise information to be provided by SPC to interested
investors and assist SPC in assembling standard information packages about the firms prior to the
share auctions and tenders, ensuring that such information is available to interested bidders.
(d)    Conduct of Share Auctions or Tenders and Post Auction Activities
*  Announce auctions or tenders and dispatch information packages.
*  Provide on-site monitoring, management support and advice for the conduct of share auctions or
tenders.
*  Coordinate with the Central Share Registrar in the MoF in the registration of initial shareholders
resulting from privatization.
*  Provide public education support to medium and large enterprise privatization though media
interviews, development of promotional materials and promotion of success stories.
*  Advise on disputes arising from share auctions.



Page 40
Annex 2-3-B
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN SUPPORT OF PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Sub-Component 2: Private Sector Development
Objectives
Private sector reforms (other than privatization) to date have been limited to strengthening commercial laws
governing the private sector, including: (i) strengthening of shareholder rights; (ii) shifting responsibility for
shareholder registration from joint stock companies to a central Share Registrar in the MoF, (iii) eliminating
unwarranted restrictions on share trading under the Securities Law; and (iv) strengthening creditor rights
and introducing time limits for bankruptcy trustees to conclude settlement agreements under the Bankruptcy
Law. The Government now wishes to turn its attention to the business environment, with the aim of
reducing barriers to entry, reducing licensing requirements and simplifying or eliminating unnecessary
regulatory requirements. The Government also seeks to improve the legal environment for business, and
expand access to land. To support business environment reforms, this component will include consultancy
services, training programs and information technology. The consultants will undertake activities and
outputs described below:
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will advise and assist the Government with the following activities and outputs:
(a)    Business Environment
*  Review business conditions in the principal cities, including identification of obstacles to the
efficient operation of existing businesses or entry of new firms. These could include, for
example, licensing, regulation, or taxation (levels or fairness of application).
*  Identify obstacles by interviews and surveys with  businessmen, business associations and
government officials; surveys or by any other means the consultant, in conjunction with the
Government and IDA, may detertnine.
* Submit to the Government and IDA a comprehensive report on the obstacles identified, as well
as recommendations as to how these obstacles might be eliminated.
*  Assist in organizing a series of seminars around the country to discuss the findings in order to
build consensus and to determine how to proceed on reform.
* Assist in establishing up to three Private Sector/Government Advisory Groups to meet on a
regular basis to resolve problems of the private sector and to develop solutions.
(b)    Legal Environment
*  Assess the current legal and regulatory environment for business to determine whether an
adequate legal and institutional framework exists to resolve disputes and enforce contracts, and
identify areas which require strengthening.
*  Identify appropriate statutes, procedures, or regulatory frameworks developed elsewhere and
recommend how these should be utilized to remedy the deficiencies identified.



Page 41
* Identify training needed by judges and trustees of Commercial Courts with regard to
bankruptcy procedures and recommend a program by which this training may be accomplished.
After approval by IDA, the consultant will implement this training program.
(c)    Land Use
*  Identify the extent to which the lack of access to land use is an obstacle to the efficient
operation of existing businesses or the entry of new firms.
*  Review the experience of other countries and recommend means by which (e.g., long-term
leasing) this obstacle can be overcome.
*  Provide detailed recommendations as to how these means can be utilized to expand access to
land and what training needs to be implemented.



Page 42
Annex 2-4
TERMS OF REFERENCE
SHORT-TERM SPECIALIST ON PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
Background
The Government has already taken a number of actions toward initiating reform of its public service. It has
designated a Presidential Task Force on Public Administration Reform (PTFPAR) to be responsible for
developing proposals for the reform and restructuring of government. A Public Administration Reform
Management Unit (PARMU) is also to be established as secretariat to the PTFPAR. The Parliament also
passed in November 1998 a Law on State Service that provides a framework for the operation of the civil
service. Under this new law, a Department of State Service is to be established and will be responsible for
management of the civil service.
Since 1995, the Government has achieved considerable success in implementing aggregate budget and
expenditure controls and in reducing the budget deficit. However, the budgeting process still reflects many
of the practices that applied under central planning. Under IBTA2 Credit, the Budget Department in the
Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be assisted in: (i) introducing a medium-term budget framework (MTBF);
(ii) strengthening budgeting and expenditure control systems; and (iii) reforming the system of inter-
governmental finance. This assistance will compliment reforms to the budget classification system which
are already being introduced with the assistance of the IMF.
During the period prior to the start-up of IBTA2 Credit, the Government will be seeking short-term
technical assistance in order to assist it with operationalizing the PTFPAR, the PARMU and the Department
of State Service. Assistance with technical aspects of preparation of bid documents and evaluation of bids
both for public administration reform and budget management systems components of IBTA2 Credit is also
required.
Tasks to Be Performed
To assist with activities preparatory to the initiation of IBTA2 Credit, the Government of Tajikistan requires
the services of a short-term specialist on public sector reform. The specialist will advise and assist the
Government of Tajikistan as follows:
(a)    Assistance to the PTFPAR
-  Assist the Chairman of the PTFPAR in developing the agenda for and organize the initial
meetings of the PTFPAR.
*   Prepare background papers on issues to be considered by the PTFPAR and provide advice on
aspects of public administration reform.
*  Identify together with the PTFPAR, priority public administration reform  issues and
incorporate these into a work program for the PTFPAR.
*  Identify staffing requirements and determine the terms of reference for the PARMU.
*  Advise on the recruitment of staff for the PARMU at the request of the Chairman of the
PTFPAR.
*  Provide professional advice to the staff of the PARMU and assist them with the development
of their work programs.
(b)    Assistance to the Department of State Service
*   Advise the Director of the Department of State Service on staffing requirements and the
organization of the work of the Department.
*   Provide professional advice to the Director and staff of the Department of State Service and
assisting with the development of the work programs.



Page 43
(c)    Assistance with the Bidding Process
*  Assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with the preparation of detailed terms of
reference, bidding documents and other related matters for the IBTA2 Credit for both the
public administration reform and the budget management systems components.
*  Assist the PIU, PARMU and the MoF Budget Department in bid opening, evaluation and
recommendation for awarding contracts.
(d)    Assembling Basic Documentation
*   Assemble relevant documentation, including legislation, regulations, decrees, guidelines, and
reports on government structure, organization, procedures and operations guidelines of the
budget and expenditure management system for transfer to the selected consultants.
Reporting Requirements
The Specialist will be required to prepare short reports for the Chairman of the PTFPAR and the World
Bank at the end of each month. These reports should detail tasks carried out, issues identified and proposed
actions. At the end of the assignment, a completion and hand-over report will be prepared for the Chairman
of the PTFPAR, the World Bank and the selected consultants under the IBTA2 Credit.
Duration and Timing of Appointment
The appointment will be for a five-month period between June and October 1999. The Specialist will be
based in Dushanbe.



4,~~~~~~~~"-
5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0~~~~~~(
;ftJlIlu   _                                 ½~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C-~..
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Page 45
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
Public Administration Reform-                                  320             2021            2341
Budget Management Systems                                      400             2120            2520
Privatization and Private Sector Development                   340              869            1209
Project Implementation                                         690              200             890
Total Baseline Cost                                           1750             5210            6960
Physical Contingencies                                        30             140              170
Price Contingencies                                           70             200              270
Total Project Costs                    1850            5550             7400
Goods                 IT00                                                      860             960
Works                                                            0                0                0
Services                                                      1650             3390            5040
Training                                                         0              960             960
Other                                                           03440
~~~~~~Toa Prjet oss180                                                    55              70



Page 46
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
(Indicate currency, units, and hase year)
4          "'4ggE      ,    '    _t
BenefitslIl
Incremental expenditure                   US$13 million
saving of a permanent, one                (1999 constant
time 1 percentage point                   dollars) over 29
reduction (relative to 1998               years @ 10 %
levels) in budget, starting               discount rate.
in 2002.
Costs
Includes transaction costs                US$5.5 million
for restructuring and                     (1999 constant
privatization costs,                      dollars) @10%
retrenchment costs,                       discount rate
regulatory agency
establishment costs,
operating costs,
Government's contribution
and 5% contingency fund.
Net Beneflts:            ________            US$7.5 million.
IRR:                                            13.3%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The proposed Project will provide a number of economic benefits. It will increase the effectiveness and
efficiency of public services by reforming Government structures and organizations, including the pay
and incentive system. In addition, the project will also assist in output recovery and sustained economic
growth through policy actions that promote private ownership and private investrnent. This will come
from: (i) reforming of the basic structure of the Government, including reducing the number of
organizations reporting directly to the Government and consolidating sectoral functions and line ministry
programs; (ii) phasing out of inappropriate and redundant functions that could be provided more
effectively by the private sector; (iii) reorganizing government ministries by consolidating departments
and strengthening policy and programming capacities; (iv) implementing sustainable public sector pay
strategy linked to reductions in the public service payroll; (v) improving public expenditures and linkage
between sector policies, strategies and public expenditure allocations; and (vi) accelerating the
privatization program and development of a legal framework conducive to private sector promotion.
The data is not adequate to allow a precise project cost-benefit analysis. Accordingly, the quantitative
analysis presented in this section is very simple and represents a tentative cost recovery exercise. The
analysis focuses on ensuring that small projected savings in government expenditures, resulting from
implementation of reforn measures under the project, will be sufficient to cover the project cost. In this
case, the present value of incremental expenditure savings of a permanent one time 0.4 percent is
adequate to cover the present value of project costs. The analysis shows that the budget expenditure
savings of 2 percent are sufficient to cover project costs more than five times over.



Page 47
Main Assumptions:
The analysis does not take into consideration many benefits that are difficult to measure. It assumes that
Government expenditures will grow at an annual rate of 5 percent during the analysis period, and in the
absence of the project, there will be no changes in the growth of government expenditures.



Page 48
Annex 5
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
Financial Summary
(USOOO)
_____________________________   71999      2000       2001        2002      2003       2004
Project Costs                 600        1460       2300       1480      1080        480
Financing
IDA                          400       1300       2200       1400       1000       400
Government                   200        160         100        80         80        80
Total Project Financing         600        1460       2300       1480      1080        480
%of total costs
IDA                           67         89         96         95         93        83
Government                    33         11           4         5          7        17
Total                        100        100         100       100        100       100



Page 49
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
A. Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedure
Table A summarizes the proposed procurement arrangements. Under the project, goods and services will
be procured in accordance with the Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. A procurement plan detailing the
packaging and estimated schedules of the major procurement actions is presented in Table B. Estimated
dates for the Bank's review process is presented in Table C. The allocation of the credit proceeds is
shown in Table D. A summary of an assessment of the Project Implementing Unit to implement project
procurement is made in Table E.
Procurement of Goods (US$0.86 Million). Goods will be procured in accordance with the provisions of
the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995, and
revised in January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Whenever applicable, the
appropriate Standard Bidding Documents issued by the Bank will be used with minimum changes
acceptable to the Bank.
The project will finance procurement of goods consisting of computer hardware and software, printers,
copiers, scanners and fax machine, which will be combined into a large package of three lots consisting of:
(i) computer hardware; (ii) software; and (iii) other items to attract competitive national and international
firms. The following methods of procurement will be used:
* International Competitive Bidding (ICB). ICB procedures will be applied for goods contracts
estimated to cost above US$100,000. Goods approximately amounting to US$600,000 will be
procured under this method.
*  International Shopping (IS).  Contracts for supplies readily available off-the-shelf or
equipment of standard specification estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an
aggregate not to exceed US$260,000 may be procured under IS procedures by obtaining
competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries.
Procurement of Services (US$5.84 million). The Contracts for consultants' services will be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999. The services financed under the credit are for the study of structure and organization of
Government and public sector pay strategy, design of a civil service management system, improvement of
budget management systems, assistance in privatization and private sector development, preparation of
project concepts and project reports, bidding document preparation, project implementation and hands-on
training, study tours and education abroad, etc. Selection of Consultants and institutions with their
contracts will be based on the Standard Request for Proposal issued by the Bank with minimal
modifications as agreed by the Bank.
*    Selection of Firms (US$5.7 million).  Since the jobs for the consultants to support
improvement in the public administration, budget management' systems and
implementation of the privatization program and private sector development are highly
specialized in nature, Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) will be used for selection
of firms and institutions.



Page 50
*    Selection of Individuals (US$0.14 million). Individual consultants for procurement will be
selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment by comparing at least three
CVs from potential candidates.
IDA Review of Procurement Decisions
Goods: Because of the specialized nature of the jobs, all goods procured through ICB and the
International Shopping, will be subject to IDA prior review as set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix
I to the Guidelines.
Consultants: All contracts for firms over US$100,000 and for individuals over US$25,000 will be
subject to IDA prior review.
Operating Costs (US$700,000): Government's contribution to project costs will cover staff salary,
office maintenance and repair costs, domestic travel, and other expenses.
B. Disbursement
The project will fnance 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory)
and 85 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally in the case of goods and 100 percent of all
other expenditures. The project will be implemented over a five year period and will close on June 30,
2004.
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for: (i)
expenditures under contracts of less than US$100,000 for equipment and less than US$100,000 for technical
assistance provided by firms; and (ii) expenditures under contracts of less than US$25,000 for individual
consultants and training. These may all be claimed on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures
(SOE). Documentation supporting these expenditures will be held by the PIU for at least one year after
receipt of the audit report by IDA for the year in which the last disbursement is made and is available for
review by the auditors and to IDA on request.
Special Account (SA). To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would
establish in the NBT or a commercial bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by Project
Implementation Unit under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request,
make an authorized allocation of US$300,000. Initially the allocation would be limited to US$150,000
until disbursements reach SDR2 million at which time the full authorized allocation would be claimed.
Applications for the replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent
of the initial deposit has been utilized or whichever occurs first. The replenishment application would be
supported by the necessary documentation--a bank statement of the special account and a reconciliation
bank statement of the special account against Bank records. The SA would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



Page 51
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$000 equivalent)
Office equipment                   (600)        (260)                                 (860)
2. Services                                                4880                       4880
Technical Assistance                                       (4880)                    (4880)
Training                                                    960                        960
(960)                     (960)
Operating Costs                                             700                        700
600         260        6540                      7400
Total                              (600)        (260)      (5840)     _ __           (6700)
Other includes Quality and Cost based Selection (QCBS) and Individual Consultant(I)
Note: N.B. F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reservedprocurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the
items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F. " need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the
text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit



Page 52
Annex 6, Table B: Procurement Plan
Description                       Type    Number of  Estimated cost  Procureme   Documents  Invitation  Contract   Contract
slices/items/     inc       nt method   submitted    to bid    signing   completio
sub-      contingency.                to Bank                              n
packages    (in US$ '000)
1. Public Administration Reform                         CS           I            1740         QCBS         09/99       10/99     01/01      06/03
2. Budget Management Systems Reform                      CS          1            2420         QCBS         09/99       10/99     01/01       06/04
3. Privatization and Private Sector Development.         CS          1            1080         QCBS         09/99       10/99     01/01      06/02
4. Procurement Specialist                                CS          2             140           1          07/99       07/99     07/99       07/04
5. Other Technical Assistance                            CS          1             120         QCBS         06/01       07/01     08/01      06/04
6. Office Equipment                                      G           3            260            IS         08/99       08/99     09/99      06/01
1(3 lots)      600           ICB         06/01       09/01      12/01      06/02
G= Goods; CS= Consultant Services; ICB = International Competitive Bidding; IS = International Shopping; QCIBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection; and I
Individual Consultant



Page 53
Annex 6, Table C
Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Element                               ICB                   NCB                   IS                NS            Consultants     Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds  US$100,000 and    N/A                   Below US$100,000     N/A            Firms over
above goods                                goods                               US$100,000
Individuals over
US$25,000
2. Prior Review                All                  All                   All                                 All
3. Ex-post Review              None
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
4. Brief statement             A procurement specialist has been hired in the PIU. The position will continue throughout the project life. The procurement specialist
will train Government officials in the Bank procurement methods. In addition, he will be assisted by a suitable consultant during the
first year of the project.
5. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: 6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year
Under preparation and a summary is presented in table E                      ready by negotiations? No. The preparation of bid documents will start after
negotiations of the project. The procurement consultant will assist in the
preparation of bid documents following Bank Guidelines.
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
7. Estimated date of Project   8. Estimated date of    9. Indicate if contracts are   10. Domestic Preference for Goods  11. Domestic Preference for Works,
Launch Workshop                publication of General  subject to mandatory SPN                                 if applicable
Procurement Notice    in Development Business   No.                              N/A
06/28/99                       05/16/99             Yes.
12. Retroactive financing.   No.                                              13. Advanced procurement     No.
14. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: Information on procurement would be collected and recorded to provide: (i) prompt
reporting of contract awards by the Borrower; (ii) full quarterly reports to IDA; and (iii) changes in procurement schedules, including advertising, bidding, contract awards and
completion dates. All contract documentation will be kept by the PIU and made available to IDA for ex-post review. All receipts and other supporting documents for Statement
of Expenses (SOEs) will be maintained on file in the PIU and made available to IDA for review during supervision missions.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
15. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of the Project Team responsible for the procurement in the project:
Name: Gurcharan Singh                                                Extension: 80890
16 Explain briefly the, expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: None.



Page 54
Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W
A. Works                                     0                              0
B. Goods                                   860                  100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory) and
85% of expenditures for other
items procured locally
C. Technical Assistance                   5500                            100%
Public Administration Reform               1740
Government Structure                      (1000)
Pay and Incentive Strategy                (120)
Civil Service Management                   (620)
Budget Management Systems                 2420
Budget Cycle Management                   (620)
Medium-term Budget                         (720)
Expenditure Control                        (500)
Inter-Government Finance                  (580)
Privatization and Private Sector           1080
Development
Privatization of M&L                       (572)
Private Sector Development                 (508)
Project Implementation                     260
Procurement Specialist                     (140)
Other Technical Assistance                 (120)
(Technical Assistance without             (4540)
Training)                    ___
(Training)                            (960)
D. Unallocated                             340
Total Project Costs                       6700



Page 55
Table E: Assessment of Project Implementation Unirs Capacity to Implement Procurement for IBTA2
Summary of Findings and Actions
Item Assessed                    Assessment                                        Risk Assessment           Action     Proposed
Null Pacr Fair Satisfactory   Major Weakness         LowrAve. aHigh    Propase   Completion
Date
(a) Legal Aspects                         _                                                                                     _
(i) Laws & Regulations                          x                                                    x
(it ) NCB Proceeures                                                                      x
(iti) Internal Codes & Manuals            x                                                          x
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.
(i) Generai handling                                                                      x
(ui) Procurement planning                                x                                x
(iii) Preparation of Documents                           x                                x
(iv) Management of process                               x                                x
(v) Bid evaluation                                       X                                x
(vw) Contract award                                      x                                x
(vii) Contract management                                x                                x
(c ) Organization and Functions
(i ) Organization of unit and
functions                                                x                                           x
(ii) Internal manuals and                     I
instructions                              x  I                                                       x
(d) Support and Control
Systems
(i) Audliting                          ! I               x                                x               I
(iii Legal assistance                  1                                                  x               I
(iii) Tecnnical and administrative
controls                                    T I_I_x                                                  x    I
(ivi Code of etnics=                                     x        __I_j                   x
(v) Anticorruotion initiatives     1                     X1  xi                                  _= x __ .  I
(e) Record keeping                     I             I                                        _ T           _       I_I
(i) Puolic notices                       (               x    i                          x    i
(ii)  Bidding  documents                                  it      __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _
0i) Bid ocening information                     -        x                                x ____|
(iv, Bid evaluation recorts _I                (          x      I                         x
(vi P~ormai acoeals and outcomes       I        i                                         it     ____   __
(viOSigned contract documents      |                     x      1                    I    x______
(vin) Claims and dispute resoiution
records                                                                                   x
(viii) Comprehensive
distbursement data                                       itx                         I      |    x    |                         _____
if) Staffing                            I            _            _                    __   _        X                ______
(g) General Procurement
Environment                                         _             ______I ____I_I_
(i) Promoting a culture of
accountability                                  I        x                           ,    x
(ii) Reputation of procurement            - j j_____
corDs               _                                _ 1             _II x  I   _          X         -         -
(iiti SaiaN structure            T         ,  I_x 1             1                    11x____I
(iv) Freedom from political
inter-erence                 _I_I            I     I     x      I_         _         II x                 III
(vI Existence of experienced and                       t         additional staff to
caoaole staff staff                                      tx       be added                           x    |
(vi) Clear wntten standards and
delecation of authonty                                    x                                          x
t                 {  7        i    {             I~~~~~~ ~ ~~~futtier                  
(vii) Sound budget/financial      j                              improvement
systems                                 I      IX                possible                  x X    I       I_I_I
(h) Prnvate Sector Assessment j                    i
(i) Genera effic:ency and               j
precic-ao tiity         I               I I     X  ....           ____-_I_I_I_I_I
(iii Transoarency                 j    |      ! x |
(iim Cuality of contract mgmt.                      _ t  I_x_III
~ivi i-enerat reoutation           ]I         X      _    x         _-_____|___1



Prior Review Threshiolds Proposed                                                                    Overall Risk Assessment
Goods All ICB's and IS's                                                                                 Higi     E
Average [
Consulting US$ $100,000 (equivalent) for QCBS and US$25,000) for individual                              Low   [
Post lteview Rlaio: One in _3_ contracts 100% of Contracts
Frequency of procurement supervisioni missionis proposed: One every 3 month. The stipervision    Forimt prepared by: Mr. Mohanimad Reza
mission should include a procurement specialist especially during the first year of the works. The  Ghasiniii, Task Team Leader
procurement specialist will not conduct review or ex-post review but will also continue providiig  (Procuremenit Specialist/Accredited staff assigned
guidance to the PIU procurement staff.                                                    to the project) Gurcharan Singh
Signature:
Date: March 19, 1999
Comments:
a)   Since the PIU categorized poor only in the internal codes manual and instructions that may not have higih impact on the project implementation. I consider
se   the PIU overall risk assessment as average.



Page 57
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
Time taken to prepare the project (rnonths)
First Bank mission (identification)                  10/22/1998              10/22/1988
Appraisal mission departure                                                  01/21Jl999
Negotiations                                         04/15//1999             04/16/11999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        07/05/1999
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
A. Aksoy                               Sector Leader
M.R. Ghasimi                           Program Team Leader and Task Manger
A. Bird                                Consultant on Public Sector Management
S. Bell                                Expert on Privatization
E. Hurwitz                             Consultant on Private Sector Development
N. Haazen                              Financial Management Expert
A. Jehani                              Sr. Counsel
H. Koilpillai                          Disbursement Officer
G. Singh                               Procurement Specialist
A. Moon                                Peer Reviewer
L. Brefort                             Peer Reviewer



Page 58
Annex 8
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance (IBTA2) Credit
Documents in the Project File
Project Description and Implementation Plan for Tajikistan IBTA2 Credit



Page 59
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Tajikistan
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected               Last PSR
Original Amount in USS Millions      and *ctual         Supervision Ratingb/
Fiscal                                                                                                      disbursementsal
Project ID    Year             Borower                         Purpose
[ORD    IDA  Cancel  Undisb.  Orig         Frm Rev'd  Dev Obj       Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 2
Active Projects
TJ-PE43231      1996, REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN    INST. BLDGJTA                            0.00    5.00    0.00      1.31      -.11        0.00     S            S
TJ-PE-44202     1997   REPUBLICOFTAJIKISTAN    PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION                 0.00   12.00    0.00      6.0S     -.60         0.00     S            S
TJ-PE-533S6     1998   REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN    P-C RECONSTRUCTION                      0.00   10.00    0.00      7.42     2.99         0.00      S           S
TJ.PE-59055     1999   REPUBLIC OFTAJIKISTAN    EMERGENCY FLOOD ASST                     0.00    5.00    0.00      5.22      .16         0.00
TJ-PE-47438     1999   REPUBLICOFTAJIKISTAN    SACI                                      0.00   50.00    0.00    31.15       .37         0.00      S           S
Total                                                                                    0.00   82.00    0.00    51.18      2.S1         0.00
Active Proiects       Closed Projects             Total
Total Disbtirscd (IBRD and IDA):                          31.94                  59.13                  91.07
ot wlich has been repaid:                              0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Total niow held by IBRD and IDA:                          U2.00                  60.00                  142.00
Amount sold:                                              0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Of which repaid:                                         0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Total Unidisbursed:                                       51.18                   0.00                  51.1S
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements lo date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP). leter based system was introduced (HS - highly Sarisfactory. S - sansfactory.
U = iuisatisfactory. HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio PerforTnciiet Rating Methodology (SecM94-901). August 23. 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 60
Annex 9a
Tajikistan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of January 31, 1999
(In US$ Millions)
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval           Company         Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equit  Quasi Partic
y                             y
1997/98              Zeravshan Gold        2.50    1.20    7.27    0.00   2.50    1.20    7.27    0.00
1998                Nelson Gold            0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 2.50    4.20    7.27    0.00   2.50   3.20    7.27    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Eqit Quasi Partic
1997                 NELSON GOLD           0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00



Page 61
Annex 10
Tajikistan: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Credit
Financial Management
General
A review of the Financial Management System was undertaken to: (a) identify the presence of the
necessary elements for a sound project financial management system such as internal controls, project
accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements; (b) assess the project's capacity and readiness for
the implementation of Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI); and (c) prepare a time-bound
action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve Project Management Reports
(PMR) that would assist the implementing agency in moving toward LACI.
-Project Management, Coordination and Staffing
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be directly responsible for financial management during the
project life. The first IBTA credit has an operational PIU with a simple but functional financial
management system. The system is largely manual, but some summary information is collected and
reported using Excel spreadsheets. Given the nature and scope of project activities, this is an acceptable
approach. Project specific accounting and internal control manuals have not been developed, although
the FARAH and the Disbursement Handbook (World Bank, 1992 - in English and Russian) are used
extensively.
The PIU has two positions involved in financial management: (1) a Deputy Director, who has other
responsibilities, but is a graduate from the Tajik National University in Accounting, Analysis and
Auditing, and (2) a full-time accounting officer. This would appear to be an acceptable level of staffing
to provide adequate financial management for the second IBTA credit.
The second position is a fairly recent addition, as the committed local contribution (from which PIU staff
were to be paid), was not made until the project had advanced. It is important to ensure that full funding
is available from the very beginning of the second project in order to provide adequate financial control
from the outset.
Accounting
A project financial and accounting program will be developed prior to effectiveness, with support from
the PIU of the first IBTA credit. Given the project size, and the needs for project oversight and
preparation of project documentation such as PMRs, this will be kept as simple as possible. The system
to be designed should have, inter alia, an accounting and internal control system with the capacity to
record and retrieve in a timely manner, all financial transactions under the project.
The system will: (a) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the
project; and (b) provide reliable financial information for managing and monitoring project activities.
The accounting system will be classified by component; reflect the sources of funds, and be broken
down into different types of expenditures for the project. Furthermore, the accounting system will
provide information on the receipt and use of funds and will be able to produce financial reports,
comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given time. The system will be capable of providing
financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project.



Page 62
Financial Reporting
By effectiveness, an acceptable financial management system will have been in place. Disbursements
will start using traditional methods - SOEs reimbursements, direct payments, etc. After the PIU has,
first, gained experience with the financial management system by processing project management
reports (PMRs), and, second, provided that an improved financial management system is reviewed and
found satisfactory by the Bank, the project will move to PMR-based disbursements. The PIU will
maintain accounts for the Project and will be responsible for preparing Project Management Reports
(PMR - see Annex 9 of the Project Financial Management Manual) on a quarterly basis, and furnish to
the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such period,
which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of project funds for six-months
following the period covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the credit during the period covered and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecasted
implementation targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out
of the proceeds of the credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
Given the rapid preparation project timetable, the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) would be
prepared before effectiveness. This would include: (a) the financial management system proposed under
the project, with special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls;
(b) the role of the financial management systems in project management and implementation; (c) the
accounting arrangements required for project management; (d) the format for and content of project
financial reporting; and (e) the auditing arrangements that will be used during project implementation.
Auditing
The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statement, Special Account, and SOEs are
examined by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association by adhering to Bank audit standards.
The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a format in
accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the Intemational Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs, against which
disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the Credit and SOEs, which will be included
in the audit report accompanying the financial statements.
The audited financial statements of the special account and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year, including
a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statement of expenditures, will
be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.



Page 63
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and
internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody
of project-financed assets; (b) a determnination as to whether or not the project implementing entities
have maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that
expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and identification of any ineligible
expenditures.
The estimated overall budget for auditing under the project would be around US$25,000, which appears
to be reasonable, given the size of the project and the lack of an existing in-country auditing capacity.
Auditing services would be procured on a least-cost basis and packaged as a recurring audit with no
requirement for a new engagement letter, except in special circumstances.
Bank FMS Staffing and Supervision
The project was reviewed in detail by Bank FMS during April 1999. It is recommended by the FMS that
the country environment and implementing agency capacity suggested that the project not use a PMR-
based disbursement. The FM procedures and assessment of the financial staff would be included in the
PIM. During the project life, an FMS would take part in supervision missions to monitor the FM of the
PIU and ensure compliance with ongoing FM covenants.
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, a Special Account as specified in Annex 6.
The Government will be responsible for: (1) appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the IDA
under the Credit; (2) reporting on the use of these funds; and (3) ensuring that audits of financial
statements and/or reports are submitted to the Bank.
Accounting Software and Assessment of Y2K Risks
Given the anticipated volume of transactions, it would likely still be cost-effective to continue to
maintain the accounts manually with summary reporting using Excel. However, another option would
be to utilize a low-cost accounting system such as Tally, which is being used in other PIUs. Tally can
produce PMRs in a more automated fashion. It is not anticipated that either hardware or software to be
purchased under the project will have Y2K compatibility problems.
Conclusion
Since the project currently satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements, but does
not have the capability for PMR-based disbursement, an Action Plan is presented below which requires
that the PIU design and implement satisfactory financial management system and address the above
issues. Once the time-bound Action Plan is carried out successfully, it is believed that the project will,
by then, have developed an accounting system that will produce the required level of financial
management reports in a timely fashion.
Action Plan
In order to ensure that the project will have sound financial management system in place following time-
bound Action Plan is presented:



Page 64
Step                                Required Action                                Timeframe for
No.                                                                              Required Action
I   Hire/Train Financial Staff                                                      Prior to
Effectiveness
2   Open Special Account                                                            Prior to
Effectiveness
3   Select Accounting Software                                                    3 months after
Decide on whether to continue with manual/Excel system or move to automated  Effectiveness
approach (to be consistent with other PlUs, Tally software is recommended, but others
may be acceptable).
4   Design/Install Accounting System, Including Documentation, and Trial-Run Software   3 months after
if applicable)                                                               Effectiveness
This will include:
Designing accounting flows and controls;
Designing the chart of accounts;
Designing the payroll system;
Specifying the flow of information/documents;
ocumenting the flow of money (in and out);
Documenting the internal control system; and
Frequency of transaction and controls.
(To speed implementation, accounting policies and procedures from the Post-Conflict
Emergency Reconstruction Project could be adaptedfor use by the IBTA2 PIU.)
Design requiredfinancial reports, e.g.
•   Local accounting requirements;
•   Local tax requirements;
a   World Bank requirements;
a   Other donor requirements;
Trust Fund requirements;
Reporting currencies; and
Accounting policies.
5   Visit by Financial Specialist to verify financial arrangements in place      3 months after
Effectiveness
6   Complete Financial Management Report                                          3 months after
Effectiveness
7   Select Auditors                                                               November 30,
1999



page 65
Annex I 1
TAJIKISTAN: Second Institution Building Technical Assistance Credit
Summary of Project Implementation Plan
Public Administration Reform Component - Indicative Project Implementation Plan
Year I   I   Year 2        Year 3        Year 4     Total
(10199-09100)  (1010049101)  (10101-09102)  (10102-09103)  nm/m
Sub-Component 1: Reform of Government Structures and Organisation
Intemational Consultants - Long-Term           8 n/m         8 ni/m        8 M/M         4 MIM       28
Public Administration Reform                                                     ME              (24)
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term           5 mim        5 M/M                                   10
Reform of the Majles-Oli                       in           El                                   (2)
Functional Reviews of Pilot Ministries                                                           (7)
Assessment of IT Requirements              s                                                     (1)
Local Consultants                              20 m/m        20 MIM       20 mim        20 rnmr      80
Public Administration Reform Specialist (x2)                                                     (80)
Training, Study Tours, Equipment
Study Tour                                    m
In-Country Training Courses
Purchase of Office and IT Equipment     _        _        _                      _
Sub-Component 2: Development of a Public Sector Pay Strategy
International Consultants - Short-Term         4rnn          1 MIM         1 rn/mr                   6
Public Sector Pay and WagebiJI Study   I     m        _            I                             (6)
Sub-Component 3: Strengthening of Civil Service Management
International Consultants - Long-Term           2 m/m        2 1            mlm                      7
Public Administration Reform                  -                   _                              (7)
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term          6 mrm         4 mrm         2 mrm                     12
Civil Service Management                                                                         (9)
Database on Civil Service Employees                                                              (3)
Local Consultants                              20 mlm        20 rnrm      20 m/m        20 m/M       80
Civil Service Management                                                                        (40)
Database Management                                                                              (40)
Training, Study Tours, Equipment
Study Tour
In-Country Training Courses
Purchase of Office and IT Equipment



page 66
Budget Management Systems Reform Component - Indicative project Implementation Plan
Year 1   |   Year 2         Year 3       Year 4      Total
(10199-09100)  (10100-09101)  (10101-09102)  (10102-09103)  mrmr
Sub-Component 1: Support for the Management of the Budget Cycle
International Consultants - Long-Term          1o rnm/m       10 rm/m       10 m/m        10 m/m      40
Expenditure Planning and Budget Man.                                              1               _1 (40)
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term           2 m/m         2 m/m                                    4
Legislation, Regulations etc.                                                                     (3)
Information Technology/Software Support                                                           (1)
Local Consultants                               20 m/m        20 rn/rn      20  r         20 mr/rm    80
Budget Management                                                                                 (40)
Information Technology                                                                            (40)
Training, Study Tours, Equipment
Study Tour
Purchase of Office and IT Equipment
Sub-Component 2: Introduction of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
International Consultants - Long-Term          2.5 n/m       2.5 m/Im      2.5 rnrm      2.5 m/m      10
Expenditure Planning and Budget Man.       _      1                   l _        _i        E      (10)
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term           8 mr/         7 m/m         3 rn/m                    18
Macroeconomist                             m                                                      (12)
Sector Strategy/Expenditure Programmers    I                                                       (6)
Local Consultants                               20 /rm        20 mrm        20 m/m        20 rmn      80
Budget Programmers                                                                                (80)
Training, Study Tours, Equipment
In-Country Training Courses
S-T Macroeconomics Training (Extemal)
Sub-Component 3: Strengthening Budget and Expenditure Management Systems
International Consultants - Long-Term          2.5 m/m       2.5 m/m      2z5 m/m        2.5 rn/m     10
Expenditure Planning and Budget Man.                                                              (10)
International Consultants - Short-Term          3 rn/m        3 mim         2 m/m                      8
Budget and Expenditure Control Systems     mm               _          mm                          (8)
Local Consultants                               20 m/m        20 rn/m       20 m/m        20 m/m       80
Budget Systems                                                                                    (40)
Database Management                                                                               (40)
Training, Study Tours, Equipment
In-Country Training Courses                              1               X
Sub-Component 4: Inter-Governmental Finance System
International Consultants - Long-Term                                      o10 MM                      10
Local Government Budget Specialist                                                                (10)
International Consultants - Short-Term          3 mrm         2 m/m         2 r/m                      9
Inter-Governmental Finance                    _             _                                      (7)
Database Systems                                                                                   (2)
Local Consultants                                                           20 /rm        20 /rm      40
Local Government Budget Systems                                                                    (40)
Training, Study Tours, Equipment
Study Tour
In-Country Training Courses
Purchase of Office and IT Equipment



page 67
Privatization and Private Sector Development - Indicative Project Implementation Plan
Year 1   I   Year 2         Year 3        Year 4      Total
| (10199-09100) 1 (10/00.09101) | (10101-09/02)   (10102-09103) |nmim
Sub-Component 1: Privatization of Medium and large Enterprises
International Consultants - Long-Term            8 rnmr        4 mrm                                    12
Privatization Advisor                      _      _                                                 (12)
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term            2 rnrm        2 rnrnm                                  4
Financial Specialist                                                                                (4)
Local Consultants                               30 mrm        30 rmn         30 rn/m       30 M/M      120
Regional Privatization Specialist                      _       _                                   (120)
Training, Study Tours, Equipment
Study Tour
In-Country Training Courses
Purchase of Office and IT Equipment
Sub-Component 2: Development of a Private Sector
International Consultants - Long-Term            2 mrm         4 mim         4 m/m         2 mtm        12
Private Sector Specialist                                                           mm__ _____      (12)
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term                          2 rim         2 mlm          2mim        6
Private Sector Specialist                                  E            m              g            (6)
Local Consultants                               12 mrm         12 mrm        12 rn/m       12 rn/m      48
Private Sector Specialist                                   _                                         _l (48)
Training, Study Tours, Equipment
Study Tour
gP
Purchase of Office and IT Equipment                           Em    I      



Annex 12
Tajikistan at a glance
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central     Low- 
Tajikistain    Asia  income       Development diamond*
Population, mid-year (mjiions)                      6.0       417$    21,048Liexpcay
GNP per capita (Atlas method. IJS$)                  330      2,320      350Dieepcac
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      20      1,108      722T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (.)                                        16        02        2
Labor force                                          21.        0.2      2.1      GNP                             Gross
per                   ~~~~~~~primary
most recent estimate (latest year ava iiable,  97y                               capita            /enrollment
Povert (v/Q ofpopulation below national poverhyIme)                       -                       1
Urban population, (% of total population)             32        87        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)~                     89        89        59 I
Intfant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)           '30        25        78
Child malnutrition (16 of' cildren under 5)            ,          .       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (16 of population)                ..         ..      71
Illiteracy (%/ of populationy age 15+                                     47iisa
Gross primary enrollment (%' of school-ag popuation   89        92        91                  Tjksa
Male                                                91         ..      10Low-income group
Female                                              8$ 88                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
KE-Y ECODNOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENS
1978    1988       1998     1997
Economic ratIose
GOP (US$ bilions)                             .                 1,0       1.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                   7.2       7A.1ad
Exports of goods and services/GOP             *        .       77.0      74.0Trd
Gross domestic savings/GDP.                                       ,       1.
Gross national savings/GDP                    .         .        .i
Current account balanceGDP                                     -7' 1      &       Domestic
interest payments/GOP                         .        ..       0.0       2.9     Savings---H Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 .        .      83,9      95.6     Saig
Total debt service/experts                    .        ..      34.0      13.9
Present value of debt/GOP                     ..       .        0.2        .
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      8.0         -Idbens
11979486  1987-97    1996     1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   -       .      -4.4       1.7       44               -Tajiistan
GNP per capita                        .       .      -5.6      -0.3       2,2                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and service-s       ..       .       0.2       2.9       5.4    _________________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth rates of output and Investment(%
('Y. o GDP)                                                                      2
Agriculture                                   ..     28.1      32.0     34.0
Industry                                      ..     37.2      25.0     24.0
Manufacturing                                .        .         ..        . 
Services                                      *.     34.7      43.0     4.2.0     2
Private consumption                                  64          .         ..    401
General government consumption                ..     21.7        *.        ..GOl    -CGDP
Imports of goods and services                 *         .      81.0      80.0
(average annual growth)       ~~1976486  1987.97    1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports(%
Agriculture                                   .               -17.8T
Industry                                      .-2.                               20-
Manufacturing
Services                                      .               -35.0        .. 
Private consumption                          ..        .                   .     201
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment                     .        ..      -4.9     .s.9
Imports of goods and services                 .               -12.9       1.3               -Exports   ---mports
Gross national product                                                           ____________________
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Tajikistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997       Inflatlon(%)
Domes,tic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..      41.8      88.0
ImplicitGOPdeflator                             ..        ..        ..    101.3    joo
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     0 o
Current revenue                                  ..        .      12.1      13.7               92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                          ..        ..      -4.8      -2.0                    GOP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..        ..       -5.8     -3.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)s1976                                    1986       1996     1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..       ..       770       746
Agriculture                                    ..       ..       304       319
Other                                          ..       ..       466       427       750-p
Manufactures                                   .         .         .                                           l 
Total imports (cif)                              ..       ..       808       759      SW
Food                                           .                 122   107   2501B                               E
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..       261       356
Capital goods                                  ..       ..         ..       ..        o
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..    108.6    105.2             91  92   93   94  95  96  97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..    114.6    110.5                a Exports     Phmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..        .       94.8      95.2 
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mi/lions)'1976                                    1986       1996     1997 n     Cunrent account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..        ..       800       804
Imports of goods and services                   ..        ..       836       868           19  92
Resource balance                                          -        -36       -64
Net income                                       ,.       ..       -68       -36     *10+
Net current transfers                           ..   ..   30    40                                 " Ilk
Current account balance                         ..        ..       -74       -80
Financing items (net)                           ..        ..        84       43
Changes in net reserves                          -        *-       -10        17   |2s
Memo: 
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..                 14        30
Conversion rate (DEC, loca/US$)                 ..        -      298.4    581.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                        ComposlIton of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       ..       868     1,039
IBRD                                          ..         ..                                             B: 41
IDA                                            -        *         30       50                                C: 32
Total debt service                                -       *-       180        72          F: 300                      122
IBROD                                                             °0         0
IDA                                            .        ..         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..       ..         30        19
Official creditors                            ..       ..         36        13
Private creditors                             ..       ..          0         0
Foreign direct investment                     ..       ..         16        11
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..          0         0                             E: 576
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   ..        ..        55        22     A - IBRD                   -  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..         30       22      8 - IDA    0 - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          ..       ..          0         0     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     ..       ..         30       22
Interest payments                             ..        ..         0         0
Net transfers                                 ..       ..         30        22
Development Econornics



K !STAZ,              >/'                                           ^-->s\/J7                                        TAJIKISTAN
I                  V                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
J      ,             T Toshkent               ./ To Tashkent                                                     -          RAILROADS
\ h <l r , v X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
-I SELECTED CITIES
)    <  jof   UZBEK.                            O      AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
To Gulistan 5                                           )                                                     tgr/;e, rO Ouqon  OBLAST CENTER
U Z B E K I S TA N              t                ) + Kho jond                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
- - AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) BOUNDARIES
T. Dzhiz,ak  *    >s -             C       h     ,       t       .~f  }                                                      OBLAST BOUNDARIES-
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'Area with no abl-st level odministroti- divisions, wber royons are under direct republic jurisdiction.
r) * J!/f Ura-Tyue                                                 - >   _y   ^   *' An oblast is named only ehen its name differs from that of its administrative center.
\  _       j f               A                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KYRGYZ    REP. 72r              TO TOsh            >7j
E  {Pendzhike                   Ayni , J<<_w.
E g ~~~~~~~~~~OBLASI "i/X~~)r''''~   C H I N A
39,                      5,3                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~39'~
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zr .T   AUg                                                                         o ShUA                   9'
D/(R - q                                                                       usghanb 
{ f J- S > Gasxa ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOR NOQ-                                                           <                       \
other information hown  ; ;7            Kuly                                                       BADAKHS H A  N             KAYA                                  i
denoganntions aKolininiabd                                                                                         AO a 
an this mop do not                                                                                                                                                 ZBEKISTAN j
imply, on the part of                                                                                         t'                             W  b                  \        t. T-- rn.
The WorldaBank Group,           0            50           100           150 KILOMETERS                                                                LURKMENISTLN I- N-
any judgment on the legal        I                                                                                             ANX                    TRMNSA (                   ,,'?-.>KYRGYZ REP. , .
denomtatuos of   d any terioy,lq-h~' ~c 
ortany ndorsement               0                     50                   100AMILES      PAKIS T                                    NDshonbe 'r
or acceptance of such                                                                             -\                                                                                     \,
or acceptancs of0 suc72°hOF ISLAMIC REP.                                                                                                                                              -/      A     FGHINI'STAN>,
boundaries.                 ~~~~~                                                             ~~~69'     2                             OF IRAN       A-AFGHANISTAN



