Document of               FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
P-7328
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
May 14, 1980
FILE COPY
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of May 2, 1980)
Rs 1.00        =      Paise 100
US$1.00         =     Rs 7.9712
Rs 1.00               US$0.12545
Rs 1,00O,000          US$125,452
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against a
"basket" of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the
US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conver-
sions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to
Rs 8.40, which represents the projected exchange rate over
the disbursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
CMD    =    Calcutta Metropolitan District
CMDA        Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CSTC        Calcutta State Transport Corporation
CTC    =    Calcutta Tramways Company, Ltd.
GDP    =    Gross Domestic Product
GOI    =    Government of India
GOWB   =    Government of West Bengal
km     =    kilometer
km     =    square kilometer
NRR         Net Reproduction Rate
POL         Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants
PVD         Public Vehicles Department
RTA    =    Regional Transport Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries and
Amounts Allocated:   Calcutta State Transport Corporation (CSTC):
US$25.0 million
Calcutta Tramways Company, Ltd. (CTC):
US$23.5 million
Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA):
US$7.5 million
Amount:                 US$56 million.
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         (a)  India to GOWB:  as part of Central assistance
to State development projects.
(b)  GOWB to CSTC:  equity and loans at 6.25% interest
over 20 years with 4 years' grace.
(c)  GOWB to CTC:  equity and loans at 6-25% interest
over 20 years with 4 years' grace.
(d)  GOWB to CMDA:  as part of GOWB's normal
budgetary allocation to CMDA.
Project
Description:          The purpose of the project is to improve the efficiency
of transport services provided by public and private
operators in the Calcutta Metropolitan District. It
would accomplish this by:  (i) introducing a series of
policy and administrative measures designed to improve
management in CSTC and CTC and to facilitate and
improve private bus operations; (ii) supporting a
program of physical investments by CSTC, CTC and CMDA
to expand and rehabilitate the physical plant of the
bus and tram undertakings, ease traffic congestion in
the CMD, and improve road and travelling conditions for
transport operators and passengers; and (iii) providing
technical assistance to CTC, CSTC, and CMDA to facili-
tate project implementation, transport planning, and
project monitoring and evaluation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Project Cost: 1/                                            (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
CSTC:  Bus Procurement            21.17     9.07    30.24
Plant and Equipment
Expansion and
Upgrading                7.39      1.42     8.81
Training and Technical
Assistance               1.82      0.03     1.85
CTC:   Tram Rehabilitation
Program                 13.67      4.91    18.58
Plant and Equipment
Upgrading & Expansion  15.66       2.85    18.51
Training and Technical
Assistance               2.20      0.04     2.24
CMDA: Bus Terminals and
Passenger Shelters       2.98      0.36     3.34
Traffic Engineering
and Management           5.10     0.85      5.95
Technical Assistance       1.91      0.12     2.03
Project Administration             3.37      -        3.37
Base Cost                   75.27    19.65    94.92
Physical Contingencies             6.37     1.83      8.20
Price Contingencies               14.97     3.62    18.59
Total Project Cost          96.61    25.10   121.71
Financing Plan:                                                (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                              30.90    25.10    56.00
GOWB (budgetary allo-
cations, loans and
equity)                         65.71       -       65.71
96.61    25.10   121.71
I/   Including US$9.7 million in taxes and duties.
1/   Including US$9.7 million in taxes and duties.



- 3l1l -
Estimated                                                  (US$ Millions)
Disbursements: _/                              FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84
Annual                    3.6     14.6      22.8      15.0
Cumulative                3.6     18.2      41.0      56.0
Rate of Return:         23%.
Appraisal Report:       No. 2884-IN, dated May 9, 1980.
1/   According to IDA's fiscal year.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$56 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a project for the rehabilitation of public
transport systems in the Calcutta Metropolitan District. The proceeds of the
credit would be channelled to the Government of West Bengal in accordance
with the Government of India's standard terms and arrangements for financing
State development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by the Govern-
ment of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$180 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Kerala Agricultural Extension
Project (Report No. P-2797-IN), dated May 1, 1980.



- 2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 24%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 24% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively.  Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, stagnating
output and world inflation have led to significant increases in prices during
the first half of the 1979/80 fiscal year. The wholesale price index for
September 1979 was 18.4% above that of the previous September. Together, the
rise in the prices of food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils accounted
for over two-thirds of the increase in the index. However, prices of almost
all commodities moved up significantly over this period as reflected in the
9.6% increase in the prices of the residual commodities. Government attempts
to regulate the supply and price of commodities like sugar and edible oils,



ceilings on credit, adjustment of some interest rates and the seasonal downturn
of the fruit and vegetable prices after summer helped the wholesale price
index to level off after September. However, if allowance is made for the
seasonal factors, prices are still rising at approximately an 18% annual rate.
The Indian economy will no doubt continue to face inflationary pressure during
the 1980/81 fiscal year. Its intensity will to a large extent depend on the
developments in world inflation, especially the rise in oil prices and India's
success in alleviating the supply bottlenecks that emerged during 1979.
Although the current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-
term growth prospects, given available aggregate resources and production
capacity, significant improvements are likely to be required in the organ-
ization of key sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during.
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 10-12 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 10-12 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.



- 4 -
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth in
1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part
of the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Imports in the first quarter of 1979/80 are around 7% higher than
the same period of the previous year. However, the impact of recent increases
in petroleum prices are only partially reflected in this figure. India's
total POL import bill for 1979/80 is likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800
million higher than earlier estimates. As a result, there should be a sharp
deceleration in the rate of growth of reserves sufficient to significantly
reduce the number of months of imports covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of the recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within



- 5 -
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertaintv in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed siguals to private manufacturers and investors. Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.



- 6 -
Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through imports.  The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part



- 7 -
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to
sustain the target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in
volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net reproduction rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the .ear 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,255 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,055 million had
been repaid, and US$3,226 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1980.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31,
1980, totalled US$517 million, representing an increase of about 44% over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.5
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.6 million, US$31.5 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of March 31, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations
and in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, and urban investments have also received Bank
Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities.  The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on those subsectors which have
recently emerged as key constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power
and transportation.



- 9 -
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid 1970s. However,
the need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater deter-
ioration in balance of payments prospects during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment, remains. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of
India's external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary
terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been,
and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support, and India should be regarded as credit-
worthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service
to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below
20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held
by the Bank totaled US$1,516 million, of which US$556 million remained to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$960 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34%. of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - URBAN TRANSPORT IN CALCUTTA
Physical and Demographic Characteristics of the Calcutta Metropolitan District
26.       The Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD) stretches north and south
for nearly 70 km along both sides of West Bengal's Hooghly River.  For most of
this distance it forms a narrow corridor along the limited area of elevated
land close to the river. Competition for the high land on the banks of the
river is keen, as much of the remaining land in the Hooghly's basin is low-
lying, waterlogged, and unsuitable for settlement. The central core of the
metropolitan area is on the east bank of the river in the city of Calcutta, or
Calcutta Corporation, which has a population well in excess of three million.



- 10 -
Howrah, Calcutta's twin city, lies on the west bank of the river, opposite the
Calcutta Corporation. Both the Calcutta Corporation and Howrah are encircled
by numerous municipalities, small towns, and semi-urban areas which extend
north and south along the river and combine with the Calcutta Corporation and
Howrah to make up the Calcutta Metropolitan District.
27.   The CMD is the most populous urban agglomeration in all of India and the
dominant urban center of eastern India, a region which includes nearly one-
quarter of India's population. The estimated 9.9 million residents of the CMD
comprise 46% of the urban population of the eastern region and 75% of the urban
population of West Bengal, the State in which Calcutta is located. While in
absolute terms its annual growth is impressive, the CMD is the most slowly
growing large metropolis in India. Nevertheless, with its growth rate of 2.2%
per annum, the CMD adds 200,000 persons annually to its population. This
annual rise in population combines with the limited availability of elevated
land in the CMD to produce extremely high population densities. P2pulation
density in the Calcutta Corporation averages 33,000 persons per km , peaking
to 44,000 persons per km in the central core of the city. These figures are
significantly higher than density statistics for cities luch as Manhattan
(26,000/km ), Bangkok (21,000/km ), and Tokyo (15,320/km ), whose infrastruc-
ure and facilities greatly exceed Calcutta's and whose high-rise pattern of
development acts to ease crowding, in contrast with Calcutta's low-rise design.
The implication of Calcutta's density profile, then, is serious over-crowding,
which has led to excessive demand on existing urban infrastructure.
Municipal Administration
28.       The CMD has been delineated as a unified planning region by the
Government of West Bengal (GOWB). It is not, however, a single administrative
unit. Local administration in the CMD is the responsibility of four district
administrations, 35 municipal authorities, 61 non-municipal areas and 500 semi-
rural units. Despite the proliferation of local authorities in the CMD, the
State Government has a dominant role in the affairs of the region. Not only
does it have authority to frame and enact legislation governing all activities
of the local bodies, but it also provides these authorities with considerable
financial and technical assistance.
29.       In 1971, GOWB created the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
(CMDA) and gave it overall responsibility for the planning, design, and, where
necessary, execution of public works in the CMD. It is through this agency
that the State Government acts to assure coordination of the activities of the
many local authorities within the CMD as well as the programs of State-level
sectoral agencies (e.g., the State Home (Transport) Department, the West Bengal
Housing Board, etc.) which share responsibility for service provision within
the metropolitan area.
General Urban Transport Characteristics
30.       The State Government has identified an area covering about 40% of the
CMD as the most critical area in the effort to develop an integrated transit
system for Calcutta. This area includes the Calcutta Corporation, the Howrah



- 11 -
Municipality and seven contiguous local jurisdictions. It contains a popula-
tion of about 5.5 million at present, projected to rise to 7.2 million by
1990/91, and covers the Central Business District and the major commercial,
industrial, and residential areas of the CMD.
31.       The general transport situation in this planning area is character-
ized by startling service deficiencies. Only 6% of the surface space in this
area is occupied by roads, which represents one of the lowest proportions in
any major city in the world. In this restricted road space, buses, trams,
trucks, taxis and private cars must compete with slow-moving vehicles (such as
hand-drawn carts and rickshaws) and masses of pedestrians who spill over into
the roadway due to inadequate footpath space. As a result, overall travel
speed on major corridors averages 10-12 km per hour, slowing to 6 km per hour
at chronic bottleneck points.
32.       While walking is an important mode of transport in this planning
area, with some 800,000 trips of longer than one kilometer made on foot each
day, motorized transport clearly predominates. Motorized transport is pro-
vided by about 3,000 buses and minibuses (State-owned and privately-owned),
100,000 private cars, 6,500 taxis, and about 10,000 trucks. The services
provided by these vehicles are supplemented by rail services, which are
provided by about 300 State-owned trams, as well as a suburban railway system
serving 25 stations and operated by the Indian Railways. Finally, of about 30
ferry points on the Hooghly River in the CMD, six fall within this planning
area, served by a substantial number of privately operated motor launches and
boats. The split of t)tal passenger trips among these modes of transport
within the planning a-ea is detailed below.
Modal Split of Transit Passengers (1978/79)
Number of               Percentage
Mode                     Daily Person Trips            of Total
(millions)
State-owned buses                     0.94                     14.3
Private buses, regular                4.15                     63.4
Private buses, mini /a                0.15                      2.3
State-owned trams                     0.73                     10.7
Subtotal buses and trams         5.97                     90.7
Railways                              0.57                      8.7
Ferries                               0.04                      0.6
TOTAL                            6.58                    100.0
/a   Seating capacity of 20-30 passengers
As this table reveals, mass transportation by buses and trams dominates the
supply of transit services in the planning area.



- 12 -
Bus and Tram Services in the CMD
33.        Bus services in the CMD are provided by both private bus operations
and by the State-owned Calcutta State Transport Corporation (CSTC). CSTC, the
successor of the Calcutta State Transport Undertaking, founded in 1948, is one
of the largest public sector undertakings of the GOWB, employing at present
about 13,470 employees. It operates 48 routes for city service within the
planning area, covering a route length of 650 km, as well as a network of long-
distance routes stretching outside the CMD into parts of West Bengal, Bihar,
and Orissa. In November 1979, the CSTC's total serviceable fleet consisted
of about 1,100 buses, of which about 970 were for city service.
34.       Until the early 1960's, CSTC's operations were characterized by
continued fleet expansion, steady revenue increases, and surplus cash genera-
tion. However, beginning in about 1962/63, CSTC entered a period of serious
decline. Labor discipline and morale deteriorated, resulting in low produc-
tivity, poor maintenance of equipment, large-scale absenteeism and an asso-
ciated decline in operational and financial performance. In the period
1960/61-1976/77, average effective outshedding 1/ fell from above 73% to
below 40% and the average number of passengers carried per day decreased from
about 1.1 million to 800,000. As a result, the ratio of total manpower to
effectively outshedded buses rose to 30 staff members per bus (about twice an
acceptable level) and CSTC moved from a position of modest revenue surplus in
1960/61 to a deficit of approximately US$12 million in 1976/77. Since 1976/77,
when preparation of the proposed project began, CSTC has achieved marked
performance improvements. Manning ratios have fallen to 25.5 per effectively
outshedded bus, outshedding has increased to about 50%, the number of passengers
carried per day has risen to about 960,000, and the rate of increase of CSTC's
deficit has been cut in half. While CSTC still has a considerable distance to
go, it appears that it has succeeded in halting a two decade decline.
35.        Complementing CSTC's services in the transport planning area, and
indeed surpassing CSTC in terms of fleet size and number of passengers carried,
are the 2,000 privately-owned buses currently in operation. Reintroduced in
1966 after a six-year moratorium on private bus operations, these buses are
largely individually-owned, although owners group themselves into associations,
and financed by local banks. Private buses are licensed by the State Govern-
ment's Public Vehicles Department and routes and associated fare structures
and timetables are assigned by three Regional Transport Authorities operating
in the planning area.
36.       Tram services in Calcutta are provided by the State-owned Calcutta
Tramways Company, Ltd. (CTC). Formed in 1881, CTC operated as a private com-
pany registered in the United Kingdom until 1976, when, under an agreement
between GOWB and CTC, the State Government took over full ownership of the
Company. Actual management of the Company was taken over by GOWB in 1967,
when a State Administrator replaced the incumbent general manager. CTC oper-
ates 26 routes in the planning area and has a total fleet of 438 tramcars.
1/   The percentage of the total fleet that completes its scheduled daily
trips.



- 13 -
While CTC operated efficiently in its early years, once the eventual State
Government take-over was agreed on in 1951, the Company curtailed its tram
renewal and replacement programs to the detriment of operational efficiency
and staff morale. Outshedding has fallen from about 84% of a total fleet of
500 tramcars in the 1950's to about 70% of a total fleet of 438 tramcars at
present. Since part of the fleet is over 50 years old and requires spare parts
which are now technologically obsolete and thus not available in the open
market, present outshedding performance is really quite remarkable. However,
operating as it does with a staff of about 9,100, or 33.5 per effectively
outshedded tram, CTC shows considerable scope for productivity improvements.
Under the influence of determined management and improved labor discipline,
CTC began an upward trend in terms of efficiency in 1977. However, severe
flooding in Calcutta in 1978 caused considerable damage to the tram fleet and
electrical system from which CTC is only now recovering.
37.        The deterioration in performance of CTC and CSTC over the last
15-20 years has resulted in a marked reduction in the quality of public mass
transportation in Calcutta and an ever-widening gap between supply and demand
for public transport. Thousands of passengers endure long delays, overcrowded
facilities, and irregular service, which has resulted in an attitude of
frustration and bitterness on the part of passengers and has, in turn, dis-
couraged the Government from increasing fares in line with the substantial
cost increases over the years. The result has been a vicious cycle of increas-
ing subsidies to these two public undertakings, steady decay of their capital
assets, and deteriorating morale and productivity. While the private sector
has provided a considerable boost to the supply of transit services over the
last decade, poor regulation and unreasonably low fares for private operators
have led them to overload their buses, operate on only the most profitable
routes, evade taxes and insurance payments, and default on bank loans.
Clearly, bold financial and administrative measures are required to improve
mass transit services in the CMD.
Government Policy Toward Public Transport in the CMD
38.        The Government of West Bengal has, up to the present, focused its
efforts in the sector on easing traffic congestion in Calcutta through road
improvements and extensions and traffic engineering and management schemes.
While this program is continuing, the Government has now decided to launch a
program to address directly the need for improved mass transportation in the
CMD.  A ten-year development program for mass public transit has been drawn
up, the first stage ot which would concentrate on (i) improving the financial
and operating performance of CSTC and CTC; (ii) removing unnecessary constraints
to private bus operations; (iii) improving terminal facilities for CTC and
CSTC and for privately-operated buses; (iv) rationalizing bus and tram route
systems; and (v) continued improvements to road conditions and traffic manage-
ment. It is this program the State Government has asked IDA to support. In
addition, GOWB's own efforts will be complemented by a Government of India-
financed north-south subway line scheduled for completion in 1986. While this
subway line should ease the transit situation by providing approximately one
million passenger trips per day in 1986, given the existing service shortfall
and anticipated growth in demand for public transport, further development
of surface transit in the CMD continues to be of critical importance.



- 14 -
Bank Group Activities in the CMD
39.        The Bank Group has financed two projects designed to alleviate cri-
tical urban service deficiencies in the Calcutta Metropolitan District--the
First and Second Calcutta Urban Development Projects approved in 1973 and 1977,
respectively (Credit 427-IN for US$35 million and Credit 756-IN for US$87 mil-
lion). These projects concentrated on improving primary infrastructure (e.g.,
water supply, sewerage, drainage, solid waste management, road access) in the
metropolitan area to meet the most urgent service needs of the population. In
addition, the second project in particular focused considerable effort on the
task of strengthening urban planning and management capability in the CMD and
on proper operation and maintenance of completed public works. While progress
was slow under the first credit, now fully disbursed, the institutional
development focus of the second project appears to have eased planning and
implementation bottlenecks. The five-year investment program supported by the
project is expected to be completed on schedule in 1981/82. In anticipation
of the completion of this program, the State Government and the CMDA have be-
gun to identify longer-term investment priorities. Among these is the criti-
cal task of supplementing the road construction, traffic engineering, and
traffic management programs which have been undertaken and are continuing as
part of the two Bank Group-supported projects in Calcutta with further efforts
to ease the still-considerable traffic congestion and improve public transport
services in the metropolitan area. It is with this objective in mind and
against the background of the city's on-going traffic and transportation
program that the Government of West Bengal has requested Bank Group support
for the proposed Calcutta Urban Transport Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.        The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited India
in October-November 1979. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal of the Calcutta
Urban Transport Project" (No. 2884-IN, dated May 9, 1980) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. in April/May 1980. The Government of India and the Government of West
Bengal were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. B.S. Lamba, Deputy
Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India (GOI).
Project Description
41.        The objective of the proposed project is to improve the quality and
increase the quantity of mass transit services in the core transit planning
area of the CMD (see para 30 above). More specifically, the project seeks
to increase the financial and operational efficiency of CTC and CSTC and
properly regulate and facilitate private bus operations. The project pursues
these objectives in three ways. First, it is structured around a series of
policy and administrative measures designed to improve the management and
financial status of CSTC and CTC, to augment productivity in these two under-
takings, and to foster improved private bus operations. Second, it supports a
program of physical investments by CSTC, CTC and CMDA required to reverse
the deterioration of physical assets which has handicapped the bus and tram
undertakings, to reduce traffic congestion in the CMD, and to improve and



- 15 -
expand the network of public transport terminals and passenger shelters.
Third, it provides technical assistance to CSTC and CTC to assist them in
project design and implementation, and to CMDA to augment its capacity for
transport sector planning and for evaluation of the impact of the project
itself. The project would be carried out over the period April 1980 through
December 1983. The sections which follow outline individual project components.
42.       Policy and Administrative Measures To Be Implemented.  The policy
and management reforms to be introduced during the project period fall into
four basic categories: management improvement measures, productivity improve-
ment measures, and financial reforms for CTC and CSTC, and policy measures to
facilitate improved private bus operations.
(a) Management Improvement Measures, CSTC and CTC. Management reform
programs to be implemented during the project period have been prepared by
both CSTC and CTC with the assistance of consultants. These programs call for
the structural reorganization of each undertaking; introduction of new manage-
ment methods (e.g., improved cost and quality control, accounting, and manage-
ment information systems); strengthening of middle management through creation
of additional positions, improvement of recruitment methods, and, in the
case of CSTC, upward revision of salary scales; and introduction of in-house
training programs for management and technical staff. A number of these
reforms (e.g., sanctioning of new middle management positions, revision of
CSTC pay scale) have already been carried out. The remainder would be intro-
duced under t'-e direction of Management Support Units (comprised of senior
staff members assisted by consultants) to be created in each undertaking.
The Management Support Units would be established and the proposed organi-
zational restructuring of each undertaking accomplished by November 1, 1980
(Section 3.04, Project Agreement), adequate training staff for CSTC and CTC
would be recruited by the same date (Section 3.03, Project Agreement), and
general management and operations training programs for CTC and CSTC would
be introduced by January 1, 1981 (Section 3.03, Project Agreement).
(b) Productivity Improvement Measures, CSTC and CTC. With the objective
of improving labor productivity and reducing absenteeism, CSTC and CTC have
introduced, with the agreement of their unions, bonus-incentive schemes to
reward productivity on the part of staff members. This effort to increase
productivity will of course be complemented by the organization and management
improvements to be implemented in both undertakings (see (a) above) and the
project-supported physical investment programs (see para 43 below), both of
which are designed to increase operational efficiency. Finally, CSTC and CTC
have prepared overall manpower budgets for the project period which reflect
their intention to exercise a new discipline over staff recruitment. Through
attrition and controlled recruitment to reduce labor redundancy, CSTC intends
to reduce its manning ratio from 25.5/effectively outshedded bus at present
to 16.3 by the end of the project period (1983/84). Similarly, CTC's manning
ratio would be cut from 33.5/effectively outshedded tram to 25.5 over the
project period. Minimum performance levels for both undertakings (i.e.,
effective outshedding, manning ratios, kilometers run per bus/tram per day)
have been agreed on (Section 3.11, Project Agreement) and actual performance
would be closely monitored throughout the project period.



- 16 -
(c) Financial Reforms, CSTC and CTC. With the objective of making CSTC
and CTC financially self-supporting within ten years, GOWB has proposed a
financial rehabilitation program for the two undertakings consisting of the
followiag elements: (i) restructuring of the capital of CTC and CSTC as of
April 1, 1980; (ii) annual reduction of the operating ratio of expenditures
to revenues for each undertaking; and (iii) stabilization of the level of
GOWB's annual subsidy to each undertaking. The capital restructuring which
has been effected involved forgiveness of a portion of the accumulated debt
each undertaking owed the State Government and revaluation of both CSTC's
and CTC's assets. It has resulted in debt/equity ratios of approximately
67:33 for CSTC and CTC. GOWB has agreed that this debt/equity ratio would
not be exceeded during the project period (Section 4.04, Project Agreement).
In addition, GOWB would reduce the operating ratio of CSTC and CTC by an
average of 10% per year over the project period with the objective of con-
tinuing to reduce these ratios throughout the decade in order to bring them
to a level of approximately 1.0 by 1989/90 (Section 4.05, Project Agreement).
The State Government fully recognizes that this will require significant fare
increases for CTC and CSTC during the project period and beyond. In order to
accomplish the agreed reductions in CSTC's and CTC's operating ratios, GOWB
would introduce a fare increase of at least 25% for buses and trams operating
in the project area by April 1, 1981 (Section 4.05, Project Agreement) and
subsequent fare increases as necessary. Finally, GOWB would stabilize its
annual subsidies to CSTC and CTC at Rs 105 million (US$12.5 million equiva-
lent) and Rs 55 million (US$6.5 million equivalent), respectively, beginning
in 1980/81 (Section 4.03, Project Agreement). These subsidies would be in
the form of grants and have been calculated to correspond in magnitude to the
average deficit expected in CSTC and CTC over the period 1980/81 to 1989/90,
plus the accumulated depreciation of assets acquired under the project. It
is anticipated that by the end of the period 1980/81-89/90, each undertaking
should have reached financial self-sufficiency, which will obviate the need
for further GOWB subsidies. GOWB would ensure that any surplus cash generated
by either undertaking during the project period would be channelled into a
depreciation fund and would not be used for fleet expansion until after the
close of the project period (Section 4.03, Project Agreement).
(d) Policy Measures Relating to Private Bus Operations. Bus operations
in the project area are currently governed by the Public Vehicles Department
(PVD), which registers vehicles, issues driving licenses, and collects road
taxes, and by three Regional Transport Authorities (RTAs), chaired by the
Director of PVD, which sanction route permits to bus operators, specifying
the associated timetable, fare structure, and service standards. The State
Government, which oversees these bodies, has identified weaknesses in their
staffing and operation which inhibit their ability to properly plan and
govern private bus operations. In particular, the PVD is not adequately
staffed to allow it (through the RTAs) to effectively ensure that private bus
operators comply with their agreed timetables and regulated safety standards.
Moreover, the RTAs' current practice of issuing temporary 17-week permits for
private bus routes, combined with relatively low fares for private buses,
places unnecessary constraints on private operators. To remedy this situation
GOWB will, by April 1, 1981, convert all temporary route permits for private
buses operating in the project area to permanent permits with a validity of



- 1 7 
not less than three years (Section 3.08(c), Project Agreement) and bring pri-
vate bus fares into parity with CSTC fares (Section 3.09, Project Agreement).
GOWB will also, during the project period, strengthen PVD's staff to enable
it to adequately regulate and supervise private bus operations (Section
3.08(b), Project Agreement). Finally, in order to ensure that private and
public bus routes are properly planned and allocated, the State Government
has established a Transit Planning Cell within CMDA to prepare proposals for
updating public vehicle route systems and to monitor public vehicle services
in the CMD. Changes to the bus or tram route systems recommended by this
cell (on the basis of studies such as those to be carried out under the
project; see para 44 below) would be reviewed by a permanent committee, to
be established by November 1, 1980 and to include representatives of PVD,
CSTC, CTC and CMDA (Section 3.08(a), Project Agreement). Before submitting
proposed route schemes to the State Government, this committee would hold
hearings at which private operators would be allowed to present their views.
43.       Physical Investments.  (a) CSTC.  The project would support the
following investments by CSTC designed to improve the Corporation's oper-
ational efficiency: (i) procurement of about 530 buses and spare parts to
replace over-age buses and to permit a small fleet augmentation; (ii) remodel-
ling and re-equipping of the existing Belghoria central workshop and con-
struction of a new workshop at Belghoria; (iii) construction and equipping
of one new bus depot and remodelling and re-equipping of four existing depots;
and (iv) construction of a training center for CSTC staff. Bus replacement
requirements have been calculated on the basis of CSTC's existing policy,
which assumes an average economic life of eight years for buses. However,
actual performance of buses under the improved maintenance systems to be
implemented under the project will be closely monitored. CSTC will intro-
duce an information system adequate to review its bus retirement policy and,
in consultation with IDA and not later than March 31, 1982, review its bus
procurement program, on the basis of the information gathered, in order to
ensure that an appropriate fleet size is maintained (Section 3.05, Project
Agreement). The new workshop at Belghoria will operate on the unit exchange
system, repairing defective units (e.g., gear boxes, engines, fuel injection
pumps) sent in from the depots, which will maintain a stock of replacement,
or "float", units at all times in order to minimize down time due to break-
downs. Once this new workshop is completed, the existing workshop at Belghoria
will be remodelled to permit it to specialize for the most part in chassis
renovation and bus body building. The depot construction and renovation
program will ensure adequate accommodation for the total CSTC fleet by March
1983.
(b) CTC. Project-supported investments in CTC would include: (i) a
tram rehabilitation program, providing for acquisition of 75 new tramcars,
rebuilding of 60 tramcars, and substantial overhaul of 105 tramcars; (ii)
modernization of CTC's workshop at Nonapukur and construction of a training
facility for CTC staff; (iii) upgrading of CTC's electrical system, including
improvements to overhead traction and underground cable systems as well as
upgrading of the capacity of six existing power substations and construction
of one new substation; (iv) rehabilitation of the existing track system; (v)
modernization of seven depots and three passenger terminals; and (vi) improve-
ments to the workshop and depot lighting systems and to the internal telecom-
munications system of the tram company, which is essential to ensuring quick



- 18 -
reporting of breakdowns and adequate communication between line operators,
depots, and workshops. These investments would allow CTC to operate a service-
able fleet of approximately 380 trams by June 1983 and to follow a regular
two-year cycle for normal tram renovation and overhaul, in place of the
three-year cycle now enforced by lack of adequate repair plant and equipment
and inefficient organization of repair facilities.
(c) CMDA. CMDA's investments under the project would focus on (i) reduc-
ing traffic congestion and improving efficiency of road use in the central city
through the implementation of a program of traffic engineering and management
schemes along several major transit corridors (to complement those schemes
being undertaken under the Second Calcutta Urban Development Project); and
(ii) improving facilities for public and private bus operators and passengers
through construction of four off-street bus terminals for public and private
buses, improvement of fifteen existing private bus terminating points, and
construction of about 1,500 passenger shelters along major transit corridors.
The traffic engineering and management schemes would be planned and executed
by CMDA's Traffic Engineering Unit. GOWB has agreed to strengthen this unit
by November 1, 1980 (Section 3.06, Project Agreement), in order to ensure its
capacity to carry out its responsibilities under the project. Recruits are
now being sought for 15 new positions already sanctioned for the unit. The
individual traffic engineering and management schemes to be undertaken will
be formulated on the basis of traffic studies being carried out under the
on-going Second Calcutta Urban Development Project. The schemes to be
included in the project will be identified in consultation with IDA (Section
3.07, Project Agreement) within an overall budget of approximately US$6
million equivalent, which has been determined on the basis of CMDA's esti-
mated execution capacity. In order to ensure full realization of the
potential benefits of CMDA's investments under the project, the State Gov-
ernment would ensure adequate maintenance of all roads on which traffic
engineering or management improvements are undertaken (Section 2.07, Project
Agreement).
44.       Technical Assistance.  CSTC, CTC and CMDA have engaged local consul-
tants during project preparation to assist them in the planning and design of
their investment programs. The proposed project would support continued con-
sultancy assistance to these agencies for completion of detailed engineer-
ing, preparation of tender documents and construction supervision. The project
would also support technical assistance to CMDA for studies and surveys related
to review and rationalization of public transit routes in the project area
(which would be the responsibility of the Transit Planning Cell; see para 42(d)
above), for associated baseline socio-economic studies of the geographical
distribution of low-income households and the socio-economic characteristics
of public transit passengers, and for design of an evaluation system (to be
implemented by CMDA) which would permit, inter alia, evaluation of the impact
of the project on different socio-economic groups in the project area.
Project Implementation
45.       The project would be implemented primarily by CSTC, CTC, and CMDA
under the direction of a Chief Project Officer responsible for project adminis-
tration, coordination, and monitoring. A senior State Government official



- 19 -
has been appointed to fill the position of Chief Project Officer. GOWB would
ensure that this position would be filled at all times by an officer of suit-
able experience and that the Chief Project Officer would be provided with ade-
quate staff, including, inter alia, a chartered cost accountant (Section 3.10,
Project Agreement). Overall policy guidance would be provided by a Project
Steering Committee established by GOWB in February 1980. The Project Steering
Committee would be chaired by the Chief Project Officer and would include the
Secretary, Department of Public Works (CMD), the Finance Secretary (GOWB), the
Chief Officers of CSTC, CTC, and PVD, and the Director-General for Planning
and Development of CMDA.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$121.7 million equiv-
alent, of which US$25.1 million, or 21% of total project cost, represents for-
eign exchange costs. Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to cost
estimates for bus procurement and plant and equipment, of 10% to civil works
costs estimated on the basis of detailed design, and of 15% to the costs of
the tram rehabilitation program and to civil works costs estimated on the
basis of preliminary engineering. Price contingencies have been applied dif-
ferentially for local and foreign costs and total approximately US$19 million
equivalent, or 15.6% of total project cost. The major components of project
cost are detailed in the Credit and Project Summary on page (i) of this report.
47.       The proposed credit of US$56 million would finance approximately 50%
of project costs net Df taxes and duties, which are estimated at US$9.7 mil-
lion, and would cover all foreign exchange costs. GOI would make the proceeds
of the credit available to GOWB on the standard terms and conditions for State
development projects. GOWB would, in turn, provide funds equivalent to the
proceeds of the credit, together with the balance of project costs, to CMDA
through its regular budgetary allocations and to CSTC and CTC as loans and
equity. GOWB loans to CTC and CSTC would carry 6.25% interest and would have
a maturity of 20 years with four years' grace. Retroactive financing of up to
US$2.0 million is proposed for expenditures incurred after April 1, 1979 for
consultancy services required for project preparation, for minor preliminary
civil works at CTC's Nonapukur workshop, and for procurement of a small
quantity of components required for the early phases of CTC's tram renovation
program.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Contracts for plant, equipment and vehicles with a total value esti-
mated at US$65.1 million equivalent 1/ will be awarded under the project. Of
these, contracts totalling about US$56 million equivalent would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. These contracts would cover bus chassis and spare parts (US$27.1 mil-
lion); new tramcars (US$15.0 million); and workshop equipment, rails, switch
1/   Including contingencies but net of taxes and duties (as are all figures
in this section) and of the costs of erection, which are included in
civil works.



- 20 -
points, electrical components, trolley wires, and traction poles (US$13.9
million). Domestic bidders would be granted a margin of preference equal to
15% or the relevant customs duty, whichever is lower. The remaining US$9.1
million in plant, equipment, and vehicles would include items such as furni-
ture and fittings for workshops, stores, and offices; tram bodies (US$1.0
million) and bogies (US$1.3 million); 30 auxiliary vehicles (of 10 different
types); and limited quantities of workshop equipment, accessories and hand
tools. These contracts would be individually relatively small, distributed
across the three implementing agencies, and required at different times during
the project period, and would thus not be attractive to foreign bidders. They
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding according to
procedures acceptable to IDA. Bus bodies for CSTC buses (US$6.3 million)
would be constructed in CSTC's own workshop utilizing existing installed
capacity. Materials for the bodies would be procured on the basis of local
competitive procedures acceptable to IDA. In order to improve cost and
quality control in its bus body building operations, CSTC would introduce an
improved cost accounting and repair recording system for bus bodies by April 1,
1981 (Section 3.02, Project Agreement).
49.       The total value of civil works under the project is estimated at
US$31.0 million. The civil works are individually small and scattered over
area and time and would be unlikely to attract foreign bidders. The bulk of
these works would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding under
normal State procedures. However, civil works for tram track renovation
(US$3.8 million), which must be carefully timed in order to disrupt CTC's
operations as little as possible, would be carried out departmentally by CTC
on force account.
50.       The remainder of project cost (US$19.3 million) consists of tech-
nical assistance (US$6.0 million), project administration (US$3.6 million),
and taxes and duties (US$9.7 million).
51.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against:  (a) 100%
of foreign or local ex-factory expenditures for plant, equipment and vehicles
procured through international competitive bidding (excluding bus chassis);
(b) 50% of expenditures for bus chassis; (c) 30% of expenditures for plant,
equipment and vehicles procured through local competitive bidding; (d) 30% of
expenditures for civil works (excluding force account); and (e) 50% of expen-
ditures for consultants' services.
Benefits and Risks
52.       The investments in CTC and CSTC and policy measures in support of
improved private bus operations to be implemented under the proposed project
would increase the efficiency of bus and tram services in the project area and
thus both the quantity and quality of transport services to the travelling
public. It is expected that by the end of 1983/84, CSTC will have succeeded
in providing an additional one million passenger trips per day, at decreased
load levels per bus, while CTC will have succeeded in increasing its daily
passenger trips by 470,000. At the same time, proper licensing and regulation
of private buses and implementation of appropriate fares would facilitate a
rise in their service standards, in terms of reliability of operations as well



- 21 -
as safety. Over the project period, then, the populace would benefit through
increased mobility as well as through reduction in waiting time due to improved
reliability of public and privately-operated transport services. The aggre-
gate economic rate of return of the CSTC and CTC components is estimated at
23% (CSTC: 24%; CTC: 21%).
53.       CMDA's traffic management and engineering investments would improve
road and traffic conditions along major corridors, leading to savings to vehicle
operators and passengers in both travel time and vehicle operating costs. Off-
street bus terminals and bus passenger shelters would considerably improve
travelling and operating conditions for passengers and service providers, and
would significantly reduce traffic hazards and congestion now caused by loca-
tion of terminals on main roads. Finally, the route rationalization study to
be carried out under CMDA's supervision would provide an essential basis for
efficient public transport management and planning.
54.       The project faces three fundamental risks.  First, there is the
ever-present risk that the combined program of management reform and physical
and financial rehabilitation CSTC and CTC are to implement will strain their
capabilities, particularly in view of the disruption they may be undergoing
due to the simultaneous program of road improvements in the project area and
construction of the underground railway. However, CTC and CSTC have demon-
strated a capacity to achieve significant performance gains during the project
preparation period, even without additional physical investments. Moreover,
considerable care has been taken to set a reasonable implementation schedule
on the basis of relatively conservative estimates of the agencies' execution
capacity, and to phase construction in order to minimize disruptions to the
operation of these undertakings. The second risk arises from the possibility
that the past pattern of labor indiscipline and unrest, in CSTC in particular,
may be difficult to break. However, the fact that CSTC's and CTC's bonus-
incentive schemes were introduced with the cooperation of the labor unions and
that labor productivity has, in fact, improved during the project preparation
period is seen as a sign that problems of labor management can, in fact, be
eased, although surely not totally eliminated in the near term. Finally,
improved financial performance on the part of CTC and CSTC will require fare
increases, which may be ill-received by a public accustomed to under-priced
public transport. Nevertheless, the State Government is aware of the impor-
tance of these fare hikes, and, in view of the associated risk and ramifica-
tions of public dissatisfaction, has committed itself to demonstrating and
publicizing early service improvements, as a preparatory step for the scheduled
fare increases.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
West Bengal, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
56.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 14, 1980



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCXAL IICAT5RS DATA SUM                        Page  1  of  5
IEPERI nCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. 3. )               fNDL                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL          3287.6                                                 SAHE       SAME     NEXT HIGUCE
AGCULTURAL    1818.3                                MOST RECENT    t20GRAPIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b   1970 A ESTIATE /b       REGION /c  GR1OUP d   GROUP /
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 60.0       90.0    180.0            191.1     209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRtAS OF COAL EQIIVALEIfT)   142.0      1S1.0    218.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPATION, mT-YEAR (fLLIONS)   434.9          547.6    631. 7               .     
unBN POPULATION (PECENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      20.7.           13.2       16.2       24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAU 2000 (MLIONS)                     973.0
STATIONARY POPUATION (MILLIONS)                     1643.0
YEAR STATIONHY POPULATION IS REACUED                2150
POPULATIOY DENS IT
PER SQ. W8.                     132.0      167.0    192.0             86.6      49.4        45.3
PEI SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0     308.0    347.0            330.2     252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 TYS.                       40.8        42.5      42.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
1S-64 YrS.                       55.7        54.6      55.0           52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YlS. AND ABOVE                 3.5         2.9       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9        2.3       2.1             2.4       2.4         2.7
URBAN                             2.5L&      3.3       3.1            4.1        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRT  RATE (PUR THOUSAND)    43.0       40.0      35.0            44.4      42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATE PATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0       17.0      14.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2        2.9       2.4            3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTMRS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0     3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOM)   ..         12.0      16.9             7.9      12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0      102.0    101.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPL'' Of
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0       92.0      89.0            93.0      93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRARS PElR DAY)       51.0        53.0      48.0           56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WHICE ANIMAL AND PULSE      19.0       16.0      12.6            10.4      13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0       22.0      18.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)   43.0       48.0      51.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..       134.0       ..              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             .,        17.0      33.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
URBAN                              ..       60.0      83.0           63.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                             *          6.0      20.0           20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO ECETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        18.0      20.0           15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..       85.0      87.0           66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..        1.0       2.0            2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5800.Oh    4890.0   3135.0         7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSLNG PERSON    9630.0h   5220.0   6320.0          12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER 'dOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2590.0/i   2020.0   1231.0          2738.4    1417.1        726.5
ULRAN                              ..         ..        ..             ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..        ..              ..      24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
.OTAL                            5.2          ..       5.2             ..        5.3         5.4
JRAN                              5.2         ..       4.8             ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                             5.2         ..       5.3             ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NLUBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
1ITAL                            2.6         2.3                       ..
uR3AN                              ..         ..        ..
lURAL                              ..
ACCESS TO ELICTRICITY (PERCENT
DF DSELL.NCS,
-OTAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..       22.5        S.
'TRAN                              ..          .        ..             ..       17.8        45.1
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..             ..         ..         9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATOIRS DATA SHEZ
INDLA                     REFNWIICE GROUPS (ADJUSTED LAyEAGS
- MOST RECENT EST7TE)  a
Sum         SAME     NEXT NIGiU
MOST RECENT     GEOCRPIC   INCOtlE         DICOHE
196O /b     1970 /b ESTnHATZ /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROtININ RATIOS
PRIMAY:      TOTAL                61.0         72.0      79.0            59.5        63.3        82.7
KALE                 80.0         87.0      94.0            74.9        79.1        87.3
PED6I                40.0         55.0      63.0            43.7        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                20.0         29.0      28.0             19.5       16.7        21.4
MALU                 30.0        39.0       38.0            27.8        22.1        33.0
FIEMLE               10.0         17.0      18.0            10.0        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF StCaODY)   6.0            6.0/i      *-              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACBER RATIO
PIRIAIY                           29.0         40.0      42.0            42.2        41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         16.0         17.0        ..               ..       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0        33.0      36.0             25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER T'OUSAND
POPLTLATION                        0.7          1.0       1.2             2.3         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TROUSAD
POPULATION                         5.0         21.0      24.0            15.5        27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          0.1       0.5              ..         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0         16.0      16.0             6.2         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDACE PER CAPITA  4.0           6.3       3.8               ..        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  31.3         32.6      32.2            21.4        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             73.0         73.0      73.0            66.3        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0         11.0      11.0             9.6        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               43.0         40.2      39.2            35.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 57.1        52.3      51.3             52.3       52. 4       48.8
FEMALE                              27.9         27.1      26.2             15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1       1.1              1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7         26.3/1      ..               ..                   15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS  51.7         48. 97T     . -              *                    48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT O HOUSEHOLDS    4.1          6.77       ..               ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP IlOUSEHOLDS   13.6        17.271      ..               ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      83.0             66.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..           ..      73.0            74.2        78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..              ..        91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      50.0             50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTI=ATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY LNCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      47.0            44.3        44.1        24.8
RURAL                                ..          ..      52.0            52.4        53.9        37.5
Not available
Noc applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Goverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia;  /d  Low Income (S280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  If 7978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million;   Li  1951-60;   'h  1962;
[195;   !j  1967;   /k  1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million;   /1  1964-b5.
Most Recenc Escimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX t
DEyugITICUS Ol  WA  INIATR                                                                           Page   3   of   5
Notes:  Although the data are dean from   ore  generally judged the meat authoritative and reliable, it should also be meted that they amy sos hr leteran-
tionally coparable becaue of the 1ob of etanderdleed definitiose  and e-epta used by different coutries is oolievtisg tie data. The data ar, toarthele-,
usefici to deocibe orders of sagitude, indioats treads, sad ebraterise ectais  -jor diff-ereoe   bet-e   coutr-es.
Thr adjusted group aerrae   f r  ah indi-ator ar  popslatino-eighted geometric men, eoluddag the rotremevls of the indicator and the mot populated
ovutryie  ac  orup.tac  t  lac  of date, gronpavege  of all iadioators for Capital Surplos Oil  oporters and of iodioators of Ao.eus to Wator acid Eocrta
hisp-oomi, Hoosiog, Isoom   otribtios and          ery for other o.utry gr-pe are popafltios-weightrd geomteio  aeas ulthout eolso    f the  -otr-m  ca-e  sod
the moo popolstdouty             laetervr    of eonties  ma  the indicators dependa os avilabilItyolf datat sod is sot uniform, outico mut hr vorrolard
In e-sue  arrages of oeindicator to  -anther. Thes  avrage  ar   metyusfs   saprel-tia ofesete                                   .ale  mie. coparing the cluea of oar
indicator at a time snag tie coutry and referenee groups.
LiAt) hIlEA (thousad aq.k.)                                                                  A-.es  to  iEcreta Dispsa  (peroeto   ouair    totul  ura,ad cisra  -
Ttl-Totalourfaoe area coprisleg land area and islanl          aes                         ubro   epe(oa,ubn  an:dfral  sereed by ecereta diopos-  a
Agr-Iotura1 -1 Bat reoct estimate of agicultural1 area oaed temporarily                      per-stgage  of their repootbi- poplations. Enoreta disposal ma  too lode
or- e     Inacet   for cro ps, paoturos, erit and Aitches gardess or to                    tie collectilo  and disposal1, with or sitiout treabent, of hun .... eets
lie fa -e                                                                                  and  suertrby o-ter-bree systems or the us  of pit pricie  and o-i1ar
iPPER CAPITA )USi)   G NP pee ospits -stlmats  at careet sarit prices,                     Poltbos see Phscan - Poplatioc dicided by eunier of peacticiog pbysicians
calcoae    ysn          or ice aetiod as World Bank Atlas (1976-7h basis);                   qulfldfo       eia   oola   ncriyIeee
Vbt. 19Th, and 197  data.                                                                  Pmpltios per Nur-ig Persos- Popubatioc doc-ed by cooler of p-at-ciog sal,
djIEPhA COhNSUAtTIhN PER CAPITA - Assoa.  coe-apti-o of csr is  negy                           and femal  grndsateaiier-, pratica-or1                and  --cioast corset
(coaland  igoie, ptrole , otural gas and hyder-, n-ce-  and go-                       Peultio        bsia   e            -ttl   ra,andeul- Popsiatioc   1totl, oct0I
oleal elvogtecoity  so kilogram   of coa  eqo-ealet per capita; 1960,                       and rura) diotded by their         `1 repcbvvantbrofhstabosn                ilii
197O, and i97t data,                                                                         pub lic and pr-cte generl sod npe-ili-d h-topotal ano rehobiLitati-c  c-oter
Hospitals arrI esthIisbnettn  per-netly otaffed by at lest ccv  hy,piocian
POPULATION ADi VCTAL STATISTICS                                                                Sotablishoeto prooidisg prio-ipoly osotodial car  soI ot is bood   Roca
TIcta1 PoyulatH.n) Mh79ear      tlo(- iv of July 1, b9th, 19T70, acd                         hooitait,I icue_, include health an  mdica  oet... cot penaet sy taflo
U1977 daca.                                                                                 by a phyilcian (hut by a ardoa1 asitat  cus, mdnf,  et.)ouh offer
bris  Popalati-o (cercet oftotal)   . Ptio  i urban to total pipulstico;                    ic-patient a-ondation and provide a  alted range of nedral facolot-ec
*hffereot definition   of urban trea  as  affetctounparahility of data                   AdIuooprhsua   e       oa   aIn   fonoic   oo   oougiCo
uogcutries; itO, 197C, nod 1975 dots.aoisodvddb   h  cano  ofboo
?sitiyP-jeotioc
Pcpoiatinaiy-o  P000 - C, orvet pop,ibatios proj-etIos  art lae-d In                HOUSiING
1971 total population by  gr and sex and thie  mertality and f-eille                   Averan  lice of H-ihl   peso   e  household) - total, icier, and rura  -
est-e  feojeotioc paramters for ertalitLy rtate  comprise cI three                       A hou.eholdcostsfagru oEfIidolul  obo chan   lviip  qoartern arc
ie_1lsusoitg life  -pe-tany at birth iacrelig with o-otey-a                              tbei  -a    el.A bo-dn- or lodger may or nsW t  ooi,dd is the
per Ieapits ico-me _tee, and femle life topsetanoy stbilioiug at                         hout"'Old for otatistec'lp oe.
77.1 pess.  Th e yrantera for fertility rate also har  three level                      erAget naire of -psssper;coo  - total, urban, soi rura  - ucerge ouch-
-tisg deolin ais fertilit  aecordiog to ilom   lece  and past                           of Persons PI, rca is n    urnban, and rural occpi sd o_ono         ..oIol d-ellios>,
tea ly. lcso  pofra . Eac   sntry i  te                  sigeed us  of these            reapeoi-ely.  DOelisge ecciudde  o-pran               truture  and usoocpird ptr:
,iiooobnaioaof mrtaloty and fertility t-eda for p-oJetiot                              A-oea to tlnotribety (percent of du-liao  - ttal, i-han  In  rural  1- C
tp-rpoe.                                                                                 osatinolt dvlszu   eboriiy                  is  ia   quater _as p-ceetso:
0itti-eary popultloot lsisotati ...cy populatios there iteogr-ti                          tota, urba, and rural doeb1ocguce-petieely.
sic  the 11b   rate isqua  to the death rate, and also tie age
ucutacte remins contant. This is achieved Isly after fertility rates                EDUICATION
dechice ti thie rplae.t Leverl of anit toot reproduotio  rate, -h..                    Adjusted t-rlrleot  atico
eahgersIo of anme  replace  itself co-tly.  The statioory pups-                         _reyshol-totl  eale and female -dros  total, sale ok femaleI enrol-
latlorosoeeatetimated on tie basic of the projected characteristics                        sent of ali ageo at the pri-sry 1e-el nopercetages of  -psytlie prisary
ofthe ppulsti.o   is ate ysac 2000, and th, rate of deelise of fertility                  sohoo1-sge poplti-c;  cealy incldes obilr-c aged ',-II y_r  hut
raet   npsnet  eeII .                                                             adj-nte  fur differeot lstho o  primar yzeiuoatioo  'Ice  _.ctric-ith
lear  tatlesryP platiun ii enahed - The pear ekes stationa.ry poplatios                 abesleuaioerlst   a  esord lc  perc--t                             oooepopil.
olie has hero  -vahed.                                                                     ac 7blo  o%bov  the offticil sohol age.
D-uitlcpoity                                                                           ..o-dar  school - total, male and female - Connotedacaoi:ociar
fcc sq. k.. - Phd-pea  popohatiuc per cusar  kilome ter (iou h-otars) of                     education requires at leat four year  of  ppyrc-d p-oec  i-otcutui.;
octal araproides geaneral  acti..e.l,-orteache  trahi.ig iooruot-t-:  C., pupil.
Per eq. Ian ariculturl land - Com~puted so bshoe for agri-ultral land                        anually of 12 to 17 fran  of agI: vorepudkenco  coo -c ae-,icclly
Illy.                                                                                      vo-luded.
Pcpulatiooel t-uturvn-oot(  - Childre  (A-lb yeas,arIngaedctinlsrlissot  pr-eov-t of  -voodury  - Vcoatico.. Iii titut.tn                                                    sobd
pears6  ,and retIrd   56 year  and ver   sprotg o    i-er                                technical, lodusttrial, or other progr-  ohich op-ct,  odep-od-otlyo
rooltioo  itI, 1971,i an d1977 data.                                                        depurtse.to f.secondary i-stitutioss.
P:1p.4sti  Irih  Rote ) pernet) -total - Annal er-th rates of total aid-                     Pupil-teanher ratio - prienry, and  -ecodar  - Tottl otdeoto  -soI'd in
yea  populati-s for '9VWhA  lphl-71,, and970-77.                                             primary and --nd-ry 1-1el  divided by curbe   c.f teahers ith,o  crr
foosltiur GIr.th bte  -ecet)    ra   - Aesual1 groeh rateo of ura                              uokigioen
po~oiletoos fo  1950-C, 1500-7b, andI17-5                                            Adolt ltre  rttel     ) p-erot) -literte  siubte  (able to rend sod -rit,a
Crude bIrch Pate   or thouand) - Asissa  Ice biethn  poe  th-uand of cod-                     a  po-etoge of total sdult populatici aged 1  y0-c  and cov.
Year Ppopoltion;P1 0, 1970, and 1977 data.
Crude heath ists (per thouand) - Arocal deatht per th-uand .1 sod-yea                    CONSUMtPTION
po1oltioc; 1960l, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                   Pa-sntgr for  (per thounand popolatio..    Pasuvogec our  -opr-u  stOc I0c
troco Osprouetios iat A-kerage sanbr of daught-r  a s=es  ill bea                     "eItIng less than eight perso-; eolisanhulan-oc, heaee  ano nilitary
Ic ho -rml rep-ud-tic- period sf the coperinoesaP _rio   g-eh IIIv
upe_ifI  fertliy .r... uualy fi-y-pa  aceuge- ending is 1*60,                                               2!dcPevcro(e  thuoano pupolaio-) - All types ofeolers
1970, sod 1975.                                                                            broadoasot   eea  pulc   e  thusn   of population;  ..c l,sdeeuIiioeo-e
Pab   laniag - iAonpt-r, A-.Iua  (th-uands) - Annual tanker of                           reoecrrInoanrssad is year  sins regi tttio f rt                  sAo. _   _.ortuuIn
acetoof bihth--otr-b  de-i-s  under cip,ioe  of national  fenoly                      e'ffect; dat  fotrreen  years con  cot he  -oparsie since  -...tcA        n
p_aoto   prongraT. shoIsh _                                                                            o_ osiug
Pselly  lanoiogdser~~(percent 'of ssa-iod wo-nee   - P-eretage of  srsed            TOxeceivr  (pr thouand populatios) - CTVre-i-r  for brotoonot t,RI ercei
sosesnof  bhild-boai-   gr        71-1    ers  rho us  birth-otr-1 dcvees                  public Per th-uand population;  -ooldes uhio--sd TP  rei-ri                 d ti
toall enecid coen  is  -ss  ag  grop,                                                    and in peso she.e registration  of TV sets oat  It ffect.
Newspaper Circulation  (per thousad 22  latuon)d-IOboes the soveage  -ov-ulai-
Fnub ANI) NoITRITION                                                                           of  dailygsea  interest  _eiPap. ,g  defined asu   rodos  publication
Ivire of ood Produtico herCapita )1969-71=1001) - Indee of per capita                decoted primarily to reo-diog general tees.  It'is conidered to be "dully"
an.u.I prodietio- ofal  fced cosasditirs  P-odutioseo-odes sed and                         if it oppears at least four tins a  see-k,
fvdsd is  n 1oirdary. psurbasi . -fsdities cover priesry goode't                      Cinema Annua AtsI       rnprCapita see Ana  - se-d 00 thvou Ibecfolcito
ie.g. oagc- e i.ttead of sugar) sich are edible and cotaic  Euriens                        tld hoin  tIhe yar,iodlg               ttoa to dri--ic cino-a  and  _otile
(e.   cffee ad toos ar  e-olded)   Aggregtat  produetiow  uf eth   -tnfy                 unts.
ihse   sctio_a  aerags producer prhe_wsight_.
Per -spita nuPpph  of -al-ien 'P'ret  of requireents) -Cfspuard from                  LABOR PORCh
e-rgy equieslet :,f set food  oppliriavalaleh   -cutry per capIta                     Total labor Pores (th-ando) - foo...niotIly actio  p-rsoc, i-lsdicA cr0-
Per day.  SAsiable supplies coprise dk..estie pr-duvti, importses                        forees and  oemploysd tut ec-loding hcu...i--u, stud-ets  etc  Defiolt  -o
;oprts, adi changes itn,oo   Net spplIes seclde anneal feed  sed,                       cccrou onltriesar  co.t conparable.
quan~titie  -td is fosd proersobg, and ho--e  inaiot,ibuti-s  enquire-                 lyup -yfet) - Peenie labor fovosoperes.tage of tical Ilabo  furor
me oe-e esimated by PAh based os phyoisogmIva  ce-ds for nrmal                     pftgtr oe-ent( -  abOo. oc,               vPaoe,frory    utc   o
uZtcity urd health e-osd-rng  --cisansta1 teper..turs., body  -cghts,                    fishieg no percetage of total labor firer.
aead se  ditibutIos  of population, sod shoonig It percent for                      I.duatry (percent) - Labor free on mining, cosru  it,enfnturiog .00
nteshoshold leonl.                                                              nIlrtrlrlty,  ater and gas as psevetage of toallborforce.
Pe cpta supyo   rtu   caepe   a)-Poecvset o"  pe                                         artleipatlie iate ) erosa)t  total, male, and  e_leoe    aric'Patins or
eapita seI spply of fovd per day. Net supply of food Is dosiord an                       aeticity rates are  -sapted as total,  oe,adfeuo  ao   force as pe-
aoeRquiremets fsr all coutriesIetblished by ASDA Iroelde for aIenae   f total, male and feale population of allago respectivey
itisas  aIcu--ac  of 61 gran  of toctal Pecteis Per day ani 20 g-am  of                 I*,1970, and 1975 lats.  Thec  are 'ILI s psotioipsti oncate foi
anim:Ialdiandplse po,teit, of shvih 10 gram  should be anlan  proteis.                   ag-see u.trutore of thepopultion, adbgvc   re.0feetinv
Ths   tand _rsr  loser than those of 75 gram  of total protein and                   aefroe nati.onll snuoe.
27 gran  of aniIma  pruteii as an averae for the  -ord, propo..sd by PAO              Eno-edi Ispaskesoy Ratio -  Ratio of popolat-o  -.odr 15  sh t5 and ove  to
itteTie    oli food lurowy.                                                       hMlbr.os  i   g  groP of 15-hi years.
Poero-Pita orotele supply from aeml and pulse  - Proteoin supply sf food
dreve  fre ..i.     l  and pulse  is gram   pr day.                                 INCO5I DISTRIBUTION
Chil(ae 1-)Nralt   ae per tisaand) - Annual deaths per thouand                             Percentage of PrIvte Ine-e (both is cask and bind) - ie-ei-d by rIcet
Is age groupl~i, years,   oheilkrea  in thisag rop  for msdee-5 peor.eat, riches.t  I percent, Poores t 20 pere-t, and poorest4oh peroot
oping coutrie  data derived from life tables                                               ofh ..u.ehlds.
HliLTli                                                                                    POVERTPf TARGiTE GPROUPS
lfe hopocoataseas, ble.~ti yash          Average snier of years of life                    estimate-d Absol.utePho-o,            LIEoa   lee   11I$ crcpt       rs.ahrm
reenicing at birti; 1500, 1970,II   an   977.                                                          I-                tt  o_I dots.  Absolute pote.rtylse   ee   asta   ese   ee  bhia-  hiet a   inml
lofant itrtality Pate (per thoaand) - Annual deaths of Infants under see                     sotritis..aily adequate diet plu  esetia1 oc-food reqiu-evets is sot
yea  of age yen thoutank live births.                                                      afor.akbls.
Acces to 1sf r Ca.ter (Persco 1 rt "popuItiee  -ibtotl, urban, and rur     -               Estimated PeInticePees,soe ee  (ipeosca)-uban and rural-
Nube  of Pepe(total  uba,    adrrl   ih reasableccs  to                                  Rural relativ   poetybet  Levei  seetied                 tf veaeprcIt
safe   ator suppl  (ineludes tretedsr seesabrs e- untreted kot                             porso-a  Ino,- If tie oontry  hrbanlevel IsI derived f... tie  rura  1e-e
Iootmotdeae   uha h at from protested breholes, spriags,                            nii  djusmn  for higs  oct of living is urban aren..
ned saitary esibs) as per-etage- of their  espretive peplatiss. In                       Estlasted Po  ulatils lelc   bsolte Pove rty Incom  Leve  (rroet.a  - urba  and
anrban ares a public fctats    or standpoet iscated se  meeta                             ua       ecn   fpplts uban and rurl)  he  r   abouePer.
P1 aster  f-n a h-.. suy be: ...siderd as beig aithisreasonble
sco es  of tha  Icns.Is. rura  area  reasona.ble aees  aslk iaply
toss tie hosesife or mashers of the  -oseold do sot hav  as spend a                                                                  --oie and So-ia1 laos Di-ise
dbsprupcrtlnA.te part of the day is fetshiag the family's aster  se.ds                                                        F--iueh   iAblyeiu and Projection  lep.rt-set
August 1979



ANNEX I
.rmfic D3V3aE1inT  ~                                       Page  4  of  5
myW PU  *rT iN   1977: 0S  150
bl                                                                                                  '/
GUM  M&UONAL PRODUCT IN 1977/7?                               SR                                  cr           C     . t tt Pric")
SU*lc.                                                      Ino~*-l6            1965M:MUN7  iM:atVA
CNP,at Market Prices            101.47      100.0                                                 3.9                 3.8                3.2
Gros Dostic lnvaw# t             21.65       21.3
Gross National Saving            22.77       22.4
Currant Account Balance  4/       1.04       1.0
source 3alance  _/              - 0.31     - 0.3
OUVTm. UROR  room D rumOn=CT! IN 1971
(aluc bt factor cost)o                 t ' r For"a
U# bin.         I                Kill        %             AL        % of Stioml Merec
Ariculture                        24.5          46.6              130.0    72.1              1"               64
Industry                         11.8           22.3               20.2    11.2             5S2              19
Services                         16.3           31.1               302      167              42             in
Total/average                    52.6          100.0              180.4   100.0             292              100
covnT ruS                                                   3*
aOral Goveromat                                             Cstral Cvermt
Rs. Sln              of                                         I                o ef
19n787        M&         I-                                1              19 77j
Current Recaipts                164.42         16.9          18.2                             95.62         11.0           10.5
Current  xpenditures             157.29        18.1          16.5                             95.27         10.9            9.9
Current Surplus/Deficit           7.13          0.8           1.6                             0.35          U.e.            0.6
Capital Epanditures  ff          62.58          7.2           7.0                            43.31           5.0            5.0
,zternal Assistance (net)  /      9.82          1.1           1.6                              9.82          1.1            1.6
1Qy. CaROT AnD Pwzcss               1970/71    1973/4    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977o        Sesoteber 1977      t_eLrsIEL
(Rs billion outstanding at end of period)
Noney and Quasi Honey                121.4      198.4      220.3      254.7      306.9      365.1          334.8            395.8
Sank  Credit to Covernment (not)      52.6      87.3       95.3      101.1       110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
lank Credit to Corcial Sector        64.6      107.0      126.7      153.9       185.1      210.Q          195.3            223.5
(Percentage or ln    Ibers)                              Jar    1Z78        Jamil .9J9
Money and Quasi lonqy as % of GOP     30.1       33.5       31.5       34.5       38.8        41.9
Ubolasale Price Indax
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6       185.8        184.5              184.6
Anaml percentage canega in:
wholeale Price Index                  7.7        20.2       25.2      - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
bank Credit to Gover  ent (net)      10.8       12.3        9.2        6.1        9.0         17.7         13.4              16.9
Bank Credit to Com_rcial Sector       19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
*/ lbe per capita OW estimate is at mrket pricees, calculated by the conversion technique ned in te lworld Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the avrae exchangs rate preailia  daring Vc period covere.
b/ Quick Xstimates.
c/ Computed from trend line of OW  at factor cost series, including on  obeervation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/ World lank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official national Account statistics.
*/ Transfers betwen Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and a*dvance  to third parties have bean netted out.
j/ Extenal grants end loans, less principal repaymnts, as recorded in the Central Budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMMS               1975/76     976/77    1977/76    1978/79                 NEGAEISl EZPRTs (AVDAGs 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(USSi$ UmSS Ml.                                                                       ___
Exports of Goods                  4,672     5,753        6,276        6,800               Engineering GCods              610         11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928        -7,237      -8,400               Toe                            417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777      - 175        - 961      -1,600               Ges                            377          7
NFS (not)                           310        360          650         700               Clothing                       331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                 -1467         185                      900                       Products               278          5
Jute Manufactures              267          5
interest Payments (net)           - 216      - 180         - 50          -                Iron Ore                       265          5
Other Factor Payments (net)          -          -            -           -                Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers  J/                   470        730        1,400      1,300                Sugar                          244          4
Others                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Account       -1,213        735       1.039          400
Total                        5.567        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341     1,953        1,628       1,805               BXIERNAL DEBT  NRca 31. 1978
Amortitation                   - 531     - 560        - 645        - 725                                                    USS billion
Transactions with INr               242      - 337        - 330       - 158               Outstanding sd Disbursed                 14.8
All Other Items                    - 45      - 216          384         205               Undiebtweed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575       -2,076       -1,527                    Undisborsed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (and year)         2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                h/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/       1,365      3,276       5S,668       7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FoR 1977/78           15.0  percent
Fuel snd Related Materials                                                                IBRD/IDA LRNDING. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                           1,417      1,581       1,817       1,980                                                     USS million
of which: Petroleum             1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                  IBRD          IDA
Exports                              43         37           33       n *                 Outstandi.4 ..  Diabursed          613         3,864
of which:Potroleum22                 21           is18a                        Undisbursed                        615         1,992
of which: Petroleuo                22        21           18        ne                 Outstanding, including              6    /
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHSANE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 = US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to eod-June 1972       US$L.OO - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - us$O.137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978              US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/  Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investeent income (net). Major payments are interest on foreige loans
and charges paid to INF, snd major receipt is interest eerned on foreign assets.
Jf  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
kJ  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/  Amortization snd interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
E/  Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                     3,624.6
312-IN     1972   India    Population                 --         21.2      .33
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --         12.0    5.31
356-IN     1973   India    IDBI I                     --         25.0    8.44
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    3.19
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    6.09
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing            --         13.0    7.63
481-IN     1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --            50.0      .20
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0          --     21.99
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --         30.0   20.55
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   34.24
520-IN     1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer          --         91.0      .24
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   15.60
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --            16.4    6.28
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --         35.0    9.95
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0       --      10.03
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI            95.6       --       3.88
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0   10.27
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   12.98
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    6.40
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0   12.46
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   22.02
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   54.05
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   78.89



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.22
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    13.60
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    105.52
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --     23.72
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0        --     24.00
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           --     23.42
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --      10.12
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   27.82
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   94.18
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0   15.15
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0      .98
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --     14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.09
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.16
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --     54.84
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   50.03
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.54
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   48.31
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --     35.81
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   93.84
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   50.80
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.48



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --      24.72
1549-IN      1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      93.75
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --            117.6   99.74
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power         --        200.0  178.77
806-IN      1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.91
808-IN      1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   78.99
815-IN      1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.15
816-IN      1978   India    National Seeds II          --         16.0   15.87
1592-IN      1978   India-   Telecommunications VII 120.0          --     59.80
824-IN      1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  141.98
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  193.44
843-IN      1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   79.84
844-IN      1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.69
848-IN      1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   34.07
855-IN      1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.84
862-IN      1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   23.50
871-IN      1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   23.00
1648-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --      50.00
874-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                            200.0  182.38
889-IN      1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  120.30
899-IN      1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.73
911-IN      1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN      1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.68



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN      1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0     230.86
1743-IN*    1979   India       Thal Fertilizer         250.0       --      250.00
963-IN*    1979   India       Inland Fisheries                   20.0      20.00
Total                                   2,528.8  7,255.0
of which has been repaid                995.3      59.8
Total now outstanding                   1,533.5  7,195.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2         17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,515.9  7,195.2
Total undisbursed (excluding*)            555.6  2,669.9
*    Not yet effective
I/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.6        0.4        1.0
1964         Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.3       13.1
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978         Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.2        5.2
1980         Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.             7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                                61.0       11.5        72.5
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.4         -         17.4
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             31.5        9.1       40.6
Undisbursed                          10.5         1.7       12.2



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$538 million in FY79, compared to US$497 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1980 totalled US$517 million, representing an increase of about
44% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,226
million as of March 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date:  July 31, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and St.te governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effec:tive Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272).  Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date:  December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:  September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and )ther irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agr_cultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:  January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980.  However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May !2, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
2 years.
(b) The agencies which prepared the project
Calcutta State Transport Corporation (CSTC), Calcutta
Tramways Company Ltd. (CTC), and Calcutta Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of first
mission to consider the project
July 1977/November 1977.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1979.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 2, 1980.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1980.
Section II      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) Management Support Units to be established in CTC and
CSTC and organizational changes effected by November 1,
1980 (para 42(a)).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) Training staff to be recruited for CSTC and CTC by
November 1, 1980 and training programs commenced by
January 1, 1981 (para 42(a)).
(c) Specified performance targets to be met by CTC and CSTC
(para 42(b)).
(d) Debt/equity ratio of CTC and CSTC not to exceed 67:33
during project period; CSTC and CTC operating ratios to
be reduced by annual average of 10% over project period;
25% fare increase for CTC and CSTC to be introduced by
April 1, 1981; GOWB annual subsidies to CTC and CSTC to
be stabilized at agreed levels; any surplus generated
by CTC and CSTC during project period to be channelled
into depreciation fund and not used for fleet expansion
(para 42(c)).
(e) Temporary route permits for private operators to be
converted to permanent permits as of April 1, 1981;
private bus fares to be brought into parity with CSTC
fares by April 1, 1981; PVD to be strengthened to
enable it to adequately supervise private operators
(para 42(d)).
(f) Commi.tee to review route rationalization proposals be
estab_ished by November 1, 1980 (para 42(d)).
(g) CSTC to review bus procurement program, based on monitoring
of economic life of buses, by March 31, 1982 (para 43(a)).
(h) CMDA's Traffic Engineering Unit to be strengthened (para
43(c)).
(i) Traffic engineering schemes to be agreed with IDA (paras
43(c)).
(j) Position of Chief Project Officer to be filled at all
times by officer of adequate experience; Chief Project
Officer to be provided with adequate staff, including
one cost accountant (para 45).
(k) GOWB to ensure adequate maintenance of roads on which
traffic engineering and management improvements are
undertaken (para 43(c)).
(1) CSTC to develop improved cost accounting and repair
recording system for its bus body building operation
(para 48)).



IND A
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CALCUTTA METROPOLITAN DISTRICT
Project Area Boundary
National highq6ays
Major Roads
Minor Roads                                                                                .
-       Raflroads                                                                                                                    I   - X  :     
Bridges/
Canals, Channels                                                                  -
Ccrporation and Municipality Boundaries
----- Kolyani-Bansber,a Boundaries
- ----Ca cutta Metropoi ton Bcundaries
- Dist,icts
International Boundaries                                                                  7
l                             /-8.tW= f-             _              -\
]n~~~~~~7 (r           -  I'                                                        sJV@
O          2          4                     8  ='/\................g1sf-IS
,V LES'.                                                         t                                    '     J 
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
r--  IC                          ISC\  
PAris  s5          \   -:                                                                               -\.        0N 
55>,                              _  r  q  </  & r- -? --
' >aeA                                                                                                                           n                              1-0 
S- >   ,I D 1 t   4   e    R YS                                                 ,)     < A\<st~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f   7   , / lfflaw >! 6eS7E Z X                                                      @;         \ADj
'Al=    o                                                                                                  A-                  \f      
Jrbsr                                        /  Stabs -- {  tM S R6SAbrMPn9vi O e                       )fl(
~~~~~~~~~I   = .......... .........   hRG  .  hsm  Q5IP.o  9  atC.  sI
f   ....r....  iLe     MJ>. ...................! s    ( tF1lavJ>X?7 v 6J1
i   +,1At r . :...ACP{ .2/b2f   



