Document of
The World  Bank                                              TeWlBnn
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2884-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
May 9, 1980
Urban Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 2, 1980)
Currency lUnit                Rupees (Rs)
US$1.0                   =    Rs 7.9712
Rs 1.00                  =    US$0.12545
1 paise                 =    Rs 0.01
Rs 1 lakh (10            =    US$12,545
Rs I crore (10 )              US$1.25 million
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against a
"basket" of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the
US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the disburse-
ment period).
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter               (mN        =    39.37 inches (in) or 3.28 ft
1 square meter        (mi3)      =    10.8 square feet (sq ft)
I cubic meter         (mi )      =    35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer            (km)      =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer   (km )       =      0.386 sq miles
I hectare             (ha)       =    2.47 acres (ac) or 10,000 sq meters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS
BEST              Bombay Electrical Supply and Transport Undertaking
of the Bombay Municipal Corporation
CC                Calcutta Corporation
CMD        =      Calcutta Metropolitan District
CMDA        =     Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
CSTC       =      Calcutta State Transport Corporation
CTC        =      Calcutta Tramways Company, Ltd.
GOT         =     Government of India
GOllB      =      Government of West Bengal
IDA I      =      First Calcutta Urban Development Project
(Credit 427-IN)
IDA II            Second Calcutta Urban Development Project
(Credit 756-IN)
MVA         =     Motor Vehicle Act, 1939
PVD        =      Public Vehicles Department
RTA         =     Regional Transport Authority
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31



INDIA                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND ...................... .1
A.   Urban Development in India and West Bengal    .            .
B.   Calcutta Metropolitan District                  1     . 
C.   Bank Group Role and Strategy in the Calcutta Urban Sector                2
D. Urban Transport in Calcutta              ..                                4
E,   GOWB Policy and Strategy for Development of
Public Transport System in the CMD   .              .11
II.  THE PROJECT .......................................                          13
A. Project Objectives .13
B. Main Features  ...13
C.   Detailed Project Description  ...........................               14
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................................                 23
A.   Cost Estimates .....                       . .......                   23
B. Financing   ..25
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE...                              26
A. Project Coordination .26
B.   Public Transport Planning and Administration .26
C.   Calcutta State Transport Corporation .28
D.  Calcutta Tramways Company, Ltd.                .35
E. The Private Sector .40
F.   Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority .41
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .42
As Implementation Schedule                ..42
B. Procurement                   ...42
C. Disbursement    ..44
D.   Accounts, Atidit and Progress Reporting         .       .45
E. Monitoring and Evaluation               ..46
F.  Supervision Requirements                          .      .46
This report was prepared by Karl Willen and Bernard Verdier (Bank) assisted
by David Cook and Maurice Mould (Bank) who together with S. K. Aiyar, E.A.
Aust, D. Colston and M. Narurkar (Consultants) formed the appraisaLl mission
in October-November 1979. A follow-up mission in March 1980 consisting of
Karl Willen and Bernard Verdier completed appraisal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contenu may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                         Page No.
VI.   PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION   ...... .........................  ..... .  46
A.   Economic Evaluation . .............. .     ........ *........  46
B.   Impact on the Urban Poor ...............................      48
C.  Risks and Uncertainties *..***...**..**....... a.*    ... .     .....  48
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS   ...........    ........................  a a * ................  49
ANNEXES
1     Bus Fare Structures in Calcutta, Bombay, and Madras            52
2     CSTC Component, Bus Procurement                                53
3     CSTC Bus Depot Capacity                                        57
4     Detailed Project Costs                                         58
5     CSTC Organization Chart                                        61
6     CSTC Financial Statements                                      62
7     CTC Organization Chart                                         65
8     CTC Financial Statements                                       66
9     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File      69
MAPS
1     Calcutta Metropolitan District (IBRD 14934)
2     Traffic Engineering and Management Schemes (IBRD 14935)
3     Location of CSTC and CTC Workshops, Depots and Terminals (IBRD 14936)
4     Route Coverage of Private Buses, CSTC Buses and CTC Trams (IBRD 14937)



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Urban Development in India and West Bengal
1.01      With a present urban population of 137 million, about 21% of a total
population of about 650 million, India stands as one of the most urbanized
developing countries with comparable GNP per capita. The urban population
grows at a yearly rate of 3-3.5% adding 4.3 million persons annually to the
Indian city centers. Urban growth is fairly evenly distributed but is more
significant in the about 135 medium-sized cities with populations between
100,000 and 1,000,000 which grew at an average rate of 6.6% annually between
1961-71 and which account for 527 of all urban population. The nine largest
cities with populations of more than one million are growing at an average
annual rate of 3.3%.
1.02      If the present trends in urban population growth continue, the
total urban population would be about 300 million by the year 2000 and by
the same time 43 Indian cities would have populations of over one million.
1.03      West Bengal is the second most densely populated state in India
after Kerala. In 1976, its population approximated 49 million with about
13 million (or 27%) living in urban areas. Calcutta, the capital of West
Bengal, is the largest metropolis in India. The population living in the
Calcutta Metropolitan District (CMD) is growing at an average annual rate
of 2.2% and is in 1980 approaching 10 million or over 75% of West Bengal's
urban population.
B. Calcutta Metropolitan District
Perspective
1.04      The CMD, stretching north and south for almost 70 km along both
sides of the Hooghly River, is not a single administrative unit, but it has
been delineated as a planning region through legislative action by GOWB. It
remains the dominant urban center in the eastern India region. The esti-
mated 9.9 million people living in the CMD represent 46% of the total urban
population of the region; the remainder live in the small cities and towns
that dot the 640,000 square kilometers of the region. About 61% of the
CMD population, or about 6 million people, belong to households in the econo-
mically weaker section, with a monthly income of Rs 350 (US$41.7 equivalent)
or less per household. The CMD is the slowest growing metropolis in India,
yet it continues to add about 200,000 persons annually to its population in
spite of continuing serious deficiencies in environment, infrastructure, public



LServ l  7 c lg rt>n~      ro   . ,t  3. .7 million of the CN population is within
h-G e;.`5S   admi-nistrative area on the east bank of the
z7'   ; ation is about 2.3 million concentrated
L,a 4.rS;y i.-s     -i l. .      ,  riun'palities opposite the CC.  Gross popula-
o.Cse,                  r n,A  -aa->>rages about 330 persons per ha (reaching
.se.7s   ai Le'ts)7 coimpared with 150-180 in municipali-
t-'ess c.70se t.e rsSac      ls. smalle  torrns and rural areas on the fringe of
i.   conoin
_`niag and service activ-ties predominate in the CMD.  In
n tue znu-.af tuirrin  Sa£Ctor, a .mxjor shift has taken place over recent decades,
from d.roiiance bv ->,    t industry to dominance by the engineering industry.
t-'-'-{'-  era   throughout the area, particularly in transport,
Th the CrD as a whole, employment in 1971 was
a?oou        i fli-..    d     nesr  icrease over the 1961 figure of 2.4 million--with
ao b   - 4 a 4    I               1 0 million in manufacturing and 0.2 million in
ahgric-ultu,> e agd   At present, the estimated labor force participation
rate in the MPZ4 -' S ab-out 33%, and the unemployment rate 10%, resulting in
about 320 000 unef?ployed persons, plus an unknown number of marginal and
part-time em  oyeesc
AdmirrnstratiLoz
lm        The Si _%a-_2 2'o-;-e-r-nrkent_ of West Bengal (GOWB) is responsible for
-fCam- ng -nd enact-n- llegislatlon governing all local authority activities in
West Benga.-  As         G GhWb  has authority over the Calcutta Corporation which
proviedes -oce'cve manna services in Calcutta City area, the municipal
authorities and chSer government agencies within CMD, and the Calcutta Metro-
pclitan Dve,e-loet Authority (CxMDA).  CMDA was created in 1971 as a statutory
aut.hority c1harged -orimarily with planning, design and construction of infra-
structure in thTe C-D k'see para 4.53).  Also, through its Home (Transport)
Department; CO-0W-B shares the responsibility for regulation and provision
of public transport in the State. including CMD, with the Transport Ministry
of the Government of India (GOI), which is responsible for national highways
and the RailWay ,i'Iinistry of GOI which is responsible for railways including
the underground Metro Railway under construction in Calcutta.
C   Ban.k G-cru  _Role and Strategy in the Calcutta Urban Sector
1.0J7     ch of                   lending in the urban sector of Calcutta is to
assist GWB -rn ac£lg, the defic4encies in the delivery of urban services.
The Bank is assis,-aig G,WI as efforts in (i) development of institutional
capacity for ur-an managemeni  (ii) coordination of urban planning; (iii)
improved servcaces -celivey9 and civ) improved fiscal performance by local
authoritics afnd u-n--`etaki.lcgs.  In terms of the total effort required, only a
start has been 'made prlmar41y in arresting the accelerating urban decay
induced through decades of neglects



1.08      The first Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr. 427-IN, 1973/74-
1978/79), assisted in financing a broad program of urban works with emphasis
on infrastructure to meet the most urgent needs of the population. The IDA
Credit of US$35 million equivalent, or 36% of total estimated project costs,
was directed to investments mainly in water supply, sewerage, drainage
and transportation sectors. The credit is now fully disbursed.
1.09      The Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr. 756-IN, 1977/78-
1981/82), differs from the first in that its components include a greater
number of sectors, such as area development schemes, bustee (slum) improve-
ments, programs for primary school construction and health care, small-scale
enterprise, traffic engineering and solid waste management. The project
also places emphasis on the operation and maintenance of all completed works
and on the formulation of plans for the future development of the CMD. At the
same time, CMDA has been preparing, and revises annually, its 5-year invest-
ment program, which is designed to provide for a rolling program reflecting
changing priorities in urban development within the CMD. IDA made available a
credit of US$87 million equivalent, or about 50% of the total project costs,
towards financing of this project, the implementation of which is by and large
on schedule. About 38% of the second credit was disbursed as of March 31,
1980.
1.10      In the area of traffic and transportation improvements under the
CMDA program, the above two projects include road and traffic engineering
schemes in selected areas of the CMD. These schemes support a GOWB long-term
strategy to facilitate the movement of all modes of traffic along existing
corridors in the central area of the CMD with a minimum of expenditures on
new road works, and to assist economic activities in the CMD by building
certain missing links and opening up new corridors. The only major traffic
and transportation schemes outside the present CMDA program are the Second
Hooghly River Bridge and the north-south underground Metro Railway in Calcutta.
These schemes which are financed by the GOI, are scheduled for completion in
1984 and 1986, respectively.
1.11      In view of the completion of the first urban project and the rapid
progress of the second, GOWB and CNDA have recently initiated preliminary
steps towards the determination of longer term investment priorities. This
exercise will involve: (i) a retrospective look at experience gained since
1973 and the impact of on-going programs on the economy and population of the
CMD; (ii) a review of CMDA's current performance; and (iii) an examination
of the future role of the CMD in West Bengal's economy, as well as the
formulation by GOWB of a regional urban development policy to complement its
rural development strategy.
1.12      It is against this broader urban development framework, and linked
closely to the interventions already underway specifically in the traffic
and transportation sectors under the first and second projects, that the GOWB
has given priority to the urgent need for a thorough upgrading of mass trans-
portation services in Calcutta.



- 4 -
D. Urban Transport in Calcutta
The Project Area
1.13      The GOWB has defined an area covering about 40% of the CMD for an
integrated transit system consisting of the Calcutta Corporation, the Howrah
Municipality, and eight contiguous municipalities from South Suburban in the
south to Baranagar in the north. This area--henceforth referred to as the
project area--covers the central business district and the major commercial/
industrial and housing areas of the CMD (see Map IBRD No. 14934). The 1977/78
population of the project area was about 5.5 million and is forecast to rise
to 6.2 million in 1983/84 and 7.2 million in 1990/91. The project and the
data to support the GOWB action plans are based on this area.
Transport Characteristics in the Project Area
1.14      The transport situation in the project area almost defies descrip-
tion. Only 6% of the land use is for roads, which is one of the lowest ratios
in the world. In this restricted road space, buses and trams compete with
trucks and cars, with slow-moving vehicles such as hand-drawn carts and
rickshaws, and with a seemingly endless flow of pedestrians overflowing from
inadequate footpath space. The resulting traffic congestion, exacerbated by
reckless road user behavior, reduces travel speed to 10-12 km per hour along
major corridors, and to 6 km per hour at some chronic bottleneck points.
Standards of road maintenance are low, and traffic engineering and management
is insufficient. Apart from about 18 km of reserved tram track, there
are few instances where mass transit vehicles have priority. Bus routes have
been sanctioned by the GOWB without much consideration to availability of
terminals, to road congestion, or to traffic bottleneck points. Many bus
terminals are on-street, increasing traffic congestion during rush hours, and
causing safety hazards for the travelling public.
Transport Modes in the Project Area
1.15      Walking is an important mode of transport in the project area.  On
an average weekday in 1978/79, about 800,000 walking trips exceeding 1 km in
length took place. About 30,000 hand-drawn rickshaws ply in Calcutta, of
which about 25,000 are unlicensed. They perform useful services such as
linking modes from doorstep to transit points, transporting school children,
and carrying light cargo. During the monsoons, rickshaws are almost the only
vehicles that can negotiate heavily flooded streets in certain poorly drained
areas.
1.16      Motorized transport is provided by buses, cars, taxis and trucks.
There are about 2,970 buses and minibuses, State-owned and privately operated.
Private car ownership is low, about 1 passenger vehicle per 50 persons or
about 100,000 cars. There are about 6,500 taxis and about 10,000 trucks
operate in the project area, mainly during night hours since truck movements
in the central business district is banned during the day.



-5-
1.17      Rail services are provided by State-owned trams and by the Indian
Railways. About 300 trams operate in the central parts of the project area.
There are 25 suburban railway stations in the project area, and about 0.75
million passengers commute daily to and from the project area mainly through
the Howrah and Sealdah Stations on the west and east banks of the Hooghly
River, respectively (see Map IBRD No. 14935). There are also about 30 ferry
service points in the CMD, of which 6 are in the project area on the Hooghly
River. Privately operated motor launches and country boats carried about
40,000 passengers across the river on an average weekday in 1978/79. The
Metro Railway (para 1.10) is under construction through the Calcutta metro
core area. Following its scheduled completion in 1986 at the earliest, this
system is expected to gradually provide for about 1.5 million passenger trips
a day by 1989/90.
1.18      Mass transportation by buses, trams and trains dominates the supply
of transit services in the project area, totalling about 6.6 million transit
passenger trips on an average weekday in 1978/79. As shown in Table I-1,
buses provided 79.6% of trips, trams and trains shared approximately
another 19.8% and ferries contributed about 0.6%. The contribution of all
other vehicle modes is not known but was insignificant, in terms of transit
services provided.
Table I-1: MODAL SPLIT OF TRANSIT PASSENGER TRIPS
WITHIN THE PROJECT AREA
Number of Daily Person    Percentage
Mode                           Trips in 1978/79 (million)   of Total
CSTC buses                                  0.94                   14.3
Private buses, regular                      4.15                   63.0
Private buses, mini                         0.15                    2.3
CTC trams                                   0.73                   11.1
Subtotal buses and trams                5.97                   90.7
Railways                                    0.57                    8.7
Ferries                                     0.04                   0.6
Subtotal                                0.61                    9.3
TOTAL                        6.58                 100.0
Source: CMDA and mission estimates.



- 6 -
Public Transport by Buses and Trams in the Project Area
1.19      While the CMDA program supported by the Second Calcutta Urban
Development Project addresses, inter alia, the need for improving traffic
engineering and management generally in Calcutta, the proposed project focuses
on public transport services provided by the GOWB-owned Calcutta State Trans-
port Corporation (CSTC) and Calcutta Tramways Company, Ltd (CTC), and by
private bus operators. Route coverage by CSTC, CTC and private buses is
shown on Map IBRD No. 14937.
1.20      The CSTC,  The forerunner of the Calcutta State Transport Corpora-
tion was the Calcutta State Transport Undertaking started in 1948. The
undertaking came into being to meet increased demand on public r-r;' ir';
'cutta, but also to meet demand on the Government for employment, partlc-
e,arly from refugees displaced by the partition in 1947.  The Corporation was
established by the GOWB in 1960 as a commercial undertaking in the public
sector, in pursuance of a policy laid down by the GOI in the Road Transport
Corporations Act, 1950.
1.21      CSTC has, over time, grown to become one of the biggest public sector
undertakings of the GOWB, in terms of employment--about 13,470 employees--and
capital investment. It currently operates 48 routes for city services in the
project area, on a total route length of about 650 km, and also operates
long-distance services on a network that covers part of West Bengal and
extends into Bihar and Orissa. In November 1979 the total CSTC fleet was
about 1,100 buses, of which about 130 were for long-distance services. The
city service fleet is formed by single-deck (SD) and double-deck (DD) buses.
CSTC performs regular services, "limited stop" service, as well as "special
services" by SDs in which no standees are allowed. For the latter two service
categories, special fares are charged (see para 1.28).
1.22      Until the early sixties, CSTC's operations thrived:  the fleet
strength expanded, revenue increased, surplus cash was generated and dis-
cipline was enforced. The CSTC's decline started in 1962/63 which corresponded
to the start of a downward trend of discipline and morale in general. This
undermined efficiency in many crucial sectors of the Corporation. The CSTC
has suffered from this state of affairs ever since. Not only did the service
to the Calcutta transit passengers decline drastically, but also the whole
undertaking became disorganized, operating with badly maintained equipment in
a context of low productivity. Labor-management problems are complex, and
large-scale absenteeism, both non-attendance and early workday termination
have been regular features. The total manning ratio per effectively outshedded
bus 1/ is about 25 staff per bus, which is about twice a reasonable ratio. In
the period 1960/61 through 1976/77, average effective outshedding fell from
about 73% to below 40%, and average number of passengers carried daily de-
creased from about 1.1 million to about 800,000. In the same period, the
I/   Effective outshedding is the percentage of total serviceable fleet that
completes its scheduled daily trips.



annual operating revenue consistently declined from a modest surplus of about
Rs 1.1 million in 1960/61 to a deficit of about Rs 111.5 million in 1976/77.
This has forced the GOWB to pay annual subsidies to the Corporation, which
have increased in step with a continuous deterioration of passenger services
in severely overcrowded buses. In the last few years, however, CSTC perform-
ance has started to improve, effected by the impact of project preparation,
and by an increased sense of cooperation and responsibility from the labor
unions. Further detail on the Corporation's functions, organization and
performance is in Chapter IV, Section C.
1.23      CTC.  The Company was formed in 1881 and operated until 1976 as a
private company registered in the U.K. Under an agreement between the GOWB
and CTC, reflected in the Calcutta Tramways Act, 1951, the State Government
was given ultimate powers to transfer the undertaking to 100% State ownership.
The actual management was taken over by GOWB in July 1967 when a State
Administrator replaced the directors' and shareholders' general manager.
1.24      At present, CTC operates 26 routes in the central project area east
of the Hooghly River. The Company initially operated efficiently under
British management. After the 1951 agreement providing for the GOWB takeover,
the Company continued to operate under the shadow of the agreement but,
without being in a position to raise fares, it curtailed its renewal and
replacement programs to the detriment of the undertaking. OutshedLding has
fallen from about 84% of a total fleet of 500 tramears in the 1950s to about
70% of a total fleet of about 438 tramcars at present; or from about 420
tramcars to about 300 tramcars. Since part of the tram fleet is over 50 years
old and is kept running by makeshift repairs, present outshedding performance
is remarkable under the circumstances, particularly in view of numerous track
and overhead failures during the day. However, with about 9,100 staff, CTC is
probably one of the most labor-intensive transport undertakings in the world,
with a total staff per effectively outshedded tram of about 33. T'he workshop
is more and more involved in manufacturing spare parts which, technologically
obsolete, have disappeared from the market. Service performance started to
improve in 1978, through efforts by a committed management and improved
cooperation by labor unions that are less politicized than those of CSTC. A
severe flooding that hit Calcutta and West Bengal in September of that year
caused serious damage to the CTC system, which took several months for the
Company to overcome.  Further detail on the Company's organization, finance
and performance is in Chapter IV, Section D.
1.25      Private Bus Operators.  Towards the end of the 19th century, private
passenger buses started to appear in Calcutta, in competition with the then
privately operated trams. The private bus sector became organized in 1925.
In 1955, the GOWB decided to nationalize all bus routes in Calcutta over a
five-year period, and in 1960 all private buses were banned from the city.
1.26      However, strike action by CSTC and CTC workers in 1966, and a
general deterioration in services by the two undertakings, forced the Govern-
ment to reintroduce private buses in Calcutta. In 1972, when the CSTC
situation had deteriorated further, GOWB allowed the introduction of private
I



- 8 -
minibuses, Approximately 1,500 regular private buses mostly individually
owned, now operate daily on about 68 routes in the project area. Of these,
al'l are single-deck buses with a seating capacity of 34-38 passengers, al-
though normally crushloaded with 80-90 passengers. In addition, about 500
minibuses, with a seating capacity of 20-30 passengers, operate in the same
area on about 39 routes totaling about 800 km. Standees are not allowed in
minibuses, but this regulation is sometimes violated. Individual owners of
private buses who operate a route or a number of routes form associations
which look after the interests of the operators and organize the services.
Similarly, minibus owners have recently formed associations. Private buses
are financed by local banks.
1.27      Under the GOWB Home (Transport) Department, the Public Vehicles
Department (PVD) and Regional Tranport Authorities (RTAs) sanction licenses
for individual vehicles and route permits for bus operators, respectively, in
the CMD. As further explained in Section B of Chapter IV, the RTAs are unable
to fulfil their proper role, for want of appropriate planning and adequate
staff. Also permits issued to private operators in the project area are only
temporary, with a validity of 17 weeks, whereas regular permits issued else-
where are valid for 3-5 years. In addition to the uncertainty created by
temporary permits, private operators are also beginning to be strained
financially due to the lack of fare increases.
Bus and Tram Fares
1.28      Calcutta fares for public transport have not been revised since
1975. Bus fares for CSTC buses and private regular buses are shown in
Table I-2.
Table I-2: FARE STRUCTURE IN CSTC AND FOR REGULAR PRIVATE BUSES
Fare (paise)                Distance (km)                  Per km (paise)
Regular Services
20                       up to  6.9                          2.90
25                       up to 10.9                          2.29
30                       up to 13.9                          2.16
35                       up to 17.6                          1.99
40                       up to 19.6                          2.04
45                       over  19.6
Special Buses (CSTC)
Minimum Fare - 50 paise                                         10.00
Source: CMDA and CSTC.
1.29      Annex 1 compares the Calcutta staged fare structure for regular bus
services with that of Bombay and Madras. The average fare paid by a CSTC



- 9 -
passenger is 22 paise, corresponding to an average trip length of about
7.5 km. This compares with an average fare of 30 paise paid by a 13EST
passenger in Bombay, for an average trip length of 5 km under much less
overcrowded conditions. It should be noted that average fare collection by
CSTC does not necessarily correspond to average trip lengths. Fare evasion is
high, estimated at 25%. Fare collection on private buses is very efficient
and fare evasion is negligible. The same is true for minibuses wh:Lch are
allowed to charge higher fares that approximate the cost of shared taxi
travelling, or about 4 to 5 times that of regular bus fares.
Table I-3: FARE STRUCTURE IN CTC
Paise                        km                              Fare/km
2nd class
15                      up to 3                               5.00
20                      up to 8                               2.50
1st class
20                      up to 3                               6.67
25                      up to 5                               5.00
30                      over  8                               3.75
Source: CMDA and CTC.
1.30      CTC tram fares are shown in Table I-3.  The CTC fare in second class
is the same as for CSTC buses, except for the first 3-km stage where it is 5
paise less. Charging first class fares for track-bound city translport in
Calcutta seems irrational, since passengers nowadays share the discomfort of
travelling whether in the front or the rear of the same tram set. CTC is
the only public undertaking in Calcutta that provides monthly tickets. They
range from Rs 17 to Rs 34 in first class, and Rs 5 to Rs 16 in second class,
dependent on the number of transfers and zones travelled. The CTC also
suffers from fare evasion but to a lesser extent than CSTC.
1.31      Present Public Transport Problems.  In the last 15-20 years, the
gap between supply and demand of transit services in Calcutta has widened,
and the quality has deteriorated. The citizens' attitudes towards public
transport is characterized by frustration and bitterness. Thousands and
thousands of transit passengers endure long delays in waiting for transport,
and suffer from transit deficiencies such as overcrowded facilities, irregular



- 10 -
services, bumpy rides, and frequent breakdowns. Along certairn corridors,
transit vehicles move in crushloading conditions not only duri-ng peak hours,
but for most of the hours of the days SDs with seating capacity of 35 to 40
carry about 90 to 100 passengers, and DDs with average seatinig capacity of 72
carry about 180 to 190 passengers.
1.32      Increased supply of transit services in the last decade has been
entirely borne by the private sector. However, past governments have not
wholeheartedly accepted the private sector's  important role, as witnessed by
the continuing but meaningless RTA practice of issuing route permits in
Calcutta valid only for 17 weeks at a time (para. 1.27). For political
reasons, fares have been kept low, not allowing private operators to
compensate themselves fairly for rising operating costs. Over time, they have
therefore developed many bad practices, in order to break even. They
crushload their buses, and sometimes dodge income taxes, skimp on standards
and payments of vehicle insurance, and default on bank loans. Private ope-
rators do not always adhere to conditions laid down by RTA for route schedules
and frequencies. Sometimes when new permits are issued for a certain route,
existing operators obtain court injunctions, on the basis that financial
losses will be incurred by them in sharing the traffic. The performance by
private operators may be less than satisfactory because of financial con-
straints. At the same time, it should be recognized that private operators
provide about two thirds of all transit trips in the project area, without
public subsidy.
1.33      As for CSTC and CTC, deterioration of their services originates
in a severe decay of their capital assets. The undertakings have not been
allowed to operate as economically viable units, plan for their future in an
organized manner, or get access to adequate provision of funds to meet the
requirements of fixed capital expenditure and working capital. A bankrupt
fare policy, not even offsetting inflationary cost increases over the last
five years, has forced governments to pay increasing subsidies in support of
inefficient services. Management-labor relations have also deteriorated over
a long period, and large-scale absenteeism and indiscipline among staff have
adversely affected productivity and service to transit passengers. Only
recently have some improvements in the latter problem area taken place,
thanks to combined efforts by the GOWB and dedicated managements. However,
overall improvements are modest, and bold financial and administrative
measures are required to break the present slump of CSTC and CTC.
Transit Demand and Supply
1.34      Transit demand projections for the project area have not been up-
dated since the early 1970s. 1/ The whole Calcutta transit system is supply-
oriented, operating at saturation level. From 1967/68 through 1978/79,
private buses increased their supply more than fourfold, from about 1 million
passengers/day to about 4.15 million passengers/day, while the combined
CSTC/CTC supply declined from about 2 million passengers/day to about 1.7
1/   A route rationalization study under the project will include origin/des-
tination surveys for transit passengers in the project area (para 2.40).



- 11 -
million passengers/day. It should be noted that information on CSTC/CTC
transit services is not very precise, since available statistics are distorted
by the high, but undefined, degree of fare evasion in the two undertLakings.
1.35      A study by CMDA assesses the future "demand" for transit services in
the project area. Over the next ten years, the demand for passenger trips by
major vehicle modes is projected to increase from about 6.55 million passenger
trips/day in 1980/81 to about 9.5 million passenger trips/day in 1989/90. The
projected annual increase is about 4%, as compared with past trends of about
5%. This slower growth in projected demand reflects the GOWB emphasis on rural
development in the State, which is expected to limit pressure from job seekers,
and population growth in the CMD and in the project area. However, the GOWB
considers that such measures will have an impact only in a relatively long-
term future, and that the largely trend-based demand analysis for at least the
next five years is realistic.
E. GOWB Policy and Strategy for Development of Public
Transport System in the CMD
1.36      In the area of urban transport, the IDA-supported CMDA program has
so far focussed on GOWB efforts to ease traffic congestion in Calcutta by
road and highway improvements and extensions, and by traffic engineering and
management schemes. While these efforts will have to continue, the GOWB has
recently decided to directly tackle also the urgent need for a thorough
upgrading of mass transportation services in Calcutta. The serious problems
of public transport in CMD have been recognized for a long time. Due to the
complex technical, financial and political issues involved, meaningful actions
were not initiated until 1976/77 when CMDA's planning functions had been
strengthened sufficiently.
Basic Objective and Policies
1.37      The State Government's basic objective is to provide public trans-
port in the CMD that will ensure reliable, economic and safe movement of
people, particularly for work trips. Key policy issues that are being given
attention are: (a) achieving better use of existing road space including
rationalization of transit routes; (b) improvement of efficiency and coordina-
tion of transit services; and (c) relation of urban transport to urban form.
1.38      Better utilization of existing road space and rationalization of
transit routes will be achieved by expansion of traffic engineering; and
management schemes started under the IDA-supported CMDA program, and by
institutionalization of route rationalization in Calcutta as a permanent
feature. In the longer term, studies will also be initiated of possible
restraints of private car use in key areas where road space is a scarce and
costly resource. Truck movements in Calcutta also contribute to traffic
congestion. Realizing that trucks are essential for sustained economic life
of the metropolis, the GOWB intends in the longer term to match regulatory



- 12 -
measures with facilities like truck terminals at appropriate locations to-
gether with other facilities necessary for truck operators and wholesale
traders. Finally, pedestrian and slow moving traffic are special features of
the Calcutta Transport scene. The GOWB pollcy in this respect is to separate
pedestrians from motor traffic, by improving footway capacity, and to
introduce priority measures for slow moving traffic, by establishing
segregated lanes, where possible.
1.39      In the area of efficiency and coordination of transit services, the
GOWB policy is (a) to improve the productivity and the quality of service
provided by the two public undertakings, CSTC and CTC, with a view towards
achieving financial viability of their operations over the longer term, and
(b) to continue to rely on the private sector to provide the bulk of transit
services, at least for the medium term, and, accordingly, to support the
private sector as necessary in order to enable it to fulfill its role. The
GOWB acknowledges that the private sector has an important role to play, and
that running a sole public sector service would require massive investments
and subsidies, in consideration of the low productivity by CSTC and CTC. On
the other hand, the GOWB feels that it would not be advisable to depend solely
on the private sector. A public sector infrastructure exists. By supporting
and gradually improving it, the Government feels it will be in a position to
exercise more effective control of private sector operations. The longer-term
proportions of privately versus publicly provided transit services would
partly depend on the relative efficiency of the two which would emerge over
the next few years.
1.40      The GOWB also recognizes that the achievement of a better urban
pattern in Calcutta would lead to a more economic use of urban transport
facilities and provide improved access and living conditions. A primary
consideration should be to locate the place of work and residence of workers
in reasonable proximity. This opportunity is extremely limited in Calcutta's
metro core area. However, the GOWB has accepted a polycentric development
policy for the CMD's long-term needs, and the current CMDA program includes
development of three growth centers, east and west of the project area, where
both residential and employment areas would be developed in reasonable
integration.
Strategies
1.41      Considering the above basic objective and policies, the GOWB has
identified a three-phase, ten-year development program, for gradual improve-
ment of public transport in Calcutta: Phase I, 1980/81-1983/84, and Phase II,
1984/85-1985/86, constitute an Immediate Action Plan, which is aimed at
improving existing public transport to meet projected demand in 1985/86.
By that time, the north-south Metro Railway line would begin to operate, and
experience would be gained from monitoring implementation of the Immediate
Action Plan, which would provide a basis for more definitive developments
under Phase III, 1986/87-1989/90. Phase I activities will be confined to the
project area, where problems and shortages are most acute, while Phases II and
III activities will be expanded to include the whole metropolitan district.
The proposed project would cover the Phase I activities.



- 13 -
1.42      Phase I includes the following actions in the project area:  (i)
improvement and strengthening of CSTC and CTC operations; (ii) initiation of a
sound fare policy; (iii) removal of unreasonable constraints on private bus
operations; (iv) rationalization of the route system for buses and trams; (v)
provision of adequate terminal facilities for different transport modes; and
(vi) improvement of road conditions and traffic management.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01      The proposed project, within the framework of the GOWB Phase I
action plan, is a first modest step in assisting the GOWB in improving the
quality and quantity of mass transport services provided by public and private
operators in the project area. In view of the present low productivity of
CSTC and CTC, there would be no significant expansion of their physical
facilities during the project period. Emphasis would instead be placed on the
renewal and upgrading of existing facilities and on improved efficiency and
output. During this consolidation period of CSTC and CTC, their institutional
and financial decline would be reversed. A sound financial base for their
operations would be re-established mainly through the introduction of a
realistic fare and subsidy policy. The related necessary fare increases
would also apply to private bus operators. Private operators would further-
more be supported through conversion of temporary permits to permanent permits
and through rationalization of the present ad hoc route structure. The
travelling public would benefit from these actions and also from investments
in bus terminals, passenger shelters and traffic engineering schemes, and bus
and tram route rationalization. The outcome of all those activities under the
proposed project would in due course allow GOWB to determine the relative role
of different modes beyond the project period, by an assessment of (a) actual
and potential productivity and financial performance by CSTC, CTC and private
bus operators, and (b) the improvements in services as realized by the public.
During this period, the exact timing and role of the underground Metro Railway
within the overall Calcultta transport system would also be clarified. A
favorable outcome of this assessment could then set the stage for possible
future external assistance to public transport in Calcutta and CMD.
B. Main Features
2.02      To achieve these objectives, the project comprises in the period
April 1980 to December 1983 the following activities in the project: area (see
also summary project costs, Table III-1): (i) policy measures by GOWB, to
improve efficiency by public and private transit operators; (ii) provision
of a total CSTC fleet of 1,125 buses for city services by June 1983 by in-
vestments in 530 new single-deck and double-deck buses mainly for replacement
of overage and condemned buses, and upgrading and modernization of the work-
shop and depot system (total base cost US$39.05 million, net of costs for



- 14 -
training, consultants' services, and project administration); (iii) provision
of a total CTC fleet of about 380 trams by June 1983 by investments in a
tram rehabilitation program, in upgrading and modernization of the workshop
and depot system, and, in part, of the track and power system on a priority
basis (total base cost US$37.09 million, net of cost for training, consultants'
services and project administration); (iv) continued rationalization of trans-
port and road space use by CMDA investments in bus terminals, passenger
shelters, and traffic engineering schemes (total base cost US$9.29 million,
net of costs for studies, consultants' services, and project administration);
(v) technical assistance to assist CMDA in studies for route rationaliza-
tion and of the socio-economic impact of the project on different economic
groups, and to assist CSTC, CTC and CMDA with project design, procurement
action and supervision of project implementation (total base cost US$5.64
million); and provision of training institutes for CSTC and CTC (total base
cost US$0.48 million).
C.  Detailed Project Description
Policy Measures
2.03      To achieve improved efficiency by public and private operators
in the project area, the GOWB will take action in the following areas: (i)
improve the management of CSTC and CTC by a combination of measures including
management reorganization, introduction of new management procedures, staff
training and the creation of a Management Support Unit for the duration of the
project (see paras. 4.18 and 4.37); (ii) augment productivity in CSTC and CTC
by reducing manning ratios for buses and trams, and by improving their opera-
tional efficiency (see paras. 4.22 and 4.40); (iii) reorganization of CSTC
and CTC finances, by a series of measures including capital restructuring,
annual reduction of operating ratios of expenditures to revenues, and stabi-
lization of annual subsidies (see paras. 4.26 and 4.44); and (iv) administra-
tive action geared to facilitate and improve private bus operations (Chapter
IV, Section E).
Physical Investments by CSTC
2.04      CSTC investments during the project period comprise: (i) procurement
of 530 buses with spares for replacement and minimal fleet augmentation; (ii)
provision of a new workshop based on an unit exchange system with equipment;
(iii) remodelling of the existing Belghoria central workshop; and (iv) provi-
sion of one new bus depot with equipment, and remodelling and re-equipping of
four existing depots.
2.05      Bus Procurement.  (See also Annex 2.)  CSTC will acquire 239 single-
deck and 291 double-deck buses, with spare parts, totalling 530 buses. As
further explained in Annex 2, CSTC has developed a retirement policy for buses
which assumes an average economic life for buses of about 8 years. The CSTC
will, during the project period, develop an information system to derive a
proper replacement policy based on techno-economic considerations, which may
show that the economic life for some existing buses has been underestimated.



- 15 -
Agreement was reached during negotiations that CSTC shall develop an informa-
tion system adequate to review its bus retirement policy and, in consultation
with the Association, and not later than March 31, 1982, review its bus
procurement program.
2.06      CSTC's present procedures for disposal of vehicles are cumbersome
and time-consuming, leading to unnecessary congestion in depots and delays
of revenues from sales of scrap. It has been agreed that the GOWB cause
introduction by CSTC of simplified procedures to expedite disposa:L of con-
demned vehicles.
2.07      Unit Exchange System.  Under present conditions, maintenance and
repair of CSTC buses are mostly decentralized to depots, where overhaul and
repair of chassis components or units are also carried out.  Adequate tools
and testing facilities are not provided at the depots, resulting Ln short
life obtained for individual units. Buses remain out of service while waiting
for repair of a particular unit.
2.08      To improve on this situation, CSTC will introduce a "unit exchange
system" in a new workshop to be built adjacent to the existing workshop
at Belghoria (see Map IBRD No. 14936). Activities in this new workshop will
focus on repair and overhaul of defective units sent in from the ,depots which
will maintain an adequate number and selection of "float units," i.e., engines,
fuel injection pumps, transmissions, gear boxes and similar units for replace-
ment in buses under repair, thus reducing their waiting time. In the new
workshop, assembly-line and quality-control procedures will be introduced
which will increase labor productivity and the life of repaired units.
2.09      The capacity of the new workshop is planned to accommodate repair
service related to 1,300 buses, i.e., the total CSTC fleet including about
130 long-distance buses by the end of the project period (see para. 1.21).
Facilities will be provided for repair and overhaul of float units. The
workload on each repair section of the workshop is worked out on the basis of
about 80% effective outshedding of buses, and average life of the various
units or assemblies that will be repaired.
2.10      Remodelling of the Belghoria Workshop.  Following completion of the
new workshop for the unit exchange system, the existing workshop will be re-
modelled and some existing structures will be demolished. The main activities
that will be retained are chassis renovation, tire retreading, and building
and renovation of bus bodies. Some other activities such as plant maintenance,
the electrical shop and the spring shop will also be retained. Store areas
will be increased, and the currently inadequate canteen facilities for staff
will be improved.
2.11      The CSTC bus body building and renovation activities focus on its
own fleet, but the undertaking also constructs new bus bodies for other State
bus undertakings and a small number of bodies for vehicles owned by other
agencies in the public sector. There is ample body building capacity available
outside CSTC in Calcutta and elsewhere in India, but studies by CSTC show that
their unit costs incurred for various kinds of bus bodies may be competitive
l



- 16 -
in comparison with bids obtained from outside contractors. However, the CSTC
cost accounting supporting these studies is incomplete. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that CSTC introduce, by April 1, 1981, improved cost accounting
and repair recording procedures for its bus body building operations.
2.12      Bus Depots.  CSTC has eight bus depots in operation, and one under
construction. Under the project, one new depot will be provided, and four
existing depots will be remodelled and re-equipped (see Map IBRD No. 14936,
and Annex 3). Following completion of this program, CSTC will have a total
depot capacity for 1,205 buses. This will accommodate the total bus fleet
held by CSTC by March 1983 of 1,125 city service buses and about 130 long-
distance buses, since at any given time, about 50 buses will be in the
central workshop for chassis renovation. The implementation schedule for the
program has been phased to allow for decommissioning of one at a time of each
of the four depots which will be remodelled, without adversely affecting CSTC
operations.
2.13      Completion of the above program will lead to greatly improved and
rationalized depot operations. Subject to expeditious disposal of condemned
buses (para 2.05), each depot will hold only the number of buses it has been
designed for. Introduction and centralization of the unit exchange system
will remove major repair activities from the depots, which will enable CSTC
to focus on the proper function of depots, namely preventive maintenance and
servicing.
Physical Investments by CTC
2.14      CTC investments during the project period comprise:  (i) implemen-
tation of a tram fleet rehabilitation program, with acquisition of 75 new
tramcars, rebuilding of 60 tramcars, and special renovation of about 105
tramcars; (ii) modernization of the CTC workshop; (iii) upgrading of the
power supply system; (iv) upgrading of the track system; (v) upgrading of
six substations and provisions of one new substation; (vi) modernization of
7 depots and 3 terminals; and (vii) upgrading of the lighting, illumination
and communications systems.
2.15      Tram Rehabilitation Program.  The present CTC tram fleet of 438 tram
sets is old, with more than 145 units acquired before 1931, and trams of three
different types: 158 streamline trams (SLT), 210 articulated cars (AC), and
70 streamline articulated cars (SAC). During the project period, CTC will
start implementing a long-term replacement policy, focusing on the most
deteriorated tram sets in the present fleet. Of 158 SLT trams, 75 will be
replaced by new trams of improved design. By dismantling the 75 replaced
trams, and about 43 additional SLT, components and parts will be obtained to
keep the balance of about 40 SLT in running condition. Badly corroded bogies
and bodies will be replaced on 60 AC and SAC trams, which is referred to as
rebuilding. About 105 trams will be subject to special renovation, i.e.,
replacement of worn out components; and about 100 trams will be subject to a
2-year cycle of normal renovation and overhaul. The 75 new trams will be
procured under International Competitive Bidding, while CTC will carry out
rebuilding and special renovation of trams in its Nonapukur workshop.



- 17 -
2.16      Modernization of-the CTC_Workshop.  The CTC workshop nt Nonapukur
(see Map IBRD No. 14936) dates back to the inception of the CompaiL,. For many
years, CTC used to follow a 2-year regular renovation cycle of individual
trams with periodic interim inspections, which worked out satisfactorily.
However, a grpdual deterioration of tram maintenance has taken place during
the last 20 years, because of old and obsolete plant and machinery, decrease
of staff productivity, and lack of adequate spare parts. A backlog of overhaul
and renovation works has built up, forcing CTC to adopt a 3-year regular
renovation cycle, which leads to further fleet deterioration.
2.17      Following modernization of the workshop, procurement of adequate
tram spares and components, and staff productivity improvements, CTC will
achieve a 25 to 30-day schedule per tram for rebuilding and special renovation
works. This will enable CTC to build up capacity: (i) to carry out, during
the project period, rebuilding of 60 SAC tram sets and special renovation of
about 105 SAC sets, in addition to regular renovation of trams on a 2-year
cycle; and (ii) to carry out, beyond the project period, necessary special
and regular renovation programs to sustain a total fleet of about 380 trams.
2.18      The modernization works focus on upgrading of workshop space,
stores and offices. Old and obsolete plant and machinery will be replaced,
including an antiquated set-up of line shaft machine-driven tools. Activities
in an existing iron foundry will be closed down, since high-quality, low-cost
castings are readily available from the open market. Similarly, activities in
the existing motor vehicles department will be curtailed, to encomnpass only
repair of special motor vehicles owned by CTC. A two-story administrative
building will be provided to rationalize and consolidate existing office space
and accommodate new activities like production planning and control.
2.19      Upgrading of the Overhead and Cable Systems.  CTC buys traction power
at 6,000 Volt AC from the Calcutta Electric Supply Company, Ltd., and converts
it into 550 Volt DC at 10 substations at different load centers. The power
from substations to the overhead traction system is fed by underground cable
and returned through the rails.
2.20      The overhead traction system includes about 3,700 poles and about
138 km of contact wire. During the project period, about 525 defective poles
will be replaced, and about 96 km of grooved trolley wire will be renewed
with copper cadmium grooved wire and fillings. The total length of positive
cable in the tramway network is about 120 km, for feeding the traction
system, and about 40 km of negative cable for return current from rails to
different substations. A total of about 32 km of underground cable will be
renewed. A further 25 km of underground cable will be installed as a result
of increasing the capacity of present substations in addition to a new
substation at Rajabazar. Plant and equipment to support CTC overhead wire
repairs will include provision of two new tower wagons.
2.21      Upgrading of Substations.  Present day traffic congestion in the
project area causes a considerable increase in stopping and starting of



- 18 -
tramcars, resulting in a heavy demand on affected substations, which are
overloaded and running without spare capacity. During the project period, the
capacities of the following six substations will be increased as indicated:
(i) Dalhousie Square (750 kw); (ii) Dharamtolla (1,000 kw); (iii) Shyambazar
(500 kw); (iv) Strand Road (500 kw); (v) South West (500 kw); and (vi) Garishat
(350 kw). In addition, a new substation will be provided at Rajabazar in the
Sealdah railway station area. At present, this tram zone is supplied by long-
distance feeder, causing poor operations, constant pressure on rolling stock,
and recurrent financial losses.
2.22      Upgrading of the Track System.  The CTC permanent way system
comprises a total of about 78 km of double track, including some 18 km on
reserved track, and about 16 km in depots and terminals. In addition, the
system includes about 360 pairs of switch points and 745 crossings.
2.23      The track system is in bad condition, causing frequent derailments
and damage to tramcars. Long stretches of rails are either worn out, sunk
or have bad joints, requiring renewal or overhaul. Intensified vehicular
traffic and increased payloads of vehicles and tramcars in roads with un-
reserved track require strengthening of the subgrade of tram tracks, lest
benefits of track renewal be diminished.
2.24      A careful technical survey of the whole track system by CTC,
assisted by its consultants, has indicated priority areas for track renewal
and subgrade strengthening. Under the project, about 12 km of track would
be renewed, with sub-base strengthening as appropriate, comprising about
3 km double track on reserve, 4.5 km unreserved double track, and 4.3 km
single track in depots. A further 9 km of unreserved double track will
be overhauled, with sub-base strengthening. In addition, 96 pairs of switch
points, and 200 crossings will be replaced. CTC carries out track renewal
and overhaul by departmental force. Replacement of defective tools and plant
for these activities is also included under the project.
2.25      A GOWB-commissioned Route Rationalization Committee of 1976 recom-
mended that certain CTC routes be abandoned for reasons of traffic congestion,
representing about 6% of the track system. No track renewal or overhaul will
be undertaken on these sections. A priority program for renewal and overhaul
of the balance of the track system will be worked out in such a way that no
conflict occurs to the findings of the route rationalization study under the
project (para 2.40), or to temporary relocation of track sections affected by
works on the underground Metro Railway.
2.26      Modernization of 7 Depots and 3 Terminals.  Shedding of tramcars is
distributed over seven depots where day-to-day maintenance and minor repairs
also take place. The existing depots are run down; office and storage
capacity is inadequate; canteen and toilet facilities need upgrading; and
certain equipment and machine tools need replacement. Under the project, a
depot renovation program--including acquisition of new tools and equipment--
will be implemented. Most of the depots also serve as passenger terminals,
but there are three separate terminals--Shyambazar, Baqbazar and Gariff
Street--where toilet facilities will be improved.



- 19 -
2.27      Lighting, Illumination and Communicatlor.,   e           :         rlc
supply system at Nonapukur uses AC and DC electric energy at , c.Jus currents.
During the workshop modernization, the system will be rat1on - 'z-'   to use
energy only at 3 phase 4 wire 400 Volt AC for plant anrd eq-u1ip
2.28       The existing ill 'nation level in depots and the Nonahpukur workshop
is inadequate, and installations are old and beyond repair.  in parallel with
modernization and upgrading programs under the project, standard illumination
levels will be provided, of 150/220 lux in workshops and depots and 300 luc in
offices.
2.29       The CTC has its own independent telecommunication system consisting
of 5 exchange boards with 250 telephones, The system is necessary to maintain
close liaison between traffic operations, depots, workshops and different
offices. The existing overhead communications system has proved to be unreli-
able, -with frequent, long disruptionss TJnder t.e project, the CTC telephone
network wi11 be modernized. Automatic eschange boards will he installed at
Nonapukur, Rajabazar, Gariabat, Uead Office and the Esplarnade juinction.
Underground cables will replace the existing overhead galvanized wire system.
Physical Investments by CNDA
2.30      In keeping with the GOWB strategy to improve running conditions for
mass transport in the project area, investments by CGMDA during the project
period comprise provision of. (i) bus terminals and bus terminating points;
(ii) passenger shelters along major transit corridors; and (iii) traffic
engineering and management improvements along major transit corridors.
2.31      Bus Terminals and Private Bus Terminating Points.  'dithin the
project area, about 62 or 83% of 75 existing bus terminals and private bus
terminating points are on-street. They have no adequate facilities for
passengers or operating staff; and existing conditions create traffic con-
gestion, safety hazards for passengers, and transit operation inefficiency.
Most of the terminals/terminating points have been located in a haphazard way
and possible terminal locations is an integral part of the route rationaliza-
tion study that will be carried out under the project. However, there are a
number of terminals and terminating points that,  under any findings of the
study, will continue as major focal points of transit passenger con centration.
Among these, the following off street facilities have been selected for
in6clusion under the proposed project: (a) Sealdah, (b) Ultadanga, (c) Dunlop
Bridge, (d) Dakshineswar, and (e) 15 private bus terminating points,,
2 32      The Sealdah Terminal serves five CSTC bus routes and a nsinber of
private and minibus routes.  The terminal will be constructed ir two phases.
Tdhen com plete, facilities will be available for a total of 2  CSTC, private
and minibus routes. and improved access and parking facilities for private
cars, taxis, carts and rickshaws will be provided. The Ultadarga Terminal
will be located close to the Ultadanga railway station. At present, two
CSTC and three private bus routes terminate in the area with nminima:L or



- 20 -
no facilities for operational crews, traffic control staff or the 23,000
travelling public who board or alight at the terminal points during a typical
12-hour day. This component will provide for necessary facilities to accom-
modate the present routes and two further routes  w.-_`L are expected to be
needed as the new town at Salt Lake develops. The Dunlop Bridge Terminal will
be located at a busy intersection where two CSTC routes, three private bus and
one minibus route terminate on-street and a fu-thIer nine routes pass through.
The existing terminal conditions are inadequate and require "U" turns across
the heavily trafficked Barrakpur Trunk Road, Approximately 18,000 persons per
12-hour day use the terminating facilities. COn completion, the terminal will
cater to nine bus routes initially proposed for five CSTC, three private bus
and one minibus routes, though this operational mix could change on completion
of the route rationalization studies. At Dakshineswar the bus terminal will
accommodate ten private bus routes including two mini bus routes. The esti-
mated cost of the four bus terminals allow for terminal operational buildings,
passenger shelters, toilets and related facilities. Concrete bus hardstands
will be provided, as well as high mast lighting, for security reasons.
2.33      Fifteen Private Bus Terminating Points.  Private buses operating
in the CMD are currently using 40 on-street and six off-street terminating
points. Almost all of them are inadequate, a source of congestion and
traffic hazards. CMDA have chosen 15 for minimal improvement in locations
that are unlikely to be affected by route rationalization. Improvements
include road and footway reconstruction, drainage improvements, provision of
passenger shelters, taps, lighting and urinal blocks.
2.34      Passenger Shelters along Major Transit Corridors.  About 2,000
passenger shelters would be required along major transit corridors for the
convenience of waiting passengers and for identification and separation of
stops for various routes. Under the project, a first phase program of about
1,500 shelters would be provided at a base cost of about Rs 5,000 each, in
accordance with a priority program established by CMDA. The final shelter
designs will be agreed upon between CMDA and IDA, following a review of
consultants' proposals for appropriate low-cost designs.
2.35      Traffic Engineering and Management Improvements Along Major Transit
Corridors. Under the Second Calcutta Urban Development Project, CMDA, assisted
by consultants, is carrying out traffic engineering and management studies
and related detailed engineering, focusing on an Immediate Action Area of the
central business district in Calcutta (see Map IBRD No. 14935), where traffic
and transit problems are most acute. The corresponding works would be com-
pleted by March 1982. As part of the above study program, CMDA has formuLlated
a traffic circulation plan for the whole project area for the purpose of
identifying further traffic bottlenecks. Based on this plan, CMDA has
identified a number of priority transit corridors.
2.36      Eight such corridor schemes have been selected for early implementa-
tion amounting to a total length of approximately 28 km, and including appro-
ximately 35 major and 40 minor intersections. These are: (i) B.T. Road from
Shyambazar Bridge to Dunlop Bridge; (ii) Dum Dum Road from B.T. Road to



- 21 -
Jessore Road; (iii) Beleghata Main Road fromm Sealdah Station to Hem Naskar
Road; (iv) Judges Court Road; (v) Hazra Road from Diamond Harbour Road to
Gariahat Road; (vi) Tollygunge Circular Road from Diamond Harbour Road to S.P.
Mukerjee Road; (vii) H. Mukerjee Road from Judges Court Road to AoJo Bose
Road; ard (viii) G.T. Road (Howrah) from College Road to Belur. All these
transit corridors serve both private and public transit modes and a sub-
stantial number of transit passengers. In all cases, the physical constraints
and adjoining land uses are such that traffic flows are seriously interrupted
and the situation is deteriorating. The need for traffic engineering and
management measures is pressing and urgent. The corridor improvements would
include improvement of intersection geometrics, widening of the carriageway
and provision of pedestrian guard rails, traffic signals, traffic signs and
intersection lighting.
2.37      The estimated base cost estimate for improvement to the eight cor-
ridors amounts to Rs 7.5 crores. However, in view of constraints in CMDA's
implementation capacity over the next three years, priority works on the above
corridors will be restricted within a base cost budget of Rs 5 crores. The
B.T. Road (Rs 1.0 crores) and the Dum Dum Road (Rs 0.55 crores) will be given
first priority leaving Rs 3.45 crores for the other six corridors. Assurances
have been obtained that the priorities for implementation will be agreed
between GOWB and IDA during the course of the project.
2.38      Road Maintenance.  Benefits from the various schemes above would
not be fully realized unless the corresponding carriageways and footpaths
are properly maintaiTed. Accordingly, agreement has been reached with the
GOWB that they insurc adequate maintenance of all roads under the project for
which traffic engineering and management improvements will be undertaken.
Technical Assistance and Training
2.39      The CMDA.  The Authority will require assistance in studies and
implementation related to route rationalization, including an evaluation
and monitoring study to assess the socio-economic impact of the project.
2.40      The present route structure of different transit modes in the
project area, particularly for buses, requires rationalization to balance
the system and optimize delivery of transit services. The GOWB and IDA have
agreed on terms of reference-for consultants to assist CMDA in necessary
studies and implementation of such route rationalization. In summary, the
18 month route rationalization study will form the basis for preparation and
implementation of a rationalized route structure for buses and trains. Origin/
destination surveys will be undertaken for transit travellers and walkers to
establish levels of services for transit vehicles and related faci:Lities such
as terminals, intermediate stops, and interchange points. Areas that are
particularly deficient in transit services will be identified. The preliminary
rationalized route structure referred to above will be monitored, including
conducting appropriate opinion surveys among transit users, and collection of
other relevant data required for a further rationalization of the route



- 22 -
structure. Based on the above monitoring and other relevant data collected
and analyzed, a further revised route structure will be prepared and imple-
mented. Techniques that will enable the authorities concerned to carry out
necessary future route modificaticns in response to changing circumstances
will be identified, and appropriate monitoring and feedback procedures will be
established. Thus, at the end of the 18-month period, an improved route
structure would be implemented and monitored, and an organizational system
established that would be able to plan and introduce on a continuous basis,
further modifications of the route system.
2.41      The project provides an opportunity to monitor the extent to which
transit service improvements directly benefit lower income people in the
project area. To prepare for this, a socio-economic survey is included in the
above study. The general strategy for the survey is as follows. The location
of low-income groups in the project area will be identified and related pos-
sible deficiencies in transit services will be established. The socio-economic
characteristics of transit passengers in the project area, as a baseline for
future monitoring, will then be established, and an evaluation model and a
monitoring system will be developed. This basis will enable GOWB to evaluate
the impact of the project on transit users of different economic groups and
monitor distribution of benefits, and may lead to possible adjustments of the
strategy for Phase III of the long-term development plans for the public
transport system in the CMD (para. 1.41).
2.42      The Authority has used local consultants' services to assist in
project preparation and planning, and will require continued assistance under
the project for detailed engineering of traffic engineering and terminal
schemes.
2.43      CSTC.  The Corporation has used local consultants' services to
assist in preparation, planning and design of its investment programs. Con-
tinued assistance under the project is required for completion of detailed
engineering, preparation of tender documents and for supervision and
monitoring of works.
2.44      Agreement has also been reached with the GOWB on the need for
provision of a training institute under the project for appropriate training
of CSTC middle managers, supervisors, and traffic and maintenance personnel.
CSTC, assisted by consultants, has prepared a training program (see para
4.20).
2.45      CTC.  The Company has also used local consultants to assist in
project preparation and design, and will continue to use such services under
the project for completion of detailed engineering, preparation of tender
documents and for supervision and monitoring of works.
2.46      CTC, assisted by consultants, has also prepared a staff training
program.  A training institute will be provided under the project for this
purpose (see para 4.39).



- 23 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01       The total project cost is estimated at about Rs 102.2 crores
(US$121.7 million) including taxes and duties of Rs 8.1 crores (US$9.7
million), with a foreign exchange component of Rs 21.1 crores (US$25.1
million) or about 21% of total project cost. Land acquisition costs included
are about Rs 0.8 crores (US$1sO million). Cost estimates are detailed in
Annex 4 and summarized in Table III-1.
3.02       Cost estimates are based on:  (i) detailed engineering designs for
all civil works by CSTC and CTC; (ii) preliminary engineering designs for all
civil works by CMDA; (i4i) latest quotations by domestic and international
manufacturers who, for similar kinds of equipment, have recently submitted
bids for buses with spares, and for plant and equipment; (iv) estimates by
CTC and its consultants for the tram rehabilitation program; and (v) on 1979
estimates for technical assistance.
3.03       Costs for consultants' services have been estimated as follows:
(i) the total estimated cost of the route rationalization study is Rs 0.75
crores (US$893,000 million). The study will require about 13 man-months of
foreign consultant services and about 725 man-months of local consultant
services. The average man-month cost for foreign consultants is estimated at
US$9,000, including salary, costs, fees, travel and subsistence. The average
man-month cost for local consultants is estimated at Rs 9,000 (US$1,070),
including salaries, fees, and provision for the cost of vehicles, travel, and
some other minor items; and (ii) for services required for detailed engineering
and construction supervision for CMDA, CSTC and CTC, the total estimated cost
is Rs 3.99 crores (US$4.75 million) based on the local fee scales for planning,
design, and construction supervision.
3.04      All costs are expressed in 1979 prices.  Physical contingencies of
5% have been included for procurement of buses, and plant and equipment, of
10% for all civil works with detailed engineering, and of 15% for all civil
works with preliminary engineering, and for the CTC tram rehabilitation
program. Price contingencies have been provided as follows (per annum as
indicated):
Locally Procured Equipment!
Calendar Year          Imported Equipment                       Civil Works
1980                       10.5%                                11.0%
1981                        9.0%                                 7.7%
1982                        8.0%                                 7.7%
1984                        7.0%                                 5.5%



- 24 -
INDIA
CALCUTTA URAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table II-1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
e--------R  Lakh -----------              --------US$ Million----------                   Percent
Components                     Local    Foreign   Taxes    Total          Local   Foreign  Taxes  Total        Percent  Foreign
Costs     Costs  and Duties               Costs    Costs and Duties           of Total   Exchange
1.  CSTC
A.  Procurement of Buses                    1,473.2   762.0   304.8   2,540.0          17.54    9.07   3.63   30.24          24.8      30.0
B.  Unit Exchange System                      157.8    44.0    26.9       228.7         1.88    0.52   0.33    2.73           2.2      19.0
C, Upgrading Existing Workshop                 28.9      4.5      1.0      34.4         0.34    0.05   0.01    0.40           0.3     12.5
D.  New Depot at Kasba                        164.1    27.2      5.9      197.2         1.96    0.32   0.07    2.35           1.9      13.6
E.  Upgrading of Four Existing Depots         227.4   44.4       8.4      280.2         2.70    0.53   0.10    3.33           2.7      15.9
F.  Training                                    16.7     2.7      0.6      20.0         0.20    0.03   0.01    0.24           0.2      13.9
G. Consultant Services                         121.1      -     14.6      135.7         1.44       -    0.17    1.61          1.3        -
H. Project Administration                     127.1       -        -      127.1         1.52      -       -     1.52          1.2        -
Subtotal CSTC                          2,316.3   884.8   362.2   3,563.3         27.58   10.52   4.32   42.42           34.6     24.9
2.  CTC
A. Tram Renovation Program                    961.7   412.2   187.3   1,561.2          11.45    4.91   2.22   18.58          15.3      26.4
B. Modernization of Workshop                  188.3    64.0    34.3       286.6         2.24    0.76   0.42    3.42           2.8     22.2
C.  Upgrading of Power Supply
and Sub-Stations                        330.1    51.8    11.8       393.7        3.93    0.62   0.14    4.69            3.8     13.2
D.  Upgrading of Tracks                       592.2    91.4      8,8      692.4         7.05    1.09   0.10    8.24           6.8      13.2
E.  Upgrading of Seven Depots                  85.8    13.5      3,0      102.3         1.02    0.16   0.03    1.21           1.0      13.2
F. Lighting, Illumination and
Communication                            52.2    18.2      9.6      80.0         0.62    0.22   0.11    0.95            0.8     23.2
G. Training                                    16.7      7.7     0,6       20.0         0418    0.04   0.02    0.24           0.2      12.5
H.  Consultant Services                       150.9       -    17.0       167.9        1.81       -    0.19    2.00           1.6        -
I.  Project Administration                    125.4       -       -      125.4         1.50       -       -     1.50          1.2
Subtotal CTC                           2,503.3   653.8   272.4   3,429.5         29.80    7.80   3.23   40.83          33.5      19.2
3.  CYDA
A. Bus Terminals/Priv. Bus Term. Points   179.0    19.8         6.2      205.0         2.14    0.24   0.07    2.45           2.0       9.8
B.  i as;enger Shelters                       62.9      9.9     2.2       75.0         0.74    0.12   0.03    0.89           0.7      13.5
C. Traffic Engineering Schemes               413.1    71.9    15.0       500.0         4.92    0.85   0.18    5.95           4.9     14.3
D. Route Rationalization Study                56.0    10.0      9.0       75.0         0.66    0.12   0.11    0.89           0.7      16.7
E.  Consultant Services                       83.0       -     12.8       95.8         0.98     -     0.16    1.14           1.0        -
P.  Project Administration                    29.0       -       -        29.0        0.35      -      -       0.35          0.3       -
Subtotal CMDA                        823.0   111.6    45.2      979.8         9.79    1.33   0.55   11.67           9.6      11.4
4. Totai Base Cost                             5,642.6 1.650.2   679.8   7972.            67.17   19.65   8.10   94.92          77.7      17.6
Physical Contingencies                       491.3   153.5    44.7       689.5         5.84    1.83   0.53    8.20           6.8      22.1
Price Contingencies                        1,168.4   304.0    89.4   1,561,8          13.91    3.62   1.06   18.59          15.5      19.5
5. Total Project Cost                          7.302.3 2,107.7   813.9  10.223.9          86.92   25.10   9.69  121.71         100.0      20.7



- 25 -
B. Financing
3.05      The proposed credit of US$56 million (Rs 47 crores) would finance
about 50% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties (US$112.0 mil-
lion). The credit will cover 100% of the foreign costs of the project
(US$25.1 million) and 35% of local costs net of taxes. The credit would be
made to the Government of India on standard IDA terms. The Government of
India will make the proceeds of the credit available to GOWB in accordance
with the GOI's standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the
states of India. The flow of funds to CSTC, CTC and CMDA will be in the form
of investment funds and budget allocations. The State Government will provide
investment funds to CSTC and CTC on the basis of a 2:1 ratio of lcan and
equity. This is in line with the capital restructuring plans for the two
undertakings approved by the GOWB, according to which, as of April 1, 1980 the
CSTC and CTC debt/equity ratios would be 2:1 (paras 4.25 and 4.44). GOWB
loans to CSTC and CTC would carry a 6.25% interest and would be for 20 years
with a four year grace period. These terms and conditions are standard for
GOWB loans to public entities. CMDA would receive regular budget allocations.
Retroactive financing not exceeding US$2.0 million is recommended for expendi-
tures for consultant services incurred after April 1, 1979 but before credit
signing, for procurement of a limited quantity of components for the CTC tram
renovation program, and for minor civil works at Nonapukur workshop by CTC.
These activities are necessary to ensure program continuity and to secure
expeditious project implementation. The financing plan is as follows:
Table III.2 FINANCING PLAN (US$ million)
Grants/                                              Of which
Agency    Budget Allocations  Loans            Total Cost           IDA Funds
CSTC            17.36           34.60           51.96                25.0
CTC             18.70           36.30           55.00                23.5
CMDA            14.75             -             14.75                 7.5
TOTAL      50.81           70.90          121.71                 56.0
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND FINANCE
4.01      The organization of the proposed project will be as follows.  A
Chief Project Officer with rank of State Secretary assisted by a Project
Steering Committee will be responsible for the overall coordination of the
proposed project. Various administrative bodies dealing with public transport
planning and administration will be strengthened as appropriate to provide
the institutional setting for implementing the project. CSTC and CTC will
implement the components listed in paras. 2.04 to 2.13 and 2.14 to 2.29,
respectively. CMDA will be responsible for the project components listed in
paras. 2.30 to 2.41. The GOWB will be responsible for administrative actions.



- 26 -
A.  Prolect Coordination
4.02      For the purpose of executing the project, the GOWB has appointed a
Chief Project Officer. This officer who has assumed all the Secretary Home
(Transport) responsibilities with respect to the execution of the proposed
project, will be responsible for (i) project implementation, administration
and supervision, (ii) project coordination, and (iii) project monitoring. The
Chief Project Officer will be assisted by a permanent staff. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the project is directed at all times by a
qualified Chief Project Officer assisted by an adequate staff, including a
chartered cost accountant.
4.03      The Chief Project Officer will chair a Project Steering Committee
created in February 1980 for the purpose of the proposed project and made up
of the Finance Secretary, Department of Finance; the Secretary, Department of
Public Works (CMD); the Secretary, and the Director-General, Development and
Planning, of CMDA; the Chairman of CSTC; the Administrator of CTC; and the
Director of PVD. The Project Steering Committee, which will meet on a
regular basis, will (i) take policy decisions in matters related to project
execution and (ii) take all necessary decisions to insure a timely funding of
the project components.
B. Public Transport Planning and Administration
4.04      The institutional framework within which public transport planning,
regulation and monitoring take place is spelled out in the Motor Vehicle Act,
1939 (MVA), which applies to private and public transport operators. The
District Magistrates are responsible for the registration of new vehicles, the
issuance of driving licences and the collection of road taxes. However, in
the central area of the CMD, covering Calcutta Corporation and the 24
Parganas, the GOWB has entrusted such responsibilities with the Public
Vehicles Department (PVD), under the Secretary of Home (Transport) Department.
4.05      The MVA provides for the creation of Regional Transport Authori-
ties (RTA) mainly responsible for the sanctioning of route permits for bus
operators. Most of the project area is under the jurisdiction of the RTA of
Calcutta Corporation and the 24 Parganas, and the RTA of Howrah . The Director
of PVD is the Chairman of the RTAs which also include the District Magistrates,
the Executive Engineer of the Highway Divisions, representatives of the
police, and six members from non-official organizations.
4.06      In granting route permits to bus operators, each RTA considers
various factors including, inter alia, (i) the advantage to the public of the
service to .be provided, (ii) the adequacy of the other passenger transport
services operating between the places to be served, and (iii) the operation by
the applicant of other transport services. Each permit granted specifies the
obligations of the operator with regard to the route on which the vehicle can



- 27 -
be operated, the timetable, the fare, the maximum number of passengers, the
standard of comfort and cleanliness, and the standard of maintenance.
4.07      RTAs, however, have not been able to fulfill their role properly,
mainly for want of staff and effective planning. Routes are often allocated
on an ad hoc basis and operators have been defaulting on their obligations
regarding timetable, security and load capacity. Operators have sometimes
also been successful in preventing RTA from allocating routes to potential new
operators.
4.08      The above institutional framework would be strengthened in order to
ensure that project objectives are achieved. It is expected that the institu-
tional basis will be laid to better assess the needs of the travelling public
and the constraints facing both private and public operators in meeting these
needs. Such constraints would be further addressed in a second phase of public
transport improvements.
4.09      To provide for improved public transport planning in the CMD and to
ensure proper coordination with other metropolitan planning activities, CMDA
has established a Transit Planning Cell to (i) advise the GOWB on and prepare
proposals for route schemes for public service vehicles, including buses,
trams and goods vehicles, (ii) monitor traffic and transport in the CMD, with
particular attention given to the level of service provided to the public,
(iii) collect, analyze and publish data relating to activities (i) and
(ii), and (iv) advise the GOWB and any public or private bodies on any matter
pertaining to traffic and transport in the CMD. Among the initial tasks to
be carried out by the Transit Planning Cell are the Route Rationalization
Study (para. 2.40) including a socio-economic survey of project impact on
beneficiaries and service levels (para. 2.41). The route schemes arising out
of these studies will in the future be updated by the Tran.-it Planning Cell on
a permanent basis.
4.10      To review the proposed route schemes the GOWB will establish
permanent committee made up, inter alia, of the Director of PVD, the Chair-i.n
of CSTC, the Administrator of CTC and the senior-most officers of CMDA.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that this committee would be established
not later than November 1, 1980. The committee will submit the proposed
route system to the RTAs for agreement and implementation. Private operators
or their representatives will be invited to discuss the scheme and present
their views, through established administrative and legislative procedures.
4.11      Finally, to ensure that bus operators comply with, inter alia,
(i) their agreed timetable, (ii) the required safety standards, and (iii)
their agreed outshedding, the GOWB will strengthen PVD through the appropri-
ate staffing of its traffic control force. Agreement to this effect was
reached at negotiations. The strengthening of PVD includes inter alia the
establishment of a labor cell and a legal cell within PVD to expeclite settle-
ment of disputes between private operators.



- 28-
C. Calcutta State Transport Corporation
4.12      CSTC is governed by a Board of Management of 11 persons including
three GOWB senior officers, two professional persons, four trade union repre-
sentatives and the General Manager. Consultants employed by GOWB are recom-
mending a restructuring and strengthening of the Board to reflect wider
public interests and internal management views. During the course of project
implementation, GOWB and IDA will have a continuous dialogue on the imple-
mentation of these recommendations with a view to achieve gradual board
management reform.
4.13      In the existing CSTC organization, 14 heads of functional depart-
ments report directly to the Chairman. This broad span of command is combined
with (i) reluctance to delegate on the part of some managers and a weak,
mostly untrained middle management/supervisory system; (ii) lack of
coordination between the engineering and traffic operations; (iii) inadequacy
of the traffic planning group; (iv) lack of effective budgetary control,
costing system and management information systems; and (v) outdated personnel
management policies and execution.
4.14      Presently, CSTC has a staff of about 13,470 empl-oyees, of whom
about 8,800 are traffic staff, about 3,370 engineering staff and about- 1,300
are administrative staff. The ratio of staff to the number of buses on
the road (effective outshedding) is about 24.8:1 1/ as compared to 14.3:1 for
Bombay and 9.6:1 for Madras.  Some of CSTC's staff were introduced by GOIB to
alleviate unemployment problems of refugees following the partition of India
and Pakistan and the Indo-Pakistan war of 1971. Others were introduced by
trade unions and some joined CSTC by virtue of family relationship. As a
result, many staff are not trained for the jobs they presently hold. Pro-
ductivity is very low, and absenteeism is widespread.
4.15      CSTC's problems as described above and in para 1.22 have tended to
be self perpetuating since the GOWB has not previously established a ceil-lng
on the amount of subsidy granted to CSTC. This absence of financial constraints
has contributed to inefficiency and to the ever growing demands of the unions.
The inadequacy of the management structure and the lack of motivation of the
CSTC's staff are reflected in the past operational and financial performances
of CSTC, as summarized in Table IV-1 below:
1/   Excluding staff engaged in bus body building activities (25.5 1 including
this staff).



- 29 -
CSTC
Table IV-1: KEY OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS (Selected Ylears)
1960/61 1964/65 1968/69 1972/73 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80
A.  Operational Indicators
Manning Ratios (per effect-
ive outshedded bus)           16.5    20.0    29.6   29.6    30.4    29.5         29.0    25.5
Average Effective Outshed-
ding (%)                      73.3    61.1    38.7   34.0    39.1    47.9         50.4    51.7
Average Kilometers Run per
Bus per Day                   199      182      147    144      152      139       142     152
Daily Passenger Trips
(in million)                   1.12    1.34    1.08   0.95    0.81    0.71         0.94    0.96
B.  Financial Indicators
Operating Ratio                  0.9      1.1      1.3    2.1      1.8      2.0       2.0      1.9
Total Annual
Deficit a/ (Surplus)
(in Rs lakhs)                (11.5)   72.3   268.8  609.4 1,114.8 1,295.4  1,457.1 1,143.6
Debt/Equity Ratio               10/90   20/80  50/50  82/18   90/10    92/8          93/7    95/5
a/   Includes interest and depreciation.
Source: CSTC.
4.16      Since 1977, GOWB and IDA have had a continuous dialogue on all
aspects of CSTC deficiencies. This has contributed to identifying key
problem areas, mainly in management and industrial relations. In the course
of project preparation, CSTC, assisted by consultants, has carried out in-
depth studies on all aspects of its operations with specific focus on produc-
tivity issues. Specific action plans regarding, inter alia, strengthening
of middle management, training, staff recruitment and financial improvement
have been drawn up and discussed with GOWB and IDA. CSTC has taken advantage
of the project preparation phase to start addressing major problem areas.
Over the 1977/78-1979/80 period CSTC has achieved consistent improvements
particularly in 1979/80. Manning ratios decreased from about 30 per effective
outshedded bus to about 25.5. Effective outshedding of buses increasied from
about 39% to about 52% on an annual average basis. In the same pericid, the
number of kilometers run per bus increased by about 5% per year and the number
of passengers carried per day increased by about 10% per year, from albout
810,000 to about 960,000. At the same time, deterioration in the CSTC
financial situation began to be halted. The operating ratio stabilized at its



- 30 -
1976/77 level, and the deficit decreased in 1979/80 to its 1977/78 level.
Also, in May 1979, CSTC management, with the agreement of the unions,
introduced an incentive scheme for traffic staff to improve the quality of
service by curbing the present absenteeism. While it is yet too early to
assess the full impact of this scheme on CSTC operations, recent information
indicates that its impact on labor productivity has been significant.
4.17      The GOWB and CSTC have undertaken to build on this momentum and
have therefore initiated a series of further measures which are part of the
proposed project. This includes: (1) a management improvement program,
(ii) productivity improvement measures, and (iii) a financial improvement
scheme.
4.18      A Management Improvement Program, regarding CSTC organization,
strengthening of the middle management and training, has been prepared by
CSTC, with the assistance of consultants. The CSTC organizational structure
has been redefined (see CSTC organization chart in Annex 5). The 14 depart-
mental units with line responsibilities are being restructured and grouped
into five units under the General Manager: administration and personnel,
engineering, finance, operations, and stores and purchase. New senior
management teams to head the operations, stores, and purchase departments are
being appointed. New management methods are being introduced, e.g., cost-
control and quality-control systems and accounting and management information
systems. A Management Support Unit with functional responsibilities would be
created for the duration of the project and attached to the Chairman of the
Board. This Unit will: (i) help management carry out the above reorganiza-
tion, including the introduction of new management tools, as well as other
improvement schemes such as strengthening of the middle management (para 4.19)
and training (para 4.20), (ii) assist management in technical matters (e.g.,
bid preparations and evaluation), and (iii) monitor CSTC's performance and
regularly inform CSTC's Chairman and the Chief Project Officer thereof. This
unit will be staffed by senior CSTC staff, and supported by consultants
who already did most of the studies for the preparation of this project and
are therefore well acquainted with CSTC's problems. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the organizational reform, including the establishment of
the Unit with staffing, will be effective not later than November 1, 1980.
4.19      The CSTC middle management will be strengthened through:  (i)
improvement of recruitment methods, (ii) recruitment of proper qualified
staff, and (iii) revision of the scale of pay to enhance CSTC's salary
competitiveness. Slots are being filled on a competitive basis. Vacancies
are being advertised in and outside CSTC. A special effort is being made to
recruit highly qualified technical staff. Two senior professionals are going
to join CSTC under this program: a production engineer and a quality control
engineer. Fifty-six new positions have been sanctioned, of which about 60%
are middle management level positions or higher. All the additional positions
are scheduled to be filled by July 1980. The GOWB has also approved an upward
revision of the CSTC pay scale which is now comparable to that of well-
established public undertakings such as Hindustan Zinc Ltd. and Bharat Heavy
Electrical.



- 31 -
4.20      The training program which has been prepared (para 4.16), will
become a permanent feature of CSTC overall management. Training will be
carried out by a training institute to be created under the project. Permanent
training staff will be hired for this purpose assisted by professionals from
similar transport undertakings (e.g., BEST). Middle managers will be offered
courses in general management, including inventory, cost control, accounting
and financial analysis. Drivers and conductors would be offered courses
ranking from basic training to refresher courses. Also, the training program
for apprentices, which is a mandatory obligation of CSTC, will be strengthened.
The CSTC Management Support Unit will help implement and monitor this program.
4.21      Rs 20 lakhs has been included in the project, for capital costs for
the CSTC training program. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i) adequate training staff will be recruited as of November 1, 1980, and
(ii) that training courses will start no later than January 1, 1981.
4.22      A set of Productivity Improvement Measures including a streamlining
of CSTC staff, and improvements in bus operation efficiency is being introduced
by CSTC management. CSTC's manning level will be determined on the basis of
manning ratios. Manning ratios for traffic staff are being established on the
basis of the number of buses effectively outshedded. Manning ratios for other
staff are being established on an annual departmental manpower budget basis,
which are being computed on the basis of suitable output, such as number of
depot staff per tram outshedded or number of workshop staff per unit of
production, as appropriate. The overall manning ratio for CSTC will decrease
from its present level of 25.5 1/ staff per effective outshedded bus to about
16.3 staff per effective outshedded bus at the end of the project period, and
the total staff would increase by only 18% as compared to 120%, if the 1977
CSTC manning ratio of 30 had been maintained. This reduction in the manning
ratio would be achieved through normal attrition and discontinuing the practice
of filling up positions as soon as they become vacant regardless of the
current needs. By the end of the project period, the overall CSTC manning
ratio (16.3), which includes about 0.7 for bus body building, would compare
reasonably well with similar undertakings in India (e.g., BEST which does not
have bus body building activities and achieves an overall ratio of about
14.3:1).
4.23      Improvements in bus operation efficiency which have been discussed
with CSTC management and deemed feasible will be achieved through better
effective outshedding and increases in kilometers run per bus. Effective
outshedding, defined as the percentage of the total fleet completing its route
schedule, will increase from its present level of about 50% to 82% by the
end of 1983/84, 2/ i.e., an improvement of about 53%. Effective outshedding
1/   This ratio include staff engaged in bus body building activities.
The manning ratio net of this staff is 24.8:1.
2/   The outshedding ratio will reach 82% in 1982-83.  See Table IV-2.



- 32
will increase as a result of a combination of factors, mainly reduction in
absenteeism brought about by the incentive scheme and reduction in number of
breakdowns, stemming from better maintenance and improved supporting physical
facilities under the project. The number of kilorte-rs run per bus per day
would also increase from its 1979/80 average of 152 to 176 by the end of
1982/83 as a result of the same combination of factors, but also as a result
of the introduction of the new unit exchange system facility (para 2.07).
4.24      The above productivity measures will translate into a substantial
improvement in the level of services provided to the travelling public.
Bus frequency will be increased, bus load factor will be reduced by about
13% and the number of passenger trips per day will rise from its present
level of about 0.96 million to about 1.97 million at the end of 1982/83,
i.e., an increase of about 25% per year (see Table IV-2).
4.25      The CSTC management program will be monitored through key per-
formance indicators starting April 1, 1980 as shown in Table IV-2. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that CSTC endeavor to reach these performance
indicators (with the exception of the daily passenger trips). Further indi-
cators such as bus headways on selected runs, peak hour operating speeds for
buses and ratios of passengers to seating capacity will be developed while
data become available, partly as a result of traffic and route nationalization
measures to be undertaken under the project.
4.26      A Financial Improvement Program to make CSTC financially self-
supporting within ten years will be carried out by GOWB. To this end, the
GOWB, in line with its stated objectives, has agreed to institute a series of
measures, namely: (i) restructuring of CSTC capital, (ii) annual reduction of
CSTC operating ratio of expenditures to revenues, and (iii) stabilization of
subsidy.  The GOWB has restructured CSTC's capital as of April 1, 1980.   The
GOWB has written off about Rs 65.4 crores of its previous loans to CSTC to-
gether with Rs 33.3 crores of accumulated interest on these loans, i.e., a
reduction of CSTC liabilities of about Rs 88.7 crores. At the same time, the
GOWB has authorized CSTC to revalue its assets by Rs 4.7 crores. CSTC has
therefore in effect written off 100% of its accumulated losses as of March 31,
1980, i.e., Rs 93.4 crores. After capital restructuring, the CSTC debt/equity
ratio is about 65/35. 1/ The GOWB will maintain the CSTC debt/equity ratio at
about this level by financing all new investments during the project period on
a 67/33 basis (see balance sheet in Table 3, Annex 6). Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
1/   The only effect of this scheme on CSTC operating statement would be a
decrease in deficit brought about by reduced interest payments.



- 33 -
CSTC
Table IV-2: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983184
A)   Manning Ratio (staff per effective outshedded bus)
-  Traffic Staff             14.0       13.6       11.2      10.9       10.1
-  Departmental Staff        11.5        8.0        7.6       6.4        6.2
-  Overall Manning Ratio   25.5         21.6       18.8      17.3       16.3
B)   Effective Outshedding (%)
-  Single Deck                47         60         73        80         80
-  Double Deck                50         61         73        80         80
-  Special Buses              53         66         75        90         90
-  Average Outshedding        52         63         74        82         82
C)   Kilometers Run Per Bus Per Day
-  Single Deck               150        165        170       175        175
-  Double Deck               148        160        170       175        175
-  Special Bus               165        175        180       185        185
-  Average Kilometers Run  152          165        172       176        176
D)   Daily Passenger Trips        0.96       1.12       1.32       1.97       1.97
(Million)
4.27      The GOWB  has agreed to gradually reduce the CSTC operating ratic of
expenditure to income with a view of bringing it down to about one within the
next ten years. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
The reduction in operating ratio would be achieved through productivity
improvements and through fare increases, the first increase of 25% to take
place on April 1, 1981 and a second increase of 25% to take place cn April i9
1983.  These proposed fare increases, which are deemed adequate to improve
substantially the financial situation of CSTC, will represent only a marginal
increase in household expenditures on bus trips in the range of 2%-2.5%
increase for households with income at the bottom of the income distribution
curve. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) the operating ratio
will not exceed 1.86 in 1980/81, 1.44 in 1981/82, 1.42 in 1982/839 and 1.20 in
1983/84, and (b) fares will be increased by an average of not less than 25% by
April 1, 1981. The timing of this fare increase is designed to give CSTC time
to demonstrate to its travelling public an enhanced level of servic-es and
efficiency and to give GOWB time to condition CSTC's clientele to the fare
increase.



- 34 -
4.28      CSTC's total deficits corresponding to the proposed decline in
operating ratio will decrease over the project period from about Rs 11.5
crores in 1979/80 to about Rs 9.2 crores in 1983/84. Total deficits will
decline on a passenger-trip basis from Rs 0.32 per passenger trip in 1979/80
to Rs 0.12 per passenger trip in 1983/84. This is a reduction in deficit
per passenger trip of 166% in current terms or 104% in real terms. The fact
that total deficits do not decline substantially before 1982/83 in spite of
the substantial productivity improvements is due to the increase in the total
number of passenger trips provided, increasing from 0.96 million in 1979/80 to
1.97 million in 1982/83.
4.29      The GOWB has agreed to modify its subsidy policy which has, so far,
consisted of covering CSTC's deficit through loans regardless of the size of
the deficit. From April 1, 1980 GOWB's annual subsidy to CSTC will be in
the form of a grant and fixed at Rs 10.5 crores through 1986/87 when the
operating ratio will be close to 1, at which time no further subsidies would
be necessary. Although the proposed annual amount of subsidy will be smaller
than the expected deficits during most of the project period, it will exceed
the expected deficits in 1983/84 and thereafter, and will allow, over time,
CSTC to generate the amount of cash necessary to (i) balance out the short-
falls arising from differences between deficits and subsidies during the
project period, and (ii) replace its assets. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the GOWB subsidy to CSTC will be fixed at Rs 10.5 crores
annually, and that the surplus cash generated by CSTC over the 1979/80-1983/84
period will be charged to a depreciation fund and not be used for bus fleet
expansion until the end of the project period.
4.30      The effects of the proposed financial measures will be (i) to
place a ceiling on the GOWB subsidy and therefore to re-establish financial
discipline within CSTC, and (ii) to pass on to the travelling public the full
costs of improved and expanded services to the extent that these two factors
could not be met through improved productivity. The proposed financial
measures will be monitored during the project period through the financial
indicators set out in Table IV-4 below.
CSTC
Table IV-4: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
Debt/Equity Ratio                 95/5       65/35     65/35      65/35      65/35
Operating Ratio                    1.96      1.86       1.44      1.42       1.20
Level of Subsidy (Rs Crores)    11.5         10.5       10.5      10.5       10.5
(Deficit)(Rs Crores)             (11.5)    (13.0)    (10.9)    (12.8)        (9.2)



- 35 -
4.31      Table IV-5 summarizes the revenue impact of key productivity and
financial measures. The table is based on the comparison between the total
revenue generated by CSTC for the proposed level of investment without
productivity and financial measures, with the total revenue generated by
CSTC for the same proposed investment but assuming that key productivity and
financial measures take place. Each key measure has been singled out for the
purpose of the analysis. Forecast of Operating Statements, Sources and
Applications of Funds and Balance Sheets are given in Annex 6.
CSTC
Table IV-5: REVENUE IMPACT STATEMENT
(in Rs lakhs)
1980/81     1981/82   19132/83    1983/84
Additional Income Generated
by CSTC as a Result of:
- Productivity Improvement Measures  127 (100%) 317 (50%)   575 (55%)   575 (36%)
- Fare Increases                            -      309 (49%)   368 (35%)   929 (58%)
- Increase in Fare Collection Rate          -        9 ( 1%)    95 (10%)    95 ( 6%)
Total                          127 (100%) 635 (100%) 1038 (100%) 1599 (100%)
D. Calcutta Tramways Company, Ltd.
4.32      CTC does not have a Board of Management.  Since the taking over of
the Company by the Government, an administrator has been appointed to act as
caretaker chairman/general manager and is responsible to the Secretary of the
GOWB Home (Transport) Department. Presently, CTC has a staff of about 9,100
of whom about 4,600 are traffic staff, about 3,400 are engineering staff and
about 1,100 are administrative staff. The ratio of staff to the number of
trams outshedded is about 33.5:1. Even after allowing for the difficult
conditions under which CTC operates in Calcutta, this situation reflects an
obvious overmanning.
4.33      CTC staff have traditionally been very dedicated to the Company.
However, the continuous deterioration of CTC material and equipment and,
therefore, working conditions, has undermined the staff spirit and built
up frustration. The low staff morale has taken its toll on productivity.
The average daily working time in the central workshop is about four hours
per worker, and the routine renovation program carried out by the iworkshop
affects now about 33% of the fleet instead of 50% in the sixties. The



- 36 -
*absence of financial discipline mainly due to the absence of a ceiling
on subsidies granted by GOWB to CTC, has contributed to reinforce this
situation.
4.34      The operational efficiency of CTC, as well as its financial position
have substantially deteriorated over time as shown in Table IV-6 below, which
summarizes key operational.and financial performance indicators in selected
years.
CTC
Table IV-6: KEY OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS (Selected Years)
1965/1966 1970/1971 1974/1975 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80
A. Operational Indicators
- Manning Ratio (per effective         26.4    31.8        34.4    34.0    33.6    33.5    33.5
outshedded tram)
- Effective Outshedding (%)              88       75         67       68       71      70       71
- Kilometers Run per Tram per Day    n.a.    n.a.         123.0   124.6   123.0   121.0   129.0
- Daily Passenger Trips (million)    1.00    0.69           0.77    0.71.   0.74    0.73    0.75
B. Financial Indicators
- Operating Ratio                       1.0     1.8-        2.0      1.8      1.7      1.9     2.1
- Total Annual Deficit /a (in lakhs)  -         256         435      415      432     531      610
/a   Includes interest and depreciation.
Source:  CTC.
4.35      As for CSTC (para 4.16), GOWB, IDA and CTC management, have been
discussing CTC's areas of weakness since 1977. CTC management also has taken
advantage of the discussions and studies initiated during the project pre-
paration phase to start strengthening the Company. CTC, however, was less
successful than CSTC in attempting to correct major deficiencies, although the
trend of deteriorating performance was halted during the 1977-79 period.  In
1978-79, improvements in outshedding were broken by a devastating flood in
Calcutta in September 1978, causing great damage to the tram fleet. However,
some definite improvements have been achieved: the number of passengers
carried per day increased by 6% from 1976/77 to 1979/80 and the number of
kilometers run increased by 4% over the same period, and the manning ratio
stabilized at 33.5:1. Also, in December 1979, CTC's management in agreement
with the unions introduced a new timetable more suited to the existing traffic
conditions in Calcutta and an incentive scheme for traffic staff.



- 37 -
4.36      Although CTC's areas of weakness are not always similar to those of
CSTC, particularly in the field of management, the GOWB and the CTC management
would, under the proposed project, embark upon a series of managemient, produc-
tivity, and financial improvement measures in line with those being undertaken
for CSTC.
4.37      A Management Improvement Program, combining a CTC reorganization,
a strengthening of the middle management, and a training component, has
been prepared by CTC's consultants and approved by the CTC management. The
CTC organizational structure is being modified to increase its eff'iciency (see
organization chart in Annex 7). The various departments of CTC are being
reorganized under four heads of departments: finance, engineeringt, adminis-
tration, and operation. The same new management techniques as for CSTC would
be introduced. Also, a Managemet Support Unit with functional responsibility
will be created for the duration of the project period. This Unit: will
perform the same function as the CSTC's Management Support Unit (para 4.18),
and will be staffed by CTC personnel assisted by consultants.  Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Project Unit will be established and staffed
no later than November 1, 1980.
4.38      The CTC middle management will be strengthened through a recruit-
ment program developed on the same basis as CSTC (para 4.19). Thi'rty addi-
tional positions have been sanctioned, of which more than half (17) will go
to the technical department. All these positions are scheduled to be filled
by May 1981 and 27 are expected to be filled within the 1980 calendar year.
4.39      A far-reaching training program has been prepared by consultants.
Training will be carried out by a training institute to be createcd under the
project. Permanent training staff will be hired for this purpose., Courses
will be offered in all relevant skills and short training sessions abroad in
tram undertakings will be organized. Consultants who assisted CTC in preparing
this training program will also assist in its implementation.  Rs 20 lakhs has
been included in the project, for capital costs for the CTC training program.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (i) the training staff will be
recruited as of November 1, 1980, and (ii) training courses will start not
later than January 1, 1981.
4.40      A set of Productivity Improvement Measures, including a stream-
lining of CTC staff and improvements in tram operation efficiency, will
be introduced by CTC management. CTC staff will not increase over the
project period. The ratio of traffic staff per tram effectively outshedded
will decrease from 17:1 in 1979/80 to 13.2:1 over the project period, and the
manning ratio for other staff will be established as for CSTC (para 4.22).
The overall manning ratio for CTC will decrease from its 1977 level of 33.5
staff per effective outshedded tram to about 25.5 staff per effective out-
shedded tram at the end of the project period. This reduction in manning
ratio will be achieved through normal attrition, and enforcing a f'reeze on
recruitment of low-level job positions.



- 38 -
4.41      Improvements in tram operation efficiency will be achieved through
better outshedding, and increases in kilometers run. Effective outshedding
defined as the percentage of the total fleet completing its route schedule
will increase from its present level of about 70% to 90% by the end of 1982/83,
i.e., an improvement of about 22%.  The number of kilometers run per tram per
day will also increase from its present level of 129 km to about 150 km by
the end of 1982/83.
4.42      The above productivity measures will translate into a substantial
improvement in the level of services provided to the travelling public. Tram
frequency will be increased, and the number of daily passenger trips will
rise from its present level of about 0.75 million to about 1.22 million at the
end of 1982/83, i.e., an increase of about 18% per year.
4.43      The CTC improvement program will be monitored through key performance
indicators starting April 1, 1980 as set out in Table IV-7 below. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that CTC endeavor to reach these productivity
targets (with the exception of the daily passenger trips). Further indicators
such as tram headways on selected runs, peak hour operating speeds for trains,
and ratios of passengers to seating capacity will be developed during project
implementation.
CTC
Table IV-7: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84
A.  Manning Ratio
-  Traffic Staff                         17.0     15.9      14.5      13.3      13.2
-  Departmental Staff                    16.5     15.9      14.4      13.0      12.3
-  Overall Manning Ratio                 33.5     31.8      28.9      26.3      25.5
B.  Effective Outshedding La (%)             71        75        82       90        90
C.  Kilometers Run Per Tram Per Day          129       136       142      150       150
D.  Daily Passenger Trips (in millions)   0.75         0.91      1.00     1.22      1.22
/a  On the basis of a serviceable fleet of 380 trams.
4.44      A Financial Improvement Scheme for CTC, in line with that described
for CSTC (para 4.26), will be carried out by GOWB. GOWB has agreed to
restructure CTC capital as of April 1, 1980. About Rs 21.8 crores of GOWB



- 39 
loans and accumulated interest have been written off. At the same time, GOWB
has authorized CTC to revalue its assets by Rs 13.7 crores, of which 5 crores
have been transferred to capital account. CTC has therefore in effect written
off 100% of its accumulated losses as of March 31, 1980, i.e   Rs 35.5 crores.
After capital restructuring, the CTC debt/equity ratio is about 67/33. The
GOWB will maintain CTC debt/equity ratio at this level by financing all new
investments during the project period on this 67 to 33 basis (see balance
sheet in Table 3, Annex 8). Assurances, to this effect, were obtained at
negotiations.
4.45      The GOWB has agreed to gradually reduce CTC operating ratio of
expenditure to income, with a view to bringing it down to about 1 within 10
years. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. The
reduction in operating ratios will be achieved through productivity improve-
ments and fare increases, the first one of 25% on April 1, 1981 and a second
one of 25% on April 1, 1983. These fare increases are deemed adequate to
improve substantially the financial situation of CTC and will only represent a
marginal increase in household expenditure on tram trips in the range of
1.5-2% increase for households with incomes at the bottom of the income
distribution curve. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) the
operating ratio will not exceed 1.89 in 1980/81, 1.51 in 1981/82, 1.50 in
1982/83 and 1.32 in 1983/84 and (b) fares will be increased by an average of
not less than 25% by April 1, 1981. The timing of this fare increase is based
on the same rationale as for CSTC (para 4.27).
4.46      CTC's total deficits corresponding to the proposed decline! in
operating,ratio would stay constant over the project period. Total deficits
will, however, decrease in real terms and decline on a per-passenger-trip
basis from Rs 0.22 per passenger trip in 1979/80 to Rs 0.14 per passenger trip
in 1983/84. This is a reduction in deficit per passenger trip of 57% in
nominal terms and 21% in real terms. The fact that total deficits do not
decline during the project period in spite of the substantial productivity
improvements is due to the increase in the total number of passenger trips
provided, increasing from 0.75 million in 1979/80 to 1.22 million in 1983/84.
4.47      As for CSTC, the GOWB has agreed to modify its subsidy po:Licy
towards CTC. From April 1, 1980 GOWB's annual subsidy to CTC will be in the
form of a grant and fixed at Rs 5.5 crores through 1987/88 when the operating
ratio would be close to 1, at which time no further subsidies would be neces-
sary. As for CSTC, the proposed annual amount of subsidy will allow, over
time, CTC to generate the exact amount of cash necessary to (i) balance out
the shortfalls arising from differences between deficits and subsidies during
some years of the project period, and (ii) replace its assets. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the GOWB subsidy to CTC will be fixed at Rs
5.5 crores annually, and that the surplus cash generated by CTC over the
1979/80-1983/84 period will be charged to a depreciation fund and not be used
for tram fleet expansion until the end of the project period.
4.48      The effects of the proposed financial measures will be (i) to place
a ceiling on the GOWB subsidy and therefore to re-establish financial discip-
line within CTC, and (ii) to pass on to the travelling public the full costs
I



- 40 -
of improved and expanded services to the extent that these two factors could
not be met through improved productivity. The proposed financial measures
would be monitored during the project period through the financial indicators
set out in Table IV-9 below.
CTC
Table IV-9: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
1979/80  1980/81  1981/81  1982/83  1983/84
Debt/Equity Ratio                   -        67/33    66/34    66/34   65/35
Operating Ratio                    2.14      1.90      1.51      1.50    1.32
Level of Subsidy (in Rs crores)  6.1         5.5       5.5       5.5     5.5
(Deficit) (Rs Crores)             (6.1)    (5.8)    (5.3)    (6.4)   (6.0)
4.49      The revenue impact of key productivity and financial measures are
shown in Table IV-10. This table is based on the same assumptions as for
Table IV-5 (see para.4.31). Forecast of Operating Statements, Sources and
Applications of Funds and Balance Sheets are given in Annex 8.
CTC
Table IV-10: REVENUE IMPACT STATEMENT
(in Rs lakhs)
1980/81  1981/81  1982/83   1983/84
Additional Income Generated
by CTC as a Result of:
- Productivity Improvement Measures   10 (41%)  76 (33%) 155 (45%) 155 (29%)
- Fare Increases                            -      128 (54%) 136 (40%) 331 (61%)
- Increases in Fare Collection Rate   14 (59%)  31 (13%)  50 (15%)  50 (10%)
Total                           24        235        341        536
E. The Private Sector
4.50      The GOWB has recognized that the private operators would have a
substantial role to play in the future and has therefore undertaken to take



- 41 -
the necessary measures to support their operations. These measures include,
besides the provision of physical facilities (paras. 2.31 and 2.33),, the
extension of the duration of the route permits and the granting of fEare
increases on a parity basis with public undertakings. Additional measures to
facilitate private bus operationis would be implemented once the route
rationalization study and the socio-economic study would have provided further
insights on the constraints facing private operators.
4.51      Private operators in the Metro Core Area are currently given only
temporary route permits valid for 17 weeks rather than the normal three to
five year period provided for under the MVA. The main reason for this is that
the CSTC route scheme now in force gives exclusive right to CSTC to operate
within the Metro Core Area. The CSTC scheme will therefore, not later than
April 1, 1981, be reformulated to allow joint operation of private and public
buses on equal terms in the Metro Core Area. All temporary permits will, by
the same date, be converted into "permanent" permits with a validity of three
to five years. The validity period of the permit would be tailored to the
validity period of the route scheme as established by the permanent GOWB
committee and the RTA (para. 4.10). Assurances to thlis effect were
obtained during negotiations. No amendment of the MVA is required to
implement these changes.
4.52      Private bus operators will, in the future, be granted the same fare
increases as CSTC, with the first fare increase of 25% taking place on April 1,
1981.  By the same date, GOWB will also ensure that the fare structure and
fare level of private operators are the same as for CSTC. Assurancies to
this effect were also obtained during negotiations.
F. Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority
4.53      CMDA was established in 1971 and gained further confirmation of its
role through the West Bengal Town and Country Planning and Development Act,
1979. CMDA is responsible for the (i) formulation and designing of plans for
the development of the Calcutta Metropolitan District, (ii) coordination of
the execution of the above plans, (iii) supervision of the execution of any
project for the development of any area within the Calcutta Metropolitan
District, (iv) execution of development projects to the extent that such
projects cannot be implemented by existing executing agencies, and (v) finan-
cing of these projects.
4.54      The powers of the Authority are vested in a Board consisting of
three State officials and three municipal officials with the Chief Minister
of the State as Chairman. The principal executive officer is the Chief
Executive Officer, who reports to the Board. CMDA is responsible for the
implementation of IDA I and IDA II in addition to other investment programs.
The implementation of the second IDA project, combined with the experience
gained under the first project, has been instrumental in strenthening CMDA.
Improvements have been made to CMDA management, particularly through the



- 42 -
(i) establishment of a strong management team, (ii) introduction of improved
methods of management, (iii) development and use of appropriate project
appraisal techniques, and (iv) establishment of specialized divisions or units
to plan, design, evaluate and implement traffic schemes and development
schemes. These various improvements have substantially enhanced CMDA's
capabilities to implement complex projects. However, the traffic engineering
unit which will be responsible for the implementation of the traffic engine-
ering schemes remains weak. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
this unit is strengthened by November 1, 1980 in such manner as shall be
agreed with IDA.
4.55      The total cost of the CMDA investment program under the project
will be about 5% of the total CMDA planned investment over the 1979/80 to
1983/84 period 1/, and will not exceed 7% of the planned investment costs for
any single year. It is expected that CMDA can successfully implement the
proposed investment program without over-stretching its capacities.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Schedule
5.01      The project will be implemented in the period April 1980 through
December 1983 as shown in Chart V-1.
B. Procurement
5.02      The total estimated cost of contracts for plant, equipment and
vehicles is about US$65.1 million equivalent. This estimated cost includes
contingencies, but is net of taxes and duties, of costs for bus bodies, and
of erection costs. Contracts for about US$56.0 million equivalent would
be awarded by CSTC and CTC on the basis of International Competitive Bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement: bus chassis for CSTC
with spares and float units (estimated total value about US$27.1 million);
new tramcars for CTC (estimated total value about US$15 million); and work-
shop equipment for CSTC and CTC, electrical components and other items for
the CTC tram renovation program, as well as rails, switch points, trolley
wires and traction poles for the CTC programs to upgrade the track and
overhead and cable systems (estimated total value about US$13.9 million).
Domestic bidders for domestically manufactured goods will be granted a
margin of preference equal to 15% or customs duty, whichever is lower.
1/   The CMDA five-year investment plan covers only the 1978-79 to 1982-83
period. For the purpose of this computation, it was assumed that the
1983/84 investment program would be the same as 1982/83's.



-43 -
~NDi A
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
19WD                   1981                     1982                     1983
Activity                          PY 1979/83              FY 1980/81               FY 1981/82        r     FY 1982/83               FY 1983/84   -
1           2 3   4j1f   2          3    4       1     2     3    4      1    2      3     4      1     2     3 41
A. investments
I. By CSTC:
(a)  Bus Procurement                                                                                                               -
Ib) Unit Exchange System
(il Civil Works-                                               -
lii) Plant/Equipment
ic) Belghoria Workshop
i) Civil Works
Iii) Plant/Equipment                                                          *
(d) Nevw Depot, Kasba
i) Civil Works-                                                          -     -      -    -
(ii) Plant/Equipment-                                                                   -
le) Upgrading, Beighoria Depot
Ii) Civil Works                                        -                            
lii) Plant/Equipment
If) Upgrading, Lake Depot
Ii) Civil Works-                                                                                  -      -
lii) Plant/Equipment
IgI Upgrading, Paikpara Depot
i) Civil Works
lii) Plant/Equipment-
IhI Upgrading, Howrah Depot
Ill Civil Works
( iil Plant/Equipment
(i) Trainiing Facility
2 By CTC:
(al Tram Renovation
i)75NewTrams                                                                      --                -     -
(iii) Special Renovation, 105 Trains                                  --                            -    -     -                
IbI NonapukurWorkshop
il Civil Works                                              -                                  
Iii) Plant/Equipment-
Ic) Upgrading Power Supply
Id) Upgrading Substations
Ie)  Upgrading of Tracks                                                    -                                         
if)  Upgrading of Depots-                                                                -     -     -     -     -
IgI Lighting/Ill./Comm.
Ih) Training Facility
3. By CMDA
(a)  BusTerminal Points                                        -           
Ibi PassengerShelters-
Ic) Traffic Eng. Schemes
0i B.T. Road--
(ii) Dum Dam Road                                                                             -      , -
ONii  Additional Schemes                                                                          --                                           --7
4. Consultants Services
la) CMDA, Route Rationalization
Ib) CM DA. Consultants Services 
Ic) CSTC, Consultants Services
(d) CTC, ConsulItants Services                                                           -
Note.
Detailed Engineering and Procurement Action
Investment or Implementation Activity
World Bank -21471



- 44 -
Contracts for plant, equipment and vehicles, estimated value about US$9.1
million, would be awarded by CSTC, CTC and CMDA on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. These contracts include plant,
furniture and fittings for workshops, stores and offices, tram bogies (US$1.3
million) and tram bodies (US$1.0 million) for the CTC tram renovation program,
about 30 auxiliary vehicles of 10 different kinds, and limited quantities
of various workshop equipment and accessories, and small hand tools. These
items, which are distributed among three different implementing agencies,
are readily available in the Indian market at competitive prices, and would
not be attractive for bidding by foreign suppliers. CSTC will build bus
bodies--total estimated cost about US$6.3 million--in its own workshop using
existing installed capacity. No disbursements out of the proceeds of the
credit will be made against the cost of bus bodies, which, however, is included
in the total project cost since bus body materials are procured on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.03      The total value of civil works under the project is about US$31.0
million, including contingencies, and costs for erection of plant and equip-
ment. The civil works are distributed among CSTC, CTC and CMDA, are scattered
over area and time, and are not likely to attract foreign contractors. Under
procedures that are acceptable to IDA, civil works contracts will be awarded
by CSTC, CTC and CMDA on the basis of local competitive bidding. CTC will
carry out civil works related to track renewal and overhaul--total estimated
cost about US$3.8 million--by force account. No disbursements out of the
proceeds of the credit will be made against the cost of these works, which,
however, is included in the total project cost since the corresponding
construction materials are procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.04      Land Acquisition.  Land acquisition is required for three bus
terminals (Dunlop Bridge, Ultadaga and Dakshineswar), for the new workshop
at Belghoria, and for the Kasba bus depot. The GOWB has forwarded to IDA a
summary of the status of land acquisition for the above components, showing
that sufficient progress is made to allow for their timely completion. About
30 to 40 families that now live on the site of the Ultadanga bus terminal will
be relocated in an appropriate manner.
C. Disbursement
5.05      A schedule of disbursements of the IDA credit is in Table V-l.
Disbursements would be made for expenditures as follows: (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment, and 100% of local expenditures
(ex factory) of locally manufactured equipment, procured through International
Competitive Bidding, except for the cost of bus chassis where 50% of foreign
expenditures or 50% of the local ex factory cost would be disbursed; (b) 30%
of expenditures on contracts for civil works, (excluding works by CTC force
account) and on contracts for plant, equipment and vehicles (excluding costs
of bus bodies), which will be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding; and (c) 50% of expenditures on consulting services.



- 45 -
Table V-1: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Quarterly          Cumulative
IDA                                   Disbursement        Disbursements
Fiscal Year        Quarter Ending          (US$1000)          (US$'000)
1981        September 30, 1980
December  31, 1980              -
March     31, 1981            1,600             1,600
June      30, 1981            2,000             3,600
1982        September 30, 1981             2,100             5,700
December  31, 1981            4,000             9,700
March     31, 1982            4,200            13,900
June      30, 1982            4,300            18,200
1983        September 30, 1982             4,900            23,100
December  31, 1982            5,800            28,900
March     31, 1983            6,100            35,000
June      30, 1983            6,000            41,000
1984        September 30, 1983             5,600            46,600
December  31, 1983            4,500            51,100
'larch    31, 1984            3,200            54,300
June      30, 1984            1,700            56,000
5.06      Any credit funds remaining after project completion will be can-
celled.
D. Accounts, Audit and Progress Reporting
5.07      Separate accounts will be maintained by CMDA, CSTC and CTC, and
a comprehensive project account by the permanent staff of the Chief Project
Officer (para 4.03). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
CSTC and CTC accounts with financial statements will be audited by an indepen-
dent auditor satisfactory to IDA for each fiscal year commencing April 1,
1980. Assurances were also obtained that CSTC, CTC and CMDA furnish to IDA
the audited statements and auditor's report not later than 9 months after the
close of the financial year. Finally, assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that regular progress reports will be prepared by CSTC, CTC and CMDA
and furnished to IDA. These reports will focus on, among other things, the
policy, physical, contractual and financial progress of the project--including
project performance relative to key performance and financial indicators.



- 46 -
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.08      Considerable productivity improvements by CSTC and CTC are key
factors of the proposed project. The economic, as well as the financial,
analysis is based on their achieving financial and physical performance
targets. They have been developed following a careful review of realistic
expectations of management and staff accomplishments in the Calcutta environ-
ment, considering the impact of proposed investments, fare increases and
of capital restructuring of CSTC and CTC. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on formalization of the performance targets (paras 4.25 and 4.43).
5.09      Another important aspect of the project is to measure the extent
to which transit service improvements, such as route coverage and passenger
facilities would directly benefit lower income people. As further described
in para. 2.41, CMDA, assisted by consultants, will carry out a socio-economic
survey, the thrust of which is assessment of actual project impact on various
income groups in the project area. CMDA will be responsible for related
monitoring and evaluation activities.
F. Supervision
5.10      About 120 man/weeks of IDA supervision will be required over the
project implementation period with about 50 man/weeks in the Bank's FY81.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed bus (public and private) and trams service improvements
would begin to alleviate major inadequacies of the public transport system and
would support efforts to make better use of existing transport resources and
to develop a base from which to expand these services in the medium term while
longer term transport options are being investigated.
A. Economic Evaluation
Evaluation Methodology
6.02      An economic rate of return has been computed for both of the project
subcomponents for which quantification was possible, namely CSTC and CTC
(representing 88% of the total project cost). The evaluation is based on
calculations of incremental costs and benefits (costs and benefits associated
with the proposed project in the "with project case" versus "costs and
benefits" in the "without project case").



- 47 -
6.03      The costs, net of taxes, in the "with project case" include the
proposed investment costs and the operating costs of the two undertakings,
including those incurred to implement the productivity improvement schemes.
For CSTC, capital costs include costs for buses, depots and equipment. For
CTC, capital costs include costs for the tram renovation prograw tracks and
overhead, workshop and equipment. Operating costs are computed on the basis
of the total outshedded fleet. The life of the project is assumed to be 15
years. Costs in the "without project case" include only the operating costs
necessary for CSTC and CTC to maintain their present fleet operating over 15
years, at current productivity levels.
6.04      Benefits in the "with project case" include both those stemming
from the proposed additional investments (i.e., the improved part of the fleet
and facilities) and those stemming from a better use of the existing assets.
In the "without project case", the project benefits include those derived from
the use of the existing assets without productivity improvements. Benefits
are quantified on the basis of fares that the public would be willing to pay
and reductions in waiting times.
6.05      The fare levels agreed upon with GOWB have been used to estimate
benefits. Reduction in waiting time have been conservatively estimated at 2.5
minutes per bus passenger trip and 1 minute per tram passenger trip. This is
estimated to have a monetary value of half the average wage rate of laborers
(Rs 12 per day). On this basis the Economic Rates of Return are 24% for CSTC
and 21% for CTC. If the value of the reduction in waiting time is excluded
from the benefits, the Economic Rates of Return are 6% and 4% for CSTC and CTC
respectively.
6.06      The average economic rate of return of 23% for the CSTC and CTC
components represents a conservative estimate of the project's economic
benefits. The fares and the passenger waiting time reductions have been con-
servatively estimated. Other benefits to Calcutta and to the travelling
public have not been quantified, such as reductions in travel time, improved
travel conditions through reduced overcrowding, and impact thereof on worker
productivity as far as home-to-work trips are concerned.
Improvements to the Public Transport System
6.07      Investments in CSTC and CTC would be supplemented by a series of
investments, designed to facilitate and improve transit movement and facili-
ties for both publicly and privately operated modes.
6.08      Traffic Engineering.  The present situation is characterized by
a paucity of infrastructure especially designed for transit vehicles and
pedestrians. Improvements will be achieved by facilitating transit movement
along selected corridors by traffic engineering and management techniques.



- 48 -
The traffic engineering subcomponent in this project will augment the ongoing
work included in the IDA II project. Benefits which will accrue to all modes
of transport are derived from travel time savings and savings in vehicle
operating costs resulting from the improved road surfaces which will be
provided.
6.09      Bus Terminals and Passenger Shelters.  Transit passengers will
benefit from the provision of bus shelters, footpath improvements and terminal
facilities. Bus owners also will benefit from the terminal facilities as
some difficult turning movements, often over unsurfaced ground, will be
eliminated.
6.10      The Route Rationalization Study will optimize the available transit
vehicles and corridors and train a unit in GOWB capable of responding to
change and growth. The transit travelling or transit-seeking public will
benefit from the resulting increased efficiencies. When complete, all routes
and modes will be complementary and mutually re-enforcing.
B. Impact on the Urban Poor
6.11      Calcutta commuters are made up of a relatively wide range of income
groups. Any public transport improvement effort affects both lower- and
middle-income people. Surveys have demonstrated that about 60% of the popula-
tion fall within the poverty group. Thus, it can be expected that, at least
60% of the beneficiaries of the proposed project are among the urban poor.
The route rationalization study, including the socio-economic survey, will
lead to an improved level of services as well as opening of new routes in
the low-income areas of Calcutta, therefore benefitting directly the urban
poor.  This improved "targetting" of public transport investments should over
time enable GOWB to substantially improve services for the poor.
C. Risks and Uncertainties
6.12      Without the proposed project, provision of public transport in
Calcutta would deteriorate further. The private sector would almost certainly
limit its operations, forcing the GOWB to support expansion of CSTC and CTC
under increasingly unfavorable financial and productivity conditions.
However, risks and uncertainties regarding achievement of project objectives
must be recognized.
6.13      Over the next few years, management improvements, policy measures
and physical and financial performance norms will have to be implemented as



- 49 -
will bus route reconstruction, traffic engineering measures and route ration-
alization. In the same period, CSTC and CTC operations will probably be
disturbed and constrained by the very impact of their own investment programs
(e.g., workshop renovations), and of Metro Railway works.
6.14      Particularly CSTC has suffered from corrupting political influence
and trade union rivalries for the last 30 years. These problems will not
disappear overnight because of the proposed project and may cause continuous
disruption during project execution, in the form of labor and even public
unrest. The project provides for improved management and labor productivity,
and staff training in CSTC and CTC, to dissipate gradually the worse effects
of these problems; but they will remain for some years.
6.15      Improved financial performance by private operators and by CSTC and
CTC requires, inter alia, substantial fare increases over the next several
years. However, the Calcutta travelling public have been accustomed to cheap
transport. They will not take kindly to fare increases. Nevertheless,
increases are essential but can be introduced only as services improve, and
require an advance publicity campaign to mitigate possible adverse public
reaction.
6.16      In any event, the State Government is firmly committed to providing
improved quantity and quality of mass transport in the project area, and
has resolutely addressed several difficult key issues arising from the
proposed project. Furthermore, CSTC and CTC have, within present constraints,
achieved noticeable productivity improvements over the last two years. The
commitment of the GOWB toward supporting CSTC and CTC provides a reasonable
base for achieving project obiectives.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the follciwing main
points:
(a) that CSTC develop an information system adequate
to review its bus retirement policy, and that the
bus procurement program should be reviewed with
GOWB not later than March 31, 1982 (para 2.05);
(b)  that CSTC develop and introduce an improved costing and
repair record system for hus body building not later
than April 1, 1981 (para 2.11);
(c) that priorities for additional traffic engineering
schemes be agreed between GOWB and IDA during the course
of the project (para 2.37);



- 50 -
(d)  that GOWB ensure adequate road maintenance (para 2.38);
(e)  that GOWB ensure that thb  project is directed at all times
by a qualif{ed Chief Project Officer assisted by an adequate
staff, including a chartered cost accountant (para 4.02);
(f)  that GOWB establish a Route Rationalization Committee not
later than November 1, 1980 (para 4.10);
(g)  that PVD be strengthened through appropriate staffing;
(para 4.11);
(h)  that CSTC and CTC effect organizational reforms by November
1, 1980 (paras 4.18 and 4.37);
(i)  that training staff for CSTC and CTC be appointed not later
than November 1, 1980, and that training courses start not
later than January 1, 1981 (paras 4.21 and 4.39);
(j)  that CSTC and CTC endeavor to reach their operational
performance targets (paras 4.25 and 4.43);
(k)  that GOWE will undertake (j) to ensure that CSTC and CTC
debt/equity ratios do not exceed 67/33 (paras 4.26 and 4.44);
(ii) to reduce CSTC and CTC operating ratios by an average of
10% per year to agreed levels (paras 4.27 and 4.45); (iii) to
increase CSTC and CTC fares by at least 25% by April 1, 1981
(paras 4.27 and 4.45); (iv) to fix CSTC and CTC annual subsidies
at agreed levels (paras 4.29 and 4.47); and (v) to credit, during
the project period, CSTC and CTC surplus cash to depreciation
funds (paras 4.29 and 4.47);
(1)  that GOWB convert all temporary permits in the project area
into "permanent" permits, with a validity period of not less
than three years matching the validity period of the route
scheme as established by a GOWB permanent committee and the
RTA (para 4.51);
(m)  that GOWB establish a fare parity for private bus operators
\para 4.52);
(n)  that CMDA strengthen staffing of its Traffic Engineering
Unit (para 4.54);
(o)  that GOWB cause adequate audits of CMDA, CSTC and CTC
(para 5.07); and



- 51 -
(p) that CSTC, CTC and CMDA prepare regular progress reports
(para 5.07).
7.02      On the basis of the above conditions, actions and assurances, the
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$56 million.



- 52 -                                                           ANNEX 1
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BUS FARE STRUCTURES IN CALCUTTA, BOMBAY, AND MADRAS
Fare/Stage
(Paisa)
80
80 _                                                                -   Bombay
"    Calcutta,
Special Buses
70
70                                                             I
65
I.------.Madras
60                          60               60:
60                                                                   ...
I                 ss
50                   50 _            50o
50                                 r     _!.       .
45
40        40                                   40
40  -                  r--           ...                                               Calcutta,
37.5%3                     :                                       -  -    Regular Buses
35                               35
303                            30
30                 :- 
4 -            25
20    _         I;L
20 \\
17%
Calcutta,
1    Private Busses
1010_
6.5%
Distribution of Tickets Sold
2%                       Per Stage, Calcutta (%M
I  I  I  I   I   I   I     I   I           1   11                        I
0                     5                  10                  15                 20                  25                  30 Km
World Bank -21470



- 53 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CSTC Component, Bus Procurement
1.        The CSTC objective for its service performance by June 1983 is at
least 82% average effective outshedding of 1,125 buses for city services:
Total
Serviceable         Effective
Type                          Fleet           Outshedding      Outshedded
Single-deck buses               430               80%             344
Double-deck buses                497               80%            398
Special buses                    198              90%             178
TOTAL                    1,125                -              920
2.        On. April 1, 1979, the CSTC total fleet for city services was 1,064
buses. Following retirement of 292 buses, and commissioning of 16:3 new
buses 1/, the CSTC fleet of serviceable buses will be 935 on March 31, 1980
(Table 1). To achieve the target of 1,125 buses by March 1983, CSTC will
acquire under the project, a total of 530 buses.  Of these, 178 single-deck
and 291 double-deck buses are for replacement during the project period.
The net fleet expansion is 61 buses, by addition of 84 single-deck buses
and reduction of 23 double-deck buses, during the period 1979/80-1982/83
(Table 1).
3.        The CSTC condemnation policy for buses is fixed as follows,
based on recommendations in 1971 of a study group set up by the India
Association of State Road Transport Undertakings:
Single-deck buses - 8 years or 500,000 km run, whichever is earlier.
Double-deck buses - 12 years or 750,000 km run, whichever is earlier.
These norms assume that appropriate maintenance and overhaul facilities are
available, and that chassis, particularly for double-deck buses, are built
to heavy-duty specifications.
1/   Final installment of a GOWB-financed program for CSTC acquisition
of 200 buses.



- 54 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
4.        Actual Calcutta and CSTC conditions have not matched these assump-
tions. Buses are extremely overloaded, road conditions are poor, and CSTC
maintenance facilities are inadequate. Only 17 of CSTC double-deck buses
are built on heavy-duty chassis, while the balance of 457 is built on
single-deck chassis. The combined effect of the above circumstances have
caused heavy strain on buses, and fast deterioration of their conditions.
5.        An economic analysis by CSTC shows that for their existing buses,
the economic life is dictated by the following norms:
Single-deck buses - 8 years or 350,000 km run, whichever is earlier.
Double-deck buses - 8 years or 300,000 km run, whichever is earlier.
These norms have been applied to the CSTC replacement program during the
project period, which explains the apparently favorable age profile of the
bus fleet at the end of the project period (Table 2).
6.        However, the data basis for the above study is incomplete, for
want of adequate CSTC bus records, which may have led to under-estimation
of the economic life of some existing buses. During the project period,
a proper information system will be devised by CSTC, to control the main-
tenance of buses, and derive a proper replacement policy based on techno-
economic considerations. This system, in combination with improved mainte-
nance facilities, introduction of quality control in workshops and depots,
and intensified staff training, may prove that some buse3 scheduled for
retirement in the project period have a longer economic life than now
envisaged. Under the project, the GOWB in consultation with the Association
will determine whether the total serviceable CSTC fleet be expanded, or the
procurement program curtailed not later than March 31, 1982.



ANNEX 2
-J _ -TPage 3 of 4
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 1: CSTC Bus Replacement Program, City Buses
SD             DD              Total
1979/80
Fleet on April 1, 1979             544             520              1,064
Retirement                        -142            -150              - 292
Addition  1/                      +140             +23              + 163
Fleet by March 31, 1980            542             393                935
1980/81
Opening Balance                    542             393                935
Retirement                        -138             -54               -192
Addition under Project            +180             +60               +240
Fleet by March 31, 1981            584             399                983
1981/82
Opening Balance                    584             399                983
Retirement                          -7            -103               -110
Addition under Project             +44             +98               +142
Fleet by March 31, 1982            621             394              1,015
1982/83
Opening Balance                    621             394              1,015
Retirement                          -8             -30                -38
Addition under Project             +15            +133              + 148
Fleet by March 31, 1983            628             497              1,125
Net Change:                   +84             -23                +61
Total fleet provided
under Project:                  239             291                530
1/ Financed by the GOWB.
Source: CSTC



ANNEX 2
- 56 -                            Page 4 of 4
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 2: Age Profile of CSTC Buses
1979           1980            1981            1982           1983
Age            Nov. 1         March 31       March 31        March 31        March 31
SD  DD        SD   DD         SD   DD         SD   DD        SD   DD
0 - 1          53  23        193   46       180   60         44   98         15  133
1 - 2          95  17         95   17       193   46        180   60         44   98
2 - 3          15   -         15   -          95   17       193   46        180   60
3 - 4          38  55         38   55        15   -          95   17        193   46
4 - 5          52  56         52   56         38   55        15   -          95   17
5 - 6           4  62          4   62        52   56         38   55         15   -
6 - 7           7 103          7  103          4   62        52   56         38   55
7 - 8         138  54        138   54          7  103         4   62         48   56
8 - 9          86  60                                                        -    32
9 -10           -  17
10-11           -  10
11-12           -  16
12 onwards      -   1
Total:        488 474        542  393       584  399        621  394        628  497
Average Age:   5.5             3.9             3.1            3.2             3.5
Source: Mission estimate.



ANNEX 3
- 57 -
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CSTC DEPOT CAPACITY
Holding        Cumulative
Name of Depot           Year of Commissioning   Capacity   Holding Capacity
Existing Deports:
1.  Belghoria a!                1950               131              131
2.  Paikpara a/                 1960               121              252
3.  Maniktala                   1972               101              353
4.  Lake -/                     1952               154              507
5.  Garia Sub-Depot             1976                38              545
6.  Taratala                 1966/1978             164              709
7.  Howrah a/                   1956               124              833
8.  Barisha                     1978               114              947
Under Construction
9.  Salt Lake                   1980               128            1,075
Addition
10.  Kasba b                     1981               130            1,205
a/ To be remodelled under the project.
b/ To be constructed under the project.



ANNEX 4
- 58 -                                           Page 1 of 3
INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(in Rs lakhs)
1979-80    1980-81      1981-82      1982-83      1983-84        TOTAL
CSTC COMPONENT
Bus Investment Program
Bus Chassis Double Decker (DD)                         324.0        529.2        718.2
Bus Body DD                                             66.0        107.8        146.3
Bus Chassis Single Decker (SD)                         267.3         65.3         22.4
Bus Body SD                                            117.0         28.8          9.8
Spare Parts                                             46.2         46.8         44.9
Subtotal                                          820.5        777.9       941.6                     2,540.0
Kasba Depot
Land Acquisition                                        22.1
Site Preparation                                         5.0
Foundation and Construction                             80.7         57.2
Equipment                                               18.5         13.7
Subtotal                                           126.3         70.9                                   197.2
Howrah Depot
Foundation and Construction                              4.3         20.6         32.0
Equipment                                                3.4                      11.1
Subtotal                                             7.7         20.6         43.1                       71.4
Lake Depot
Foundation and Construction                             32.5         29.0
Equipment                                                3.2         10.7
Subtotal                                            35.7         39.7                                    75.4
Paikpara Depot
Foundation and Construction                              4.7         22.6         35.1
Equipment                                                3.1                      10.2
Subtotal                                             7.8         22.6        45.3                        75.7
Belghoria Depot
Foundation and Construction                             22.6         20.8
Equipment                                                3.4         10.9
Subtotal Belghoria                                  26.0         31.7                                    57.7
Unit Exchange Shop
Land Acquisition                              5.0
Site Preparation                                        10.0
Foundation and Construction                             61.6         15.4
Equipment                                              118.9         17.8
Subtotal                                 5.0       190.5         33.2                                   228.7
Upgrading Belghoria
Foundation and Construction                             26.5         7.9
Subtotal                                            26.5         7.9                                     34.4
Training
Subtotal Training                                   20.0                                                 20.0
Subtotal Physical Investment             5.0    1,261.0    1,004.5        1,030.0        _            3,300.5
Studies                                     32.5         5.0                                                 37.5
Supervision                                             37.2        30.1         30.9                        98.2
Administration                                          48.1        39.0          40.0                      127.1
Subtotal CSTC Base Cost                     37.5    1,351.3    1,073.6        1,100.9        _            3,563.3
Physical Contingencies                                  71.6        55.9          51.7                       179.2
Price Contingencies                           0.1      108.6       200.3         312.5                       621.5
Subtotal Contingencies                       0.1       180.2       2df.2         364.2                       8&0.7
TOTAL CSTC COST                              37.6    1,531.5    1,329.8        1465.1                     L4,364.0



ANNEX 4
- 59 -                                            Page 2 of 3
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(in Rs lakhs)
1979-80     1980-81       1981-82       1982-83       1983-84         TOTAL
CTC COMPONENT
CTC Tram Program
New Tramcars                                                          478.0         414.4         103.6
New Bodies and Trucks                                                 142.0         170.6          42.6
Special Renovation                                       36.0          96.0          62.4          15.6
Subtotal                                            36.0         716.0         647.4        161.8         1,561.2
Nonapukur Workshop
Building Modification                                     3.8           4.0          10.1
Additional Buildings                                     28.9          26.8          15.2
Workshop Equipment                                       79.4          43.0          75.4
Subtotal                                           112.1          73.8         100.7                         286.6
Overhead and Cable
Building                                                  6.2
Renewal of Wire                                          26.0          40.4          42.4
Renewal of Cable                                         32.9          33.5          43.2
Subtotal                                            65.1          73.9          85.6                        224.6
P.W.D. Program
Procurement of Cement and Rail                           37.2          62.6          50.1          12.5
Procurement of Other Materials                           48.4          94.3          75.4          18.9
Tracks                                                   29.3          52.6          42.1          10.5
Switch Points                                             2.0           5.1           4.0           1.1
Crossings                                                 0.9           1.8           1.6           0.2
Strengthening of Sub-Base                                23.6          42.2          33.8           8.4
Equipment                                                 5.4          14.2          11.4           2.8
Subtotal                                           146.8         272.8         218.4          54.4          692.4
Sub-Statiores
Buildings                                                16.8
Plant and Equipment                                       2.4          93.5          42.2
Installation                                              2.3           7.9           4.0
Subtotal                                            21.5         101.4          46.2                        169.1
Lighting. Illumination and Communication
Cable and Equipment                                       6.0          27.1          25.5
Installation                                              2.7           8.1          10.6
Subtotal                                             8.7          35.2          36.1                         80.0
Depots and Termini
Building Modifications                                   33.7          36.7          26.9
Plant and Equipment                                       1.1           1.9           2.0
Subtotal                                            34.8          38.6          28.9                        102.3
Training
Subtotal Training                                   20.0                                                     20.0
Subtotal Physical Investment                            445.0       1,311.7       1,163.3         216.2         3,136.2
Studies                                     40.6         17.5                                                      58.1
Supervision                                              15.6          45.9          40.7           7.6           109.8
Administration                                           17.8          52.5          46.5           8.6           125.4
Subtotal CTC Base Cost                       40.6       495.9       1.410.1       1.250.5         232.4         3-929.5
Physical Contingencies                                   50.5         176.0         156.6          32.4           415.5
Price Contingencies                                      40.3         274.9         367.5          92.7           775.4
Subtotal Contingencies                                   90.8         450.9         524.1         125.1         1.190.9
TOTAL CTC COST                              40.6        586.7                     1,774.6         357.5        4.620.4



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(in Rs lakhs)
1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83   1983-84              TOTAL
CMDA COMPONENT
Private Bus Facilities
Civil Works                                               20.0       40.0       35.0       15.0
Subtotal                                               20.0       40.0       35.0      15.0            110.0
Dakshineswar Terminal
Land Acquisition                               5.0
Civil Works                                               10.0       10.0
Subtotal                                    5.0        10.0       10.0                                  25.0
Dunlop Bridge Terminal
Land Acquisition                               5.0
Civil Works                                               10.0       10.0
Subtotal                                    5.0        10.0      10.0                                  25.0
Sealdah Terminal
Civil Works                                               20.0       40.0
Subtotal                                               20.0      40.0                                  60.0
Ultadanga Terminal
Land Acquisition                              15.0        30.0
Civil Works                                                          15.0
Subtotal                                   15.0        30.0      15.0                                  60.0
Traffic Engineering
Civil Works                                             110.0      165.0      150.0       30.0
Traffic Signals                                           10.0       15.0      10.0       10.0
Subtotal                                             120.0      180.0      160.0       40.0           500.0
Route Rationalization
Subtotal                                              50.0       15.0       10.0                       75.0
Subtotal Physical Investment                  25.0      260.0      310.0      205.0       55.0           855.0
Studies
Supervision                                               17.4      27.4       20.7        5.5
CMDA Studies                                  25.0
Subtotal                                  25.0        17.4       27.4       20.7        5.3            95.8
Administration                                             7.2      11.8        7.8        2.2            29.0
Subtotal CMDA Base Cost                       50.0      284.6      349.2      233.5       62.5           979.8
Physical Contingencies                                    24.0      38.5       27.5        7.5            97.5
Price Contingencies                                      16.3       61.3       61.2       23.3           162.1
Subtotal Contingencies                                   40.3       99.8       88.7       30.8           259.6
Total CMDA Cost                           50.0       324.9      449.0      322.2       93.3         1,239.4
Total Project Base Cost                  128.1    2,131.8   2,832.9   2,584.9         294.9         7,972.6
Total Project Contingencies                0.1       311.3      807.0      977.0      155.9         2,251.3
Total Project Cost                       128.2    2,443.1   3,639.9   3,561.9         450.8        10,223.9



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CSTC ORGANIZATION CHART
F-~U DIECO
AOM INISTRATIN                                     CT(                        < 
AN. P  ERNLA  r
CATMICAL                                                                CIVIL             AN          T          INTRA                  PRIN-I-G
TRAINING   SECURITA   PERSONNEL    DOMIN  LAW  ENGINEER-  COMMERCIA                STATISTICS       G                                        LA T,."
LABORATORY                                   INC           AFEC CASR      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CS  AUD'E~IT      PRES-A                                   R
I       I    _E R
~~~~E.   A' ~           IICIS                                        IISOA
^ t i * 9 *H s Woltd 6ank ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21469
'Indlcgeskeyposstlonstobeteeated ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      NS        COTRL        GR  IT AD           IRLTR
MANAGER  INSPECTION  PAGOUCTION ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONG~~~'



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECTED CSTC OPERATING STATEMENTS
(in Rs lakhs)
1979-80      1980-81       1981-82       1982-83       1983-84       19B4--5    1985-86
> ! s i IFlF   l E J L tC LJ l                  >, v vi . ui .  ) _ Wi v . _ 7  i r; , .V  i  r  2242.34  2949.75   3271.19       3895.18
iC.                                          9 E I  / 8l  100i.0       110.O         i20.00        i30.uu        130.00        130.00
LIN  J M3.i                                             1330.29       1967.0C       2362.54      3079.75        3401.19       4025.18
~E X P, l .1    I U i , 'll ,
vN(>') ;^NID S'iiAl mR;; :.            L1190. 9      1320 .;33     1 40 L. 11i    1634.68      i710.66       1781t77       1856.06
STOVI<L'       SF. 5 ' ART'1                    2 I2 3 . i',  2'79.,,      32 -i9.10     383.86        493.45        530.52        566.83
L''ENITTA I WOI;R'i' I-IIP                       4    0       176.88        162.06        179.8/        190.00        173.55        159.36
F Li L                                          28i .8Y       362.          390 - 80      529.26       5 R8-. 08      637.68       680.33
F;E Ni W M111 I.A "XE                            3i .60        34.6,'        S8.           43 .9*        48.93         52.15         55.72
t1 j 8L EL[L 6\NE UU i                            80.30        88.44        103.61        120. 2 i-.39  133.20        141.95        151.68                        1
(7(000SS W8UIKINi l X,I                        1964.43       222'0.30      2485.64      2892.05       3174.35       3317.62       3469.98                        °8
I li;    l  l I    LI I                        161  0 i 20   1 J. ,.0      146.88        171.30        182.98        144.56        110.98
!1 1' W4tiI I. I li,  XI                      10.0.20       OucjO..jO     2338.76       2720.75      2991.37       3173.06       3359.00
IlE i,Ji  I J(i'                           2C'> J. ;'0   383. 71       ,000.119      643.24       696.34         737.27        797.72
OFEF6[I E G COSW                               206'9.13     2472.21       2838.94      3363.98       368Y.70       3910.33       4156.71
!'lTl Ii '-''.30 .30                                       IL62.1iO      220. 70      2,'2-20       3i3.7G        386           341.70
lO'l'tAL  E7XPF'l tl1 ii;''                    211'9.43      2635.01      300;i!9.64    3641.18       4001.40       4238.93       4498.41
~~~~~... .  .... ....... ....  .........                      -.... .    -, -. -. - - - - - - --.. ......._. .. . ..... ........- -- - - - -_. - - - -...  ____    _. __  ____   
DEF Il J l                                     1146.06       1304.72       1092.57      1278.65        921.66        837.74        473.24
OFVLR6A'LN'3 RA'10                                 1.96          1.86         1.44          1.42          1 .20         1.15          1.03
Note:  Income and expenditure were computed assuming that all performance targets as described in para. 4.25 are met.  In addition,
the following assumptions were made:
(i)    wages and salaries increase by 57. annually;
(ii)   all other costs increase in relation with effective outshedding and expected price increase (67 annually);
(iii)  labor costs already included in capital cost accounts (for body building activities) are taken out of
CSTC's expenditure;
(iv)  operating ratio continues to decline by 107. annually after the project period.
0'



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRAN4SPORT PROJECT
PROJECTED CSTC SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(in Rs lakhs)
L979 80     1980 --S     1i91-82       1982- 83     1983-84      1984--85     1985--86
SOURCES
IPERATING DEFICIT                         -1015.76   -1141.92        -BP1.87   --1001.45        --607.96     -509.14      -131.54
OEPRECIATION                                 265.90       383.71       500.19   ~643.24          696.34       737.27        797.72
3UPTOTAL                                   -749.86      -758.21      -371.68      -358.21         88.38       228.13       666.18
301A6 SUBSIDY                              1146.06       1050.00      1050.00      1050.00      1050.00      1050.00       1050.00
bUll CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION                     12.56       511.52       444.15       489.34        1
301dB LOANS                                   25.04      1019.98       885.65       975.76 
SUBTOTAL                                   1183.66      2581.50      2379.80       2;K5. 10     1050.00      1050.00       1050.00
tOTAL SOURCES                               433.80      1823.29      2008.12       2156.89      1138.38      1278.13      1716.18
APFPLICArION
INVESTMENT F'ROGRAM ~
BUS CHA3SIS                                               661.49       20.6          25.53       387.71       464.28        .34o.-32
BUS BODIES                                                204.72       163.05       195.00       L42.8Y        169.36       i~.2i-4
SPARL PARTS                                                51.6O        55.86        56 1.1       1-90Y         14.60        12.48
CENTRAL WORK~SHOP                                         21 * 34       49.06
DIEP'OTS                                                  -. ;-,6      ..1. 41      i LO.,47
OTHERS                                        .3,.60      ~                          . ,L.204                    1 . ,6       1.56
ZU141TOTA-.                                  .37.6L      15,61.5.     1.., ,,       .o           *,..         649.du        483.,60
INVE5TMEiNT 5;  UND,LC  01, iiLN..L1, /      131i. 2       4-0u.                    J ,i.,.-'     d,U             ,
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL~ PROJECT LOANS                                                                         1-4-41, 
INTEREST ON1 PREVIOUS LOANS                    2 9.U~ 0     ,.         129."                                    -.V,-, 
INTERES-i ON 'FROJECT LOANS                      -V        ...,                       J. .u       U-~ v          ,o          t/
WOJRKING CHP11 AL CHNG0E2
TOTAiL WORKIN5 SAPIT~.L  LIHANIILJ..,,.,                                '.E.. *                   4Vl.l           .        -
TOT.AL n.rrLICATION                          4j.J        1J21                                                  .U"           I,I
1/ Inrvestments in 1983/84. 1984/85 and 1985/86 are limited to those necessary to maintain the fleet constant. Surplus funds
accumsulated during the project period are used to finance these investments (i.e., replacement buses).
2/ Funds earmarked for financing of replacement buses.
3/ Assumed to be equal to 1571 of the annual surplus cash.



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
INDIA                                       Page 3 of 3
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECTED CSTC BALANCE SHEETS
(in Rs lakhs)
i-4-60    3-31-81    3-31-82    3-31-83    3-31 -84    3-31-85    3-31-86
LIABILITIES
CAPII AL                                         720.56    1232.08    1676.23    2165-58    2165.58    2165.58    216t.58
LOANS
GOWB                                            713.04    1733.02    2618.67    3594.42    3452.02    3309.62    3167.22
CMDA                                            481.00      435.00      402.00      372.00      349.00      239.00      129.00
30I                                              16.00       16.00       16.00       16.00       16.00       16.00       16.00
MARKET LOANS                                    110.00      110.00      110.00      110.00      110.00      110.00      110.00
TOTAL LOANS                                     1320.04    2294.02    3146.67    4092.42    3927.02    3674.62    342212,
CURRENT LIASILITIE5 SI                           877.00      927.00    1007.00    1097.00    1182.00    1262.00    1337.00
ACCRUED CHARGES
INTEREST ON CAPITAL
INTEREST ON LOANS                               100.00      160.00      160.00      160.00      160.00      160.00      160.00
TOTAL CHARGES                                    160.00      160.00      160.00      160.00      160.00      160.00      160.00
TOIAL LIABILITIES                               3077.60    4613.10    5989.90    7515.00    7434.60    7262.20    7084.80
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
BUIDING                                        3499.30    3750.90    3924.40    3991.50    3991.50    3901.z0.    3991.50
VEHICLE                                         500.00    1320.50    2098.40    3040.00    3429.50    3874.60    4184.60
EGUIPMENT                                       100.00      250.50      303.60      324.90      324.90      324.90      324.90
OTHERS                                           11.30      320.20      645.50    1080.60      1224.70    1429.40    1603.00
IUIHL FiXEL  ;;._ETS                           4110.60    5642.10    6971.90    8437.00    8970.60    9620.40   O104.00
DEFRECIATION                                    3321.90    3;05.61    4205.80    4849.03    5545.37   -6282-W    7
TOTAL NET ASSETS                                 780.70    1i36.49    2766.10    3687.97    3425.23    3337.76    3023.64
INVEST. OF FUNDS FOR 3EFERRED RENEWALS           181.&:L     _26.51    :j79.26       901.i3    9Y7.5:        993.74    1485.45
OTHER INVESTMENTS 3/                            1069.00    1104.00    1144.00    i184.QQ    1234.00    1284.00    1339.00
CURRENT ASSETS j/                                941.00      786.00    1036.00    109I. o    1iI.00    ±2:1.U00    I3vi.V0
CASH                                              97.09      105.03      i67.23      224.ib      2,i.2Y      240.37i     A2/.14
ACCUMULATED LOSSES                                           254.72      277.27      525.93      39.59       185.33      -39i.44
TOTAL ASSETS                                    3077.60    4613.10    j989.90   7i10. 0         7'434.o0      io2,.     /vb4.d0
RATIOS
Debt/Equity Ratio                                 65/35       65/35       65/35        65/35      64/36       63/37       61/39
1/ Increase in proportion (2.5%) of the increase in total net assets.
2/ Increase in proportion (37.) of the wage bill (most of these investments are pension funds).
3/ Increase by 57. annually.



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CTC ORGANIZATION CHART
ADMINISTRATOR
MANAGEMENT
SUPPORT UNIT
T| Fl            DIRECTOR FINANCER|                                                          |     UO    ENGN ACHIEF    DPRECTOR PERSONNEL TAN
|CIFOPERATIONG                                                                                   AN ADMIISTRTIO
SENIOR       INTERNAL      SYSTEMS                  DEPURTYCINP                                                                  ENINE        OFIE        OIE        OFFC_
ACCOUNTANT      AUDITOR  l   OFFICER                    OPERATING
MANAGERA
I TREASURER  ACCOUNTANT  IDEFOTS AND   MANAGERS    OFFICERS       OFFICER'.NN]I                                                                                    [R ININ
ILLI  IORESHOFI    INFRAS TRUCTURS    DEPOT                                                                                                     R                    I
finlfdCatea ¼y new positions tobe created.Wrdas-  i6
DEPUTY CHIEF           OFSTORES ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.F IdE Ee    O



INDIA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECTED CTC OPERATING STATEMENTS
(in Rs lakhs)
1i9/9-80     19a-dl      1981-22      1982-83      1983-84      19R4-_;    A9 -9A
INCOiME
TRAFFIC REVENUE                              506.31       598.99       836.55       945.59      i242.20      1401.46      i624.42
OTHER INCOME                                  10.00        16.00        16.00        18.00        20.00        22.00        22.00
TOTAL INCOME                                 516.31       614.99       852.55       963.59     t2kZ420       1421.46      1,46.42
EXPENDITURE
WAGES AND SALARIES                           822.38       863.50       906.68       952.01     1019.95       1070.95      1124.50
STORES AND PARTS                             120.54       139.96       170.73       156.55       177.20       188.84       201.77
POWER                                         85.88        95.60       116.99       135.58       148.35       155.77       163.56
RENr AND TAXES                                 9.26         9.72        10.63        11.47        12.33        13.14        14.04
MISCELLANEOUS                                 41.16        43.20        47.24        50.96        54.80        58.40        62.40            |
0'
TOTAL WORKING EXFP.                         1079.22      1151.98      1252.27     1306.57      1412.63       1487.10      1566.27
LESS CHARGED CAP.                                          41.06       130.27       124.22        25.03         9.35         8.44
NET WORKING EXP.                            1079.22      1110.92      1122.00     1182,34      1387.61       147Z.76      1557.83
rIEPREC IATIUN                                28.00        54.92       163.96       261.31       282.44       292.45       301.50
NEr OFPERATIN: EXPENSE/;                    1107.22      1165.84      1285.96     1443.65      1a70.05       1770.21      1859.33
INILREST                                      20.00        32.40        92.8G       156,90       196.90       19a-00       194.50
TOTAL EXIFNLiITURE                          1127.22      liJG.24    .13i7.zo      1600.55      1866.95      1968.81      2053.83
T',T,A,L DEF7ICIT                            610.91       583.25       526.21      D0-.90       604.74        545.35       407.41
Di LEI;N, D 1N A ia                            2.14         1.tO         i.51         1.50         1.32         1.24         1.13
Note: Income and expenditure were computed assuming that all performance targets as described in para. 4.43 are met.
In addition the following assumptions were made:
(i)  wages and salaries increase by 5% annually;
(ii)  power cost increases in relation with effective outshedding and expected price increase (47 annually);
(iii)  all other costs increase in relation with effective outshedding and expected price increase (67. annually);
(iv)  labor costs already included in capital cost accounts (rebuilding and special renovation) are taken                            M X
out of CTC expenditure;
(v)  operating ratio continaes to decline by 10% annually after the project period.                                                 °1



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
INDIA                                                 Page 2 of 3
CALCUTTA UBA.N TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECTED CTC SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(in Rs lakhs)
1979-B3O    1980-81      1981-82   '1982-83   . 1983-84       1984-85      1985-86
SOURCES
OPERATING DC FICIT                       --590.91    --550.83       433.41      48u0.06      407.84    --346.75    -21 .91
DEPRECIATION                                28.00       54.92       163.96      261.31       282.44      292.40       301.S0
SUSTOTAL          -                       -562.91   ---495.93      -269.45      218.76       125.40      -S4.30        ab 59
GOWB SUDSIDY                               610.91      550.00         550.00      550-0V      0-0.00     300.00       J50.vv
UOWB CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION                   11.56      195.92       621.37      592.72       119.41
GOWB LOANS                                  27.04      390,68    1239.43       1181.88       23s.1
SUBTOTAL                                   651.51     1136t6O     2411.00    2324.60         907.50      550.00       550.00
__. .... ....
TOTAL SOURCES                              .86.60      640.67     2141.55    2105.84         782.10      495.70       638.59
APF'LICATION
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
TRAM RENOVATION PROGRAM                                41.51      S90.70       037i.6S     218.75       133.50      120.60
P.W.D. PROGRAM    '                                   169.26      339.36       203.26        73.55
NONAPUKUR RENOVATION                                  127.25        91.S1      130.61
OVERHEAD AND CABLE                                     75.06        91.93      111.02
SUBSTATIONS                                            24.79       126.14       59.92
DEPOTS AND TERMINI                                     40.12        48.02       37.48
LIGHTING AND COM.                                      10.03        43.79'      46.82
OTHERS                                     40.60       96.57      229.25       265.00       65.20
SUBTOTAL                   '                40.60      586.60      1861.00     1774.60      337.50       133.50       120.60
INVESTMENT OF FUNDS FOR RENEWAL 31          23.80       -2.83       151.09       79-68       120.78       62.05       193.71
DEBT SERVICE
PRINCIPAL PREVIOUS LOANS
PRINCIPAL PROJECT LOANS                                                         80.60        80.60       80.60        80.60
INTEREST ON PREVIOUS LOANS                20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00       20.00
INTEREST ON PROJECT LOANS                              12.40       72.80       136.90      176.90       178.60      174.50
SUBTOTAL DEBT SERVICE                       20.00       32.40        92.80      237.30      277.30       279.20       275.10
WORKING CAPITAL CHANGES
-NON CASH                                               25.00       10,00                     5.00        10.00       15.00
CASH  5/                                    4.20       -0.50        26.66       14.06       21.31        10.95       34.18
TOTAL WORKING CAPrTAL CHANGES                4.20       24.50        36.66       14.06        26.31       20.9S        49.18
TOTOL APPLICATION                           88.60      640.67    2141.55    2105.84          782.10      495.70      638.59
1/ Investments in 1984/85 and 1985/86 are limited to those necessary to maintain the fleet constant.  Surp].us funds accumulated
during the project period are used to finance these investments (i.e., rebuilding of tramcars and special renovation).
2/ Funds earmarked for fleet overhauling.
3/ Assumed to be equal to 157 of the annual surplus cash.



CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECTED CTC BALANCE SHEETS
(in Rs lAkha)
4-1-80    3-31-81    3-31-82    3-31-83    3-31-84    3-31-85    3-31-86
LIABILITIES
CAPIIAL                                          513.56      709.48    1331.06    1923.78    2043.18    2043.18    2043.18
LOANS
80WB                                             27.04      417.72    1657.14    2758.42    29i5.92    2835.32    2754.72
CMDA                                           1014.00    1014.00    1014.00    1014.00    1014.00    1014.00    1014.00
TOTAL LOANS                                     1041.04    1431.72    2671.14    3772.42    SV29.92    3849.32    J/68./I
CURRENT LIABILITIES /                            322.00      342.00      382.00      432.00      482.00      532.00       582.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES                               1876&6      2,483.20    4384.20    6128.20    6455.10    6424.50    6393.90
ASSETS                                                                                                                                  T
FIXED ASSETS
BUILDINGS                                      1551.00    1591.12    1639.14    1676.63    1676.63    1676.63    1676.63
VEHICLES                                         10.00       51.30      945.80    1784.70    2003.20    2136.70    2257.30
EQUIPMENT                                        20.00      108.30      260.90      316.50      319.30      319.30       319.30
OTHERS                                           40.60      457.48    1223.36    2065.97    2202.17    2202.17    2202.17
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                              1621,60    2208.20    4069.20    5843.80    6201.30    6334.80    6455.40
DEPRECIATION                                      55.00      109.92      273.88      535.18      817.62    1110.08    1411.57
TOTAL NET ASSETS                                1566.60    2098.28    3795.32    5308.-62    5383.68    5224.72    5043.83
INVEST. OF FUNDS FOR DEFERRED RENEWALS            23.80       20.97      172.06      251.74      372.52      434.58      628.28
OTHER INVESTMENTS /                              255.00      295.00      340.00      385.00      432.00      482.00       537.00      e 
CURRENr ASSETS                                    27.00       32.00       37.00       42.00       50.00       60.00        70.00      w
0
CASH                                               4.20        3.70       30.36       44.42       65.74       76.69       110.87
ACCUMULATED LOSSES                                            33.25        9.46       96.42      151.16      146.51         3.92
TOTAL ASSETS                                    1876.60    2483.20    4384.20    6128.20    6455.10    6424.50    6393.90
RATIOS
Debt/Equity Ratio                                67/33        67/33       66/34      66/34        65/35       65/35       65/35
I/ Increase in proportion (1%) of the increase in total assets.
2/ Increase in proportion (6%) of the wage bill (most of these funds are pension funds).



AN.-x e
Page 1 of 2
- 69 -
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the ProjectF~le
A.  Selected reports on urban transport inClt
A.1  Traffic and Transportation Plan, Calcutta Metropolitan District
1966-1986. Calcutta Metropolitan Planning Organizationi, 1967.
A.2  Government of West Bengal, Home (Transport) Department.
Final Report of the Calcutta State Transport Corporation
Inquiry Commission, 1976.
A.3  Paper on Public Policy and Strategy for Development of Public
Transport System in the Calcutta Metropolitan District. Prepared
by Steering Group of Home (Transport) Department, GOWB, April 1979.
B. Project related reports
B.1  CSTC.  Report on Engineering Studies, etc., Volume I,
S.R. Batliboi & Co., Calcutta.
B.2  CSTC.  Engineering Report on Workshop and Depots, Volume II,
and Report on Traffic Operations, Volume III, Development
Consultants Private Ltd.
B.3  CSTC.  Transport Statistics 1960/61 to 1976/77.
B.4  CTC.  Comparative Facts and Figures of the Performance of the
CTC presented to the Unions on June 14, 1979.
B.5  CTC.  Report on Engineering Studies, Infrastructure Development.
Study of Organizational Structure, Financial Evaluation and
Projections, 3 Volumes. S.R. Batliboi & Co., Caleutta.
B.6  CMDA.  Calcutta Public Transport Project, August 1977.
B.7  CMDA.  Calcutta Transport Project of IDA.  Reports on Bus
Terminals at (i) Dunlop Bridge (Consulting Engineering Services
Pvt. Ltd), (ii) Ultadanga (Architects Collaborated), and
(iii) Sealdah (Atkins Das Pvt. Ltd.)
B.8  CMDA. Report No. 104 - Traffic Engineering and Management
Improvement along Major Transit Corridors, October 1979.
B.9  CMDA. Report No. 105 - Passenger Facilities at Private Bus
Terminating Points and Transit Corridors in the CMD, October 1979.
B.10 CMDA. Truck Terminal Cum Wholesale Trade Center at Kona - Report
No. 51, Consulting Engineering Services Pvt. Ltd.
B.ll C_DA. Truck Terminal Cum Wholesale Trade Center at Kona, Socio-
Economic Study, Consulting Engineering Services, Pvt. Ltd.



ANNEX 9
-70 -                            Page 2 of 2
B.12 CMDA. Calcutta Traffic Engineering Project, Preliminary Report,
Atkins Das Pvt. Ltd. and Atkins Planning, June 1979.
B.13 Calcutta Urban Transport Project. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire,
November 1979.
C. Selected working papers
C.1   Office Memorandum.  Modernization of the CTC Tram Fleet.
S.K. Aiyar, Consultant, November 17, 1979.
C.2   Calcutta Urban Transport Project, Tram Services Improvement
Program, and Notes Relating to Review of Project Proposals
and Tender Specifications. E.A. Aust, Consultant, November 1979.
C.3   Memoranda - Financial Appraisal, CSTC and CTC.  D. Colston,
Consultant. December 1979 and January 1980.
C.4   Report on Appraisal of the CSTC Component.  M. Narurkar,
Consultant, November 1979.
C.5  Terms of Reference: Route Rationalization Study.
C.6   Project Cost and Benefit Streams.



IND A
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                                      .,-
CALCUTTA  METROPOLITAN  DISTRICT
Project Area Boundary
Nationol Hrhgnas-
Malor o,ds Ro
Mios Rodas7
B   a lroads                                                                        \ ,t!,             /i 
| =      r dges                                                              \           x    =,  ! 
Canals, Channels                                                               t 
-    Corporation and Monicioalhty Boundaries                                      t
Kaiyani-Bansberio Booroarres
- -- - Calcutta Metropoltari Beondar es                                     /
--    ternasonal Boundar-es                                      f                                             '
C,~~~~~~~                                 r,4XY                ; '.       .:       ,  
N'p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
N -'T                                  1>
¾J
I,,)t ,,
: '  J ~~~~~~~~~~ af                   _~~~~~~~~, ''.    ~                    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ i
'            2g               <-                \\    1\/vor,~~~~~~~~~~~o



I



IN Al,                                                                  i 
fNDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                              4'
TRAFFIC ENGINEERING AND MANAGEMENT SCHEMES                                                                                  _ f < x 
Project Components                                                                    +
Project Area Boundory                                                5 /                    at DG <
Private Bus Ternmioting Points                                            /       ,       iJ
Bus Terminals                                                            /
Ma or Transit-Corridor improoements                                  /
Immediate Action Area, IDAt
Enisting or Under Construction.
Bridges Under Construction                                                                   /
* *-Sen  Rapid Transit System Under Construction
Major Highways Un,der C.nsfruct-o                                    r~ j    ,\              At ^\w
Rood Under Improvement                                       , /
Br dges -./-
Mmor Roads                                               /    |           J
MI1or Roads                                              |,                                         /
Notonal t iHgltays)
Railroads
Cosporotion and Municipality Boundr,es                                 -)
Kolyani-Bonsberia Boundary                                                     '
Calcutta Metropoltan Boundaries
Inernational Boundaries |
c               5               i1                                  ;t                    It                                    02
K LOMETE.,
>-C:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'' SE--a
Tr                   Y
H   - f     _                         \        /       j        <           C,          I~~'1 
4-~~~~~~~~~4-
-                        ~<bt C-S>W 
~~~a ~                                          '--t                \ vC
J c < ~~~~~~~~-,,rtt,tt,ttt, ,'-,A¾, t,,,,- , )v &r-,-'-, ,-                           =                            \t                        ,c
~~~~~~J ~ ~            ~           ~            A
ND !   A_ _ _ _ _ _ __H  N A                                                                        _ _ _ _ _ _






NDA                                                                       
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                                         r
!OCATIONS OF CSTC AND CTC WORKSHOPS,                                          ru            .
DEPO  S AN1D TERMINALS
Project C-mp.nents t                                                                 I                                      J'
Project Area Boundary                                                    /
5    CSTC Workshop and Unit Euchange Systeen ,                                /
CSTC Depots tobe Upgraded                                               /
New CSTC Depot                                                                   T/
CTC Workshop
CTC Depots                                                     rj75
CTC Term nals                                                      /
Existhng ar Under Constr-ction -'sJ                                                                                    >
CSTC Depot Under Construction                                7-    '      t         .
CSTC Depots
Bridges                                                     ,;
Minor Roads
Maior Roads                                                   I             1i)
National Higheoys                                                                                   /
,,  ., .-Railroads                                                   ) |
Corporation acd Municipa ity Bounder en         4,                                             _ f
- Klypan -Bensber a Boun.ory                                                       I
-  --- Calcutta Metropohtan Boundar,es
-   International Boundaries
r4 2 
tiSI ESS
N;                   A ,r                             j.                         z   r\                     '     0
L~~~~ ., ,                  A02t
'f'   -    .'                  e>+              X  
* ,   I  N    -,   I  A   1f  ,    
-'                  i'                                                                                                 -T                       C, Uw 0.sD
... . ...  . e   /






IBRD  14937
7  .+Aperooimate Lne ot Control                                                                             APRIL 1980
' < /s'                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~I N  DI A
CHINA
CALCUTTA URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
6!Aq  BHUJANYSU    Route  Coverage  of Private  Buses, CSTC  Buses, and   CTC  Trams
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY            -'-   EXISTING RAILROADS & STATIONS
'C,l(!   INDIA             MA                      MAJOR ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION            EXISTING ROADS
iS. /  %                   BRIDGE UNDER CONSRTUCTION                 EXISTING BRIDGES
ROUTE COVERAGE.
X  5  Bay eof Bnengal        PRIVATE BUSES          /  CSTC BUSES CITY SERVICE            CTC TRAMS
he r d.sI h      a        e  e/  sgxhe   ah  dCuferfrtecnv    e
Arabian Sea\                                                                       1/ s/
)s9ILAbnKA                                                    I        ///1
0                            6             Kilometers/
IN.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"I-h1d Th~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






