FO-FFIHA  1      CREDIT NUMBER 1033 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Calcutta Urban Transport Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     0f                   . ,1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1033 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ( c,Z  /--  2          , 1980, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of West
Bengal with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will make available to the State of West
Bengal the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of West Bengal;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto, hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Authority" means the Calcutta Metropolitan Develop-
mient Authority, a statutory body established under the Calcutta
Metropolitan Development Authority Act, 1972, as amended, of the
State of West Bengal;


﻿-2-
(b) "Company" means the Calcutta Tramways Company Limited
taken over by the State of West Bengal under the provisions of The
Calcutta Tramways Company (taking over of management) Act, 1967,
as amended;
(c) "Corporation" means the Calcutta State Transport Cor-
poration, a statutory body established under The Road Transport
Corporations Act, 1950, as amended;
(d) "West Bengal" means the State of West Bengal, acting
by its Governor, a state of India and includes any successor
thereto; and
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and West Bengal of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the
Schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty-six million dollars ($56,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1990, and ending Jan-
uary 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause West Bengal to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable West
Bengal to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to West Bengal in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States
of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-4-
(a) a default shall occur in performance of any obligation
on the part of West Bengal under the Project Agreement;
(b) West Bengal shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of the Authority, the Company or the
Corporation or for the suspension of operations of the Authority,
the Company or the Corporation; and
(c) an extraordinary situatio*  nall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that West Beng    will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and West Bengal; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by West Bengal, and is
legally binding upon West Bengal in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date                -o/1 "\     is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall caase and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General,Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-6-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
A      Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Plant, equipment and
vehicles (excluding
bus bodies)
(a) Procured through         28,000,000        100% of for-
international                             eign expendi-
competitive                               tures and
bidding (ex-                              100% of local
cluding bus                               expenditures
chassis)                                  (ex-factory)
(b)  Bus chassis             13,550,000        50%
(c) Other                     2,750,000        30%
(2) Civil works                    7,500,000        30%
(3) Consultants' ser-              2,200,000        50%
vices
(4) Unallocated                    2,000,000         -
TOTAL         56,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 8 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to June 3, 1980, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be
made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after April 1, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall ha,,ve been made.
6.   if the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way res-
tricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve the quality and quantity
of mass transport services provided by public and private opera-
tors in the Calcutta Metropolitan District and consists of the
following:
Part A:   The Corporation
Acquisition of about 530 new single-deck and double-
deck buses in order to maintain a total fleet of about
1,125 buses for city services by June 30, 1983; con-
struction of one new workshop at Belghoria to operate
on the basis of a unit exchange system, one new depot
and a training facility; upgrading of the existing
workshop at Belghoria; and upgrading and re-equipping of
four existing depots.
Part B:   The Company
Implementation of a tram fleet rehabilitation pro-
gram, with acquisition of 75 new tramcars, rebuild-
ing of about 60 tramcars, and special renovation of
about 105 tramcars; modernization of the Company's
workshop at Nonapukur; construction of a training facil-
ity; upgrading of the power supply system; upgrading of
about 21 km of double track; upgrading of 6 substations
and construction of one new substation; modernization of
7 depots and 3 terminals; and upgrading of the lighting,
illumination and communications systems.
Part C:   The Authority
Rationalization of transport and road space use through
traffic engineering and management improvements to 8
major transit corridors and provision of 4 bus termi-
nals, about 15 private bus terminating points and about
1,500 passenger shelters.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
Utilization of technical services to assist, (i) the
Authority in carrying out studies for route ration-
alization and of the socio-economic impact of the


﻿- 11 -
Project on different economic groups, and (ii) the
Authority, the Company and the Corporation with Project
design, procurement and supervision during implementa-
tion of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


