Report No. PID6158
Project Name             Poland - Wholesale Markets Project II
Region                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector                   Agriculture
Project ID               PLPE55988
Borrower                 Republic of Poland
Implementing Agency      Lubelska Gielda Rolno-Ogrodnicza S.A.
ul. Chopina 14
Lublin 20-023
Poland
contact person:
Mr. Wojciech Wlodarczyk
President
Lubelska Gielda Rolno-Ogrodnicza S.A.
Phone: 48 - 81 - 532 4069
Fax:    48 - 81 - 532 7569
e-mail: lgro@tkt.net.pl
Date this PID Prepared   March 31, 1998
Actual Appraisal Date    November 1996
Projected Board Date     August 1998
SUMMARY DATA INCLUDED IN HEADING: (i) Should the first line containing the
Project Name exceed 80 characters, including spaces, shorten the title and
provide the full project name after the Project ID No.; (ii) under Sector,
include subsector if relevant; (iii) include all main project implementing
agencies as appropriate; and (iv) when updating PID, include the entry "Date
Initial PID Prepared" in the summary data heading; also remove the word
"INITIAL" from the Main Heading.
MAIN TEXT: The minimum length of the PID is 2 pages. The PID may reflect
the EPS in its entirety, except for any confidential or sensitive material
that could (a) jeopardize relations between the Government/Borrower and the
Bank; or (b) adversely affect the integrity of the Bank's decision-making
process. Also excluded from the PID are names of Task Manager, Peer
Reviewers, Department/Regional Management.. The Updated PID may also include
information, if feasible, regarding Project Benefits and Risks.
Country and Sector Background
1.      Fresh fruits and vegetables will be the main products traded on
the proposed market. Poland is one of the leading European producers of fruit
crops. It is the principal producer of strawberries and black and red currants
and the sixth largest apple producer. The country can grow a very wide range
of temperate vegetable crops, though in practice 90t of production is
accounted for by a limited number of products: cabbage, cauliflower, carrots,
beetroots, onions, and tomatoes.
2.       The mainstay of horticulture production in Poland, smallholder
farms, is characterized by mixed production, i.e. horticultural crops, grain



and oilseed crops and livestock production. The average private farm size is
6.3 hectares, mostly in multiple plots, with only 8% of holdings larger than
15 hectares.
3.      Total domestic demand for horticultural produce is about 240 kg
per person per year, of which 50% is accounted for by potatoes, 28% by
vegetables and 22% by fruit. The share of fruit and vegetable consumption in
total demand is considerably smaller than in other European countries. The
range of vegetables consumed is relatively limited, with many being consumed
in a preserved or processed form. Fruit consumption is dominated by apples. As
such, Poland's consumption pattern is similar to that of Western European
countries up to about the 1950's, but is changing rapidly as a response to the
availability of imported produce and changes in dietary habits.
4.      In the past, restrictions on imports, coupled with trading
opportunities with the Soviet Union, resulted in a substantial positive
balance of trade for horticultural produce. However, since the liberalization
of imports and loss of former markets there has been a dramatic increase of
imports, particularly of exotic produce such as citrus fruits and bananas, and
a loss of traditional export markets. This loss, though, has been compensated
largely by the penetration of new markets, with the result that exports are
running at record levels. The continued growth of imports, though, could
threaten this trade balance, making it particularly important that Poland
continues to strengthen its production and marketing capabilities to meet
international competition. In this context it is of great importance that the
country has effective and transparent wholesale trading structures to market
local production efficiently, satisfy consumer needs and offer opportunities
for the concentration of produce to meet export requirements both to Western
Europe and to the former Soviet Union. Poland occupies a unique strategic
location to exploit these international trading opportunities, and Lublin is
well located to serve the export markets to the east.
Objective
5.      The construction of an urban wholesale market for the city of
Lublin, to be undertaken as a commercial venture by a limited liability
company established for that purpose. This market, one of a series of
wholesale markets established with direct and indirect governmental support,
will constitute a key contribution to the development and modernization of
Poland's market infrastructure for agricultural products. In line with
developments elsewhere, particularly in Europe, the market will be a private,
commercial, venture that will therefore also contribute to private sector
development. Close collaboration with local authorities will foster
decentralization of public decision making, while the market's fee and tax
payments will augment local financial autonomy. The market will also fulfill a
key requirement for EU accession in that it will provide a mechanism of market
price discovery for major agricultural products.
Description
6.      The project would consist of the construction of a wholesale market,
undertaken as a commercial venture by a limited liability company established
for that purpose . The total credit need of the market is estimated at the
equivalent of DEM 20 million (US$ 11 million), 100% of which would be financed
with IBRD funds. Approximately 45% of total market investment would be
financed from shareholder equity. Cost recovery is expected to be 100%.
-2 -



Financing.
7.      In summary, total project funding of about US$ 20 million, and its
sources, would be as follows, in US$ million equivalent:
IBRD              Equity               Sale/
Lease Back
Wholesale Market Project         11.0                 6.5                 2.5
Project financing   will be used for engineering design and construction
of the complete physical facilities of the market, including on-site
infrastructure. The market will be build on a greenfield site.
Implementation and Stakeholder Involvement.
8.      The local wholesale market company, "Lubelska Gielda Rolno-Ogrodnicza
S.A.", will be responsible for the implementation of the project, in close
collaboration with the public works department of the city of Lublin.
Producers and traders, main stakeholders in the proposed developments, will be
shareholders in the market company and will, thus, have a direct voice in
development strategies and operational policies.
Sustainability
9.      The core component of the project will be built, owned and operated
by a financially independent limited liability company, in which the most
important stakeholders in the project's success are shareholders. Most of the
services to be supplied by institutions and organizations that will either be
supported or created by the project will be rendered against user fees.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
10.     The Bank has had a number of operations in the agriculture and
forestry sector in Poland, notably Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan [ASALI
$300 million, two agriculture credit projects of $100 million each and a
forestry project of $146 million. Based on this involvement with Polish
agriculture, and its institutions, for the last 8 years, particularly in the
context of the ASAL, the Bank has substantial and in-depth knowledge of the
sector and of the environment in which marketing takes place.
11.     A study on wholesale markets was done as one of the institution
building activities under the ASAL. In parallel with this, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Economy established an office for wholesale markets and
commodity exchanges. Local initiatives with respect to agricultural marketing,
with fundamental involvement by the principal stakeholders, have now evolved
to the point that they can confidently carry a major part of the burden of
project preparation and provide a fertile ground for market development
activities.
Environmental Aspects.
12.     The project will create market structures on land that used to
belong to the research department of Lublin's agriculture university and was,
thus, used for agriculture related activities, on the periphery of Lublin, a
major city. Operation of the market will generate solid and liquid waste and,
possibly, obnoxious odors. If not properly planned, traffic congestion could
- 3 -



occur on access roads. The Project has had a Category A environmental review
whose proposed pollution and nuisance mitigation measures have been included
in project design and whose costs have been incorporated in investment
estimates.
Benefits and Risks:
13.     The main economic benefits of the proposed wholesale market will
include savings in the costs of search, transactions and transportation;
improved quality of produce and wider choice; reduction of product waste and
the risk of adverse selection; improved market transparency and trader
competition; and the development of complementary services to traders and
their clients that will contribute to regional employment and economic growth.
The main risks to successful project realization and subsequent market
operation are: an exchange rate realignment that would increase zloty-
denominated repayments of foreign currency credits and delays in obtaining
the required sovereign guarantee for Bank lending and permits and connections
to municipal infrastructure, leading to construction delays. Market
performance might suffer from lack of experience with such, for Poland, novel
ventures and from low market turnover due to structural changes in the market
and to misunderstandings on the part of producers, traders and customers.
Contact Point:                   Richard Lacroix - ECSRE
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5913
Fax No. (202) 614 0525
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 3, 1998.
- 4-



