Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21706-PL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-43970)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM 20 MILLION (US$11.12 MILLION)
TO LUBELSKA GIELDA ROLNO OGRODNICZA S.A.
IN POLAND
FOR THE WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT II
April 17, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = PLN
PLN 1 = US$ 0.24
US$ I = 4.1 PLN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL          Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
EU            European Union
FAO/CP        Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FY            Fiscal Year
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
LGRO          Lubelska Gielda Rolno Ogrodnicza (Lublin Wholesale Market Company)
MUV           Manufacturing Unit Value
NPV           Net Present Value
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PLN           Polish Zloty
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SCF           Standard Conversion Factor
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director-   Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:    Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader:    Richard L. Lacroix



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                31
Annex 8. Financial Analysis                                                           32
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P055988                                      Project Name: POLAND WHOLESALE MARKETS
PROJECT II
Team Leader: Richard L. Lacroix                          TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: April 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: POLAND WHOLESALE MARKETS PROJECT II L/C/TF Number: SCL-43970
Country/Department: POLAND                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/01/1995                              Effective: 11/01/1998        03/17/1999
Appraisal:  07/31/1998                               MTR:
Approval:  09/24/1998                             Closing: 11/30/2002          06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: LUBELSKA GIELDA ROLNO OGRODNICZA S.A./LUBELSKA GIELDA
ROLNO OGRODNICZA S.A.
Other Partners: Guarantor: Government of Poland
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Michael F. Carter                        Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Joseph R. Goldberg                       Joseph R. Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:   Richard L. Lacroix                      Richard L. Lacroix
ICR Primary Author:  Jolanta Kryspin-Watson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Perfornmance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's primary objective was the construction of a commercially self-sustaining urban wholesale
market for the greater Lublin area, complete with associated physical infrastructure.



3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective remained the same.
3.3 Original Components:
Development of Market Facilities and Site Infrastructure, consisting of heavy earth moving, construction
of site parking lots for heavy and light vehicles, the construction of site roads and connection to the main
road and infrastructure for sewage treatment, surface and storm water reservoirs and public utility
connections; civil works, including the construction of main buildings for fruit, vegetable and provisions
trading, flower halls, covered trading bays, offices, ancillary buildings and perimeter fencing; equipment
(vehicle scales, central heating, water treatment, water tower engineering, first aid and technical
equipment); working capital; pre-startup expenses and financial charges during construction.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project component has not been revised.
Component: DEVELOPMENT OF MARKET FACILITIES AND SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
Cost: $19,300,000.00
Rating: S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The preparation and design of the Lublin Wholesale Market Project at entry should be rated as satisfact:ory
(though, the QAG quality at entry assessment was not made). The need for a fruit and vegetable wholesale
market stemmed from a demand for such produce, competition in both domestic and foreign markets for
quality produce, and easy access of farmers to a well-established and reliable market. In addition, the
prospects of accession to the EU presented the need for higher health and hygiene standards in the food
supply chain.
The economic development and transformation strategy of the government of Poland and the Country
Assistance Strategy of the World Bank have been geared towards a balanced development with an
increasing role of the private sector in economic affairs. Nearly 40% of Poland's population live in rural
areas with agriculture providing more than 25% of total employment but accounting for a mere 5% of
GDP. Therefore, it is not possible to achieve balanced growth with reduced poverty and inequality without
focusing more on the rural economy and, hence, on its main economic activity, agriculture. The CAS
(report no 19749, dated August 25, 1999) states, among others: "A key challenge is to improve agriculture
productivity and competitiveness, including shifting production to those agriculture products and market
niches where Poland can be competitive, especially within the EU. This requires inter alia, improvements
in the way land markets function so that farm size can be optimized, the development of private wholesale
markets and marketing cooperatives, and investments in basic infrastructure in rural areas". The Bank's
most recent poverty assessment for Poland (Poverty in Poland, September 14, 1994, report no. 13051)
notes that there is a relative concentration of poverty in the countryside, as compared with the national
average. As the project's main realization, a wholesale market for agricultural products, benefits mostly the
agriculture producer, its impact is focused on the countryside and ipso facto on that part of Poland's
population where poverty is concentrated. The project, thus, is consistent with the Bank's emphasis on
poverty alleviation. Finally, the project's environmental assessment identified a range of measures to be
taken as integral parts of the construction, that are meant to mitigate effects of the market's operation that
are potentially harmful to the environment. These measures have all been incorporated in the construction,
at a total cost which is approximately PLN 4,211,000, or 7% of total investment.
The project is an attempt to boost the agricultural sector by encouraging a vertical integration of production
and marketing as well as by providing a sustainable and reliable produce outlet. In addition, the creation of
-2 -



the wholesale market aimed at reducing produce waste, providing a reliable and efficient link in the
marketing chain, and an instrument to darnpen excessive temporal changes in demand, notably on the
producer. A more consistent and continuous interface between producers and traders maintains contacts
and trade, often interrupted when contacts are more sporadic in the absence of an organize market space.
As such, the project was in support of Bank and Government strategies for economic development and
transformation of Poland.
The lay-out of the market, done as part of project preparation by architecture consultants experienced in
wholesale market design, engaged by FAO/CP, has proven to be optimal for local conditions, well adapted
to seasonal weather changes and allowing for efficient market operations. The execution of the design, by
the contractor selected through ICB, is of superior quality as attested to by, both, company management
and users. The construction schedule, upon which the disbursement estimates made during appraisal, were
based can be considered equally satisfactory as full disbursement has been made within the period
estimated.
On the other hand, the total cost of the whole investment, at US$22.23 million, is above PAD estimates of
US$19.36 million for two reasons. Site leveling, most of foundation work and erection of the steel frame
for the administrative building were all done and completed before the effectiveness of the Bank project.
The main reason for this early work was the desire of company managemnent to maintain the momentum of
market realization and the commitment of shareholders, in the face of protracted delays in obtaining Bank
financing. The latter was occasioned, among others, by deliberations within government about its
sovereign guarantee for the proposed loan, that took well over a year. Second, the company was faced with
the costs of building an overpass over the adjacent highway and related access road works, when local
government did not come through on its promises to undertake these investments. All of these costs, either
already incurred at the time of appraisal, or not foreseen, have been covered with additional equity and are
expected to be so covered to the extent that some payments are still outstanding. There has been no cost
overrun on the Bank financed contract and disbursements of the Bank loan have been ahead of PAD
projections.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The principal objective of the project, see par. 3. 1, results in two expectations, the realization of the
physical environment for a wholesale market and, second, its financially independent operation. The first
part of the objective has demonstrably been achieved, a contemporary wholesale market structure has been
erected within its budget and within the contractually agreed upon construction period. This objective is
relevant with respect to current country and sectoral assistance strategies for Poland and is consistent with
the Bank's social and environmental goals.
The second part of the objective, the fully commercial and financially independent operation of the market,
can as yet not be ascertained defmitively, as the market is still in its start-up phase. Preliminary projections,
based on early operational results, as shown quantitatively in Annexes 3 and 8 provide for modest optimism
in this respect, provided that early capacity utilization and occupancy are maintained and that planned
business expansions take place. Under the assumptions made, and shown in Annex 3, the ERR is expected
to be 21%. Therefore, the outcome of the project might be considered as satisfactory.
Since it is too early to judge the developmental impact of this project, it is proposed that once yearly
"post-ICR" missions be arranged, in the spirit of supervision missions, to follow the wholesale market's.
3 -



evolution and to track form and substance of its developmental impact in the rapidly changing environment
for agricultural products marketing in Poland.
4.2 Outputs by components:
As a result of the project, a modem wholesale market has been constructed fully complying with
contemporary standards for food handling and with separate halls dedicated to trade in, among others,
fruits, vegetables, and flowers. Moreover, small farmers are provided with covered areas for direct sale
from their vehicles. In addition, the market in Lublin provides its customers with a range of services on
site, such as: customs, banking, sanitary inspection, and agriculture advisory.
The market has been built on a 50 ha. site on the periphery of Lublin, actually located in the adjacent
municipality of Niemce, on land that used to be part of an experimental farm of the local agriculture
university. The latter has contributed the area as its contribution in kind to the market's equity and is, thus,
one of the founding shareholders. In that respect, the situation is unique, as in all other instances of
wholesale market development in Poland the sites have been contributed by the "Agriculture Property
Agency of the State Treasury", in most cases with land that used to belong to former state farms. It shol. ld
be noted that the market's location, in the municipality of Niemce, implies that tax revenue from market
fees accrues to Niemce rather than to its large neighbor Lublin, in spite of the fact that the market is
universally referred to as the "Lublin market". This may have contributed to the lack of vigor on the par: of
Lublin in enforcing laws that would have resulted in an early closure of a primitive market in the city that
threatened to reduce the viability of the new market, as it has done elsewhere, notably in Warsaw and
Gdansk. On the other hand, the attractiveness of the new market as a major employer and basis for new
businesses in the, small, municipality of Niemce has made it easier for market management to plea for, and
receive, fiscal relief in its formative stage.
As a limited liability company, established and operating under Polish corporate law, market manageme nt
is fully independent, in spite of the company having majority shareholding from public sector institutions.
Of course, its board of directors is dominated by civil servants, but to all appearances the board behaves in
an objective, guiding, role. With respect to management and in view of the various, and varied, experiences
in Poland with wholesale markets, it may be stated that the Lublin market once again has proven that the
fortunes of a company as the one in question depend to a very large extent upon the quality of management.
This is probably the more so in an evolving economy as the Polish one was in the mid to late nineties when
wholesale markets were not ventures known to society at large. The Bank's insistence that these ventures
should be commercially viable, when they historically had not be elsewhere, was a tall order indeed,
shouldering management with an extra responsibility, in addition to all that was needed to realize the
enterprise physically.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It should be noted that the Economic Rate of Return [ERR] shown in this section, takes into account 3
economic benefits that are quite distinct from the financial benefits to the investors, shown in 4.4, i.e. (i)
value of avoided loss of produce, (ii) value of saved search and travel time by, both, traders and customfrs
and (iii) transportation savings. These benefits are quantified in constant terms of the year 2000, using the
CPI and MUV deflators and are set against total investment and operating costs. Four scenarios of
throughput growth are assumed, resulting in a range of likely ERRs from 19 to 25%. The financial return
to capital (see 4.4), on the other hand, is strictly related to the revenue of the market company, estimated in
detail and presented in tables I through 4 of Annex 8. The calculations show a quite acceptable econorni
- 4 -



return, of around 20% in real terms, but financial results that make the company barely break even and do
not generate an appreciable return to equity. In other words, what these calculations show is that the
wholesale market is economically attractive, but can barely pay its own way, financially. This has
traditionally been the argument, implied or otherwise, for public sector, mostly municipal, subsidies for
establishment and, often, even operations, of wholesale markets in Europe and elsewhere. This point is
made as the third of lessons leamed, in section 8, where it is also observed that the growing availability of
marketing channels that by-pass the traditional wholesale market, notably supermarkets and their supply
chains, increasingly weakens the argument for the construction of wholesale markets on economic grounds.
In terms of the analyses presented here this implies that the absolute value of the economic benefits of
wholesale market operations, as here calculated, gradually diminishes as fewer and fewer producers and
traders seek these benefits. Alternative marketing channels are more and more available to these producers
and traders, allowing them to reap the economic benefits listed above, in spite of them having abandoned
the traditional wholesale markets. The expected, future, throughput of the Lublin wholesale market, which
is at the heart of the economic benefit calculation and which is an extrapolation of early actual results, is
such that at least for the next 10 to 15 years it will have sufficient use to generate the economic benefits
calculated, in part because of expected modest expansion of the alternative channels in that part of Poland.
It is recognized by the management of the market company that this period of a decade to a decade and a
half provides the window of opportunity to expand the services offered by the market company with those
value adding activities that have maintained some of the traditional wholesale markets elsewhere, notably in
London, Paris and Baltimore, as commercially viable enterprises, in spite of the noted shift of trading
patterns bypassing them in part.
Table 1 shows estimates of Economic Rates of Retum (ERR) and the corresponding Net Present Values
(NPV) under various assumptions for growth in throughput, described in detail in Annex 3. With a
modest compound annual growth rate of about 7%, doubling market throughput in 10 years, the ERR is
estimated at 21%, or 1% higher than was estimated during preparation and as is contained in the PAD.
With expected annual growth of 5%, such that the aggregate in 10 years is only about 50% higher than
present throughput, an acceptable ERR of 19% is achieved.
It should be noted that the project generates significant benefits not quantified here, such as reduced
health risk due to better hygiene, improved conditions for traders and customers, vertical integration of
production and marketing, etc. If those benefits were quantified and accounted for in the economic
analysis it is likely that the ERR would exceed 20% consistently even under very modest assumptions of
growth in throughput. Consequently, the Lublin wholesale market is likely to be economically viable.
- 5 -



Table 1: Estimates of Economic Rates of Return
(values in '000 of constant US$ of the year 2000)
Total Ecoenomic Benefits under Four Scenarios    Total        Net Economic Benefits under Four Scenarios
Investment Recurrent
Years     1        2         3          4         Costs     Costs       1         2        3        4
1997                                               2,375       238    -2,613     -2,613   -2,613    -2,613
1998                                               1,338       238    -1,576    -1,576   -1,576    -1,576
1999                                              12,446       199   -12,645    -12,645  -12,645   -12,645
2000      1,211    1,211     1,211       1,211     5,823       508    -5,120    -5,120   -5,120    -5,120
2001      5,086    5,328     5,564       5,192                 689      4,397     4,639    4,875    4,503
2002      5,341    5,861     6,392       5,564                 689      4,652     5,172    5,703    4,875
2003      5,608    6,447     7,342       5,964                 689      4,919     5,758    6,653    5,275
2004      5,888    7,092     8,434       6,392                 689      5,199     6,403    7,745    5,703
2005      6,182    7,801     9,688       6,850                 689      5,493     7,112    8,999    6,161
2006      6,491    8,581     9,688       7,342                 689      5,802     7,892    8,999    6,653
2007      6,816    8,581     9,688       7,869                 689      6,127     7,892    8,999    7,180
2008      7,157    8,581     9,688       8,434                 689      6,468     7,892    8,999    7,745
2009      7,515    8,581     9,688       9,039                 689      6,826     7,892    8,999    8,350
2010-16    7,890    8,581      9          9,688  9.68           689      7,201     7,892    8,999    8,999
ERR                                                                       19%       22%1    25%1    21%
NPV @12%                                                                9,699 |   14,064   18,463    13,612|
Scenarios:
1 - market throughput, and hence economic benefits, grow at an average annual rate of 5% over 10
years.
2 - market throughput, and hence economic benefits, grow at an average annual rate of 10% over 6
years and then level off.
3 - market throughput, and hence economic benefits, double over a period of 5 years, i.e. with average
annual growth of about 15%, and then level off.
4 - market throughput, and hence economic benefits, double over a period of 10 years, with average
annual growth of about 7%, and then level off.
4.4 Financial rate of retur'2:
The financial sustainability of the project naturally hinges on its profitability as an enterprise. It also
concerns the ability of the enterprise to service its debt out of its profits.
As the operation now stands, the Lublin wholesale market company should be able to generate a net
operating profit despite turnover in market trade and, hence, in expected revenues that may be below
appraisal estimates. The available rental space, apart from the flower hall, is fully subscribed, thanks in
part to an incentive scheme that provided clients generous concessions on the first several months of rents.
These rents have been gradually increasing since the opening of the market in September 2000 and have
been at their full level as of February 2001. These revenues, based on actual current receipts, forecasts of
growth in turnover and an inflation scenario have been included in a detailed financial analysis, using the
financial analysis model that was built specifically for the Lublin market project, during appraisal. Under
the assumptions made, the company should generate a net profit, before bank charges and interest and
depreciation, of about PLN 3.2 million yearly. However, total bank charges and interest and depreciation
are expected to approach PLN 4.5 million yearly. Unless additional income and/or financing is generated,
the company will be unable to meet its debt obligations as of the year 2003 when principal payments on the
Bank loan are due.
-6-



To forestall possible default on debt payments, company management is actively developing a two pronged
approach. It intends to offer additional services, over and above the mere rental of trading space, and so
help users of its space to generate higher levels of net incomes and, thus, increase the value, or rent, of the
space used. Second, it is preparing selected divestiture and additional, non-food related, uses of excess
assets, notably land and week-end periods of time. Short term relief is expected from this latter set of
actions, medium to long term relief from the former, since it is doubtful that a rapid diffusion, say within
the next three years, of changes in operations, occasioned by additional services available from the market
company, can occur among the numerous and varied users of the market space, among others because of
financing constraints on the part of the traders. The short term conditions under which the Lublin wholesale
market company can generate resources to meet debt obligations is referred to as the "break-even scenario"
and is principally as follows.
The company first needs to fulfill its remaining obligations to the general contractor that built the market
infrastructure i.e. those investments that are outside the contract financed through the Bank loan.
Approximately PLN 11 million are required. The company is currently trying to attract new investors,
including state agencies, to provide additional shareholder financing for this obligation. Assuming that PLN
11 million of such additional financing is made available in 2001, that rental revenues develop as early
experience seems to indicate and that company operating costs are maintained in real terms at the levels
expected to obtain in 2001, then the following realizations would allow the company to achieve a
break-even on financial results:
1. the establishment of a weekly car market starting in 2001, which is expected to generate additional
annual revenues of about PLN 2 million in real terms;
2. parcels of land, probably totaling four to five hectares of the remaining fifteen hectares of unused
property on the market's 50 ha site are sold between 2004 and 2007 to cover anticipated cash flow
deficits. The sale of this land is expected to earn about PLN 13 million in this period, based on the
value of tracts of property sold in 2000;
3. starting no later than 2007, tracts of now unused land on the market site, ten or eleven hectares, will
generate additional rental income of at least PLN 1 million a year.
The simulation of operations, with the aid of the financial analysis model mentioned earlier, and
incorporating the expected results of the three actions described here will generate sufficient cash, between
the years 2003 and 2012, for the company to meet its debt obligations. Under this scenario the company's
debt/equity ratio declines from 5.8:1 in 2000 to zero by the end of 2012.
As is to be expected under the break-even scenario, the anticipated rates of return on total capital and on
equity will not be impressive. The return on total capital is estimated at 7.2 percent in nominal terms; about
1 percent in real terms, given the assumed inflation scenario. The nominal return on equity is estimated at
about 5.7 percent, which represents a zero real return on equity. The results of testing the sensitivity of
returns to changes in significant input parameters are presented in Graph 1 at the end of Annex 8.
Noteworthy is that the single most significant input parameter of the financial model is the base monthly
rental rate. An increase in this parameter alone by ten percent, i.e. PLN 33/m2 instead of PLN 30/m2, with
all other input parameters at their base values, increases the present value of the net cash flow by over one
hundred percent. This significant increase in profitability, through a relatively small real increase in the
rental rates of its market space, should provide a strong incentive for the market company to help introduce
strategic changes in the wholesale market's services and activities so as to be able to justify a rental
increase.
-7 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The most important institutional development impact of the project has been its impetus towards the
formation of farmers' marketing cooperatives. Already during the preparatory and construction phases of
the market, management of the market company has organized informational seminars and meetings to
explain and promote the need of joint marketing by the average small farmer of the region. A total of 80
meetings and seminars were organized between November, 1999 and May, 2000 within a radius of 100
km around the site of the future market on the outskirts of Lublin, attended by a total of 2,070 individua s,
predominantly farmers, with meeting attendance ranging from 8 to 94. By the market's opening in
September of 2000, a number of farmer associations for joint marketing had been established as a direct
result of the market company's promotional efforts.
Shortly before the opening of the market, the market company created a processing subsidiary dedicated to
offering product cleaning, grading and packaging services to producers and their associations. The
subsidiary company obtained equipment for these services through a donation from the EU, equipment that
is leased to an association of 15 farmers.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A number of major factors outside the control of government or the implementing agency have affected
achievement of the project outcome and objectives, including external economic and trade factors,
unemployment, and the rapid development of other competing large markets.
The Russian crisis in August 1998, import restrictions imposed by Ukraine in September 1998, which
confined the export of Polish farm produce basically to quantities limited to family supplies, and an
economic slowdown in the EU dampened demand for Polish exports. The restriction on imports into
Ukraine in particular is adversely affecting trading at the Lublin market at present.
Although the growth of GDP was more than 6 percent in the fourth quarter of 1999 and the first quarter of
2000, by the first quarter of 2000 unemployment had reached 13 percent, among the highest rates on
record. Discussions with wholesale market traders and management confirmed that in the Lublin region
concerns of unemployment are particularly strong. These regional employment problems led to a decline of
consumer demand and low propensity to open new businesses, thereby dampening trade in the wholesale
market. Rumored labor restructuring programs in large enterprises (notably at one of the region's major
manufacturing enterprises, Daewoo Motors) are expected to lead to further large layoffs. Agriculture in I he
region can no longer provide alternative employment for displaced industrial workers. There is already
widespread unemployment in agriculture, and, indeed, in the future one would expect employment in
agriculture to decline, as the agricultural sector increases productivity and becomes more competitive in m
integrated European market. These factors have caused consumers to hold back spending even on food
items.
The new wholesale market is confronted by, and competes with, the regional trading environment of other
wholesale markets, supermarket chains, and hypermarket trading. Their rapid growth was not anticipatecl
when the wholesale market was planned, during a period when the government sought to put in place
measures to cope with transformational recession, stabilize the economy, promote structural reforms and
- 8 -



set the country on the path to becoming a market economy. International institutions offered bright
prospects for external demand, with both recovery of EU markets and improvements in eastern markets
expected. Poland's efforts to strengthen its exports included microeconomic reforms (aimed at, among other
things, increasing deregulation and labor market flexibility) designed to improve the competitiveness of
Polish products in the medium term. The challenge remains, however, how can the wholesale market best
complete its integration in the rapidly developing trading environment of other large scale markets. Section
4.4, on the financial consequences of proposed additional revenue generating activities and section 6, on
sustainability contain suggestions to accelerate this integration.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The three main factors, under government control, that have had a direct impact on the implementation and
on the outcome of the project have been: extension of the sovereign guarantee for the borrower, and equity
contributions to the investment on the positive side, and the lack of enforcement of building, zoning and
sanitary laws vis-a-vis existing primitive markets on the negative side. However, delays in extending the
sovereign guarantee required for Bank lending to the borrower have extended the project's preparatory
period by well over one year. Successive equity contributions from three public sector agencies have
allowed the project to go forward when lack of the necessary counterpart funding would have made Bank
financing impossible. Finally, when the market was at the verge of operations, lack of enforcement of
applicable laws and regulations on the part of local authorities threatened to allow for the continued
operation of primitive market establishments with which the new market could not compete.
A main factor, under government control, that has had, and continues to have, an indirect impact on the
market's operation, indeed on its long term sustainability, is the border control policy vis-a-vis the Ukraine
and Belarus, enacted by the Polish government as part of its efforts to harmonize pertinent laws with EU
border regulations. The Lublin wholesale market is in part justified by its servicing of the cross border
trade of Polish food products to its two neighbors to the east. Recent restrictions imposed on this trade,
essentially limiting the amount of goods an individual is allowed to export to that which is clearly for
personal use only, is restricting the throughput of the market.
-9-



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Bank conditions for support with preparation of a project that would be eligible for Bank financing was
made contingent upon: the creation of a limited libaility company that would own and operate the marke: to
be established and, second, the acquisition by that company of the site on which the proposed market was
to be built. These conditions were fullfilled when project preparation started in December 1995 . When the
proposed project received, somewhat surprisingly, a category A classification for environmental purposes,
the Bank obtained PHRD financing for the development of a complete environmental impact assessment.
Indirect Bank financing for this study, rather than having its costs shouldered by the market company, was
considered justified as the Bank norms for an environmental impact assessment, and hence its cost are
beyond what is required under Polish law and, hence, are beyond what might be considered a reasonable
request on a Polish company. Although the program of wholesale market development was explicitly
originated by government and the request for Bank financing of several markets was part of this policy, tt
took over a year for government to agree upon the sovereign guarantee for the Bank loan that is statutorily
required by the Bank. In this respect it should be recalled that the borrower has been the limited liability
market company, availing itself of the full advantage of Bank lending conditions, without any intermediary,
conditions that can be seen as indirect governmental support for the venture, support manifested in its
guarantee. The combination of Bank requirements for preparation, including the environmental impact
assessment, and the delay in obtaining government's guarantee are the reasons for the rather lengthy
"preparation period" of 2 years and 10 months between the date of departure of the first preparation
mission and board presentation.
Although not entirely under its control, the implementing agency, i.e. the market company, has nevertheless
been responsible for: attracting a numerically large, but monetarily modest, shareholdership, for obtaining
all necessary permits, including those related with Poland's stringent environmental regulations, for the
connections to all utilities and for obtaining other infrastructure needs such as telephone connections, at .
time when such services were not widely available as a result of supply induced restrictions, and for
obtaining the closure of the main primitive competing market by means of a private understanding with its
owners. It may be noted, m this respect, that the project's ultimate success is due in large measure to the
unrelenting efforts of company management to overcome the many obstacles inherent in obtaining equity
and infrastructure and in the failure of government and of local authorities to enforce market regulating
laws.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Bank ioan, denominated in German Marks (DM), was disbursed within the disbursement schedule as
developed during appraisal. Roughly 1.3% of the total Bank loan (US$ 0.144 million) was set-aside for
loan servicing. This amount is expected to be disbursed in the second quarter of 2001. Total project costs,
as presented in Annex 2, include the unallocated part of the loan, a grant of US$ 0.28 million from the EU,
and US$ 3.6 million from the LGRO's own funds invested prior to loan effectiveness. The latter amoun1
was not subsequently included in the PAD.
Annex 2 indicates that the LGRO spent about 38% more on investment activities than was envisaged in the
PAD, while the Bank has disbursed about 5% less than the PAD estimates. The latter is due to the
devaluation of the DM, in which the loan was denominated, vis-a-vis the US$, the monetary unit used in
the PAD. The cost over-runs on the part of the LGRO are due to the early investments mentioned in the
previous paragraph, to a 4% increase in the environmental mitigation costs (see section 7.7), and to cost-,
related with access roads and an over-pass. The latter costs were not included in the PAD. If the various
- 10 -



costs mentioned here are taken into account, the actual investment costs are similar to the PAD estimates.
The PAD presented a lump sum project cost under one component, Civil Works, as also shown in Annex 2.
In addition, Annex 2 presents project procurement arrangements and project financing by component.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the Lublin wholesale market is threatened by a number of factors, which did not appear
pertinent to the samne extent at the time of preparation of its feasibility study. The main sources of income
for the LGRO, as envisaged in the feasibility study, were derived from trading with Poland's Eastem
neighbors, and with the EU and from the supply of quality produce within the Lublin region. The economic
disarray in the East and an apparent income decline in the Lublin micro-region has resulted in lower than
expected market throughput and revenue. High quality and subsidized imports from the EU have also
affected domestic produce marketing and hence the LGRO's revenues, as most of these imports go directly
to supermarkets by-passing the wholesale markets The development of hyper-markets, super-markets and
"discount markets" was not expected at such a rapid pace in Poland, and consequently, this was not
identified as a serious threat to the operation of the market.
The future of the Lublin wholesale market will depend on the economic growth of Poland and her Eastem
neighbors, on trade relations with these Eastem neighbors and the EU, and on Poland's ability to find a
niche in the European markets and develop competitive agricultural produce for such markets.
Sustainability at the micro level will depend on the ability of the company to encourage further addition of
value on the market premises, to attract more traders by providing complementary services and to continue
promoting farmer cooperation in trade and production. Of course, sustainability also depends on a
continued sound financial and operational management of the LGRO.
The wholesale market has been operational for only three months. It is, therefore, difficult, indeed
premature, to definitively judge its sustainability at this stage. All analyses, such as they are, are based on
estimates of what may be results of future operations, prognoses which may or may not be realized.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Economically efficient and financially successful operation of the wholesale market will depend upon its
ability to respond effectively to changing market circumstances and remake itself as a provider of specialty
services in commodity preparation, packaging, marketing logistics, etc., and so provide, at an appropriate
scale, new opportunities for cost savings for the regional economy.
The detailed financial analysis, summarized in section 4.4 and elaborated in Annex 8, provides insights into
the conditions that should be met for the market to develop its operations as a financially sustainable entity.
The LGRO is in the process of attracting new investors, most probably one or more public agencies. The
resulting equity injection is a conditio sine qua non for the survival of the company in the market.
Moreover, further actions are recommended and indeed have been initiated or are seriously considered by
the LGRO management. These include establishment of a weekly car market, which has started to operate
from the beginning of December, 2000; sale of land adjacent to the market; and rental of currently unused
land in order to generate additional income.
The observation of the three months of market operation would indicate that its management is capable of
meeting the demands of a competitive market and is able to provide creative solutions to problems posed.
- 11 -



As an aid to management it is recommended that routine monitoring of the market's activities be
undertaken, using the basic financial indicators included in Annex 8.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. Staff
were effective in working with the borrower, i.e. the LGRO and the govemment. The project was consis.ent
with the government's sector strategy at the time, when restructuring of the Polish economy led to breaking
up of erstwhile mandatory cooperative marketing structures. The sector lacked organization of producers,
merchants and consumers, while the organization of trade was characterized by a lack of transparency and
by insufficient infrastructure. The project addressed these issues through the construction of a modem
market fully equipped with contemporary service facilities.
The Wholesale Market project was within the frame of the Bank Country Assistance Strategy by
supporting the objective of sustaining private sector growth and managing the transfommation to a market
economy. Creation of new market institutions aided competitiveness of the agriculture sector by reducing
marketing costs and increasing market transparency.
The Bank operations preceding the Lublin Wholesale Market project included an ASAL of $300 million,
two agriculture credit projects of $100 million each, and a forestry project of $146 million. The project
concept was derived, from both demand from the client, and experience gained by the Bank from the
previous operations. Particularly, the ASAL provided substantial knowledge of the sector and its
marketing environment. The sector-wide study conducted prior to preparation of the ASAL had identified
the need to establish and support market exchange facilities at the producer/primary wholesaler and
processor levels. It had been recognized that such activities would require some public investment at state
and local government levels, with prospects, though, of financially independent operation.
At the identification and preparation stage the Bank provided the client with adequate expertise in the field
of wholesale market trade, and economic analysis. The consultants and advisors hired and proposed by the
Bank had both academic as well as practical international experience, which provided an appropriate blend
of expertise for this type of operation.
At the appraisal stage, the Bank assistance was matched by borrower conmmitment to the project,
demonstrated by securing and contributing required equity financing for the investment, by cooperation
with Bank staff in the processing of the project, and by securing pertinent notarized permits, land deed
documentation and other official documents. Moreover, the local authorities proved their commitment to
the project by appropriating funds to link public infrastructure, such as water supply and sewage
evacuation to the site of the market.
The Project Appraisal Document recognized most of the risks involved, though it may not have given at
least one of them adequate rating. The competition from European supermarkets expanding in Poland wX as
underrated, competition which is now very substantial. However, it can be argued that, seven years ago.
one could not foresee the dynamic growth of contemporary mass marketing that has led to the current
competition. On the other hand, the proposed mitigation measures for that competition still hold, includi:ng
development of the market as a multi-sector food and food products distribution and processing center in
- 12 -



order to compete with the hypermarkets as a modem food handling and distribution center.
The project has been consistent with Bank safeguard policies. Mitigation measures for perceived
environmental threats, recommended in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), were included in the
project costs and were implemented by the borrower (see section 7.7).
7.2 Stipervision:
The QAG completed a "Quality of Supervision Assessment" over FY00 activities in October, 2000. The
supervision was assessed as satisfactory overall, so were all summary categories except for "Quality and
Realism of Reporting" which was found marginally satisfactory. As the assessing panel stated, the focus of
the Bank supervision during the period under review was on supporting project implementation. The QAG
highlighted the Task Manager's depth of understanding of the issues and frankness in addressing problems.
A willingness to bring in other expertise to assist in seeking solutions were seen as important strengths.
Frequency and intensity of supervision effort appear to have paid off in fostering good physical market
construction.
It was pointed out that additional attention to the operational phase of the market and its sustainability
would be needed. Also, monitoring and evaluation during the project supervision should focus more on
factors relevant for longer term sustainability.
The following is the summary assessment of quality of supervision as stated by the QAG.
Focus on Development Effectiveness           Satisfactory
Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects   Satisfactory
Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes  Satisfactory
Quality and Realism of Reporting             Marginal
Overall Assessment                        Satisfactorv
7.3 Oierall Bank performance:
It is unlikely that this project would have materialized without the Bank's support, both financial and
otherwise. The latter relates, both, to Bank support for preparation and to direct and indirect support, often
at ministerial level, at crucial junctions in project implementation. On the other hand, Bank requirements
and procedures have notably lengthened the time of realization of the project. The latter has, in retrospect,
been very important as the rapid development of Poland's economy, and concomitantly, of its marketing
infrastructure, is closing the window of opportunity for the traditional urban wholesale market much more
rapidly than was foreseen during project preparation. Thus, the five or so years of project preparation that
have been spent on Bank related requirements and procedures have shortened by the same length of time the
period of expected full capacity utilization of the market, with the operating concept as foreseen during
preparation. Among the major Bank induced delays have been: 2 years of basic project preparation,
including the writing of a complete feasibility study and the creation of an environmental impact
assessment, more than a year to obtain the statutorily required government guarantee and little over a
year for the pre-contract activities for construction under ICB rules. The total of over 4 years of
pre-construction activities and waiting periods can be compared with the somewhat over 2 years it took to
build a facility of similar size and complexity in Lublin, the new Real supermarket.
- 13 -



On average, the Banks' perfornance throughout project preparation and supervision should be evaluated as
satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower, the LGRO, initiated preparation by asking for Bank assistance in formulating the market
concept, evaluating its feasibility, and assisting in its financing. The borrower fulfilled early the two
pre-conditions set, at the time, for the Bank support for wholesale market development in Poland,
establishment of a limited liability company, under Polish corporate law, to own and operate the then,
future market, and the acquisition, by that company, of the site on which the market was to be built. The
Borrower has collaborated fully with the expertise to help design the market concept and to evaluate its
feasibility, made available through the Bank and executed by the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program.
The Borrower's consistent and ultimately effective efforts made at every step and every juncture of project
preparation have been highlighted earlier.
In conclusion it may be stated that borrower's contribution to the project preparation should be rated hignily
satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government has been supportive with equity contributions that have allowed for Bank financing of the
investment, which in turn has attracted a number of private shareholders. As stated earlier, though,
government was slow in extending its sovereign guarantee, delaying construction by at least a year and a
half. In addition, government diluted available resources and official attention for implementation through a
government sponsored program for the creation of a total of 22 wholesale markets nation wide, most of
which have not stood the test of timne, many of which now are in serious financial difficulties. Government
support has not been consistent, an issue that came to a head when failure to enforce applicable laws an(d
regulations allowed for the continued existence of primitive markets that, in the case of the Lublin market,
threatened to destroy its v ry viability even before it was opened.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
In this project both the borrower, and the implementing agency is the LGRO. Hence, an assessment of its
performance is provided below for these two categories.
- 14 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performnance:
The borrower and implementing agency, in this case the market company LGRO, has overall performed
admirably, as testified by the final result. Although Bank preparatory staff, at the time, questioned
management's decision to spend shareholder funds on such preparatory works as site leveling and the
erection of steel skeletons for future halls, in retrospect these decisions were justified by the need to
maintain shareholder confidence in the face of the delays in obtaining governmental guarantee for Bank
borrowing and, hence, for the very realization of the market. In addition it became clear that a strategy of
forcing issues and governmental decisions through actions and achievements on the ground worked. Each
step taken by the company deepened commitment and made continuation more inevitable. The most visible
result of this strategy has been repeated additions to public sector equity in the company. The current
debt/equity ratio of the company is 5.7:1 and is expected to reach 2.2:1 early next year after a further
injection of PLN 11 million of equity.
The LGRO took all mitigation measures recommended by the Bank sponsored Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), often going beyond standard requirements under Polish law. As a result, the company
invested in the following physical systems and structures with costs as indicated:
--on-site waste water collection system (PLN 269,000) with discharge of water pre-treated in a purpose
built settling tank, into the municipal sewage system (PLN 161,000);
-- on-site run-off collection system (PLN 1,690,000), a separator and two retention ponds to pre-treat water
drained from the market's paved areas of internal roads, parking, side walks and roofs (PLN 1,265,000),
allowing for the use of pre-treated rain water for the cleaning of paved market surfaces (PLN 337,000);
-- water tower to provide the market with water supply of a capacity sufficient to cover market operational
needs and fire protection, when alternative water supply is not available (PLN 489,000);
The actual costs of all the mitigation measures implementation has been about 7% of total investment, well
beyond the level of 1% of total project costs and estimated in the PAD at US$ 0.19 million.
Moreover, to facilitate market related traffic, avoid traffic congestion, and improve traffic safety, new
access roads were constructed. The LGRO participated in financing of these new constructions and
covered part of the costs of an access bridge (PLN 3,015,000) and of the access roads (total of PLN 4
million).
The EIA included also analysis of noise levels which were higher than permissible. Therefore, the borrower
adjusted the original market engineering design and market facilities location.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be drawn from the Lublin Wholesale Market project:
It is in the nature of a rapidly developing economy, such as the Polish one in the nineties, that
current conditions are a poor indicator for future developments. The rapid development of
contemporary private marketing infrastructure, notably supermarkets and discount wholesale sellers
was not foreseen at the time that the project concept was created. The competition faced by the
traditional wholesale markets from these new structures has, thus, come to Poland earlier than
originally thought, has narrowed the window of opportunity for the traditional wholesale market
structure and has added urgency to the need to find additional sources of revenue for the market.
- 15-



It should not be taken for granted that the clients, i.e. the traders and their customers will flock
to the new market, merely by it being there. Although the physical trading environment may be far
superior to what they have now, a complex set of considerations may keep them from moving
spontaneously. Among these are: the need to move all at once, as the customers tend to prefer a market
with multiple choices, rather than going to one individual trader; fear of the unknown, notably with
respect to future rental and other costs; reluctance to abandon assets, even primitive ones, in which
part of the trading capital has been invested; the transparency of the new market, particularly with
respect to tax payments and with regards to difficulties in pursuing illegal trades of contraband and
forbidden goods, such as drugs.
*      Revenue of traditional wholesale markets, i.e. those whose activities are limited to trade in
perishable agriculture products, is insufficient to support investments required, notably when the costs
of contemporary requirements to fulfill sanitary and enviromnental considerations are taken into
account. In continuation of past practice, traditional wholesale markets would have to be justified as
providers of public services whose investment is a sunk cost incurred by society. In the light of modem
altemative trading venues, such as supermarkets and wholesale clubs, this justification does often not
hold any longer. Thus, in order to be economically and financially justified, the market concept has to
be broadened from the traditional wholesale trade in perishables to a multi service establishment
servicing the wholesale trade in food.
As in any other business venture, the sustainability and development of a wholesale market
depends to a large degree on the adaptive skills and creativity of its management. People remain the
most valuable asset and success of the venture is determined by their knowledge of local and regional
conditions, their recognition of possible threats, as well as trends and opportunities, and their ability to
exploit the latter and guard against the former. Contemporary wholesale markets have to adapt to a
rapidly changing trading environment, particularly in transition periods as those experienced by Poland
in the nineties. The Lublin market is a good exarnple of a proactive approach of management and
provides grounds for cautious optimism for the future.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from the Borrower: Lubelska Gielda Rolno-Ogrodnicza S.A. (LGRO)
Lubelska Gielda Rolno Ogrodnicza S.A.
Lublin, November 30, 2000
Dear Mr. Lacroix,
In regards with preparation of Implementation Completion Report of Poland Wholesale Markets Project
II, I would like to provide you with comments of the Management Board of Lublin Wholesale Market
Joint Stock Company (Lubelska Gielda Rolno-Ogrodnicza S.A., LGRO S.A.), the Borrower, on
appraisal of project preparation and implementation.
- 16 -



Appraisal of the project objective, design and implementation.
Construction of a modem wholesale market seems to be purposeful, considering Lublin agglomeration
of about 1.2 million population, and the neighborhood of the Commonwealth of Independent States (100
-150 km distance from Lublin to the borders of Belarus, Ukraine and others). Lublin market is the only
genuine wholesale market in the Eastern regions of Poland.
In our opinion, the technical documentation (blueprints) has been well prepared by a local engineering
firm; some slight changes have been introduced into the documentation during the course of
construction. The documentation is clear, and market space is well organized and functional.
The project has been fully implemented accordingly provisions of the feasibility study, large part of
which was developed by the World Bank and FAO specialists. All elements/facilities included in the
project operate at the Lublin wholesale market (a custom office, customs agencies, a standards
inspectorate, a veterinary office, a bank, a post office, a pharmacy, a currency exchange office, a
restaurant, snack-bars, a cash dispenser, and so on).
Self-appraisal of the Borrower - during project preparation and implementation, with a
focus on the lessons learned which may be important in the future.
Tlhe management of the Company received a lot of information and assistance from the World Bank
specialists during project preparation, who participated actively in the project preparation. Visits paid to
foreign wholesale markets in the Western Europe, and the wholesale market in Poznan, Poland, was the
other source of information. We have become familiar with functioning and operations of about 20
wholesale markets in Europe. We paid attention to information of the management of those markets, and
they were really helpful in preparation of some specific aspects of the project. We have also taken into
consideration the specifics of agriculture sector in the Lublin region: small and poorly organized farms.
Appraisal of the Bank activities, co-financing institutions, or other partners in preparation and
implementation of the project, along with appraisal of effectiveness of cooperation between the
Borrower, the Bank, and other co-financing institutions and partners, with a stress on lessons learned
which may be important in the future.
The Management Board of LGRO S.A. would like to express a great gratitude and satisfaction of
productive and creative cooperation with the World Bank, and especially we would like to thank Mr.
Richard Lacroix for his immense work on the project and its implementation. It is a great chance for the
Management Board of Lubelska Gielda Rolno-Ogrodnicza S.A. to have the opportunity to benefit from
a broad knowledge and deep engagement of Mr. Richard Lacroix all the time, and we are very thankful
for that.
We have not faced any difficult situations with the World Bank in the course of project implementation.
Once again, let us thank all the representatives of the Bank for their immense assistance and
commitment in the execution of the wholesale market in Lublin.
Yours sincerely,
Wojciech Wlodarczyk
President, LGRO S.A.
- 17 -



Comments from the Guarantor: Government of Poland
Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development
Department of Agricultural Markets
Rrg/076/85/1561/00
Warsaw, November 29, 2000
Further to the letter dated November 23, 2000, concerning the Lublin Agro-Horticultural Exchange - the
Project Final Report, I would like to present a preliminary evaluation of implementation of the project:
1. Location of the wholesale market in Eliz6wka was fully justified on account of the size of the city area
as well as the existing raw materials base and close proximity of adjacent countries (Belarus and Ukraine).
The market has become a place for concentration of products and a supply source for the city, the adjacent
voivodships and may also become a place for completing products before they are exported. The
engineering design extended somewhat beyond what had been adopted in the original outline, but this was
because it became necessary to update earlier assumptions. It should be stressed that the adopted
engineering design was implemented in whole. The initial start-up of the market took place in September
and officially the market is to open on December 3, 2000.
During the start-up the surface area of the market was used in about 80%.
2. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development as a central administration body was not directly
involved in implementing the project. However, both at the stage of creating the program of building
wholesale markets and later on the Ministry has had an influence on the preparation and implementation of
the Lublin project. This especially concems organizational measures, such as the study trips to westem
markets in the earlier period for the purpose of learning about their organization and technical aspects. The
Ministry also provided hellp in referring World Bank specialists to the Company, to prepare a feasibility
study for the project. Moreover, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development addressed resources
from the Japanese Grant to the Company and oversaw how they were utilized. In many cases it provided
advice in the adoption of specific organizational solutions.
3. The main lesson drawn from this and other projects is the future observance of the principle that an
entity that takes up such investment projects, especially at a time that is economically difficult for farmers
and traders, should prepare a full financial assembly of the project before starting investment, in this secure
at least 50% of own funds. It is also important to observe the principle that all settlements with the
voivodship and local government administration should be written down in the form of contracts or
agreements that secure their execution (for example - elimination of primitive bazaars, building
transportation connections).
4. The Ministry views cooperation with the World Bank as very good so far. Certain shortcomings on the
part of the borrower occurring at the beginning, on being clarified were examined in accordance with the
binding procedure and caused no delays in lending for the project. In view of the experience available in the
execution of such undertakings, one should expect to see more efficient cooperation on the line Ministry
Borrower - Bank.
- 18-



Sincerely,
Piotr Zaprzalek
Director of Department
of Agricultural Markets
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
It may be noted, and gratefully acknowledged, that the FAO Investment Center, under the World
Bank/FAO Cooperative program, and under the leadership of Christian Miczaika, has made substantive
contributions to early project formulation, to assessment of its feasibility and, ultimately, to the ICR.
Similar gratitude is due the Dutch Trust Fund for making available expert resources that have contributed
to project formulation at various stages and to the Japanese Trust Fund, whose PHRD facility allowed for
the financing of a complete ELA.
Work on this document has been a collective effort lead by the Task Team Leader, Mr. Richard Lacroix,
with contribution from the following ICR team members: Aziz Arya (FAO/CP); Barry Deren; Jolanta
Kryspin-Watson; Barbara Letachowicz; and Christian Miczaika (FAO/CP).
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome /Impact Indicators:
Profitability of wholesale market company    Costs of operation and debt service are  Costs of operation and debt are coverec
covered
Market is used for trading               80% of capacity utilization              84% of capacity utilization
Output Indicators:
Establishment of market infrastructure   100% completed                          1100% completed
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proiect Costs by Component (in US$ million Equivalent)
Lublin Wholesale Market                    19.35                      22.23      114.88
* Fhe figure includes US$ 0.28 million grant from the EU to the marketing company for product processing and
handling, which was not envisaged in the PAD. US$ 0.144 million are undisbursed. The LGRO company used its
equity resources to fund initial investments prior to the PAD, which were not subsequently included in the total
project costs in that document. They are included here.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ Million Equivalent)
|~ ~~~3                                   17      141     6.55l1163=>            20
3 Z l l     |      | ~1.18 |0.75 | 1.92 r                 |1.55 |         |155 
r I il l 6.38  - |1.18  |1.80  |19.36  14.13  |6.55    11.55             |    -r22.23|
Local Shopping
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
|Wholesale     l       l           l       l        l           l      l      l           l21
|Marke| 11.12 |                 -  |8.24 |10.53 |          _ |11.37 |94.69 |t179 
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic sustainability of the project in the present context principally refers to the probability th;.t the
enterprise can over time efficiently provide benefits which the economy would not otherwise realize at a
lesser cost. Because of the dynamic nature of the environment with which the enterprise will interact, ahe
nature and extent of these benefits cannot be expected to remain the same over the long - or even meditun -
term if the enterprise is to continue to be desirable on efficiency grounds. Even in the original rationale for
the project it was not expected that the benefits of cost savings arising from the reduced time and resources
that tradesmen would expend searching for goods would remain constant. The key element would be the
timing of the entry of such competitors to Lublin. At the time of the project's preparation, the entry of
competitors was not considered to be an imminent threat because of Poland's relatively underdeveloped
capital markets and unsettled investment climate. As long as the wholesale market entry was timely, it
could be argued that the project could capture economic benefits long enough to provide a satisfactory
return to the costs of the investment to the economy.
The delays in implementing the project have to a significant degree adversely affected the realization of
economic benefits. Investment conditions in Poland have greatly improved in the last six or seven years -
more rapidly than expected at the time of project preparation, and competitors to the wholesale market, n
the form of European hypermarket chains have managed to establish themselves in Lublin much sooner
than expected. Compounding the significance of this development is the observation that the economic
growth in the south-east region appears to have been weaker than expected in comparison to the rest of the
Polish economy. The impact of this development, or lack of it, is that competitors establishing themselves
before the wholesale market company would likely capture a sizable share of the expected throughput of
commodities in the wholesale market. If general growth in the region had been as expected, and the
wholesale market had started as originally scheduled, then a case could have been made that future
competitors would capture shares of the evolving commodities markets in excess of the Lublin wholesale
market's capacity to handle the regional trade. As it has turned out, there is a widespread perception t1 at
regional growth in disposable incomes has been weak despite population growth, and this in turn will
constrain the Lublin market's prospects of increasing its throughput of basic commodities as well as
commodities considered to be in varying degrees luxuries. Lower than expected levels of disposable
incomes may have also notably exerted downward pressure on retail prices of basic commodities.
Also, for reasons discussed elsewhere in this report, the geographic advantage that the Lublin market W as
expected to have in cross border trade with Ukraine and Belarus has been frustrated. The disappointing
development of external trade has combined with depressed domestic regional conditions to reinforce
present sobering expectations of the volume of commodity trade that the wholesale market will service i I
the short to medium term.
The entry of competitors to the wholesale market does not in itself imply that the economic services and
benefits they provide from their investments are more economically efficient than what had been expected
of the Lublin wholesale market at the time of the preparation and appraisal. They may or may not be.
There is no prior assumption that, when compared as an ensemble of investment options that defined
decision making six years ago, the wholesale market fairs unfavorably compared to its competitors on
general economic efficiency criteria. What has been decisive is the ability of the Lublin market's
competitors to mobilize resources quickly to capture early shares of the region's commodities trade.
The Lublin Wholesale Market project has been expected to have a number of benefits some of which arn.
considered financial returns, such as reducing marketing margins in various stages of the marketing
chain, which are not considered in the economic analysis in the ICR. In addition, there are several
- 22 -



economic benefits of the project which are not quantified. Among these are reduced health risk due to
improved hygiene, larger basket of produce available for consumption, improved operating conditions,
for both, traders and customers, encouragement of producer and trader co-operatives and a vertical
integration of production and marketing. Quantifying these benefits is beyond the scope of this report.
Assumptions of economic analysis in the PAD
A number of potential economic benefits were identified in the PAD, namely:
* reduction in transaction costs of trading,
* increase in consumer surplus due to reduced produce price and availability of a wide range of
products and improved quality,
*  increase in fanner income due to induced specialized farming, vertical integration, and creation of
more employment in agricultural services for value-added production and trade.
In effect, only the first benefit was quantified. It was assumed that PLN 75 per ton of produce would be
saved due to the reduction in transaction costs. The likely market throughput was assumed to be 20
tons/ m2 . Savings on transaction costs were a lump sum figure, which was supposed to represent time,
effort and avoided losses.
The ICR mission found that it was not possible to replicate the PAD methodology for estimating
economic benefits. No data was available on the quantity of market throughput; even the traders did not
know what quantities of various products were sold per day. Many items are sold by volume, which do
not correspond to any standard measurements. In addition, an analysis based on the quantity of
throughput requires large amnounts of detailed data on types of produce, selling price and exact
quantities. Even if such data existed, the estimated value of throughput would be highly sensitive to the
type of produce and the range of prices. As a practical compromise and in the view of the sketched data
problems, the economic analysis in the ICR is based on the value of throughput in the market combined
with a likely throughput growth rate over the next 20 years. Details of the resulting economic benefit
estimates are presented in Table 1.
Methodology and Assumptions
The economic analysis in the ICR is based on quantified benefits accruing due to the development of a
well-established and reliable wholesale market. The quantified benefits are estimated from the trading
halls, while the open air trading area has been ignored. The mission found that there have been some
quantifiable benefits accruing to the approximately 500 open-air traders but those were found to be
insignificant. The quantified economic benefits, then, are as follows ( details are presented in Table 1):
* Estimated value of avoided losses ofproduce (vegetables, fruits, eggs, flowers and plants). A likely
figure of 2% of the total value of market throughput has been assumed as savings on losses, which
is similar to the assumption in the PAD. It is very difficult to estimate the market throughput by
quantity, as many items are traded by volume, which does not correspond to any standard
measurement. There are many other traders in the market who trade dry fruits, non-perishable and
packed goods, and no savings due to avoided losses have been assumed on these items.
* Estimated value of search and travel time saved due to the concentration ofproduce under one
roof and easy access of traders and customers to the market. Groups and/or individual traders and
producers are able to benefit from economies of scale in trading. A rather conservative saving figure
-23 -



has been assumed for the analysis. Flower/plant traders and customers are expected to save on
average 4 and 3 hours per day each, which is very low given that no wholesale market existed in the
Lublin area prior to the project. Many of the retailers used to procure flowers/plants from Warsaw,
which is 170 km away. Likewise, many of the producers used to market their produce in Warsaw
as well as in the Lublin area. Search and travel times saved have been assumed 3 hours for traders
and 2 hours for customers per day for all other trades, which is also very conservative. The total
numbers of saved hours are converted into economic value using current relevant market (wage rate
40 PLN/day) and the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9.
* Savings made on transportation costs. Again very conservative figures have been assumed for
transportation cost savings, given that many producers would trade their produce through Warsaw
and many traders would procure from Warsaw. The estimated savings made on transportation in
length are only 30 and 20 km for flower traders and customers, respectively, and 15 and 10 km for
traders and customers of all other trades. The number of vehicles entering the market is based on
actual data for the past three months and a projection has been made over the period of analysis (20
years). A cost of 3 PLN/km per medium truck and 2 PLN/km per small car has been assumed,
which is the current market rate.
Aggregate annual economic returns are estimated using a 300-day year, which takes into account six
day-week and public holidays in Poland.
Estimated Project economic benefits are set against total investment costs and recurrent costs after
making necessary adjustments by excluding taxes and using SCF of 0.9 for labor. The economic
analysis is carried out in 2000 constant prices by using appropriate CPI (Consumer Price Index) and
MUV (Manufacturing Unit Value) inflators, see Table 3. The opportunity cost of capital is assumed at
12%, which is the same as the PAD figure.
Table 2 presents estimates of Economic Rates of Return (ERR) and the corresponding Net Present
Values (NPV) under various throughput growth assumptions for the market. The most likely outcome is
expected to be doubling of market throughput over a 10 year period, which would yield an ERR of
21%.
Despite conservative assumptions governing the estimates of benefits, the ERR is comparable or higher
than the ERR estimate for the PAD (20%). Assuming a very low increase in the market throughput,
annual growth of 5% over 10 years, the ERR is still estimated at 19%. Even though the project
generates significant un-quantified benefits, and hence the total investment costs are set only against a
portion of the benefits, the ERR is high, at around 20%. Consequently, the economic viability of the
Lublin wholesale market is likely, despite some highly conservative assumptions on economic returns
and estimates of market throughput growth rate.
The Lublin Wholesale Market Company (LGRO) believes that the market throughput will double over
the next five years, which will yield an ERR of 25%. Obviously the market throughput is dependent on
a number of macro and micro factors. Macro factors affecting the operation of the LGRO are trade
relations with Poland's Eastern neighbors, economic prospects in Poland and the region, further
developments of super- and hyper-markets, the impact of Poland's accession to the European Union, and
government monetary and fiscal policies, in particular inflation and the exchange rate regime. Micro
factors are mainly related to the operation and management of the LGRO such as financing, provision
of critical and promotional facilities, services to traders and customers and keeping the company
efficient and focused. It is premature to estimate the future impact of these macro and micro factors that
- 24 -



might affect the operation of the LGRO. With this caveat, the economic analysis in the ICR is based on
a number of assumptions about market throughput, number of customers, number of traders and
savings in transaction costs in terms of time and transportation. These assumptions are based on a small
sample survey from a market that has been operational for only three months.
Table 1. Economic Analysis
A. Estimated Value of Throueput by Product Categorv. Estimated Value ofA voided Post Harvest Losses. A verageper Day
Value of     Savings on Avoided Losses     Value of  Savings on Avoided Losses,
Items      Throughput            (000 PLN)            Throughput             USS
(000 PLN)        2%         5%       10%  (000 US$)         2%      5%      10%
Vegetables              9.5      0.19      0.48       0.95        2.21       44     111      221
Fruits                 33.8      0.68       1.69      3.38        7.88      158     394      788
Eggs                   14.5      0.29      0.73       1.45        3.38       68     169      338
Flowers               15.23      0.30      0.76     1.5226        3.55       71     177      355
B. Estimated Value of search and travel dime saved by Iraters and customers. Averare ner Day
Traders                        Customers                   I otal i  otal  Econ. Value I   In
Total No.   Time Saved Hours  Total No.  Time Saved Hours   Hours   Days    of Days   USS/Day
Per Trader  Total              Per Custome3  To4l   Saved   Saved  40PLNdayX 0.9
Flowers/plants           2P         4        112      140            3      420     532       67        2,394 j    558
All other trades*       200         3        600      1200           2   2,400   3,000       375       13,500    3.147
Total: 
*excludes 60 dairy traders
C. Number of Vehicles Enterin ,the Market er Day
No. Of KM SavedtVehicle/Tradr or Customer        Medium Trucks    Cost per    Smal Cars   Cost per KM
Med. Truck  Smal Car             Traders  Customers       KM    Traders Customers
Flowers                  30        20                   25          40         3      40      220           2
Allothertrades           15        10                  210         500         3      50      136           2
D. Estimated Value ofsavinas made on Transortetion er Day
Medium Trucks                 Amount         Small Cars               Amount                Total
No. Of KM Saved    Total KM    Saved      No. Of KM Saved      KM      Saved  Total Saving  Saving
Traders  Customers  Saved   PLN/Day   Traders  Customers Saved PLN/Da3  PLN/Day  USS/Day
Flowers                 750      1200       1950    5,850         800    4,400   5,200   10,400        16,250    3,788
All other trades       31501     7500      10650   31,950         500    1,360    1,860   3.720        35,670    8315
JE~~~                                       ~~~~.,,  .. 0. ..   .   .... ..---   
E. Totai EconomicE Beets per.D A+B+D;U5-j                                              
Total Economic Benefits per Year = E X 300days (000 USS) =
- 25 -



Table 2: Estimates of Economic Rates of Return
(values in '000 of constant US$ of the year 2000)
Total Economic Benefits under Four Scenarios  Total            Net Economic Benefits under Four Scenarios
Investmen  Recurrent
Years     I         2         3         4         Costs      Costs       l         2         3        4
1997                                                2,375       238    -2,613     -2,613   -2,613    -2,613
1998                                                1,338       238    -1,576      -1,576   -1,576    -1,576
1999                                               12,446       199   -12,645    -12,645  -12,645   -12,645
2000      1,211     1,211     1,211      1,211      5,823       508    -5,120      -5,120   -5,120    -5,120
2001      5,086     5,328     5,564      5,192                  689      4,397     4,639    4,875     4,503
2002      5,341     5,861     6,392      5,564                  689      4,652     5,172    5,703     4,875
2003      5,608     6,447     7,342      5,964                  689      4,919     5,758    6,653     5,275
2004      5,888     7,092     8,434      6,392                  689      5,199     6,403    7,745     5,703
2005      6,182    7,801      9,688      6,850                  689      5,493     7,112    8,999     6,161
2006      6,491     8,581     9,688      7,342                  689      5,802     7,892    8,999     6,653
2007      6,816     8,581     9,688      7,869                  689      6,127     7,892    8,999     7,180
2008      7,157     8,581     9,688      8,434                  689      6,468     7,892    8,999     7,745
2009      7,515     8,581     9,688      9,039                  689      6,826     7,8921   8,999     8,350
2010-16    7,890     8,581     9,688       9,688  _              689      7,201      7,892    8,999    8,999
ERR                                                                        19%       22%      25%       21%
NPV @12%                                                             .   9,699     14,064   18,463    13,612
Scenarios:
I - market throughput, and hence economic benefits, grow at an average annual rate of 5% over 10 years.
2 - market throughput, and hence economic benefits, grow at an average annual rate of 10% over 6 years and then level off.
3 - market throughput, and hence economic benefits, double over a period of 5 years, i.e. with average annual growth of
about 15%, and then level off.
4 - market throughput, and hence economic benefits, double of a period of 10 years, with average annual growth of about
7%, and then level off.
Table 3. Exchange Rates MUV and Consumer Price Inflators
PLN:US $                      CPI (1)                        MUV (2)
CPI Inflator                 MUV Inflator
Years            Exchange Rate (1)                    2000=100       1998=100        2000=100
1997           3.28            114.90           1.04          104.00           1.07
1998           3.49            111.80            1.01         100.00           1.05
1999           3.97            107.30           0.97          100.60           1.02
2000           4.29            110.40            1.00         102.20            1.00
2001                                                           104.70           1.02
2002                                                           107.40           1.05
2003                                                          110.20            1.08
2004                                                          112.90            1.10
2005                                                          115.70            1.13
2006                                                          118.60            1.16
2007                                                          121.50            1.19
2008                                                           124.60           1.22
(I) Statistical Bulletin, No. 10 (516)
(2) From Commodity Markets in Developing Countries, World Bank Quarterly August 2000, Table A4
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:       .
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Perfonnance Eatinc
(e.g. 2 E    S, I FMS, einplementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                      Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
December, 1995              6   Economists, Agricultural
Economist, Marketing Specialist,
Agriculture Infrastructure
Engineer, Financial Analyst
February/March,             9   Economists, Project Analyst,
1996                            Legal Specialist, Wholesale
Markets Trading Specialist,
Environmental Specialist,
Financial Specialist, Fresh
Product Marketing Specialist,
Agricultural Infrastructure
Engineer (FAO financed)
June, 1996                  2   Environmental Specialist,
Agricultural Engineer
Appraisal/Negotiation
November, 1996              6   Financial Analysts,
Cooperatives and Marketing
Specialists, Economist, Task
Manager
July 1998                   4   Legal Counsel, Disbursement
Officer, Procurement Specialist,
Task Manager
Supervision
June, 1999                  2   Task Manager; Program               S               S
Team Leader
December, 1999              1  Task Manager                         S               S
May, 2000                   5   Task Manager; Wholesale             S               S
Markets Experts
September, 2000             3   Task Manager; Environmenal          S               S
Specialist; Management
Specialist
ICR
December, 2000              6    Economists, Financial              S               S
Specialist, Environmental
Specialist, Management
Specialist, Task Manager
- 27 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actua" test Estimate
No. Staff weeks              uS$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                83                          332
AppraisallNegotiation                     30                          120
Supervision                               20                         60.8
ICR                                        8                           30
Total                                     141                       542.8
The above figures are merely estimates as the data prior to 1998 was not available.
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                         ORH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
03 Sector Policies                       OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Z Physical                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
ZK Financial                             O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               OH  *SUOM  O N  O NA
C0 Gender                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                             OHSOS OLU OHHU
 Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU   O JHU
Z  Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
* Preparation                                         *HS OS  0  U  O HU
*  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                   *HS OS   0  U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Wholesale Markets Project II, Report No. 18385-PL (Project Appraisal Document),
August 31, 1998
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Rome, Investment Centre Division, FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Programme, Lublin Wholesale Market Project, Report No: 96/045 CP-POL
(Preparation Report), April 30, 1996
The World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy - Progress Report, Report No. 19749, August 25, 1999
The World Bank, Poverty in Poland, Report No. 1305 1-POL, September 14, 1994
The World Bank, Environmental Impact Assessment:
Ocena Oddzialywania na srodowisko Lubelskiego Rynku Hurtowego (etap lokalizacji), June, 1996
Koncepcja rozwiazania wadzania i utylizacji sciekow deszczowych z terenu Lubelskiej Gieldy
Rolno-Ogrodniczej w Elizowce k/Lublina, gin. Niemce, September 1996
Lokalizacja trasy dojazdowej na teren Rynku Hurtowego Lubelskiej Gieldy Rolno-Ogrodniczej w Elizowce
k/Lublina. Opinia w sprawie alternatywy z punktu widzenia problematyki ekologicznej, December 1996
- 31 -



Additional Annex 8. Financial Analysis
Table 1
POLAND
Lublin Whoesaae Market Project
!mpenientation Completon Report
PROFIT/LOSS STATEMENT & SUPPLEMENTAL TABLES
Monthly Rents Year Start
(cuffentZl/m2)                 2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017
A Producers Market - Higher      23    23    24    26    27    29    31    32    34    36    38    39   41    43    46    4s    50    53
A Produkcers Market - Lower      12    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    19    20    21    23    24    25    2f    27    29
Hal B (Flowers)                        40    43    46    49    52    55    57    60    63    66    70    73    77    81   8a    89    93
Hall C                                 30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50    52    55    58    61   Ga    67    70
Hall D                                 30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50    52    55    58    61    64    67    70
Hall E                                 30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50    52    55    58    61    64    67    70
Hall F                                 30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50   .52   55    58    61    64    67    70
Hal G 1                                20    21    23    24    26    27    29    30    32    33    35    37    38    40    42    45    47
Hall G 2                         15    15    16    17    18    19    20    22    23    24    25    26    27    29    30    32    33    35
Offices B                        20    20    21    23    24    26    27    29    30    32    33    35    37    38    40    4,   45    47
Offices C                        20    20    21    23    24    26    27    29    30    32    33    35    37    38    40    42   45    47
Offices D                        20    20    21    23    24    26    27    29    30    32    33    35    37    38    40    42    45    47
Offices E                        70    70    75    80    85    90    96   100   105   111   116   122   128   135   141   148   156   164
OfficesF                         12    12    12    13    14    15    16    17    17    18   19    20    21    22    23    25    26    27
Addftionals I Hall C             30    30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50    52    55    58    61    64    67    70
Additionals I Hall D             30    30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50    52    55    58    61    64    67    70
Additionalsl Hall E              30    30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50    52    55    58    61    64    67    70
Additionalsl HallF               30    30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50    52    55    58    61    64    67    70
Additionals il Hall C            35    35    37    40    42    45    48    50    53    55    58    61    64    67    71    74    78    82
Additionals II Hall D            35    35    37    40    42    45    48    50    53    55    58   61    64    67    71    74    78    82
Ba,13                           101   101   108   115   123   131   138   145   152   160   168   176   185   194   204   214   225   236
BarC                             53    53    57    60    64    68    72    76    80    84    88    92    97   102   107   112   118   124
BarD                             70    70    75    80    85    90    96   100   105   111   116   122   128   135   141   148   156   164
BarE                            100   100   107   114   121   129   137   143   151   158   166   174   183   192   202   212   223   234
BarF                            101   101   108   115   123   131   138   145   152   160   168   176   185   194  204   214   225   236
BarSocialBuilding                71    71    76    81    86    92    97   102   107   112   118   124   130   136   143   150   158   166
Bank                             61    61    65    70    74    79    83    87    92    96   101   106   112   117   123   129   136   143
Restaurant                       14    23    25    26    28    30    31    33    35    36    38    40    42    44    46    49    51    54
Moto Shop (B)                    35    35    37    40    42    45    48    50    53    55    58    61    64    67    71    74    78    82
Flower Hail Cooling Chamber (B)  40    40    43    46    49    52    55    57    60    63    66    70    73    77    81    85    89    93
Administaton Offices             30    30    32    34    36    39    41    43    45    47    50    52    55    58    61    64    67    70
AddtionalSpaceAdminBuilding       8     8     8      9     9    10    10    11    11    12    12    13   14    14    15    16    17   18
Containers                             27    28    30    32    34    36    38    40    42    44    46    49    51    53    56    59    62
Buyers Entrance Fee faveraoeZVvN  1.8   1.8   1.9   2.1   2.2   2.3   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.8   3.0   3.1   3.3   3.5   3.6   3.8   4.0   4.2
Other Space (Z/mo)             6000  6000  6420  6837  7282  7754  8196  8606  9036  9488  9962 10461 10984 11533 12109 12715 l3351 14018
Commune Tax Collection (Zrmo)   1200  1200  1284  1367  1456  1551  1639  1721  1807  1898  1992  2092  2197  2307  2422  2543  2670  2804
Scale Usage (ZVmo)                0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0     0     0     0      0     0
Adverisement (ZI/mo)           5000  5000  5350  5698  6068  6462  6830  7172  7530  7907  8302  8717 9153  9611 10091 10596  1126 11682
Misc fTelephone/Electricitv) (ZVmo) 12000 12000 12840 13675 14563 15509 16392 17212 18072 18976 19925 20921 21967 23066 24219 25430 2'6701 28036
- 32 -



Table2
PCAD
U.lnResl a*Pjd
hVI~CPTd *
F%RIrLC6STSATEM/NT& S FRBETA-TAELE
Avw4A"diR%*s (a
ZSr2                          20M 01 Z100 3  204  Z105  211C6   WD   200B   MMa  2D10  21   2D12  Zl13  Z)4  2915  20t6  2D17
A Rodjms3s 1- H4               271   299   319   340   36D   39D   399   418   439   461   484   SM   24    V@ 9 68    699
APMdscEMM3-Lmw                 148    163   174   t85   196   2)7   217   ZB    239   251   264   277   29t   305   321   337   35
HEI B (pfs)                    46D   sao   565   601   63B   67    706   741   T7B    817            M    90t   946   953  1043  1095  1149
Hal C                          345   398   424   451   479   W4   5S    5di   55,   613   643   675   709   745    M? 2                   82 1  2
Hal D                          345   398   424   451   479   504   SB    5i6   5S4   613    613   675   7C39   745   782   St    862
Hal E                          345   398   424   451   479   50D4   SB    5f6   5B           613   643   675   709   745   782   S1    82
Hal F                          345   35B   424   451   479   504   523   556   5B4   613   643   675   709   745   7E2   At   8E
HaIGI                          23    25 :5   282   301   319   33    353   370   389   408   429   450   473   496   MI   547   957
HUG2                           180   199   212   22    29   22   2S5   278   Z32   30B               2    S38   355   372   331   411   431
Cffices B                      240   25   282   301   319   336   353   370   389   408   429   450   473   496   521   547   57
ake3sC                         240   255   202   WI   319   336   353   370   a38   40B   429   450   47    495   521   547   57
alices D                       240   2;5   22   30t   319  3M6   353   370   389   40B   429   450   47    496   521   5W    S57
Cfies E                        840   <B   98B  1053  1117  1176  1235  1297  1362  143D  1501   1576a  1655  173B  1825  1916  2D12
OfcRes F                       139   154   164   174   185   195   205   215   Z26   237   249   261   274   29B   302   317   333
Addlonals I Hal C              360   39B   424   451   479   504   S9    55i   584   613   643   675   709   745   782   821   8E2
AdHoEs IHlD                    3io   39B   424   451   479   SD4   5B    5E6   584   613   643   675   709   745   782   821    8E2
Addblds I Hal E                36D   398   424   451   479   S)4   529   SB    584   613   643   675   709   745   782   821   B2
AdlvsI H21 F              360   39B   424   451   479   Sl4   S9    5            584   613   643   675   709   745   782   82    82
Addnls 11 HEI C                42D   464   494   526   SB    5e8   617   648   63t   715   751   78B   827   869   912   9SB   1006
Adc2wisr If Hei D              420   464   494   526   5B    5S8   617   648   63    715   751   78B82    89    912   95B  1006
BarB                          1212  133    1 425  1519  1611   1697  I78   1871  1964  2063  2166  2274  2388  2507  2f 33  2764  29a2
BErC                           636   703   748   797   845   891   935   982  1CB1  1082  1137  1193  1253  1316  1381  1451  1523
BarD                           840   $B    993  1053  1117  1176  1235  tZ9    13E2  1430  IBM   1576  1655  1738  1825  1916  20t2
BwE                           1200  1326  1412  1504  1!i5  1680  17654  1852  1945  2D42  214   22S2  2364  2482  2807  2737  2874
EBEF                          1212  1339  14ai  1519  1611  1697  1782  1871  1964  2063  21ffi  2274  2388  2507  2533  2764  2902
Bar Soca Binm                  852   941  1002  106B  1132  1193  12ZB   1315  1381  148D  15;3  1599  1679  1763  1851  1943  2D40
Bark                           732   809   861   917   973  1O5   1016  1130  1186  1246  1308  1373  1442  1514  1590  1669  1753
Reswt                          Z76   305   325   346   367   3!y;   406   425   447   470   49B   518   544   571   600   62    6S1
19bSawe                        42D   464   494   SE    SS3   58B   617   648   681   715   751   783   M27   869   912   958  1006
FbwHalCoV   mbr (B             480   S30   565   601   63B   672   706   741   778   817   858   90t   946   993  1043  1095  1149
A    dr411o Orces              360   39B   424   451   479   W4    529    56    534   613   643   675   709   745   782    821   862
.S:edp"Adrf Bik                 90    99   106   113   12D    128   132   139   146   153   161   169   177   186   195   205   216
CotEin                         318   351   374   398   423   445   463   491   5t5   541   568   997   E27   65B   691   725   762
.Ws E*aceFee Phe)               2   2   2   2   2   3   3   3    3   3    3   3   4   4   4    4   4
Cher Spamw                   72000 79544 84714 9C217  95703 10OB12 103   111t46 116703 12253B 128eE  13S3 141853148946 15Si3  16423 172423
CWaPeTaKCdedmpnw             14400 18909  16943  1843  19141  2Dl12  21171  22M        23341 290B  Z73    27130 28371 2gh9   31279 3243 34485
SC.-I         t Os_   Osf        0                                                                                                  
Adaieriei: 2                 60000 O7    70695 75180 79752 84010 8t1  92l 972S  1t2115 107Z21 1125e2 118211 124121 130327136844 143686
Ms  rWe El9:(* Ty  144C00 IBM9  1B9   13M19140    2tl625 211706 222Zn 23q40 2?E17 257330 27096 AM7a  297aR 312786 3B425 344847
- 33 -



Table 3
POLAND
Lub*n Wholesale Makt Pftjec
In 1erna  CariM   Repor
PROFrrLOSS STATENENT & SUPPLEIvENTAL TABLES
AnmuaRsrgdA Aea(m2)  2000 2001  2002 2003 2004 2C05 2006 2007 2008 2M09 2010 2011  2012 2013 2014  2015 2016 2017
A P>R is Makket - Higher   720  720  720  720  720  720  720  720  720  720  720  720  720  720  72D  720  720  720
A Proces Malet- Lor   3840 3840 3840 3840  3840 3840 3840 3840 3840 3840 3840  3840 3840 3840 3840  3840 3840 3840
HaiB(Fbwers)             1195  1195 1345  1495  1495 1495  1495 1495  1495  1495 1495  1495  1495 1495 1495  1495  1495  1495
Hall C                   1296  1296 1296  1296 1296  1296  1296 1296 1296  1296  1296 1296  1296 1296 1296 1296  1296 1296
Hall D                   1296  1296  1296  1296  1296  1296  1296 1296  1296  1296  1296  1296  1296 1296  1296  1296  1296 1296
Hal E                    2304 2304 230404 24 2304 04 2            304 2 304 2 304                  4 2304  2    2    2304 2304
Hall F                   2304 2304 2304 2304 2304 2304 2304 4 230       4 230 4 230 4 23  2304 2304 2304 2304  23004  304 2304
Hal G 1                  1887 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173 2173
HalIG2                    572  572  572  572  572  572  572  572  572  572  572   572  572  572  572  572  572  572
Ofices B                  344  345  346  347  348  349   350  351  352  353  354  355  358  357  358  353  360  361
Offices C                 254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254  254
Offices D                 389  389  389  389  389  389  389  389  389  389  389  389  389  389  389  383  389  389
Offices E                 242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242  242
Offices F                 612  612  612  612  612  612  612  612  612  612  612  612  612  612  612  61:2  612  612
Addtonasl HalC             57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57
Addioks I Hi D             57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57    57   57   57   57   57   57   57   57
AddionalIHslaHiE           38   38   38   38   38   38    38   38   38   38   38   38   38   38   38    33   38   38
AddifFionasI HallF         38   38   38   38   38   38   38   38   38   38    38   38   38   38   38   W3   38   38
Adddionals 1I Hall C       44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44
Addionals l Hal D          44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44   44
Bar B                      39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39
Bar C                      41   41   41   41   41   41   41   41   41   41   41   41   41   41   41    4'1  41   41
Bar D                      42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42
Bar E                      42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42
BarF                       42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42   42
Bar Sodal Buklng           90   90   90   90   90   90   90   90   90   90    90   90   90   90   90   9.)  90   90
Ba*                        61   61   61   61   61   61   61   61   61   61   61   61   61   61   61   6-   61   61
Restarart                 190   190  190  190  190  190   190  190   10   190  190   190  190  190  190  19:  190  190
Mdo Shop (B)               39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   39   393   9    39   39
FbwerHalCcoirmChait,a    96   96   96   96   96   96   96   96   96   96   96   96   96   96   96   9F   96   96
AdrninisalaonOfflces      190  190  190  190  190  190   190  190  190  190   190  190  190  190  190  19C   190  190
Addtonal SpaceAdmn BLid  135  135  135  135  135  135   135  135  135  135  135   135  135  135  135  135,  135  135
Contafrirs               1288  1288  1288  12938 1288  1298 12838 12B8  1288  1288  1288  1288  1288 1288  1288  128f  1288  1288
Buvers Er&ace Fee (Cas/rn 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 37500 3750C 37500 37500
o0rSpace                    1    1    1    1    1         1    1    1    1    1    1          1    1    1    1       1    1    1
Comarnie Tax C;ocion        1    1    1    1    1         1    1    1    1    1    1          1    1    1      1    1    1    1
Scab Usage                  1    0    0    0    0         0     0    0    0    0       0    0      0    0    0    C    0         0
Adveriserit                 1    1    1    1    1         1     1    1    1    1    1         1    1    1      1    1    1    1
Mic (TelephoreE1ecricty)    1    1      1    1    1    1        1    1      1    1    1      1    1    1    1        1    1      1
-34 -



Table 4
POLAND
LubDin Wholesale Market Projec
Impementation Compleion Report
PROFIT/LOSS STATEMENT & SUPPLEMENTAL TABLES
Revenues (cunst PLN0W)    2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005-20  2007 2   2003 2010 211 22 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
A Producers Market- Higher    66  195 216 230 245 259 273 287 301 316 332 349 366 385 404 424 445 467
AProducersMarket-Lower       189 567 626 667 710 753 794 833 875 919 965 1013 1063 1117 1173 1231 1293 1357
HallB(Fbwers)                71  550 713 844 899 954 1005 1055 1108 1163 1221 1282 1346 1414 1484 1559 1637 1718
HallC                         27 447 515 549 585 620 653 686 720 756 794 834 875 919 965 1013 1064 1117
HallD                         27 447 515 549 585 620 653 686 720 756 794 834 875 919 965 1013 1064 1117
HallE                         48 795 916 976 1039 1102 1161 1219 1280 1344 1412 1482 1556 1634 1716 1802 1892 1986
HafalF                        48 795 916 976 1039 1102 1161 1219 1280 1344 1412 1482 1556 1634 1716 1802 1892 19886
HalIG1                        26 500 576 614 653 693 730 767 805 845 888 932 979 1027 1079 1133 1189 1249
HallG2                        34  103  114  121  129  137  144  151  159 167 175 184 193 203 213 224 235 247
Offices B                     28  83  92  98  105  111  118  124  130 137 145 152  160 189 178  187 197 207
Olices C                      20  61  67  72  76  81  85  90  94  99  104 109 114  120 126 132  139 146
Offices D                     31  93  103 110  117  124  131  137  144 151  159 167 175 184  193 203 213 224
Offies E                      68 203 225 239 255 270 285 299 314 329 346 363 381 400 421  442 464 487
Offices F                     28  85  94  100 107 113  119  125 131  138 145 152 160 168  176 185 194 204
Addiotonals I Hal C            7  20  23  24  26 27   29  30  31  33  35  36  38  40  42  44  47  49
Additials I Hall D             7  20  23  24  26  27  29  30  31  33  35  36  38  40  42  44  47  49
Additiona I Hall E             5   14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  26  27  28  30  31  33
Additonals I Haf F             5   14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  26  27  28  30  31  33
Addionals 11 Hal C             6  18  20  22  23  25  26  27  29  30  31  33  35  36  38  40  42  44
Addirionals II Hall D          6   18  20  22  23  25  26  27  29  30  31  33  35  36  38  40  42  44
Bar B                         16  47  52  55  59  62  65  69  72  76  80  84  88  92  97  102  107  112
Bar C                          9  26  29  31  33  35  37  39  40  42  45  47  49  52  54  57  60  63
Bar D                         12  35  39  41  44  46  49  51  54  57  59  62  65  69  72  76  80  83
Bar E                         17  50  55  59  62  66  70  73  77  81  85  89  93  98  103 108 114  119
Bar F                         17  50  56  59  63  67  70  74  78  82  86  90  94  99 104 109 115 120
BarSocialBuilding             26  77  85  90  96  102  107  113 118  124  131  137  144 151  159 167  175  184
Bank                          15  45  49  53  56  59  63  66  69  72  76  80  84  88  92  97  102 107
Restaurant                    10  52  58  62  66  70  73  77  81  85  89  94  98                   8 1 114  120 126
Mot Shop (B)                   5   16  18  19  20  22  23  24  25  26  28  29  31  32  34  35  37  39
FbwerHallCooingChamber(B)    15  46  51  54  58  61  65  68  71  75  79  83  87  91  96 100  106 111
AdministationBuildingOffices  23  69  76  81  86  91  96 101  106 111  117 122  129 135 142  149  156  164
Addiffonal Space Admin Buldng  4   12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  28  29
Containers                    24 409 452 482 513 544 573 602 632 664 697 732 768 807 847 889 934 980
Buyers Entance Fee            68 810 895 953 1015 1077 1134 1191 1250 1313 1379 1447 1520 1596 1676 1759 1847 1940
OtherSpaca                    24  72  80  85  90  96  101  106 111  117  123 129 135 142  149  156 164  172
Commnune Tax Collecdon         5   14  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  25  26  27  28  30  31  33  34
Scale Usage                    0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
Advertsement                  20  60  66  71  75  80  84  88  93  97  102 107  113 118  124  130 137  144
Misc (TelephoneEleiclty)      95  144  159  169  180 191  202 212 222 233 245 257 270 284 298 313 328 345
Car Market                     0 2000 2130 2268 2416 2553 2681 2815 2956 3104 3259 3422 3593 3772 3961 4159 4367 4585
-35 -



Table 5
Lubn tdeal Pr*d
hCF
FMOS6S STATEMT
0m)                   vw     2)33  2001   2002  203  23)4  2M5  2XB   2C07  201     MMD  2010  2D11  2312  2013  2014  2315  2316  2017
V    satlers BDJr Rgrs       106 1,617  1I3  1,9B4  Z113  ,241  2,361  Z479  2=    Z733  Z870  3,013  a164  3,322  348   3   2,846  4,03
herdu       F2RV*reaU'*Reri   61   603   690   735   782   830   874   918   964  1,012  1,063  1,116  1,172  1230  12              3 '.3    1,424  1,49
FbAwHal Rert                  71   50   713   844   899   954  1,006  1,055  1,108  1,163  1,221  1I    1;346  1,414  1,484  t,S    1W37  1,718
Cathefs                       24  409   452   482   513   544   573   602   632   664   697   732   788   8D7   847   839   934   980
Serri-Wbxs'Skiba         80          972  1,117  1,189  1257  1,344  1,415  1,486  1M8   li3   1.72D  1,8   1,97I    1e 2          2191 216  2  Z421
PcMsif                       255   M6    842   897   935  1P013  1D6   1,12D  1,17ro  1,35  1297  1,36   1,430  1SM   If57   1955  1J73B  IBZ
ReBjarar1      RFbt          106  337   372   397   422   448   472   496   SD    546   574  6&    632   664   697   732   769   807
ORS)upa                      198  594   657   7W0   745   791   834   876   SD    966  1,15  1,O   1,12)  1,176  1Z35  1ZO  1,3M   1,432
BWkREM                        15   45    49    53    56    59    63    66    69    72    76    8D    84    8B    8    97   12    107
Rdd&pkisLar-                   0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0  1M   1=    1,103  1,158  1,216  1276  1340  1407  1,477  1551
EraceFees                     68  810      95   953  1,015  1077  1,134  1,191  1,250  1,313  1,379  1,447  1,52      S 1,5861,-76   759  1,847  1940
ar      dAr                   49   147   162   173   184   195   25   216   225   238   2)   22   275   289   33   319    3 5   351
rsc   s         *            120  218   241   257   274   290   30S   321   337   354   372   390   410   430   482   474   49B    23
CkMrvb                            ZmoD  20S5  Z132  Z2D1  Z264  2,7   Z379  Z438  Z469  2a   2,    2,6s1  Z758  Zs27  2a9   2971  3045
SaeoLard 8J6                                          3f    a171  3328  a496
2017 9M384 10,118 10,794 14,426 15W   15R9s 16M9 14M)4 15,484 16,196 16,42 17,724 18,544 19,402 2)32 21,245 22234
OEA1N G tM 6S S25  217                                                                                                      2014  :n5  2n18   2M7
FtrreCO                      488 1,481  1,57  1S79  1,788  1,0)  1,985  2084  Z183  2,97  2412  Zs33  2,6o  2793  2932  3a7s  3,233  3,394
ONX FErtal                     0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
oI wafrs                      40   12)   128   136   145   153   161.  169   177   186   196   205   216   728    23B    2)    21    275
Fuelfr vetes                   0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
v        ,, . ,                0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Wr'andL-Ndr teD               40   68D   703   749   797   843    86   929   975  1,24  1,075  1,129  1,186  1,245  1,337  1,372  1,441  1,513
Travel                                      0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
FPaest d                                    0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
vvwr                          41   151   161   171    182   166   2Q    213   223   234   246   25B   271    2B5   299   :314   33D   346
C       awgWea               104  324   345   367   391   414   434   456   479   5Q3    M8S   554               2   611    642   674   707   743
Heag                         103  227   241    257   274   28    3D4   319   335   352   366    388   407   427   449   471   465   52D
40   12)   120   1        145   183   161   169   177   186   196   205   216   225    3B   :M               "      715
ztt    pwigCcs              1.106 3M7  4.10B  4375  4^S3  4S24  5.170  5.429  51706  5.5  8284  6.S  8928  7275  7f    a1S  842   8843
Op PAtti                     911 5,207  6,011  6,419  9,787 10,297 10,789 11,271  9,104  9,499  9,912 10,344 10796  11 M9 11,764 12=   12Z824 13,V
Bank d     aid     1e       I    Z429  253   252 2a  a 2,128  1,097  1,46  1;B1  1,101    807   466   170               0      0      0      0      0
DWld-c                         0 2$s))  2$)  Z        2$n)  2$)  1557  1557  157   1466  1,49   1,49B  1,49   1,46B  1A46   149S  1,466  149B
Cp  Le p        t              0    0       0      0      0      0      0     0      0      a      0      0      0      0      0      0g
1=   4.462  45ff   4535  4361  4161  3454  3203  2933  2600  235  1S5   1.66   1496  1493  1.493  1496  1493
Pick bebe Ta(              (1,00B)  745  1,446  1,885  5,407  6,136  7.3a   803  6,166  6,9  7,697  8,349  9,128  9,770 10,265 10,783 11 -QS 11M
ULSsebrs4tbt d              (53)   )3)             0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Lrsescaed bwad              1S31     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   O  
Taoble- prct                   0   222   923   13   SAUl  6,136  73 858B  6,166  6X9  7,67  8,349  9,128  9,770 10,5 10,783 11,   113
Tax poided                     0    84   351   716  2D54  2         2787  36  2343   2622  21  3173  3466  a713  a91  4B   4304  4519
ProlbtTasra(KUhxxre)       (1.Otm  6SD  1A5  1166  m3    30   4547  5DQ2  23    4278  4716  5176  56    605B  631i5  6Ee6 7a=                   7'74
Pia0eTacQ1(hirne) 1376 3591  4044  404  3454  3a97  4.405  4833  530  5.786  6.063  6.415  6.751  7103
- 36 -



Table 6
POL*D
LLj* 40wMe mw roed
C4ASIRONSCTAT\I
ww   2C01  20    2m13  2m34   21B   21E   2117  2me 2XN  2010   2011   2012   2013  2014   2015  2016  2017
SORES
OatCas Fbff
O        Pra   5"7 6,011  6a419 9.767 10297 10789 11271 9.104 9.499 9912 10344 10.796 11269 11.764 12282 1284 132391
Lems-dteUrieades               Z42A9 253   2       2328  212B  1997  1.646 1281  1.101   807   496    170
-  *teest sDa
-bU   eled                    84   351   716 2054  233   22787  3.06 2343 2.72 2891  a73  3469  3.713  3901  4098  4.304  4.519
- w*xib                     l 785) (14D   (961 (1241   (72\   (671   M     (1  (711  (741   C78M    Ra    (86\   4961   (941   (O91  (1041
3,478 3270  3,29  5       5,96   6,171  6,62  5,401 5,846 628   6,753  729  7,642  7953  8278  8,619  8,76
Q*mvsIu                         11X000
T    dsis                       14.78 3270  3,28  5        5M     6,171  6.6  5401 5.84  62%M    6.753  79  7642  7953  8278  8919  8S76
CaU everdkir
iFlYm lE-bk                                  5,114 5318  5510  5S        5.812 599 6,110 62     6,425  6588
-sho'at  ffnirx      14.466 1.000
TctA ie                         14.46  I O    114 5318  5510  5S        5812 5%9 5110 66  6.425  658
nJEi                              12 2270 (1O     191   359  S5          813  (5691 124)   23    328   651  7,542  7953  8278  8.619  8,976
OmBe                             167 2437   611  81   1201  1.704  2518 1969 1,655 1.718  2048  Z697 10-39 18292 25570 35.189 44.166
Cah Fbw  A iafrDe foSeD e
Op9' I3~A-EbltrDeIi
Sav 1/                           5,907 5,2Q  5,790 7,37  8,037  8W      8,271 6,782 6948 7,095  7249  7,409  7,642  7,953  8278  8,619  8,76
QaUme Cash Aab for DEi
Saerve2/                         2,5  4.969 8,22  8,448  8,38  9,2    9,975 9299 8,907 8,750  8,967  9,455 10339 18,l   26.570 35189 44,166
1/Ddnedasc%  fprikt Kv  ~wiakigcgjpU rqxiemr*santdrxre kei  da~s~s ftNsnetie sposkNe;dhwes, asteoeq'                gpti-s~k3PA is~pooIme
21 Diek,d as ax      caeh gm% of do swta                            37 -
- 37 -



Table 7
tLND         ye       l9 9 l1999 20M0 20M    20(2  20M    2M4    2M6 MM    2         MMN MM0 MI20l             11 02 2y3  2D14  2D5  26  2017
ASSEI 
cod                   12,C38 6230  67,403 67,4M 67,40  67A4X  67,40  67,4c3 67,403 67,4O  67,403 67,403 67,403 67,4O3 67,403 67,403 67,403 67,403 67,403 67,403
DpdOn                                      2cs3 4ce6 6=          31l tat64 11.72  13278 14,84 I6 3 IL23I 19-V9 217M              2M4 ZM2M   B319
N\btF1841Asm           1Z,a38 6Z307 6784C3 66,37 G%=   61;N0 W=27 57Z3 S,eB 54125  9Z             51Ft1 49      489    46    45MB 43M         0        3905
CLoTtAsu
Amax3        b           101  Z171  2,173  ZM25 2208  Z11  2,213  2,216  Z2Z8  ZP2D 2,223  Z225  Z2.28 2.231  Z2,34  Z237  Z241  2244  Z248  Z2;52
Cih15n                  Z759  ;3Mg    165   167 2A37    611    80t  12D1  l.70  2518  15         9   1.718  Z06   69  10339 Ia212 26E7 356189 44.166
&a*WCrwtAsmb            2,8E0 5,710 Z328  Z372  4,64   Z2S1  aD14  3,416  3,Z    4,738 4,182  392   3,91   4Z77  4,931 12576 MMSS  2Fs814 37,437 46,417
TcdASsm                M4,76 6l3  fZ7Z               3 5         s        2        fi475a21 MM         51.9. 5MM  5,1BD7 %7.  4112 791fi   7   8_i02
dl3eySI                 4      14,527tS7 14S2  2552W i2 25 , 27 2527 2W2    i 2 5 27 2W52  25S   25,=7 25,52  25,52  25,27 25S2  2552  25,527 25,527
;edt*w es.       k         R3m  441  ai    wi2n           215  tA87 Ism439                       1    B2    vo 2USa17 353fl0 SE 355fa
Tdaleqil               11,132 11,394 I438  2ZM4  23,141 24,31 27,61 31A1e6 35,04 41P16 44,E3  49,116 51,0  506B  49,705 55,762 62127 68813 75,835 83.208
LWA_
Lorg-Tem Dzb              270 3D,3e 43,80 43805 4a,eo 3%=  3x373 270;4 22196 1638  VA25  4,35
CqS Lem d
CaUt
TaR -- r      adVAT      (!1)  M       15   198   219   234   303}  3Z}   335   351   318   333   3419   3E5   3E2   400   419   438   459   481
beWnn                                  59    9l2    8U6    891   919  1p0    Ip6   1,113  1,189  1227  I,M   1,35   1,420  1,49   1S66  1,644  1,727  1,813
&Mi3U ftm              3.517 2465 15,4e6  1X0
ZI"' bls                3,765 5URZ  5934 46,05 44,841 3R816 34,625 2R190g 23,W  17,84  I1,92  5,875  1,637  1,718  1,8M  1,85   1,985 Z083 Z186  29a4
TdmdGl*    l&Lh   n   14jqi 619               6           1      2 [          5   l 57   !1   j9  =jj25  1ffi7 57Mi 64L12 7QIS  M=2  e.0
Ddas%dttd              331%M            408    17eYe 172K IMZ 131%    1Q9Y  B7%    64%    41%    17ff 0SS 0i6 0%                 0%     07   0      0
(odrwsFacibdbydO
- 38 -



Table 8
PCLAND
FN*C4L RA110
MTM                      19SB   1959  2=c    MMD  2=E   MMO  MD  20C  2n6  2i  MMD  MMX  MID1  2Dt1 2D12 2Dt3 2t4 Z)15 2Dt6 2Dt7
Gnxs Prt* Nh1/           #,VA   16%   4S%    57%  S9  9% S9%  68%  O^ BSX  67%  61%  61%  61%  61%  61%  61%  61%  60%  6096 6D%
NotPI=tNrhf              #IWA   MIA  OM        7%  11%   11%  2D36 25%  29%  30%  2iR3  26%  2976  31%  3296  33%  33%  33%  33%  33%
PlAm  nAsmb                      036   1%    5%   6%    7%  129; 14%  1S%  175; 13Y* 15%  t6%  17%  18%  17%  i6%  1S%  1S%  14%
RdmxonERy41                    -12%  -10%      3%   S%    5%  12%  12%  13%  12%   9%   9%   9   10%  11%  11%  10%  10%    9%    9
GY*Q5                           73%   81%    67%  65%   61%  55%  4756  39% 9;  S   19%   896  0%    096  0%    0%    096   096  0s    096
WWUBa* Bpmue61                  71%  833%   72%  73%*  73%  70%  65%  S5fi 51%  43%  34%  24%  13%    096   0%    0%    C%   0%   0lC
O   wa  71              #IA  #NA    Z4   Z3    2.3  3.4  3B8  4.3   S O   4.9   A3   &S  14.6  43.7  #INA  ANEA  #IA #NiA #NA
Det SaX>aaCgAe 8f               MiNA    al    Q3   1.6   OB   1.0  1.1  1.1  1.1  QL9  1D0   1.0   1.0  1.1  #NAM  #NA  "IW   #IA  WAN
CuTrrrMD&SwAmCse5                32    1.1    1.1  2ZO    1.1  1.1  12   12   13   13   12   12   1.3  1.4  #NA  #A   MWA  O1A  WVA
l/ Daid ESt  bsoepe cn  ift  ardtwoastalv nu
2/Ddnedasnot4w    onietonarbE  #
3/ D*ed as npara nmre   rat ofapl ol eq *
4 Ddnedasrm s  ve boywMep s .
6 DdredasftWd BEribm aer W4 trn ibs6pkis eWty
7/Ddnedasa tlwaaibtbVrn dettfs oArIIopstsqaWlbekmcb anmbm
EVDdn dsopa V        a;htdesAmwW     bN bb fw     bI  de eM.u onrbV r_Zs gnd cn
DEEns3 nROkTD
DEbt              ~~~25S  83%    859S   6  M    65%  61%  595; 4sMe 41%  35%  279; 199e 11%         06    OY6  0%    GY0O  096
Eq*                      75%    17Ye  15s/o  31%  V2%   3s%  3D%  45%  51%  SD%  65%  73%  81%  es%  IaO%  iWYoY 1C0% IOD% 1C0% IOD%
FR  ASMH ROM             ISM    1909  ZtOO       2001 D2  2003 2004 2M5 2a6 2007 2m3 2009 2Do  ao11 2M2  2013 2Dn4  zns  2M6 2Dn7 MMD
ChbNtrROTC-111  (1Z2q           1b)WW1 SM7 OR7 4l99 8=2 7AM3 7,715 7A82 5,43 6,702 W,e 7.M2 7516 7,I 8,141 8,475 8,82 9,192 WMe3
-re   (11,456) (41M) CAM1) 4M42 3;M    A12D 43  A12D 4M                 Zg5 94 3X7 3P    ZseD gMZg Z     W3 as2;      2 M7  a     2B2s '1W2
Cash1bwvbe         -i  (11,742)   78D P,We) (IOQB Z270  (I1 I    39D  sm    813  (5M            P)  23  328  651 7A42 7=Rs B,2B 8,619  ,s7 16e3s
-md   (1QsE4)   651   q         (7X* 1,514  (1,144)  112  4?2  285  408    07) (120   1o 1M   25 2JBzs5 Z834 Z830s Z786 Z763 5,182
RA1MOFO M                                              NPVr12N
OnWs-nwi                72%        RsdaEh t  trRrC(Z7,s)Zm=
-Ma         019%                           (U        us $Om
on eq*   -Mw    5.7%
,M          0 a0%
- 39 -



Table 9
POAMN
Lubin Vftesale NMaket P4ed
InplV elaio Carnpelion Repait
SUIvvY SrATlTSICS
Avaege
PILNCO1                     20D1   2002   2003   20D4   2005   2006   20D7   2DOB   2009   2010   2011   2012          GgwrAh
Revertjes                     9,064  10,118  10,794  14,426  15=1  15,959  16,699  14,804  15,484  16,196  16,942  17,724    62%
Operabhgln,xne                5,207  6,011   6,419  9,767  10.27  10,789  11,271  9,104  9A99   9,912  10,344  10,796    733%
Net Irxxn                      660   1,095  1,168   3,352  3,804  4,547  5,002  3,823  4,278   4,716   5,176  5,659   13.3%
(exd 2004)
2001   2002   2003   2D04   2005   20D6   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012
Oprating cash low             3,478  3,270  3,2B8   5,509  5,909  6,171   6,625  5,401   5,846   6,289   6,753  7,239    7.8o
Use
c2^  -xerd                     -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -
Loanr mnert               14,466  1,000  5,114  5,318  5,510  5,668  5,812  5,959  6,110  6,286   6,425  6,588
Rejdion ofese cdigallon        -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -
Totd Uses                    14,466  1,000  5,114  5,318   5S510  5,668  5,812  5,959  6,110   6266   6,425  6,'88
Siuglusdefid)
*n.                           12  2,270  (1,826)   191    399    503    813   (559)   (64)    23    328    651
CLinmLWw                     167  2,437    611    801   1,201   1,704  2,518   1,959  1,695   1,718   Z046  Z,e7
Cash row f dettservce
Opwek pt* avalaie          5,907  5,802  5,790  7,837   8,037  8,068  8I271   6,782  6,948  7,095   7,249  7,409    2.5%
Cuvrx LA*ve, cash avaihae  2,596  4,969   8226   8448   8,838  9269  9,975   9299  8,907  8,790   8,967  9,455   14,3%
200    20    203   2004   2005   2006   27    200    2009   2010   201    2012
Cmertassets                   2,372  4,645   2821   3,014   3,416  3,922  4,738  4,182  3,921   3,946   427   4,931    9.9%
Cuffrt &abits                 1,890   1,036  1,125   1,251   1,326  1,395   1,464   1,487   1,560   1,637   1,718  1,833   5s2%
Net SIed asset               65,371  63,338 61,305  59s272   57,39  55,683 54,126 52569  51,071  49,572  48,074  46,676   -28%
Net assets under lease
Tdassets                  67,742  67,983 64,126 62,287  60,656  59,605  58864  56,751  54,991  53,519  52,31  51,507   -2Z5%
Equity                       22046  23,141  24,310 27,662  31,466  36,014 41,016 44,39  49,116  51,881  50,633 49,70A5    7.4%
Total bWlies and eqty        67,742  67,983 64,126  62,287  60,656 59,605  58,864  56,751  54,991  53,519  52,351 51,5A7    -2.5%
2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2136   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012
F~Rbas
CieictInrxrneas%cfRe.er,   57%    59%    59%    681%    68%    68%    67%    61%    61%    61%    61%    6-%
Aetkneas%t axofRerLes           7%    11%    11%    23%    25%    28%    30%    26%    28O%   29%    31%    3ZYo
Refumin Asmse                   5%      6%     7h   12%    14%    15%    17%    13%    1 50%   16%    170   1Yo
Debt Sarvibe Caerdge            0.3    1.6    0.8    1.0    1.1    1.1    1.1    0.9    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.1
cOivtPa1O                      125    4.48   Z51    Z41    2.58   281    324    281    251    2.41   2z49    Z74
TdlDebt as%ofTotalC.a,  207%   194%   164%   125%    93Yo   66%    44%    27%    12%               3%     3%     4%
-40 -



Poland
Lublin Wholesale Market Project
Implementation Completion Review
Financial Analysis
TABLE: Sensitivity of Present Value of Net Cash Flow 2001-2012
TonadoGrdhlrNter tV" cVf N CashF N
Base Rnt 2001 (ZIM2)
Govemnmt / 2001
Car Mwket I 2001
Personnel costs /2001
Buyers Entrban Fee (averae
Zlvehire) 12001
Hall B (Flower) /2001_
Mun l and Land t    12001
A Producers Market - Lower /
2001
Hall G 1/2001
Securty 1/2001
Container /2001-
CleaninWaste dospal 2001                           -0
Electrkcy2001 -I.IW
Sale of Land 12004                             -4
Sale of Land 1 2005                            -7.7     .78%
Heatng 12001                                    -7.     .76%
-150DO             -100I O               60O                 ODD                 so0m                1i00I               152(o)
/6ChaWe ,i Base Net P,eeVaie
-41 -



