FILE  CO5JPY                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2278a-BT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
May 10, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977    April 1978
Currency Unit     =      Pula (P)           P
1 Pula            =      100 Thebe
1 Pula            =      US$1.18          1.20
US$1              =      P 0.85           0.83
US$1 million      =      P 850,000       830,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2     =  39.37 inches
1 square meter (  )    =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )     =  35.31 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDC       Botswana Development Corporation
BPC       Botswana Power Corporation
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
MLGL      Ministry of Local Government and Lands
ODM       British Overseas Development Ministry
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WUC       Water Utilities Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOTSWANA
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Botswana.
Amount:         US$8.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace, at
7.5 percent interest per annum.
Relending       About US$5.9 million equivalent of the loan would be relent,
Terms:         at 8.0 percent interest per annum, to the Francistown Town
Council (US$2.4 million), the Selebi Phikwe Town Council
(US$2.6 million), the Water Utilities Corporation (US$0.7
million), and the Botswana Power Corporation (US$0.2 mil-
lion). Depending on the component being financed, repayment
periods would vary between 10 and 25 years, and grace periods
from zero to two years.
Prolect         The proposed project is designed to increase the participation
Description:  of low-income people in the economic growth centered in the
two main centers of Francistown and Selebi Phikwe situated
in northeast Botswana. The project will include minimally
serviced upgraded and settlement plots for about 6,500 house-
holds, low-cost sewered plots for about 300 households, house
improvement loans, primary infrastructure, community facili-
ties, commiercial and industrial facilities, and studies on
health/nutrition and small-scale enterprises. Concurrent
with the proposed project, the Botswana Development Corpo-
ration will provide funds from an existing Bank loan (Loan
1019-BT) to help stimulate the development of small-scale
enterprises. The project will provide for the expansion
of the two' towns, and help direct public investment to the
greater benefit of low-income people. About 38,000 people
will benefit from the residential component of the project,
and about 1,250 jobs will be created or upgraded. The main
risk facing the project is the economic uncertainty surround-
ing the two towns.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
US$ Million              Foreign as a
Item                            Local   Foreign   Total          % of Total
A. Site Preparation
and Servicing                   0.58      0.85       1.43            59
B.  Home Improvement                  1.64      1.73       3.37            51
C.  Primary Infrastructure            0.45      0.90       1.35            67
D.  Community Facilities              0.67      0.82       1.49            55
E. Commercial and Industrial
Facilities                      0.29      0.47       0.76             62
F.  Technical Assistance              0.76      0.57       1.33            43
Sub-total                      4.39      5.34       9.73            55
G. Contingencies
Physical                        0.30      0.45       0.75             60
Price                           0.89      1.15       2.04            56
Sub-total                      1.19      1.60       2.79            57
Total Project Cost             5.58      6.94      12.52            55
Total Project Cost             4.40      6.94      11.34            61
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
Financing Plan:
US$ Million                Percent
Local   Foreign   Total           of Total
Bank                             1.06      6.94       8.00             70
Republic of Botswana             3.34        -        3.34             30
4.40     6.94      11.34            100
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY                     1979      1980      1981      1982     1983
-------------US$ Thousands--------------
Annual                       120      2,080    4,300    1,400         100
Cumulative                   120      2,200    6,500    7,900    8,000
Rate of
Return:        The economic return from the elements of the proposed project
for which benefits can be quantified (about 79 percent of the
total project cost) is 18 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 1915a-BT, dated May 8, 1978.



INTERNATIONAI BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A SECOND URBAN PROJECT
1.        I submit the fcllowing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Biotswana for the equivalent of US$8.0 million to
help finance a second urban project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum. About
US$5.9 million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent, at 8.0 percent
interest per annum, to the Francistown Town Council (US$2.4 million), the
Selebi Phikwe Town Council (US$2.6 million), the Water Utilities Corpora-
tion (US$0.7 million) and the Botswana Power Corporation (US$0.2 million).
Depending on the component being financed, repayment periods would vary
between 10 and 25 years, and grace periods from zero to two years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Botswana entitled "Development
Strategy in a Mineral-led Economy" (No. 735-BT) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on May 30, 1975. An updating economic mission visited Botswana
in May 1977; its report will be distributed to the Executive Directors in May
1978. Country data are given in Annex I.
3.        Botswana is a landlocked country located at the center of southern
Africa. Although it is the size of France, the population in 1976 was only
about 700,000, of which about 75 percent was concentrated in the eastern
ten percent of the country. During the early 1970s, GDP grew in real terms
at about 20 percent annually and is currently expanding at 6 percent per
annum. GNP per capita in 1976 was about US$410.
4.        Until the early 1970s, livestock was the country's principal re-
source. Cattle rearing still dominates the agricultural sector which pro-
vides the main economic activity for about 83 percent of the population.
While less than 10 percent of the land is suitable for crop cultivation,
cattle thrive on the savanna type vegetation covering more than half the
country. Crops such as sorghum, maize, millet, beans and cowpeas are grown
mainly for subsistence consumption. In recent years, minerals have become
Botswana's main source of economic growth. Substantial deposits of diamonds,
copper, nickel, coal and brine have been discovered and two major mines
are in operation, one producing diamonds and the other copper/nickel. In
the future, it is possible that major coal and soda-ash mines will be estab-
lished.
5.        Although Botswana has good potential for development, it faces a
number of serious constraints: (i) water; (ii) infrastructure, including



-2-
international transport because of the country's landlocked position; and
(iii) technical and professional manpower. Rainfall is highly erratic, and
the country is prone to frequent droughts. In the eastern region, water
comes primarily from boreholes, dams and seasonal rivers, and supplies could
become inadequate to meet the country's urban and industrial needs during
the late 1980s. Studies are currently being carried out on the underground
water resources of this region. The vast Okavango swamp in the northwest,
which is separated by large distances from the main population centers in
the east, represents a potential source of future supply. Its complex
hydrology and delicate ecology are being intensively studied as part of the
Government's long-term plan for water development. However, provisional
results indicate that the cost of transporting water to the east appears
extremely high, while irrigation potential in the Okavango area will be
limited by poor soils.
6.        Infrastructure is at an early stage of development. With public
utilities generally available in the main urban centers, the Government is
giving priority to extending these facilities to the rural population. Only
about 400 km of the 7,200 km of main, feeder and secondary roads are bitu-
minous surfaced; secondary and rural roads are often little more than tracks.
Current investments in transport are being concentrated in upgrading the
vital north/south road axis (about 1,050 km) to bituminous standards by 1981.
Existing airfields cannot yet accommodate jet aircraft, but the main fields
are being upgraded to international standards. The main railway line is
owned and operated by Rhodesia Railways and passes from Rhodesia through
eastern Botswana for about 640 km before connecting with the South African
railway system. The Government is concerned with the country's landlocked
position and the potential problem of access to international transport
routes, particularly in view of current political events in southern Africa.
As the Government does not want to be solely dependent on routes through
South Africa and Rhodesia, it has recently completed, to gravel standards,
a road link with Zambia.
7.        The shortage of professional and technical skills is a major con-
straint to development. At independence in 1966, general levels of education
and skills were low, with illiteracy estimated at 75 percent of the adult
population; in fact, there was no public system of secondary education. The
Government has implemented an expansion program in education and training
to localize as rapidly as practicable technical and professional positions
in both the private and public sectors. However, with the expected growth
in the economy, the need for additional skilled manpower will become even
more pressing, necessitating an increased reliance on expatriates and a
step-up in the level of educational investment. In April 1977, an interna-
tional commission on education recommended substantial changes in the educa-
tion system to make it more relevant to the country's development needs; the
Government has recently published a policy paper in which most of the commis-
sion's recommendations have been accepted.
8.        Botswana's development objectives, first outlined in its post-
independence Plan (1969-72), can be summarized as follows: (a) rapid eco-
nomic growth; (b) social justice, defined as achieving a more equitable



-3-
distribution of income and providing equal opportunities for all Batswana
in education and employment; (c) greater economic independence, particularly
the diversification of the country's external, economic and trade relations,
and the localization of skcilled manpower; and (d) sustained livestock produc-
tion, while conserving the natural environment.
9.        Economic perfornance during the second Plan period (1972-76) was
very satisfactory, with a GDP growth rate of 11 percent a year. Starting
from a very low level, economic growth was export-led with the production of
diamonds in 1971 and coppier/nickel in 1973. Prior to 1971, the value of min-
erals in external trade was negligible, but by 1976 it represented 55 percent
of merchandise exports, overtaking meat and meat products as Botswana's main
commodity. The strong demand for beef during this period, both in South
Africa and the United Kingdom, brought an expansion of agricultural output
through increased offtake of the national herd. Domestic wage employment
grew by 8 percent a year but migration to South Africa's mines increased
following a substantial rise in mine wages.
10.       Between 1972/73 and 1976/77, total government revenue increased
from P 29 million to P 72 million mainly because of the rapid growth in
customs union receipts but also because of increases in direct taxation and
mining revenues; over the same period, government recurrent expenditures rose
from P 26 million to P 68 million. The Government has thus been able to
finance from its accumulated surpluses, about 25 percent of its capital
expenditures which up to 1971/72 were fully financed from external sources.
11.       Together with Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland, Botswana belongs
to the Southern Africa Customs Union, established in 1910, which provides for
free movement of goods between member countries. Under this Union, all cus-
toms, excise and sales duties are paid into a common revenue pool and allo-
cated to members mainly in relation to the value of their imports and excis-
able production. A 1969 revision of this agreement led to a five-fold increase
in Botswana government receipts from the pool over the last six years. A more
recent revision in 1976 is expected to add to Botswana's benefits from the
Union (para 15). Up to 1975, these countries also comprised the Rand Mone-
tary Area, but Botswana withdrew after establishing a Central Bank and in-
troduced in August 1976 its own currency, the Pula, in place of the South
African rand.
12.       Income distribution is a growing concern in Botswana.  The tradi-
tional pattern of cattle ownership, communal grazing practices and control
of watering points have favored a limited number of Batswana. A 1974/75
survey revealed that 45 percent of rural households own no cattle at all,
another 20 percent own fewer than 10 head, while 5 percent own about half
the cattle. This inequality in ownership has steadily widened as the size
of herds expanded and competition for grazing land and water increased (exa-
cerbated by periodic droughts which have eliminated some small cattle owners).
To reduce this inequality, the Government adopted in July 1975 a new tribal
grazing land policy designed to reform traditional practices of cattle rais-
ing, modernize ranch maniagement and increase productivity.



- 4 -
13.       The current Plan (1976-81) underscores the same principles as the
previous Plan through its emphasis on infrastructure, education and rural
development. It calls for public capital expenditures of US$345 million
equivalent which implies an annual average investment equivalent to 36 per-
cent of GDP. This increased program reflects the country's growing absorp-
tive capacity as well as improved government planning. Whereas planning
was largely project oriented, it is now focused on longer-term strategies
within a macro-economic framework.
14.       Development prospects over the next five years are favorable; GDP
is expected to increase at about 11 percent a year, if expansion in diamond
production, continuing favorable terms for beef exports, and a sustained
increase in copper/nickel output take place as expected. However, the pos-
sibility of a major drought, or an expansion of hostilities in the region,
presents a serious threat to the country's development programs. An outbreak
of foot and mouth disease in the northern part of the country in November
1977, is presently under control, but its economic impact is not yet known.
15.       Under favorable circumstances, government revenue would increase
by about 14 percent annually in real terms over the current Plan period.
Customs receipts, which accounted for almost half of government revenue
between 1971/72 and 1974/75, fell to about 25 percent in 1976/77, but under
the revised revenue formula of the Customs Union Agreement, receipts should
account for about 38 percent towards the end of the Plan period. Revenues
from the mining sector, which had also fallen, partly due to rising costs in
diamond production and partly to prolonged technical difficulties encountered
in the Shashe copper/nickel project, are also expected to increase towards
the end of the Plan period following the planned increase in mineral produc-
tion. Revenue from direct taxation is expected to continue on a strong up-
ward trend.
16.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have extended substantial assis-
tance to Botswana on highly concessional terms. The Bank Group has been the
main multilateral source, but the European Economic Community, the African
Development Bank and OPEC sources have also been active in Botswana. Bilat-
eral assistance has been diversified, the main sources being the United
Kingdom, Canada, United States, Germany and the Nordic countries. Disburse-
ments amounted to an average of US$33 million per annum over the last three
years. Total disbursed public debt amounted to US$161 million at December 31,
1976. Service payments on debt during 1976 were US$4.48 million, implying
a debt service ratio of 2.5 percent. If the grant element of future capital
inflows is reduced from the current level of 60 percent to 40 percent, the
debt service ratio would increase from 3.5 percent in 1980 to a still man-
ageable level of 6.4 percent in 1985. While the terms of assistance could
harden somewhat in the light of the country's growth and development, the
country will still need external assistance on concessionary terms in view
of its relatively low per capita income and the possibility of disruption
of its development program. Further, Botswana's commendable development
program (para. 13) will result in a more rapid growth in recurrent expendi-
tures relative to revenues, thus reducing public savings available for in-
vestment in development projects. External agencies should also be prepared
to finance a proportion of local costs of projects if Botswana is to sustain
its rate of development.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSWANA
17.       The Bank Group, which began operations in Botswana by financing a
road project in 1964, has made twelve loans and credits totalling US$99.2
million (net of cancellations) -- six credits (US$14.9 million) and six loans
(US$84.3 million) including US$3.5 million on Third Window terms. These
have financed four road projects, two livestock projects, plus projects for
water supply, urbanization, education, a development finance company and
engineering studies and infrastructure for the Shashe mining complex. As
of December 31, 1976, the Bank Group's share of Botswana's external public
debt (disbursed only) was 31 percent (the share of IBRD alone was 22 percent),
but was 80 percent of its debt service payments -- a reflection of the pre-
dominance of soft funds in Botswana's external debt. About 80 percent of
debt service payments to the Bank Group, however, were for the Shashe infra-
structure loan, which is guaranteed by the international mining companies
concerned. The Bank Group's share of the country's external public debt
(disbursed) and debt service payments in 1985 is estimated at about 24 and
32 percent, respectively. A summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Botswana is given in Annex II, together with notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Botswana is not a member of IFC.
18.       Overall, the Botswana Government and its agencies have demonstrated
good performance in the planning and execution of development projects,
although they have encountered problems with the BCL Limited,copper/nickel
mining scheme, and the IDA-financed first livestock project. The major parts
of the large Bank-financed Shashe infrastructure project, which is related to
the BCL mining scheme, haLve been completed on schedule. The mining scheme,
however, has been beset with major technical problems, but substantial progress
has been made towards their resolution, and the scheme is close to achieving
its rated annual production. In addition, new financial arrangements have
been worked out which will protect in large part the benefits which the
Government expects to receive in the form of royalties, taxes and dividends.
The first livestock project also encountered serious delays in the initial
years of implementation, primarily the result of weak management. Ranch
development proved to be much more costly than anticipated. The Government,
however, has taken steps and substantial progress has been made towards
resolution of the problemns.
19.       We propose to continue our active support for the Government's
development plan. A second education project is being prepared to help
the Government counter the country's severe shortage of skilled manpower.
It will likely be broad based, and include components for secondary educa-
tion, non-formal education and skills training. We expect to continue our
support for small and medium-scale industrial growth through the Botswana
Development Corporation, a multi-purpose agency which is the country's main
channel for investment in the industrial sector. Bank assistance for expan-
sion of the country's power supply is also being planned.



-6-
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Growth and Distribution
20.       Botswana has five towns, each oriented toward modern sector industry,
government or commerce. 1/ Two towns, Gaborone and Lobatse, are in south-
eastern Botswana. Gaborone (population 33,000), the country's largest and
fastest growing town, was established in the 1960's as the nation's capital
and Lobatse (population 15,000), is the headquarters of the Botswana Meat
Commission. Botswana's remaining three towns are in the northern region and
have participated in the rapid expansion of its mining industry. Francistown
(population 23,000) has long served as a center of communications and trade
in the region. Selebi Phikwe (population 21,000) and Orapa (population 2,000)
were established to service the new copper-nickel and diamond mines, respec-
tively. Two Bank Group projects (the Francistown Urban Development Project
(Credit 471-BT) and the Shashe Infrastructure Project (Loan 776-BT)) have
assisted northern Botswana's major towns to establish, expand or improve
their urban services.
21.       Although the combined urban population remains small (94,000 in
1975),Botswana's rate of urban growth has been one of the highest in the
world (12 percent per annum). Prompted by rural poverty and the expectation
of higher earnings in the towns, the urban population increased more than
four times between 1964 and 1975. By 1986, the urban population may double
again to 186,000.
22.       The pace of urbanization is straining the towns' capacity to
provide jobs, infrastructure, and housing for residents. Unemployment is
already high in urban areas: an estimated 18 percent of the male and 55
percent of the female periurban 2/ area labor force are without work. Fur-
ther, in comparison with many other developing countries, the informal sector
is small--less than 10 percent of the urban population engages in informal
activity, although studies have indicated an upsurge. Since independence,
the Government has tried to promote industrialization by providing a legal
and institutional framework, serviced industrial land and other incentives.
The establishment of the well-managed Botswana Development Corporation as
the Government's main channel for productive investment has been a part of
1/   Some villages have larger populations than the towns, but because they
have been oriented toward subsistence agriculture, they are officially
defined as rural. In recent years, some of these large villages have
gained a certain amount of formal industry and modern housing and in-
frastructure; they are becoming more and more like the towns.
2/   "Periurban" is a term used by the Government to refer to squatter settle-
ments or to planned areas in which traditional mud and thatch housing
predominates.



this effort. More recently, the Government has emphasized the promotion of
small-scale enterprises. While there are reasonable prospects for formal
job creation in manufacturing in the coming years, industrial development
will be a long and difficuilt process, hampered by the small size of the
domestic market, limited water supply, high power costs, poor transport
facilities and the largely unskilled labor force. The expansion of the in-
formal sector is similarly limited by several factors, including Botswana's
long-established dependence on South African imports, its membership in the
Southern Africa Customs Urnion, and the lack of a commercial tradition among
Batswana. Yet, substantial growth potential still exists in service and
repair industries, handicrafts, backyard manufacturing, and vegetable gar-
dening.
23.       High rates of unemployment are accompanied by inequalities in
incomes within urban areas. Botswana's rapid economic growth has depended
almost entirely on good beef prices and the exploitation of mineral wealth;
consequently cattle owners, miners, and other employees in the formal sector
have benefited most. This has led to large and increasing household, income
disparities. In 1976 the average annual income for citizen households in
urban areas ranged from $1,368 in Lobatse to US$2,148 in Gaborone. The
majority, however, earned much less. Median periurban household income
was US$660 per year, less than 40 percent of the average, and periurban
households headed by women fared even worse. All in all, 47,000 persons,
or 45 percent of the urban population, fall in the category below the Bank's
urban poverty threshold for Botswana of US$258 per capita.
24.       In the early years of rapid urban migration, the Government assumed
that migrants would either become affluent enough to afford modern housing
(constructed by the Botswana Housing Corporation), or would return to rural
villages. As no provision was made for housing the urban poor, people con-
structed low quality mud and thatch units in unplanned and unserviced areas.
By 1975, the proportion of the urban population living in these settlements
was over 27 percent in Gaborone, 23 percent in Lobatse, 60 percent in Francis-
town, and 40 percent in Selebi Phikwe. Recognizing the seriousness of this
problem, the Government initiated a self-help housing program during the
1973-78 planning period. Designed to a lower standard than previous urban
housing estates, these schemes catered to the growth of lower income groups
and were partly cross-subsidized through concurrent construction and sales
of high- and medium-cost plots to higher income urban dwellers. Between
1973 and 1976, 5,600 plots were constructed under the new program. Never-
theless, much still remains to be done. Comprehensive growth studies, which
were recently conducted in four major urban centers, estimate that 14,000
plots need to be developed or upgraded within the next five years. The
Government is formulating projects for these requirements and has already
obtained financing from bilateral sources for developments in Lobatse (United
Kingdom) and in Gaborone (United States and Canada). The proposed project
will help meet the needs in Francistown and Selebi Phikwe.
25.       The self-help housing program forms an important part of the Gov-
ernment's policy of promoting balanced development. To achieve a sharing



of development benefits among all Batswana--the rural as well as the urban,
the poor as well as the rich, the northern region as well as the southern--it
has been decided that: (a) urban and rural standards in housing, infrastruc-
ture and community facilities should be equivalent; (b) new industrial and
commercial development should be spread among all towns; (c) physical expan-
sion should incorporate socioeconomic integration; (d) urban housing develop-
ment as a whole should not be subsidized. Although cross-subsidization of
housing development is encouraged, the latest Development Plan recognizes
that little cross-subsidy will be available, and residents of self-help areas
will have to pay the full cost of developing and operating these schemes. To
enable provision of services to a greater number of the urban poor, standards
have been revised downward and emphasis placed on constructing settlement
plots (minimal standards) rather than site and services plots (slightly
higher standards).
26.       Overall responsibility for urban development rests with the Urban
Affairs and Housing Division of the Ministry of Local Government and Lands.
The Division was established in conjunction with the first Bank Group urban
project (Credit 471-BT) and has proven to be an effective implementing agency.
The Water Utilities Corporation and the Botswana Power Corporation, also
generally effective agencies, are presently responsible for the utilities
in all urban areas except Francistown, but they are scheduled also to take
over the Francistown utilities in 1979.
27.       The town councils are responsible for local government.  A self-
help housing agency (now department) was established under the Francistown
Town Council to handle plot allocation, community liaison, and home construc-
tion assistance for the first project. A similar agency exists in Selebi
Phikwe, but to date has been preoccupied with remedial and emergency engineer-
ing work. The councils' other departments are responsible for collection of
charges and for maintenance. In planning the proposed project, particular
attention has been focused on improving financial management, collection and
maintenance.
Francistown and the Francistown Urban Project
28.       Francistown was established in the 1890s by a mining and trading
company (Tati Concession Mining and Exploration, Ltd.) which owned most of
the land in and around the town until the early 1970s. Equipped with an
airport and located on the country's single rail line, Francistown is a
natural growth point for the mineral-rich northern region. When the Gov-
ernment purchased the land from the mining company, the town's structure
was racially segregated, its population poorly serviced, its potential com-
mercial and industrial employment limited by monopoly power. To improve
conditions in Francistown, substantial infrastructure had to be provided
and a plan for socially integrating the town had to be adopted. In 1973,
an investment program based on a town planning study was formulated. Under
the first phase (costing US$1.1 million), now completed, the British Over-
seas Development Ministry (ODM) financed sewerage stabilization ponds, about
1,000 housing plots and some building materials loans and sanitation units.



9-
The second phase (costing, US$4.4 million) was financed by an IDA credit of
US$3.0 million (Credit No. 471-BT) and included infrastructure for commer-
cial and industrial areas, 1,800 site and services and traditional housing
plots, and squatter areas affecting 1,000 households. In addition, it im-
proved the Central Business District and provided primary infrastructure,
community facilities, building materials loans, and technical assistance.
The IDA project, now being successfully implemented, should be completed by
June 1979. Most of the IDA project plots have been allocated, and, with the
help of building materials loans and informal sector craftsmen, many occu-
pants have built substantial, high quality houses in the site and service
areas. More important, the project represents the first successful efforts
in conducting extensive upgrading of squatter settlements in Botswana. An
efficient local housing department has been developed in Francistown, which
has been used to help train other town councils in self-help housing imple-
mentation.
29.       Problems concerning issuance of instruments of tenure, town council
finances, beneficiary income requirements, and the design of sanitation units
arose during implementation, but all have been resolved or steps have been
taken to prevent their recurrence. After initial legislative and administra-
tive delays, instruments of tenure have been issued recently to households in
traditional and upgrading areas enabling monthly charges to be collected. As
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project, the percentage of
beneficiaries in arrears; in the Francistown project areas is to be reduced
to 50 percent (Section 5.01 (b), draft Loan Agreement). In addition, this
percentage should reach 30 percent by March 31, 1979 and 15 percent by March 31,
1980 (Section 4.06, draf't Loan Agreement). The Francistown Town Council also
failed to keep current financial records. Accounts were recently brought up
to date, and steps are being taken to assure better record keeping in the
future. Beneficiary income requirements have been changed to encourage
socio-economic integrati.on and to ensure that all urban households will have
access to serviced plots. Previously, a significant number of households had
incomes above the target. range for self-help plots but too low for conventional
housing. The type of sanitation unit to be used in future projects will be
changed to one which is more acceptable socially. The Government also decided
that, although there has been no community opposition to the Francistown
project, future project's would be improved by a greater degree of community
participation. More communication, feedback, and participation could lead to
community improvements not possible otherwise. In addition, the Francistown
project attempted to recover only part of the costs of urban development. To
assure the replicability of future projects, the Government has decided to
eliminate all housing subsidies to beneficiaries, and the proposed project
will reflect these improvements.
Selebi Phikwe and the S'hashe Infrastructure Project
30.       The Bank loan (Loan 776-BT) for the Shashe Infrastructure Project
co-financed infrastructure to support a copper-nickel mining complex at Selebi
Phikwe, a previously vacant site about 80 km from Francistown. The loan also
included funds for the construction of local government offices, commercial
and industrial sites, housing for government and mine employees, roads, water



- 10 -
and electricity supply and reticulation, and community facilities. Although
housing estates were a part of the Shashe project, housing and services were
planned only for those in formal employment. No provision was made for the
many others who would be attracted by Selebi Phikwe's potential--those hope-
ful of finding formal employment or expecting to earn income in the informal
sector. As a result, an unplanned squatter settlement of 10,000 (40 percent
of the town's population) grew up near the mine shaft about 4 km from the
town proper. This large squatter settlement, called Botshabelo (meaning
"place of refuge"), was legally incorporated into the town in 1975. While
the Government and the town council provided some bush cleared tracks and
a few standpipes to the settlement and, with the assistance of the United
Kingdom, supplied rudimentary service to a large extension of the town proper,
much of the work was temporary and requires immediate upgrading. With an
expected annual growth rate of 9 percent through 1981, Selebi Phikwe has
large requirements for expansion of urban services, especially to the poor.
Employment in Selebi Phikwe, particularly among women, is also a problem. The
mine is the town's only major employer; little other formal industry has
chosen to settle there. Future programs must seek to diversify its employment
base, and encourage informal manufacturing and trading.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       A report entitled, "Botswana - Second Urban Project; Staff Appraisal
Report," No. 1915a-BT, dated  May 8, 1978,   is being distributed separately.
32.       The proposed project was prepared by the Botswana Government,
with assistance from John Burrows and Partners and Dalgleish Lindsay Group
(UK). Preparation was financed from funds provided in Credit 471-BT for the
Francistown Urban Development Project. Terms of reference were agreed and
work started in October 1976. The project was appraised in the field in
September/October 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 10
to 14, 1978. The Botswana delegation was led by Mr. K. Mmono, Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Lands, and included Mr. M. Stevens,
Director of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Development Planning,
and Mr. J. Honold, Project Coordinator designate.
Objectives and Description of the Project
33.       The proposed project is the Bank Group's second urban project in
Botswana and is designed to increase the participation of low-income people in
the economic growth centered in the urban areas of northeast Botswana. In
accomplishing this task, it will reinforce and expand the institutional
arrangements of the Francistown project, and extend low-cost residential dev-
elopment and upgrading to a second town, Selebi Phikwe. Although designed on
experiences gained in the first urban project, several important changes will
be introduced: (a) elimination of subsidies through recovery of all allocable
investment costs; (b) concentration on existing squatter areas rather than the
construction of new site and service areas; (c) provision of settlement plots
rather than the more expensive site and services plots; (d) extension of home
improvement loans (building materials and sanitation units) to upgrading and



- 11 -
settlement areas; (e) stimulation of the use and development of indigenous
home construction techniques and materials; (f) special attention to the role
of women in development; and (g) greater town council and community participa-
tion in planning and implementation.
34.       In conjunction with this project, the Botswana Development Corpora-
tion (BDC) will onlend to commercial banks US$1.0 million of an existing
World Bank loan (Loan 1019-BT) and provide a 50 percent credit risk guarantee
to stimulate lending to small-scale enterprises. While the program would
have no geographic restriction, some emphasis will be placed on assisting
small-scale enterprises located in Francistown and Selebi Phikwe. An esti-
mated 150 loans in the two towns, averaging US$3,240 each, are expected to
generate approximately 375 permanent jobs. The cost per job will be about
US$1,400 equivalent, less than the national average of about US$2,600, since
the scheme will encourage the use of labor-intensive techniques. Agreement on
this credit scheme has been reached in principle with the Borrower.
35.       The proposed project includes:
(a) Upgraded plots (2,000 in each town);
(b) Settlement plots (1,000 in Francistown and 1,500 in
Selebi Phikwe);
(c) Low-cost sewered plots (300 in Selebi Phikwe);
(d) House improvement loans (5,000 households);
(e) Primary infrastructure (where essential to support
the above services);
(f) Community faciLities (two primary schools in Francis-
town and three in Selebi Phikwe, one health clinic
and six health posts in each town, and one multi-
purpose community center in Francistown and two in
Selebi Phikwe);
(g) Commercial and industrial facilities (extension of
the Central Business District and Central Industrial
Area in Francistown and the provision of low-cost
commercial, industrial, and horticultural sites in
each town);
(h) Studies (focusing on small-scale enterprises and health/
nutrition); and
(i)  Technical assistance (funding for administration and
engineering supervision (about 60 man-months, at
US$5,000 per man-month)).



- 12 -
36.       The upgraded and settlement plots will be minimally serviced with
bush cleared or earth roads, standpipe water reticulation, pit latrines or
sanitation units and security lighting. Residents will be given security
of tenure. The cost of the low-cost sewered plots in Selebi Phikwe is low,
because adequate primary infrastructure capacity already exists; these plots
will be smaller, with narrower frontages to allow connections at moderate
cost.  In Francistown, the average cost of a settlement or upgraded plot
is estimated at about US$250 equivalent, while in Selebi Phikwe it is esti-
mated at US$210. The minimum charges for upgraded and settlement plots in
Francistown and Selebi Phikwe will be affordable by over 80 percent and
90 percent of the towns' populations, respectively. The cost of low cost
sewered plots in Selebi Phikwe is estimated at US$990 and will be affordable
by more than 60 percent of the population. First priority in plot allocation
will be given to households with annual incomes below US$1,800 equivalent
(para. 49). However, as a pilot program to encourage a move towards self-
help site and service types of housing and social and economic integration
in the towns, households with annual incomes between US$3,000 and US$4,200
will be eligible for residential plots. These households will receive the
lowest priority and will not be allocated more than ten percent of the plots.
37.       The house improvement loans for building materials and sanitation
units, will range in value from US$120 to about US$800 equivalent according
to ability to repay. They will be available to all first and second project
beneficiaries, including residents of the upgraded areas, with annual house-
hold incomes less than US$3,000 equivalent. Although households will be free
to build in any style, traditional building materials will be encouraged. The
low-cost sanitation units will be of a dry type, an innovation developed for
Botswana's special social and soil conditions.
38.       The community facilities will bring low-cost neighborhoods in the
two towns up to minimum national standards. The primary infrastructure,
required mostly in Francistown, is essential to support the other project
components. Infrastructure will also be provided to industrial and commer-
cial sites and horticultural areas in both towns.
39.       Two studies are proposed to be carried out under the project.  The
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning will oversee a study focusing
on strategies and policies for the development of small-scale enterprises
and the Ministry of Health will carry out a base line survey and analysis of
health/nutrition status among periurban residents. The latter study will
provide a basis for evaluating the project's health impact and could provide
information for the design of new health/nutritional initiatives and program
modifications. The costs of both studies will be met by the Borrower.
Cost Estimates and Financing
40.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.5 million
equivalent, including taxes and duties amounting to US$1.2 million. All
land required for the project is already owned by the Borrower, so there



- 13 -
are no financial costs associated with land acquisition. The foreign ex-
change component is US$6.9 million,or 61 percent of the total project cost,
net of taxes and duties, of US$11.3 million. Costs have been estimated on
the basis of mid-1978 prices. Physical contingencies (15 percent for all
items except home improvement loans, vehicles and technical assistance) and
price contingencies according to expected inflation have been added. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
41.       The proposed Bank loan of US$8.0 million would finance 70 percent
of total project costs, net of taxes and duties, and cover all the foreign
exchange requirements and US$1.1 million equivalent of local costs. The
Borrower will finance the remaining costs and provide all the land required
for the project.
42.       About 73 percent of the project funds of US$12.5 million will be
onlent to the Francistown and Selebi Phikwe Town Councils, the Water Utili-
ties Corporation, and the Botswana Power Corporation at 8.0 percent interest
per annum with repayment periods varying from 10 to 25 years and grace periods
from zero to two years depending on the component being financed. The interest
rate reflects the Borrower's decision to eliminate urban subsidies, and rep-
resents an increase of four percentage points in the onlending rate since
the Francistown project (Credit 471-BT). However, about 6 percent of project
funds will be passed on to the town councils as a grant to meet the project
implementation costs borne by their housing departments. The Borrower would
retain the remaining 21 percent of project funds for the direct financing of
community facilities, studies, commercial and industrial infrastructure,
and the salaries and other expenses of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
(para. 48).
Town Council Finances
43.       The town councils over the last few years have always achieved
a cash operating surplus, although more recently these surpluses have been
diminishing (para. 45). Ihe cash surpluses have resulted in a comfortable
liquidity position, and, aLs of March 31, 1977, Francistown had US$294,000
equivalent, or about 11 percent of total assets,in cash and investments.
Selebi Phikwe, on the other hand, had over 50 percent of its total assets, or
about US$892,000 equivalent, in cash and investments. The current ratio was
3.64 for Francistown and 25.8 for Selebi Phikwe. The accounting practices
and procedures for both town councils, however, are inadequate and need to be
strengthened. The councils, therefore, will institute a management informa-
tion and budgetary control system satisfactory to the Bank, and will provide
adequate staff to operate the system (Sections 4.02 and 3.12 (ii), draft Loan
Agreement).
44.       Unlike Selebi Phikwe, Francistown owns and operates the water and
power utilities. Both undertakings have sustained poor financial performance
in the past, and, in fact, water and power lost US$61,000 and US$138,000
respectively during 1977. The combined loss for 1978 is expected to be
US$134,000. The poor financial performance mainly resulted from a failure to
implement timely and adequate tariff increases. The town council recognizes



- 14 -
this and has implemented, effective April 30, 1978, a 50 percent increase for
water and 65 percent for electricity tariffs. The Government has recently
decided to transfer the power and water undertakings to the national utility
corporations, and will complete the transfers by April 1, 1979 and October 1,
1979, respectively (Section 4.05, draft Loan Agreement). The terms and con-
ditions of the transfer are currently being negotiated. The utility companies
have a competent management team and a track record of profitability.
45.       The increase in public expenditures generated by rapid urban growth,
however, is beginning to erode the financial viability of the towns. Both
Francistown and Selebi Phikwe are forecasting a cumulative deficit during
the 1979-82 commitment period of US$808,000 and US$1,163,000 respectively.
While there is little scope for instituting additional charges to residents
to improve the financial prospects of the town councils, the Government is
planning a number of fiscal reforms that could have a significant impact.
Nevertheless, the Borrower will review any projected deficits of the councils
and take whatever steps are necessary to secure their financial viability
(Section 3.01(f), draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
46.       The project will achieve maximum cost recovery from beneficiaries,
minimizing any additional burden on the towns' finances. It will be the
first project of this type in Botswana to recover all allocable investment
costs for housing and infrastructure from the ultimate beneficiaries. Of
the total project cost, 73 percent will be recovered by the towns from the
ultimate beneficiaries, 8 percent will be met from the towns' general rev-
enues, and 19 percent will be financed through the national budget on a non-
reimbursable basis. Charges to the ultimate beneficiaries of the residential,
commercial and industrial plots will be sufficient to recover all allocable
investment costs under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Sections
3.06(b) and 3.07(b), draft Loan Agreement). The local share of recurrent
expenditures associated with collections, operation of schools, clinics,
health posts and community centers will be financed from the general revenues
of the towns.
47.       While monthly charges are being more than doubled in real terms,
compared to existing charges for similar services, they will still be afford-
able by an estimated nine-tenths of the population of the two towns. Maximum
monthly charges for upgrading and settlement plots including repayment of
the maximum home improvement loans will be affordable by families below the
poverty threshold.
Project Implementation
48.       Implementation arrangements established in the first project
will be reinforced and expanded. Most of the construction will be done by
contractors under the supervision of engineering consultants. A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Local Government and Lands
(MLGL) will oversee all consultants and contractors, except that the con-
struction of water and power infrastructure will be the responsibility of



- 15 -
the Water Utilities Corporation (WUC) and the Botswana Power Corporation
(BPC), respectively. The PCU will consist of two individuals, a project
coordinator whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the
Bank, and one assistant. The unit will be assisted by the Division of Urban
Affairs' Low-Cost Housing Officer, the Town and Regional Planning Department,
and the Division of Social and Community Development. In line with their
usual responsibilities, the Francistown Town Council and the Selebi Phikwe
Town Council will operate and maintain project facilities. They will also be
responsible for: (a) informing residents about the project, (b) promoting
community participation, (c) allocating plots, (d) administering the house
improvement loan program (although actual procurement would be done by the
MLGL), and (e) giving technical advice on housing construction to plot holders
and small-scale contractors. In order to help ensure that the councils will
be able to carry out these activities, the Borrower will provide them with
adequate staff (Section 3.12(ii), draft Loan Agreement), and the councils
will carry out a program of staff training, with emphasis on accounting
staff (Section 3.12(iii), draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Beneficiary selection criteria, satisfactory to the Bank, will be
established for residential plots, house improvement loans, commercial and
industrial sites and horticultural plots (Sections 3.06(a) and 3.07(a), draft
Loan Agreement). In general, plots will be allocated in accordance with pro-
cedures established under the Francistown project, with priority being given
to lower income households and those displaced by project infrastructure
(para. 36). In addition, the Borrower will consult with the Bank annually
until project completion on the appropriateness of the terms and conditions
of the Borrower's standard agreement giving a beneficiary occupancy rights
(Sections 3.06(d) and 3.07(d), draft Loan Agreement).
50.       The power and water corporations are currently responsible for
utilities construction, operation and maintenance in Selebi Phikwe. Although
the Francistown Town Council now manages water and electricity supply, operation
and maintenance within its boundaries, BPC and WUC are scheduled to take over
these operations in 1979 (para 44). However, additional water sources will be
required to meet the needs of Francistown by 1981, and the Borrower is now
investigating alternative sources. The Borrower will submit to the Bank, by
January 1, 1979, a plan of action to ensure that an adequate long-term supply
of water is made available to Francistown (Section 4.04, draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The preparation of engineering designs and the subsequent tender-
ing and evaluation is scheduled to be completed by early 1979 for all items.
Construction work is expected to be completed by end-1980. The allocation of
building materials loans will run concurrently with the allocation of plots
and sites and is scheduled to be completed by end-1981. Monitoring and eval-
uation work should be finished by mid-1982.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Contracts for civil works totaling US$3.7 million equivalent and
building works totaling US$2.0 million equivalent including contingencies



- 16 -
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Works
amounting to US$300,000, including contingencies, consisting mainly of road
construction in some squatter areas, will be carried out by the town councils
by force account. Upgrading works have to accommodate community participation
and resettlement of families displaced by infrastructure. Since they are
subject to intermittent stoppages, they can be carried out at less cost by
the councils.  The councils will be allowed to construct these works only if
they have adequate staff and equipment to do them economically and without
detriment to their normal work and maintenance. Consultants will supervise
force account construction. In Selebi Phikwe, water supply infrastructure
amounting to US$900,000 will be designed and constructed by the Water Util-
ities Corporation. The Corporation has the necessary capability and has
carried out similar works satisfactorily in the past. Equipment amounting
to about US$175,000 will be procured after local competitive bidding. Home
improvement loans (building materials and sanitation units) valued at US$4
million will also be procured through local procedures and will be made to
beneficiaries in stages over three years. Local procurement procedures have
been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank.
53.       The Bank would disburse 64 percent of the total cost of civil works,
community facilities and building materials; 100 percent of the foreign cost
or 75 percent of the total cost of equipment and vehicles; and 100 percent of
the foreign cost or 64 percent of the total cost of technical assistance
including consultancy services.
Justification, Risks and Urban Poverty Impact
54.       The project is a major element in the Government's plans to upgrade
nearly all the existing urban squatter settlements during the next five years.
It will demonstrate the feasibility of providing affordable services and
recovering all allocable costs, an approach which should help the Government
cope with the exceptionally rapid rate of urbanization. The overall economic
rate of return for all components for which benefits can be quantified (about
79 percent of total project costs) is estimated at 18 percent. The benefits
derived from the remainder of the project (primarily community facilities
and studies) are expected to be considerable, but do not lend themselves to
quantification.
55.       The residential component, which consists of site preparation and
home improvement loans, will have an immediate impact on the quality of life
of the target beneficiaries, bringing it up to standards closer to those of
the middle income groups. The economic return of this component (about 55
percent of the total project cost) was calculated on the basis of imputed
rental values and is estimated at 18 percent. The economic returns of the
water and electricity components (about 15 percent of the total project cost)
are estimated at 11 percent and 16 percent, respectively. The return of the
commercial and industrial facilities (about 9 percent of the total project
cost) is estimated at 15 percent.



- 17 -
56.       The major risk involved in the investment is the economic uncertain-
ty surrounding the two towns. Francistown might be adversely affected by
political complications in Rhodesia. The major effect to the project in that
case would be delays in selling commercial and industrial plots. There is no
immediate threat to Selebi Phikwe's economic base, but the mine is not yet
fully profitable, and it is conceivable that it could close before the infra-
structure now being provided has come to the end of its working life. However,
project investment in the town is projected to earn a 14 percent rate of return
within the first 10 years, and in all probability the mine operation will
continue much longer.
57.       In early 1982, when the project will have been completed, an esti-
mated 26,000 people (40 percent of the population of the two towns) will have
incomes below the Bank's urban poverty threshold for Botswana. The residen-
tial development will have a broad impact, benefiting about 60 percent of
the population of the two towns, including the vast majority of the poverty
group. About 73 percent of project investment (US$9.1 million) will provide
services affordable by the poverty group, and of the 1,250 jobs which will be
generated by the project, about two-thirds are expected to go to people in
this group. In addition, more than a third of the jobs are expected to go
to women, somewhat ameliorating the special problem of high unemployment (55
percent) among periurban women.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Botswana and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreernent are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
59.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness will be:
(a)  the signing of subsidiary loan agreements on behalf of
the Borrower, the town councils, and the utility corporations
(Section 5.01 (a), draft Loan Agreement); and
(b)  the reduction of the percentage of beneficiaries in arrears
in payment of monthly charges in the Francistown project (Credit
471-BT) to 50 percent (Section 5.01(b), draft Loan Agreement).
60.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 10, 1978
Washington, D.C.



-  19  -
TABLE 3A                                               I.NNX I
BOTSWANA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ------------------------------------------------
---------------                            BOTSWANA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      600.4                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     416.1                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          MOROCCO        ZAMBIA         TRINIDAD ANO TOEAGO**
__- -     - -   -       ----------  _ _____ ____ -__________-___---
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     90.0      o90.0    410.0                300.0      300.0      1260.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION  M(MO-YR. MILLION)            ,,50     0.61       0.68              14.8         4.3         1.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        1.0        1.0       1.0               33.0         6.0      196.0
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         1.0        1.5       1.6               74.0        12.0      690.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE f/THOU. AV)         416.6      46.1      45.8               49.2        49.7        b2.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          28.2       25.4      23.0                t8.5       20.9         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..         ..     126.0                  ..         ..        34.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       315.9     41.0       43.5               50.4        43.5        06.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..        2.9       2.9                3.4         3.3         2.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.0        1.9       1.9*               2.4/a       2.9         2. jI.
URBAN                                 9.1       14.4       9.1                4-0''    13.6/a         3.1
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          :2.4        7.6      10.7               32.2        30.0        24.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.7/a   46.1                           46.4        45.8        41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51 .7i.a   48.5                         51.1        51.9        55.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.6-      5.4         .                 2.5         2.3         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9 a      1.1         .                 1.0        0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0 a *b  1.1 /a                          ..         ..1.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..         ..       0.3               88.1          ..        25.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..                3.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          250.0 a"C 300.0      340.0                  ..         ..       350.  .
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE tX)         91 .0a,d 87.0        03.0                             ..        22 0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..        ..                 ..        tO.O b    12.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..      28.1/a             20.01l
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..      60. 3              49.0 I
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..       1.8 7              4.07         .
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..       7. 61             12.07W
DISTRIBUTION OF LAP(O OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..        ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            20870.0 A 1478O.0    9250.0             12650.0    13500.0       2330.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2380.07k 1200.0    1220.01k                  ..     2920.0/C    400.0 C.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           430.07ja 370.0       320.0              660.0 L     310.0       230.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (A OF REOUIREMENTS)         05.0      90.0       85.0              102.0        88.0        97.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              64.0      65.0       65.0JL             64.0        64.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..      33.0         ..               14.0Ld      25.0 L      34.0j8
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..         t.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       16.0      56.0       85.0               S2.0        70.0       112.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      1.0        8.0      16.0                13.0       13.0        36.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0               12.0        12.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
f% OF SECONDARY)                      4.0      19.0       12.0                2.0         3.0         s.oLe
ADULT LITERACY RATE ()                 :10. OL      .       25.0                21.0                   88.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..         ..                 ..        2.6j        t.7 L
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER tX)                        ..         ..        ..                  ..        8.0        64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                  6
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..       9.0         ..                  ..         ..       e.o0 
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..         ..                 ...
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU-POP)          6.0       34.0      83.0                60.0        18.0      276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0        3.0       5 0                15.0        14.0       73.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             ..         ..      82.0.i             128.0      957.0      1172.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                ..         ..        ..                 0.2         0.5        5.9
_______________--- -_ _-_   -- _     -- - -----_--_-_-_________-____ --------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



o20OA= 
NOTES
Unlace otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to sany year betwece 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Moat R.ent Eatimate batween
19173 ad 19'6.~
o currnt natural rate of population growth ia 2.3 perta..t, ainco there is no permanenat migration of any significance in Botswana.
0* Trinidad and Tobago haa hoens alacted aa an objective cotetry becauas  is terma of popolaticn, per capita income, and fact growth in CDP doe to
niners   souce  Botawana  "a  be simnilar in 1985 to Trinidad and Tobago today.
BOCSWANA  ~       1960    I.  1964;    /b  Ratio Of POPulation under 15 cod 65 and ove  to total labor force over the age of 10 Years;
Ic  Et-nehlallY active PoPulation age 10 yeer-ansd over;    Id  Excluding oon.nadc cod woriesa abroad and gatherera;
T.  1962:    /,j  Prior to 1965.
1970    /s  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 cod over to total labor force.
IlOST RECINT ESTfl(TE:   Ia  1971-72 sComcaiclly arrive Population;    Lb  1ncluding euree-eidwiv-  and ..saiatent nurece;
/c  1969-71 average;    Ld  1972.
MOROCCO                  1970    ,'a  D.e to migration pcpuletion growth rate i Ia  oer than the rate of natural Increane;    -b  Cons toeption enpenditure of
houseabolda;    /c  fovernetent hospitel eatabliahemtnr  enly;    /d  1964-66.
ZePMBIA                 1970      (   1965-69;    /b  Including aeciatant nureec           Ic  Persona a..eking work;    /d  1964-66;    La. Total, orhan and rural;
/f Inaide only.
TRINIDAD ANTl TOBAGO   1970       a   ueto noigration Population growth rate L. lower than the rate of natural increore;    /b  Labor forte age. 15-64 yeara;
/u  Inludig nidivee   /d  1964-66;    la  Goverunent naintsinod and aided achoolesny                 fTtl   ra   n
rural;    /&  Inside only;    /h  1966.
RS, April 18, 1978
DEPINTTIONS OP SOCIAL ISIDICAT0RE
land Airro  thot  .                                                                            Population Per anteing, seren  - Population divded by cmnbar of praCttIcing
lotal - Totl1 surface area roo,prlatog lend area and inland eatere.                              male end fanele graduaere,"trained" or.netiie'  a                         .a . ad
_c.    lo   mc-ci neti-cte Of agricultural area weed temoail*tpen-eailiary pereonnel with training or enpariants.
netyfrcrpe, peatrore, narkat & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                      Population Per hospital bed - Poplaltion divided by ocaser of hoapital bade
available in public and private general and eparialined hoapita1 and
19   etcpia(05  - O;N? pe r repice eatie-tea at current market pricea,                   rehsbilitation Centers; exclde,, ouraig bomes  and establiehments for
culcelocd by  _r  cvrion markd aa world Sank Atlac (1974-76 baais) ;                             wtadial end pravatire Cats.
1960; 1970 rod 1976 data.                                                                    Per capita acpply  of calories (T of reqairemneta) - Cesputed Pro, enegy
equivalent of net fond eapplee available In reutry par capita par day;
EPoltonadvia    taicceaalable suppliea comprica dowseetic production, Imaports I... erporta, end
cporeloti2n_(aid-yer nillion) - As of July first:  if not available, averag.hne   nook   e   upiaersd   nmlfe,ces   uniiara
uof  oo  nd-your  aleotie-  ; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                        in food proneaclng and losaes in diettihution; raquiremente wona eatimatad
by FAO based on phyeiological needs for norm alctivity sod health coneid-
Porlaton   onery     en  auateIns- Mid-yea  population pa  aqosre biloarar              s-ing enirooeta1 tempar..tura, budy vmighta, age end .em diattibutiona of
(100 hoccoron) of total urea.                                                                  ppuplation, and allowing lOT for waere at household lava.
P2oaclatto  dtglaniy-ytnnrLno   oi.ln  - COnPuted as  bhov  for                                per capita eapply  of_protein_erase  er dcv  - Protein content of par napit,
agfulosllnd only,                                                                       net copply of food per day; net aupply of food is defined as abevo; require-
-ants for al coontrien eatablished by U1SD6 Economic Research lervinee
vica i e cocOa rica                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~provide for a ninine  allowance or 60 grase of total protein par day, and
Cru,de birtch  rat_e.pot cona_nd  -vrafe - fonual live birthn per thousand of                     20 greta of anim  aled pulse protein, of which 10 grames ehould be snieel
add-year ro.pulutIon; te-yea.r eiclhntic avargee ending in 1960 and 1970,                      protein; thnaa etandarde an. Irssr than thoem  Of 71 gram, of torei pronain
-rd fiv-yeOraue-ae endief in 1979 for nea r recent estimate.                                   and 23 gram  Of animal Protin, s  to average fer the word, propose.d by FAO
Crude deat  roapr thouod. average - Moral deathe pot thouaned of mid-year                         In the Third World Pond Survey.
yoyu.i,ton; tea-yaar aritlastie averages anding in 1960 and 1970 and five-Pecaiapoin nplfrm nmladpus-   otneapyofod
y-ar  --nrge eatding in 1975 for moat recent marina ta.                                        derived frn .nL-aI. and pulaea in gram   per day-
Infant  -aniaity rate  f/thou) - AnnualI deaths of infants under oen  year of age              Death rate  f/thou)  ages 1-4 - Annul deatha pet thousand in aga groep I-A
per thousan.d live birth..                                                                      "asta, to children in thie age groap; suggeated ac an indicator of
LifLte   c env cbic   (e  - Average ncaber of years of life  eann  atmantli.
birch; -n-a1y five-year -vergee ending In 1960, 1970 and 1971 for develop-
it  .. vetrias.                                                                             Ed-sction
Unos   repuduclce  ate -ovrage oobar of live dsughtara. a woman will hear               Adjisted  erollment ratio - primery sechn   - Enrollment of all ages .a per-
hi her nureu1 eaproductiv  period if she neperiencee pre..ent age-apecifie                     centage ef priosry scolaepopulation; inclrdee children aged 6-11 yeare
fv tilityrareo.;uwoolly five-year evarags ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                        but adjusted fur different lengths of primary education; far cruntrica with
fro  d-vnlpIeg ununtrien.                                                                      unvral ed.catin, enrollment may emceed lT since  eons pepile are below
furuloclun" iRcoth ra te  T) - to-tal - Cnopound .annul growth rates of mid-year                  or above the offietal arhnnl       .                om.eda age.        scndr
populaI.. fon r 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adlueted surollaeet ratio - secondary school -Cmue   eaoe   e dr
y,orulotin_ rowth  rate  IT) -urban - Computed like grooth rate Of total                          education rmqciree at leas.t four yeare of approved primary ieerrurrfro;
population; diforet definitioae of rcbo areas may affect comparability or                     provides general, voca..tional or teacher training Inetrotorien  far pupita
data  -nog  ,cutries,                                                                         of 12 to 17 yeasta of age; cerr-pondesco curceen ate generally emeluded.
Irbao  enuRin(.  ittl      atio of athan to  ntotl pnpeletiom; diffarmet                       Yoears  eg e--lima  provided (fit  end .cced  l."evee  - Total yeare af
drfinAitna of urban areas may affect ropseailIty of date amosg Countries.                     schoeling: at secondary level, v-teionel instruction -y be partially or
remple rely see l,dad.
Aee  a-trciur  fPercent) - Childres (0-lb years), working-aga, (15-64 years),                  Vctional essrolleuget (I of aecodacy) - Vacational inetituciama include
end retired (65 yeaca and soar) ase prrentagee of mid-year pepulation.                         tahcai..1  industrial or other programa which oprate indepmmd.atly or e
Age deperirneY  ratio - Ratio of ppoplation under 1) end 61 aed over to three                    dep.rawnirta of secondary inetitutiena.
uf rcae I) throogh 64.                                                                        MoltC literacy  rate  (%) - Litratar  aduIta (abls to reed and writ.)aepspr-           -
Puou-ui  dop.ndeec, -atin - Ratio of Pupu1etien under 1) end 61 sod ove  to                       reetag  of total adult popolation aged 15 yenar  red ovar.
tl,e labor force ia sge group rf 15-64 years.
raiyplenieg -_s_neirra.  fromuti-e  tchou  - Cealati-a number of acceptrors                   . liui
of birth-control d-nicas under ...ePicea or neciona1 femily planning program                   eroonPe ca  room  urban) - &Avrega weaer- of persona per rom  in COncpisd
uto co inoeption.                                                                              covninldwelltngs ie urban areas; dealles. smnIadmso-peemansnt
F..iyQyl_uu1ea-uootrs  M of  married  cos          p ercenteges of married women of               strctures end unacupisd parra.
child-beoring age (15-44 yen-) A.a rae birth-control deviec  to all married                  Occupied dwellings without piped water  ITS - Ocrapied eanvetiona1 dwellings
_uen ic  -es age group.                                                                        ie L  rIse end rural aones witbart eslde~o atonaide piped water facilities
as percentage of all occopied dwellings.
tooLoun-t                                                                                        ces to  ela-tricit,  CT Of  all dwesllings) - towuatir..al dvmliige with
lcan  labor foreL_Ltliend  - Eaconomicaly active person, incleding armed                        elsctricity in living q-orrerasC percent of total dseIlings in urban and
furcen-d uneployed hut ...lading                     roacie,  tdests, acte.; daioltiooa        rore1 areas.
iv ceruo ..o....rin  are Oct comparble.                                                      Rurl-1     ll;e   once    oelcrct    t - Coapsted aso core for rurel
abuc  (ure  In  ogr~icultrre  C  - Airicultural labor force (in feauing, foreetry,               dwellinga only.
h-ecieg and fisking) ac prerctage of total labor force.
Iroogloyed  ('I of labor forte)  U-liaployed are usualy defined aa peceona eke                  Con-mation
arc obls end willing to take aJab, sot of a jcab en a given day, resained sout               Radio  receivers  feer thou  roe) - All typns of receivrer  far r-dis broadcasts
or o Job, end asaklng work for a spaeifisd m.inimu  period noat sxe..eding one                  to generaL public Par thoweIan ef population; eanludee unlicemaed reccivra
root; nay not ke comparable between countries due to different daf1imifes                       do countries and in yecar  when rgiatration of radio scar  wase in affect;
ofEnopIcyad sad source of data, e.g. , omploynt officesetatistics, sample                       data for recan.t yeere may not be comparable aim.e meet roOntriea abolished
cuO_nys, compuleary unemployment insurance.                                                     liceauig.
Peasenoer car fear ekes Pop) - Paceengar care comprise mnter can sooting
IeOce-  dlotribotiun - Percentage of private incom  fboth in rash end bind)                       lace chen eight pe-ona; emiudac  ckelance, heareas and mIlitary
received by rickest 5T, richest 20T, p.rotet 20T, and poorest 40T of houee-                     vehicle..
holds.                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Electricity  imh/yr perr  rep) - Amccl cosim-ption of induatrie1, eaerial,
public and private electricIty is kilowatt bonn per capita, generally
na trih-t-u  of  land   -rhia - Peerstagee  of 1snd ownd ky wealihiest lIT                        kased on- preduccie  dAta, witho,ut allowance for losese in grids but allow-
und poorcut lOT of lend owaers.                                                                 ing far imporre and exporta of alentricity.
H-eesriet  fin/yr par Cael - Per capita annu Ial onsuption In kilograma
heal1th  sad Nutrition                                                                            estimated from dameatie production plus net Imperte of nemepriet.
PopuIlaion par physicien - Population divded by n.,eder of practicing
physicl... qualified from a medical school at ulnivrity level.



- 21 -iANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%  constant prices)
US$ Mln.      %                                                        1976/771/
GNP at Market Prices             291.7      100.0                                                       11.3
Gross Domestic Investment        133.f       45.8                                                       -5.5
Gross National Saving             60.S       20.9
Current Account Balance          -72.7        24.9
Exports of Goods, NFS            191.3       65.6                                                        5.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            252.1       88.4                                                        6.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added                  Labor Force 2/              V. A. Per Worker
US$ M]n.      Z                 Mln.        X                 US$          %
Agriculture                       95.9        31.8               .271      80.4                 354        40
Industry                          73.9       24.5               .026        7.7               2,842       318
Services                         132.0       43.7               .040       11.9               3,300       369
Unallocated                         .
Total/Average             301.;      100.0               .337      100.0                 895       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
(     Ml.n.)       X of GDP                   (Pula Mln.)        X of GDP
197          197         196 -7               1975/76     1975/76   1973/74-75/76
Current Receipts                                                               79.5         32.9         28.6
Current Expenditure                                                            49.5         20.5         17.9
Current Surplus                                                                30.0         12.4         10.7
Capital Expenditures                                                           35.4         14.7         15.3
External Assistance (net)                                                      17.6          7.3          8.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
L971         1972          1973         1974          1975          1976
(Million  P outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   .            .
Bank Credit to Public Sector          1.7           1.9          2.5           3.5           6.0          3.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector        10.5          13.7         21.9          37.4          53.3         68.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       .            .
General Price Index (1969 - 100)3/ 104.9          113.2        132.6         105.4         118.1        133.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   4.0           7.9         17.1           ..           12.0         12.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector        -43.3          11.8         31.6          40.0          71.4        -48.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector         7.1          30.5         59.9          70.8          42.5         27.6
1/ Provisional. High GNP growth due to substantial inflows of shareholder loans in 1976 to offset operating loss
of copper/nickel mine.
2/ Labor Force is defined as persons 10 years and over engaged either in family agriculture or in cash eaployment.
Migrant workers in South Africa are excluded.
3/ No general price index is available; relates to Index of Food Prices for Gaborone only.
Data from 1974 relates to new index with March 1974 - 100.
not available
not applicable
May 2, 1978



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974      1975       1976                                         us$ Mln.        X
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods                   120.0     143.6      176.2             Meat and meat products    48.7           33.2
Imports of Goods                   184.6     217.7      208.6             Diamonds                    43.8         29.9
Balance of Trade (deficit   -)   -64.6       -74.1      -32.4             Copper/nickel               33.9         23.1
Non-factor Services (net)           -5.2      -5.4       -4.0
Factor Services (net)              -18.6     -51.9      -51.8
Net Transfers                       49.5      45.5       34.3             All other commodities       20.2         13.8
Balance on Current Account         -38.9     -85.9      -53.9                  Total                 146.6        100.0
Direct Foreign Investment           44.6      92.9       21.4             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                     ..         ..        ..                                                     US$ Mln.
Amortization
Subtotal                        33.9       31.8       29.1               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        161.2
Capital Grants                       ..         ..                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Other Capital (net)                -10.3      -5.5       11.5               Total outstanding & disbursed         161.2
Other Items n.e.i                ) __      ) __       )
Increase in Reserves (-)           -29.3     -33.3       -8.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19761/
Gross Reserves (end year)            %. ..                ..%
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          2.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                  Total outstanding & disbursed
Imports
of which:  Petroleum            20.2      22.9       22.1
Exports                                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, (MARCH 31, 1978)(Million US$):
of which:  Petroleum              -         -          -
IBRD    IDA
Outstanding & disbursed           38.9    13.9
RATE OF EXCHANGE_/                                                          Undisbursed                        43.0     0.8
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    19771/          Outstanding incl. undisbursed   81.9    14.7
US$1.00 = P        0.768   0.693   0.679   0.732   0.870   0.845
P 1.00 = US$       1.302   1.444   1.472   1.366   1.150   1.183
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/ Annual averages.
3/ The Pula was revalued in May 1977 to P 1.00 - US$1.20.
not available
not applicable
May 2, 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX II
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN BOTSWANA
AS AT MARCH 31, 1978
Amount (less cancellations)
(US$ million)
No.     Year  Borrower        Purpose                 Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and four credits fully disbursed             32.0    10.2
776-2  1974  Botswana        Shashe Infrastructure   5.5                   1.3
Project (Supplementary
Loan)
325    1972  Botswana       Livestock Development              1.7         0.2
Project
471    1974  Botswana        Francistown Urban                 3.0         0.6
Development Project
1019    1974  Botswana       Development Finance       4.0                  1.6
Development:  Company Project
Corporatiorn
1174    1975  Botswana       Third Road Project        5.8                  4.6
1275T)  1976  Botswana       Education                10.5                  9.0
1408    1977  Botswana       Fourth Road Project    20.0                   20.0
1497 2/ 1977  Botswana        Second Livestock
Project                  6.5                  6.5
Total                                  84.3    14.9
of which has been repaid              2.4      0.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    81.9    14.7
Total undisbursed                      43.0      0.8        43.8
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loans Nos.      Shashe Infrastructure Project:  US$32.0 million Loan of
776-1 and 2    June 29, 1971:  Effectiveness Date:  March 7, 1972; US$5.5
million supplemental loan of June 7, 1974; Effectiveness
Date: July 17, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Work on the infrastructure project as originally envisaged was
completed on schedule and the project is operational. A later decision to
bituminize the Serule-Selebi-Phikwe road has delayed project completion.
Work on the road is substantially completed, and the loans totalling US$37.5
million are expected to be fully disbursed shortly.
Technical problems with the surface treatment plant that beset
the associated BCL mining project resulted in serious cost overruns and loss
of production. Under the original financial arrangements, the large increase
in capital costs of the mining project would have resulted in a substantial
reduction in the benefits to be received by the Government (in the form of
royalties, taxes and dividends). Discussions between the Government and the
private companies on a financial restructuring were actively pursued and new
financial arrangements have been worked out which will protect in a large part
the benefits which the Government expects to receive in the form of royalties,
taxes and dividends.
Credit No. 325 Livestock Development Project: US$1.65 million credit of
June 30, 1972; Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1973; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1978.
Physical development of the Western State Land Breeding Ranches
continues satisfactorily and is nearing completion. The rate of occupancy
of the ranches is increasing and progress has been made towards the signing
of lease and loan agreements, although some details still need to be final-
ized. The existing extension service is inadequate but plans are well
advanced to increase its effectiveness. The Livestock Project Management
Unit is weak and preliminary audit investigations indicate possible irre-
gularities. The Botswana Livestock Development Corporation has been re-
structured into a government-owned company, independent of the Botswana
Meat Corporation. It has been operating successfully during 1977 but the
recent outbreak of Foot and Mouth disease has resulted in quarantine re-
strictions preventing stock trading.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 471 Francistown Urban Development Project:  US$3.0 million
credit of May 9, 1974; Effectiveness Date: October 1,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Civil and
electrical works are complete; progress on community facilities is satis-
factory; most of the residential plots have been allocated, and housing
construction is progressing well. The houses are of much better quality
than usual in site and services areas. Additional works, using surplus
funds generated by the devaluation of the Rand, are progressing satisfac-
torily and are expected to be completed by March 1979. However, the closing
date will have to be extended from December 1978 to December 1979, to enable
completion of the additional works.
Loan No. 1019 Botswana Development Corporation Project: US$4.0 million
loan of June 27, 1974; Effectiveness Date: December 9,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In view of the slowdown in industrial investment activity because of
the (i) introduction of the new currency "Pula;" and (ii) uncertainty about
the political situation in southern Africa, it is anticipated that BDC's
completion of this project will be delayed. For this purpose, the Bank agreed
to extend the terminal date for project submission to June 30, 1978 and the
closing date to June 30, 1980. To date, the investments financed under this
loan have been of good quality and approximately 60 percent of the loan has
been committed. A further US$1.0 million, or 25 percent of the loan, is
expected to be committed for a smal-scale enterprises program linked to the
proposed urban project.
Loan No. 1174  Third Road Project:  US$5.8 million loan of November 21,
1975; Effectiveness Date: January 12. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule, due to
the unusually heavy demands on an understaffed Roads Department and delays
over the approval of tender documents, but progress is improving on all com-
ponents. The construction of the Molepolole-Gaborone road is expected to
be completed by October 1978. Detailed engineering of the Mahalapye-Serule
road has been completed. Soils and laboratory equipment, as well as the
loadometers and weighbridges, have been purchased and delivered; two weigh-
bridges and two loadometers have been installed and are now in use.  The
Highway Maintenance Study is well advanced and is expected to be completed
shortly. The current estimated project cost is US$6.5 million, which is
below the appraisal estimate of US$7.4 million. The Government has recently
requested amendments to increase the project scope and these are now under
consideration.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Loans Nos.      Education Project:  US$10.5 million loan (US$7.0 million
1274 & 1275-T  IBRD and US$3.5 million Third Window) of May 28, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project is experiencing a fast start. Con-
struction contracts for about 25 percent of the total work have been awarded
and work is proceeding ahead of schedule. Tenders have been called for most
of the furniture and about a third of the equipment.
Loan No. 1408 Fourth Road Project: US$20.0 million loan of April 21,
1977; Effectiveness Date: August 18, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory. The contract for construction of the
Mahalalapye-Serule road was signed on November 22, 1977. The tender sum
of US$10.7 million is well below the appraisal estimate of US$16.2 million,
and current estimated project costs are lower than appraisal estimates by an
amount of US$7.2 million. The Government has recently requested amendments to
increase the project scope and these are now under consideration.
Loan No. 1497 Second Livestock Project: US$6.5 million loan of
December 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The terminal date for effectiveness, March 30, 1978, has been
postponed to provide additional time for the Government to resolve outstanding
issues with the National Development Bank and the commercial banks regarding
the administration agreements. However, the loan is expected to be effective by
early June 1978. Meanwhile, project implementation is getting underway.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
SU]?PLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
*                 (a)  Time taken to prepare project:              15 months
(b)  Preparation by:                            Government of Botswana
with the assistance
of consultants
(c)  Initial discussions with the Bank:         September 1975
(d)  First Bank mission to consider project: June 1976
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:               September 1977
(f)  Negotiations:                              April 10-14, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             September 30, 1978
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a)  As a condition of effectiveness, the percentage of
beneficiaries in arrears in payment of monthly charges
is to be reduced to 50 percent. In addition, this per-
centage should reach 30 percent by March 31, 1979 and
15 percent by March 31, 1980 (para. 29);
(b) The town councils will institute a management information
and budgetary control system satisfactory to the Bank, and
will provide adequate staff to operate the system (para. 43);
(c) The Borrower will transfer the water and power utilities
in Francistown to the Water Utilities Corporation and the
Botswana Power Corporation by April 1, 1979 and October 1,
1979, respectively (para. 44);
(d) The Borrower will review any projected deficits of the
Francistown and Selebi Phikwe town councils and take
whatever steps are necessary to secure their financial
viability (para. 45);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
(e) The town councils will establish monthly charges for the
residential, commercial and industrial plots that are
adequate to cover all allocable investment costs (para. 46);
(f) The Borrower will provide the town councils with adequate
staff to carry out their functions under the project and
the councils will carry out a program of staff training
(para. 48);
(g) The town councils will establish beneficiary selection
criteria for residential plots, home improvement loans,
commercial and industrial sites, and horticultural plots
that are satisfactory to the Bank (para. 49);
(h) The Borrower will consult with the Bank annually until
project completion on the appropriateness of the terms
and conditions of the Borrower's standard agreement giving
a beneficiary occupancy rights (para. 49); and
(i) The Borrower will ensure that an adequate long-term supply
of water is made available to Francistown (para. 50).



A N 0 0 t A                                                              (ann Z A M B   A                                        REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
p  ---   rC~~y7 7~flo                                  -$1                 SECOND URBAN PROJ ECT,,
A   -  4'             (II  '\                                                      ~~~~~~~~PROJECT LOCATIONS
-a--                                                            f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOO,ECT LOCATCOCNS
0  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lI  OL
)                                    -   OO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-St -O-d0-0$
0                               2                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------d
R  HO0   D   E  $   I  A              ...
Ng-                                                    o                                       W~~~~~~~wIn  Roa0    0 4   800   10 )0 160
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                           I
LaIke X-a     rpO              naa
-j~~'~'~  Prnpos-d  -6
-At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
F                                                                                              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0rnaoe"N.
0,90               K      A        L      A        H      A                                                          l?/)O Pap"o
Mogad~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Mn   ~-                        p2
G~~~~~~~~~~~~
N                                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,ar                                                                ?
N                                                                                                                 St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   O     ABI
'~~~~~'n-   SAc~~~~~~~~~~~                        M 0,IA9B   
OF
Ed--..-                               -. ,r       -
<0                                        jI.l-1~  -   E-'UBLIC  &
-.                                                                                                     LIOT%VANA,-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  1
Is  1000200.  rAa,ntrTh~~~~~~~~~-RlaL                                        rn-g'- NPCo .b.....eandbH 
eOoHd,aodorffro,on,oo&AFRICA                   -



