Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H601-BF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Tenth Poverty Reduction Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  July 8,  2010 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H601-BF 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 8, 2010, entered into between BURKINA FASO 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent fifty 
nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 59,600,000) 
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient 
in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipien
t’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time 
responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
03 BP 7050 
Ouagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
SEGEGOUV 
 5555 
  226-50-31-27-15 
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
Page  5
4
AGREED at Washington, DC, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By //s// H. E. Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By //s// Madani M. Tall 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has: (i) developed and adopted a two year action plan (2009-2010) 
for restructuring and supporting the cotton sector; and (ii) assessed progress in 
implementation of measures aimed at increasing productivity, improving input 
access, restructuring financially SOFITEX and strengthening SOFITEX’s 
performances.  
2. 
The Recipient has launched a public tender for the management of the 
refrigerated slaughterhouse in Ouagadougou by an experienced technical partner.  
3. 
The Recipient has taken the following priority actions to sustain the activity of 
Maison de l’Entreprise du Burkina Faso
 (MEBF): the award of public interest 
(
utilité publique
)
status, the issue of the title deed of its headquarters, and the 
establishment of a fund for capacity building in the private sector managed by the 
MEBF.  
4. 
In order to support its policy for the decentralization of school construction, the 
Recipient has transferred to Territorial Collectivities the fiscal resources recorded 
in the 
Recipient’s 2009 Budget Law and required to enable 49 urban 
Municipalities to carry out their mandate for school constructions. 
5. 
The Recipient has published the 2009 and 2010 budget allocation data of all 
49 urban Municipalities and the execution data of all 302 Municipalities, broken 
down to the level of sections and chapters, on the Government web site 
(Directorate General of Budget). 
6. 
The Recipient has deconcentrated its Directorate General for Procurement into 
three new ministries (Ministries responsible for infrastructure, agriculture and 
secondary education, respectively) and three new regions (Sahel, Loop Mouhoun 
and East) through the appointment of procurement experts and the definition of 
threshold of authority.  
7. 
The Recipient has intensified the oversight of its Directorate General for 
Financial Control on the delivery of goods, works and services in 2009, as 
evidenced by an increase in the proportion of physical spot – check of contracts 
procured through competitive bidding.  
Page  7
6
8. 
In order to strengthen the Recipient’s procedures to hold budget managers 
accountable, the Court of Accounts has initiated prosecution of several cases of 
mismanagement of public funds and provided an update on the revision of the 
organic law that will create the Budget and Financial Accountability Chamber of 
the Court of Accounts. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single 
withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the 
Financing.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out 
in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
59,600,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
59,600,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient, 
and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
Page  8
7
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“Court of Accounts” means the Recipient’s court of accounts created by 
Law No. 014-2000/AN of May 16, 2000. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery
Page  10
9
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
4. 
“Local Government Code” means the Recipient’s code adopted by 
Law No. 55.2004/AN dated December 21, 2004. 
5. 
“Municipalities” means the municipalities established under the Local 
Government Code. 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 23, 2010 from the Recipient to the 
Page  11
10 
 
Association declaring the Recipient
’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
7. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
8. 
“SOFITEX” means 
Société Burkinabée des Fibres Textiles
,
a
company (
société 
anonyme
)
established in accordance with the laws of the Recipient. 
 
9. 
“Territorial Collectivities” means the territorial collectivities established under 
the Local Government Code.
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
Page  12
11 
 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
Page  13
12 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.”
 
