Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
Report No.: AB5670 
Project Name 
Tenth Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG-10) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4 
Project ID 
P117278 
Borrower(s) 
BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
April 9, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 19, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 28, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The global economic crisis has affected significantly the Burkinab
è
economy, threatening the 
viability of the cotton sector, the country’s main source of exports until recently, deepening 
poverty incidence and threatening to set back liberalization efforts of key productive sectors 
from reduced interest by potential foreign investors.  Moreover, the impact of the global 
economic crisis was amplified by severe floods in September 2009 in the Ouagadougou area, 
which caused significant environmental, infrastructure and human damage to an already stressed 
economy.  The boom in gold mining and the recent appreciation of the US dollar against the 
Euro have been so far key macroeconomic mitigating factors.  But while the increase in gold 
exports have improved the balance of payments, the standard seven-year tax holiday provided 
under most exploitation contracts for new mines have not helped reverse the Government’s 
revenue shortfall. And in terms of poverty incidence, job creation from the mining boom has less 
than offset loss of household income in agriculture. In addition, the inadequacy of existing social 
protection institutions and policies, including social safety nets, has not helped the poor cope 
with the recent shocks. 
Enhanced fiscal space is needed to rebuild some of Burkina’s damaged infrastructure, extend 
safety nets for the most vulnerable populations and boost economic activities that can provide 
viable alternatives to cotton, hence enhance the economy’s resilience to external shocks. But aid, 
which has accounted for around 9 percent of Burkina’s budget in recent years, is expected to 
drop as the impact of the global economic crisis affects donor countries. While a recently 
approved fiscal stimulus, financed with external reserves as well as through several CFAF-
denominated bond issues on the regional market, is helping the authorities increase public 
investment, support the health and education sectors, increase food security, expand targeted 
safety nets and promote a youth employment scheme, the Burkinabè Government would like 
further assistance to boost the competitiveness of its economy by removing existing obstacles to 
growth and attracting foreign investment. The Government’s action plan includes measures to 
restructure SOFITEX, the main cotton company, cancel producer debts accumulated over the last 
few cotton campaigns, design an input financing fund for the sector, contract a qualified private 
sector operator for the management of the country’s main slaughterhouse to increase the 
production and export of cut meat and, finally, consolidate the capacity of the business 
Page  2
association to provide services to small and medium enterprises, a key source of job creation in 
urban areas. 
In order to help meet the country’s exceptional budgetary financing, the Government of Burkina 
Faso has requested that untied budget support delivered by IDA be increased and accelerated. A 
US$20 million increase under the Crisis Response Window would co-finance the fiscal space 
needed by the Government to address immediate consequences of the global economic crisis on 
the Burkinabe economy and support structural reforms and investments to accommodate some of 
the most pressing needs. 
2. Proposed objectives 
The proposed operation aims to assist the authorities’ efforts to cope with the impact of the 
global economic crisis and maintain the momentum of reforms to achieve critical developmental 
objectives. This operation also supports the authorities in a time of transition as the Government 
is finalizing the design of a third generation of country development strategy, aiming at faster 
growth and sustainable development (
Stratégie de Croissance Accélérée et de Développement 
Durable
 or
SCADD), which is expected to be adopted in November 2010. 
The development objectives of PRSG-10 are to: (i) improve the investment climate and 
promote exports with a particular focus on the immediate recovery and long-term 
competitiveness of the cotton sector, as well as the development of the meat value chains and 
services provided to private sector companies; (ii) protect access to decentralized quality services 
by enabling municipal competencies on school investment decisions while improving 
transparency in the execution of municipal budgets; and (iii) promote efficiency, transparency 
and accountability in the use of public resources through a deconcentration of public 
procurement functions, strengthened financial control to oversight the effective delivery of 
goods, works and services and the development of the sanction capacity of the Court of Account 
through the establishment of its Budget and Financial Accountability Chamber.  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed operation is a substantial part of the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance 
Strategy for FY10-12, covering nearly two thirds of IDA assistance to Burkina Faso and over 40 
percent of general budget support provided to Burkina Faso by all development partners in 2010. 
While PRSG-10 would translate primarily into funding for the PRSP-II implementation and 
transition to SCADD, additional resources under the Pilot Crisis Response Window are set aside 
to help the Burkinabè authorities address the impact of the global economic crisis in the cotton 
sector, improve the country’s capacity to export cut meats and sustain support to small and 
medium enterprises. PRSG-10 would complete development outcomes built over the entire span 
of the PRSC series by further
 
supporting a core set of critical actions to: (i) protect access to 
quality schools through a transfer of competencies to urban municipalities equally reflected by 
enhanced transparency in the way they use their money; and (ii) improve the effectiveness of 
public spending at the central level by enhancing public procurement and external audit 
functions. 
 
Page  3
4. Environmental 
Aspects 
 
The activities supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have significant negative 
effects on the environment, forests, and other natural resources.  
In the cotton sector, PRSG-
10
continues to support Government's efforts to improve the sector’s 
competitiveness.  The Government’s broader strategy in the context of external market factors is 
anticipated to have a number of environmental effects which are being tracked.  In particular, the 
Government has authorized the scaling up of GM cotton seeds to eighty percent of national 
plantings by the 2010/11 cropping campaign.  First, the IDA-financed West Africa Regional 
Biosafety Project is enhancing regulatory capacity to manage environmental aspects of this 
activity.  Second, expansion of this seed technology is resulting in a reduction in pesticide use on 
cotton.  Third, land area devoted to cotton production is anticipated to respond to net income 
prospects for the crop; these may improve in the short-term but are not expected to return to 
levels earlier in the decade, and thus although cotton area may expand beyond levels of the last 
two years, this will be on already cultivated arable land, and not to the levels of prior years of 
peak cotton production.  Finally, fertilizer use in aggregate and per hectare on cotton is not 
anticipated to increase as a result of PRSG-10 supported actions.  Domestic nominal prices for 
fertilizers are for now being moderated by subsidies and input provision is being conducted with 
better planning, so it is anticipated that actual fertilizer application will stay within technical 
norms.   
Beyond cotton, the support to small and medium enterprises through the national business 
association (
Maison de l’Entreprise du Burkina Faso
), while not expected to have direct 
consequences on the environment, should help provide jobs beyond the agricultural sector, which 
will contribute to limit pressure on land use.  Improving the management of the Ouagadougou 
refrigerated slaughterhouse should enhance norms enforcement, including with regard to the 
environment. The decentralization meas
ures are coordinated around the government’s strategy 
(CSMOD) and corresponding three-year action plan, whose third pillar focuses on improved 
land, environmental and natural resource management.  Technical assistance from donors will be 
needed to achieve these objectives but the CSMOD offers a framework to coordinate donor 
interventions in this area. Not significant impact to the environment is expected from the 
promotion of public financial management. 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECEPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
90 
 Total 
90 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Gilles Alfandari 
Title: Sr. Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-9498 
Email: galfandari@worldbank.org
Page  4
