Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
04                   C c9,
Report No. 4966-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
June 5, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Colombian peso (Co1$)
US$1.00        = Col$ 95.0
Col$ 1         = US$0.01
Col$ 1 million = US$10,526
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABRREVIATIONS
Caja Agraria   -  Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank)
COMERCAFE      -  Comercializadora Agricola Cafetera
(Coffee Growers' Agricultural Wholesale Agency)
FEDERACAFE     -  Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia
(National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia)
FEDEKACAFE/    -  Programa de Desarrollo y Diversificacion de Zonas
PRODESARROLLO     Cafeteras, Departamento en FEDERACAFE
(Coffee Zones Development and Diversification Program,
A Department within FEDERACAFE)
FFAP           -  Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
(Agricultural Financing Fund)
FFI            -  Fondo Financiero Industrial
(Industrial Financing Fund)
Coffee Fund    -  Fondo NacionaL del Cafe
(National Coffee Fund)
ICA            -  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
LICA           -  Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacion Agricola
(Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Cooperation)
IL)iS          -  Inter-American Development Bank
SENA           -  Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Apprenticeship Service)
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF COFFEE GROWERS OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFCUL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary . . . .   .  .. .-. . . . . . . . .    v
I.    BACKGROUND .      .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A.  The Agricultural Sector* . e .. . . . . .a. . . . . . . .   1
B. Agricultural Credit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
C. The Coffee Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
D. Past Diversification Efforts . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
E. Government Strategy for Agricultural Production
and Diversification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
F.  Bank Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
II.   THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . ..    8
A.  Location, Climate and Soils  . . .a. ..   .. a *  .. .    8
B.  Land Use, Tenure and Farm Size . . - . . .-. . .- - . . .- -8
C. Farming Systems  . . . . .-. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
D.  Physical and Social Infrastructure   . . . . . . . . . .    9
E. Agricultural Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
F. Diversification Activities:  1963-1983 . . . . . . . . .   10
(II.  THE PROJECT  . . . o . . . . . . . .  . 9 . .   o . . . . . .    11
A.  Objectives and Brief Description . o . .o . . . . . . .    11
B. Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   12
- Agricultural Production Coomponent . . . . . . . . . .   12
- Marketing Component.. .. . .  m m . . . .a. . . . . .   12
- Agroindustries Component    .. ... . . . m. . . .     13
- Support Services Cobponcnt  . a . . ..   ...  . . . .    14
C. Project Cost . .             o . .  a . .  a .  a . . . .   16
D. Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
E.  Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
F. Disbursements  . .    .          . . .     a o a o o . .    19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in October 1983. The mission was comprised of Messrs. A. Uhlig,
V. Ferrer, R. Simsolo; Ms. A.C. Wee (Bank); and Messrs. A. Ballantyne, and
J.J. Gariglio (Consultants).
F   doc=M Ms a resuuild disuibom ad may e ted by mecWits wily in dhe perfoanane of
if       <    ^'" " b e _                   d dudes.Its cmzets may nt oUzewie be diinud withot WON Bak authizio



- ii -
%-V       Page No.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . ...........    . ..   21
A.  Organization and Management  ......... .....    21
B.  Lending Policies an4 Procedures  . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
C.  Lending Terms and Conditions see......  ....    23
D. Accounts and Auditing  ........... .... . .    25
E.  Monitoring, Progress Reporting, and Evaluation . . . . .    25
V.     PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES .. . . . . . ...  . . . .    26
A.  Production, Marketing and Markets  . . . . . . . . . . .    26
B.  Prices . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    27
VI.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS  .a. . . . .. . .. ... .. .    27
A.  Financial and Economic Rates of Return . . . . . . . . .    27
B.  Employment Impact  . . .................                     30
C. Environmental Impact .t.... .......  .    30
D.  Project Risks  . . . . . . .             a. . . . . . .      30
VII.   SUMMRY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION . . . . . .    31
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1 -  Project Cost Summary. ...................    17
3.2 -  Project Financing  .....................    18
3.3 -  Disbursement Percentages by Category . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
3.4 -  Disbursement Schedule  . .. . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . .   20
4.1 -  Lending Terms Summary  .... .. . ..... . . ... .     24
5.1 - Estimated Annual Incremental Agricultural Production at
Full Development   . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . .   . e e . .    26
6.1 - Farm Investment Models: Summary of Development Impact
and Rates of Return  . . . . . . .    e. . . . ..   . . . . . .   29
6.2 - Harketing and Agroindustrial Investment Models:
Rates of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
ANNEXES
1 - Project Area, Coffee Subsector and Past Diversification
Efforts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . a . . . . . . . . v . . .    33
2 - Project Implementing Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
3 - Project Physical Parameters, Cost and Financing  . . . . . .    55
4 - Illustrative Farm Models and Financial and Economic Prices .    70
5 - Related Documents and Data Available in Project File . . . .   90



- lil -
Page No.
TABLES IN ANNEXES
ANNEX I - Project Area, Coffee Subsector and Past Diversification
Effort  . . . . . . . . . . . . ............. 33
Table I - List of Project Departments and Municipalities. . . . . .   33
2 - Land Use - Coffee Zone  .................    35
3 - Area of Coffee Farms Distributed by Altitude  . . . . . .   36
4 - Coffee Farms Distribution b7 Size, Type of Operation
and Land Tenure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
5 - Diversification Program:  Activities Financed 1963-1982 .   38
ANNEX 2 - Project Implementing Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
Table 1 - Summary of Balance Sheets..  ...... . ......     46
2 - FEDERACAFE Agricultural Credit Operations for
Diversification through PRODESARROLLO . . . . . . . . . .   47
3 - PRODESARROLLO Agricultural Credit Operations. . . . . . .   48
4 - Banco Cafetero:  Balance Sheets 1980-82 . . . . . . . . .   49
5 - Banco Cafetero:  Analysis of Loan Portfolio by Sector . .   50
6 - PRODESARROLLO's Debt Service under the Project. . . . . .   51
7 - PRODESARROLLO's Cash Flow under the Project . . . . . . .   52
ANNEX 3 - Project Physical Parameters, Cost and Financing . . . . .   55
Table 1 - Areas by Crop - Phasing . . . . . . .a. . . . . . . . . .   55
2 - Livestock Production Units - Phasing  . . . . . . . .  .    3 56
3 - Indicative Crop Yields (Excluding Harvest Losses) . . . .   57
4 - Livestock - Production and Sales per Unit . . . . . . . .   58
5 - Land Use With and Without Project . ...... ...     59
6 - Total Cost by Component - Phasing (Including
Contingencies)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          60
7 - Agricultural Production Cost - Phasing  . . . . . . . . .   61
8 - Harketing Component - Phasing and Cost  . . . . . . . . .   62
9 - Agroindustrial Component - Phasing and Cost . . . . . . .   63
10 - TrainingCost -Phasing.................    64
11 - Applied Research Cost - Phasing . . . . . . . . . . . . .   65
12 - Marketing Information Service Cost - Phasing. a . . . . .    66
13 - Increnental Staff Cost - Phasing  . . . . . . . . . . . .   67
14 - Support Services - Total Cost (Including Physical and
Price Contingencies)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    68
15- Lending Program and Financing .  ................ .....a   69
ANNEX 4 - Illustrative Farm Models and Financial and
Economic Prices       . . . . . . . . . .       . . . . .   70
Table 1 - Distribution of Farm Investment Models - Phased . . . . .   70
2 - Farm Investment Model I (7 ha) - Physical Parameters  . .   71
3 - Farm Investment Model I - Investment Analysis
andCash Flow Projections            . .             .9.    ................. 72
4 - Farm Investment Model II (55 ha) - Physical Parameters.      73



- iv -
Page No.
5 - Farm Investment Model II - Investment Analysis and
Cash Flow Projections .. .....  . . . . . .      . . . .     74
6 - Farm Investment Model III (10 ha) - Physical Parameters      75
7 - Farm Investment Model. III - Investment Analysis and
Cash Flow Projections ..   .......         ... ....          76
8 - Farm Investment Model IV (20 ha) - Physical Parameters.      77
9 - Farm Investment Model IV - Investment Analysis and
Cash Flow Projections . . . o..............                  78
10 - Farm Investment Model V (15 ha) - Physical Parameters *      79
11 - Farm Investment Model V - investment Analysis and
Cash Flow Projections . . .      .  . . .........            80
12 - Farmers' Producer Organization Model - Cash Flow
Projections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      81
13 - Primary Collection  Center Model - Ceash Flow Projections    82
14 - Regional Collection Center Model -Cash Flow Projections      83
15 - Supermarket Fruit and Vegetable Section Model -
CashFl      oje    ron  ections         .................    84
16 - COMERCAFE Model - Cash Flow Projections . . . . . . . .      85
17 - Frozen Vegetable Plant Model - Cash Flow Projections. .      86
18 - Milk Pasteurization Plant Model -
Cash Flow Projections . . . . . . . . . .   as. ... ...      87
19 - Financial and Economic Prices - Farm Gate . .o -.. .. .      88
20 - Sensitivity Analysis - Switching Values . . . . . . . .      89
CHARTS
WB26224 - Organization Chart of National Federation of Coffee
Growers of Colombia . . . . ;.  . . . . ..  .  *    * * ..   53
WB26223 - Organization Chart of Coffee Zones Development and
Diversification Program (PRODESARROLLO) . . . . . . . .      54
MAP
IBRD 18034 - Colombia - Coffee Growing Areas



v
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJEft
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia (FEDERACAFE)
Guarantor:     Republic of Colombia
Amount:        US$50.0 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:         17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:
The project would support the Government's and FEDERACAFE's
policy of diversifying agricultural production in the coffee
areas through increased production, marketing and processing
of non-coffee commodities. This strategy would lead to
substantial increases in food production and a reduction in
the economy's vulnerability to price changes and market
constraints on coffee, thereby assisting the country in
reducing overproduction and costly stock build-up of coffee.
The project would accelerate significantly the borrower's
ongoing diversification efforts and help make diversification
a more self-sustaining process through provision of:
(a) credit for agricultural production, processing, and
marketing; and (b) related support services, including
technical assistance, applied agricultural research and a
price and marketing information system. As a result, the
share of crops other than coffee in the land-use pattern would
increase from about 10% to approximately 20%. Incremental
annual production at full development would be about 3% of the
value of national agricultural production in 1983. Direct
project beneficiaries would be some 13,600 farmers, whose
income is expected to increase by about 50% at full
development, about 40 private agroindustrial enterprises, and
about 170 marketing entities in the coffee areas.
Project Risks; There would be little technical or managerial risks, since
FEDERACAFE, a private producer organization, is efficient and
commands a well developed physical and organizational infra-
structure in the proposed project area, which would be
suitably strengthened for meeting the needs of the expanded
diversification effort. Also, the principal banking windows



- Vi -
under the proposed project, Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria,
have consistently performed well in granting,credit and should
have no difficulty in providing the banking services required
under the project. However, the pace of project execution
would critically depend on (a) efficient marketing of project
output and (b) the Government continuing to maintain reduced
incentives for coffee production, which is its declared
policy. These two aspects would be monitored through
FEDERACAFE's marketing intelligence system to be strengthened
under the project and the introduction of a review mechbnism
regarding diversification incentives.
Local   Foreign  Total
--- (US$ million)  -
Estimated costs
Credit                               189.2    47.1    236.3
Support services                      12.1      2.0      14.1
Subtotal                          201.3    49.1    250.4
Contingencies:a/
Physical                             1.2      0.2       1.4
Price                                1.0      0.6       1.6
Total project cost                   203.5    49.9    253.4 b/
Front-end fee                          -        0.1      0.1
Total financing required             203.5    50.0    253.5
Financing plan
Beneficiaries                         53.8    -         53.8
FFAP                                  90.1    -         90.1
FFI                                    6.5    -           6.5
FEDERACAFE                            53.1    -         53.1
Bank                                   -       50.0     50.0
Total financing                      203.5    50.0    253.5
Estimated                      ---------------- USS millions --------------
Disbursements:   Bank FY        1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual         5.0    9.5   10.5   10.0    7.5    4.5    3.0
Cumulative    5.0   14.5   25.0   35.0   42.5   47.0   50.0
a/ Applied only to support services.
b/ Including local taxes of US$7.4 million.



- vli -
Rate of Return:    23-25% 1/
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 4966-CO, June 5, 1984
IBRD MAP:          No. 1804
1/ On the basis of illustrative investment models for farm development, and
marketing and agricultural processing subprojects.



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      Agriculture remains the most important sector in the Colombian
economy, accounting for roughly one-quarter of GDP. Within the sector, crops
and livestock products contribute about 53% and 40%, respectively, to the
gross value of production; the rest comes from forestry, fishing and other
rural activities. Agriculture provides employment for some two million
people, or about 27% of the national labor force. The sector's share in the
country's total registered merchandise exports fluctuated between 68% to 75X
in recent years. In the past two decades, agriculture grew at an estimated
annual rate of nearly 4%; while this was about 1% below the growth rate for
the economy as a whole it was considerably higher than in most developing
countries. Since 1979, however, this rate has slowed down to 2-3% annually,
and is estimated at 0.5-1.0% for 1982, the lowest figure registered in many
years. During the last two decades, 55-60% of output growth was derived from
area expansion, except for coffee for which growth resulted primarily from
yield increases. Yields of major export crops are comparable with
international levels, but for many other commodities, especially food crops,
they are low and the scope for improvements is substantial. The performance
of the livestock subsector has been disappointing over the last decade, and
only small productivity increases were achieved.
1.02      The sector's growth in the 1970s was, to a large extent, driven by
external factors, such as favorable markets and prices for export crops
especially coffee. In the 1980s, on the other hand, the international
economic environment caused the prices of coffee and other important
agricultural export commodities to decline. At the same time, the cost of
agricultural inputs, including labor, remained high; consequently, the
profits of agricultural producers declined in many instances. To resume
higher agricultural growth rates, to create additional income and employment,
and to stimulate exports, improvements in the productivity of land and labor
through the diffusion and adoption of new technologies are needed as, the
potential for increasing production through expansion of agricultural land is
limited. In addition, the unrealized potential for agricultural
diversification in the coffee areas needs to he tapped in order to reduce the
country's heavy dependence on coffee whose market constraints and price
prospects appear unfavorable.
B. Agricultural Credit
1.03      Two principal sources, Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(Caja Agraria) and the Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (FFAP), account for most
of the agricultural credit in Colombia. Caja Agraria is the main
agricultural bank with an extensive network of some 850 branch offices, and
about 500,000 clients. FFAP is a rediscount windnw of the Bank of the
Republic from which funds are on-lent by banking institutions mostly to
commercial farmers. FFAP's resources are obtained principally from low
yielding bonds which banking institutions are required to hold in lieu of
reserves. FFAP has crop-specific lending limits per hectare that are revised
semiannually and generally cover only betweeq 25% and 65% of investment



-2-
costs, with the rest having to come from the borrower. In addition, there
are other sources of agricultural credit, such as the Ban_co Ganadero and
Banco Cafetero, which finance principally livestock and colfee, respectively.
Agricultural credit is generally linked to technical assistance; farmers need
to have approved farm plans by authorized extension agents to qualify for
credit. Interest rates for agriculture vary considerably depending on the
institutions involved and the ,specific purpose of a given credit line. On
average they are generally lower for agriculture than for other productive
sectors. Since 1983, given the decline in internal inflation, the interest
rates are slightly positive in real terms. For agroindustrial and industrial
lending, most of the funds are provided by commercial banks, development
finance corporations, and the above mentioned-agricultural banks. Their
direct lending is supplemented by rediscounting funds of the Fondo Financiero
Industrial (FFI) of the Bank of the Republic, funded in part out of the
reserve requirements of the banking systems. For marketing credlt, no major
specialized credit lines exist.
C. The Coffee Economy
1.04      Coffee continues to be of central importance In the economy,
heavily influencing agricultural growth and producing major macroeconomic
effects. After 1975, coffee represented 5-9% of total GDP and contributed
about 46-66% to merchandise exports, while within the agricultural sector
these shares have been about 21-31Z of GDP and 71-85% of exports. The sub-
sector generated about 7.5% of Government's current revenues in the period
1974-81; it now employs some 600,000 people, equivalent to about 30% of total
agricultural employment or about 8% of the national labor force. About two
million people, or one-quarter of the rural population, live on coffee farms.
1.05      Coffee is grown in the mountainous areas of the country by some
300,000 farmers on about one million hectares. Most small coffee farms are
using traditional techniques, i.e., low-yielding varieties, low tree density
(900 to 1,200 trees per hectare), little or no chemical fertilizers, little
weeding and only sporadic pruning and spraying against diseases. The labor
input is limited to some 100 man-days per hectare per annum and yields
average 500-800 kg per hectare. A new production technology was introduced
on many of the medium-sized and larger farms starting in the mid-1960s. Its
use continued on a major scale in the early and mid-1970s. The new
technology consists basically of the use of a new variety with a high tree
density of 3,000-4,000 trees per hectare, heavy use of fertilizer and
intensive pruning techniques. Some 200-250 man-days per hectare are required
and yields average from 1,500-2,000 kg per hectare depending on whether
coffee trees are grown under shade or in sun.
1.06      This new technology has been adopted on about one-third of the area
under coffee and generates over half of the total coffee output. It has
fundamentally altered the Colombian coffee economy-at least until recently
when coffee rust appeared for the first time in Colombia--by (a) making it
substantially more capital- and management-intensive; (b) reducing production
cost per unit of output; and (c) increasing production by more than 50% from
some 7-8 million bags (of 60 kg) a decade ago to about 13 million bags at
present. The adoption of new technology was facilitated by relatively high
International and domestic coffee prices during the latter psrt of the



-3-
seventies and resulted in a shift of coffee production from the small
traditional coffee farms to the more entrepreneurially mapaged medium-sized
and larger coffee farms with access to capital. In addition, it led to a
build-up of stocks equivalent to about one year's exports since Colombia's
annual export quota is limited to about 8.5 million bags under the
International Coffee Agreementl/; its domestic demand is less than two
million bags and inelastic. 4,ircumstances under which such large stocks
could become economically useful seem unlikely, yet they are costly to carry
(US$30 million in 1982).
1.07      The dominant institution in all aspects of coffee production,
marketing, exports and policy is FEDERACAFE, a private, non-proflt
association of coffee producers. The only requirements for becoming a member
of it are to have an annual production of 375 kg of coffee, or to cultivate
at least one hectare under coffee. Created in 1927 to protect the interests
of the coffee industry and to promote its development, it has been charged
with the management of coffee policy under a series of ten-year government
contracts. Under these contracts, FEDERACAFE controls domestic and export
marketing and advises on rates of taxation and prices. Through its
well-developed physical and organizational infrastructure it also provides
agricultural inputs and extension services and is responsible for the
preparation and implementation of rural development projects, including
diversification efforts. FEDERACAFE has sponsored the establishment of a
strong cooperative movement which is represented in most municipalities where
local cooperatives perform the functions of input supply and purchases of
coffee and also offer social services such as medical care. In addition, the
Federation sponsors and administers an agricultural coffee research center
and a foundation for agricultural education and training. Over the years,
the institution has diversified its coffee related activities. Today it
partially owns or administers coffee storage facilities, general warehouses,
an export company, a shipping company and a coffee processing company.
Finally, FEDERACAFE administers the Government's National Coffee Fund, the
main instrument for regulating the supply and the price of coffee. All taxes
levied on the coffee industry accrue to this fund and are used to: purchase
all the coffee grown at a guaranteed price, finance the stocks that are being
held, and promote the wider interests of the coffee subsector. The remainder
accrues to the Government at a rate that averaged about 7.5% of total
government revenues during the period 1974-81.
1.08      FEDERACAFE is directed by the following statutory bodies:  the
National Coffee Growers' Congress, and the National, Departmental and
Municipal Coffee Growers' Comnittees. Its decentralized structure allows the
1/ The latest International Coffee Agreement (ICA) was signed in 1983. The
two key elements of the Agreement's provisions are export quotas with a
fixed and variable portion and trigger prices. The fixed 70% of the
quota is to be determined by periodic negotiations among producing
countries and the remaining 30Z is determined by the stocks in each
country. Colombia's share of the ICA of 1983 (total annual quota - 52.9
million 60-kg bags) has been set at 16.28% or 8.5 million 60-kg bags.
Short- and medium-term world coffee price projections in constant terms
show a slight decline over their present levels and only in the long run
(by 1995) ore they expected to regain their present levels.
_ _



-4 -
latter to bring to the attention of the National Coffee Committee local needs
for rural development activities (rural roads, electricitc  potable water
supply, health facilities, etc.). This makes the institution responsive to
the concerns of coffee producers, and, in turn, allows it to influence
significantly the economic activities of its members. FEDERACAFE is
efficient in addressing agricultural production and marketing problems. The
fact that overall the coffee growing area in Colombia enjoys a higher
standard of living and better physical and social infrastructure than the
rest of the rural areas can, in large part, be attributed to the efforts of
this institution.
1.09      Internally, FEDERACAFE is managed by a general manager who operates
through four sub-managers in charge of general administration, planning and
coordination, commercial activities, and technical activities. The technical
department, besides being responsible for coffee extension and research is
also in charge of FEDERACAFE's coffea zone development and diversification
.program (FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO). Created in 1963, FEDERACAFE/
PRODESARROLLO's role is to promote agriculture diversification through the
provision of technical advice and credit (Annex 2).
D. Past Diversification Efforts
1.10      Limited agricultural diversification efforts designed to reduce the
negative effects of coffee monoculture go back to the 1940s. In 1946, the
first contract was signed between the Government and FEDERACAFE to promote
the production of non-coffee crops in the coffee zones and over two decades
annually about US$150,000 were spent on these efforts. In the early sixties
a special private fund (Fondo de Desarrollo y Diversificacion de Zonas
Cafeteras) was created to provide technical assistance and credit for agri-
cultural diversification in Caldas, one of the main coffee producing
departments. In 1968, this fund was incorporated as a public entity under
the Ministry of Agriculture to meet Colombia's diversification obligations
under the International Coffee Agreement of the same year, and contracted
with FEDERACAFE the execution of the diversification program. From 1973
onwards, Colombia, independently of other coffee-producing countries,
continued with its limited diversification efforts, and provided from 1963 to
1982 credit totalling about USS146 million to finance about 99,000 ha, 46
marketing projects and 41 agroindustrial enterprises. During these years,
FEDERACAFE gained valuable experience in agricultural diversification and has
built up a technically competent staff. However, its diversification efforts
in the past were hampered by the high relative profitability of growing
coffee versus other crops and the lack of sustained Government support.
Consequently, the diversification endeavor to date did not have a major
impact on non-coffee production in the coffee zones. At the same time, the
-need for diversification in the past was never as critical as today. Supply
and demand were basically in balance, and the country did not have serious
coffee stock build-up problems. Also, there was ample room for increasing
the country's food production in other areas to meet the demand that has been
growing at around 3-4Z per annum. Therefore the Government did not accord
high priority to agricultural diversification.



E. Government Strategy for Agricultural Production asd Diversification
1.11      In its strategy to revitalize the economy, the present Government
has accorded high priority to agricultural developmert and has substantially
strengthened the policy formulation and planning capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture and its decentralized agencies. In order to help realize the
sector's potential, especially in terms of foreign exchange earnings, income
and employment generation, and restoration of its competitiveness in
international markets, the Government is accelerating the exchange rate de-
preciation. Coffee production is not affected by this exchange rate policy
because of the Government's off-setting taxes. Agricultural productivity and
production are being encouraged through substantial allocations in the 1984
budget. These allocations are well above the levels in previous years, and
are projected to increase even further in the future, especially in the
following areas: (a) the generation and diffusion of agricultural
technology; (b) rehabilitation of existing irrigation lands; (c) provision of
credit; and (d) the diversification of agricultural production in the coffee
zones. To lower the costs of agricultural inputs, Caja Agraria, the main
supplier of agricultural credit and key inputs, such as fertilizers,
chemicals and seeds, will be reorganized so as to increase its efficiency and
effectiveness. This reorganization is based on a Presidential Decree to be
executed by June 30, 1984. To strengthen agricultural marketing, the
creation of a special marketing fund is under active consideration and a
commission is working in the Ministry of Agriculture to prepare a proposal to
Government by the middle of this year. In addition, at the request of the
President of the Republic, a study was prepared on the Government-owned
marketing institute and the recommendations of this study are presently being
analyzed. Also, the formation of marketing cooperatives are being encouraged
by the Colombian Institute for Financing and Development of Cooperatives
(FINANCIACOOP). Agricultural exports, in addition to the accelerated peso
devaluation, are also being encouraged by a recently strengthened system of
tax reimbursement certificates which lower the tax liability of exporters;
and funds available under official lines of credit for agriculture were
increased by about 25% over 1983 levels, or about 8% in real terms.
1.12      The emphasis on agricultural diversification is a reflection of the
Government's and FEDERACAFE's awareness that: (a) the International Coffee
Agreement with its quota syste-a is likely to continue, and that Colombia's
quota cannot be expected to increase by more than 1.5% per annum; (b) the
international price of coffee in real terms is expected to decline and only
in the long-run may it regain its present level; (c) the present levels of
stock build-up cannot be financed indefinitely; (d) coffee production needs
to be brought in line with the country's internal consumption, the country's
export quota, and export possibilities outside of International Coffee
Agreement member countries; and (e) underutilized resources existing in the
coffee zones, which have and will continue to increase with the adoption of
the new coffee production technology, need to be diverted to alternative uses
to facilitate the needed reduction in coffee output while maintaining the
income levels of the coffee growers. These underutilized resources are
estimated at 10-20% in terms of agricultural land suitable for more intensive
use and 10% of underutilized labor, mostly migrant laborers, currently only
fully employed during barvest time.



-6-
1.13      The Government and FEDERACAFE have begun to addEess these issues
tbrough coffee-related policy measures which include: (a) not allowing the
guaranteed domestic price for coffee to increase in real peso terms even in
the face of short-term international price increases for Colombian
coffee2/; (b) a curtailment of credit for new coffee plantings; and (c) the
promotion of diversification activities. More drastic actions, such as
coffee eradication in selected instances, have not been ruled out. The
Government has also made clear that it will not subsidize coffee activities
and that financing of coffee stocks will continue to be the responsibility of
the coffee subsector.
1.14       These policy measures have started to gradually shift the balance
of incentives away from coffee to the production of other agricultural com-
modities. As a result, coffee production has stabilized and many farmers,
especially the larger, commercially-oriented ones, have been induced to
-experiment with growing alternative crops on a larger scale. However, the
scope for pricing policy measures has been constrained by the Government's
and FEDERACAFE's objective of maintaining reasonable incomes for the coffee
growers. Therefore, the full impact of these policies hinge on the extent to
which they are accompanied by measures to develop alternative sources of
income for the coffee growers by inducing and assisting them to deploy their
underutilized resources for non-coffee production and thereby gradually wean-
ing them away from coffee as their sole or major source of income. The
appearance of coffee rust towards the end of 1983 may also have a significant
effect on the level of coffee production in coming years. While the precise
impact of this fungus disease cannot be predicted, it is clear that produc-
tion costs on the farms affected will increase significantly and that the
less efficient farmers might well be forced out of coffee production, thereby
increasing the need for agricultural diversification. Also, the adoption of
the hitherto used high-yielding variety (caturra) will be slowed down con-
siderably, since farmers will be waiting to see how this variety will stand
up to this disease.  At the same time, the presence of this disease can be
expected to induce many farmers to start diversification since they want to
insure their overall income, in case this disease affects their coffee
plants.
F. Bank Strategy
1.15      Up to 1965, the Bank had made only two loans for agriculture in
Colombia, each for USS5.0 million. Since 1966, agricultural lending has
intensified, and the Bank made 14 loans totalling USS413.0 million
equivalent. Three of these loans have been for agricultural credit, two for
livestock development, two for colonization, three for irrigation/drainage,
two to support the Government's rural development program, one for a pilot
watershed management project, and the most recent one for an agricultural
21 The real domestic price index for coffee, taking 1975 = 100 stood at 83.6
in 1983. In 1977, at the height of the international coffee boom, the
index was 162.9 and has been declining since then. It is the
Government's policy in setting the producer price for coffee to prevent
sudden wide price swings, and to keep them well below their international
levels. Since 1970, the producer price of coffee relative to the peso
export price has varied from 0.40 to 0.63 and during 1983 was 0.57.



-7-
research project. Host of the Projects have focused on iWcreasing productiv-
ity, income and welfare of small farmers, and all were eiecuted hy public
sector institutions.  Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for
five of the nroiects (Loans 502-Cn, Atlantico Irrization; 624-CO,
Agricultural Credit; 651-CO, Second Livestock Development; 739-C.0, Caqueta
Land Colonization; and 849-C0O, Second Atlantico Developrent) and an Tmpact
Evalnation Report on the Atlantico Irrigation Project was !-asued in 19q2.
Wbile these proiects were by and large successful, the irrigation and drain-
age proiects experienced some technical difficulties and were hampered hy
institutional weaknesses of the Colomhian Agrarian Reform Institute. These
projects enabled the lank to learn about the leegal and administrative systems
operatinz in the sector, particularly the strengths and weaknesses of the
different public sector institutions, and the response of aaricultural pre-
ducers to different government schemes. Many of the Problems that have been
found to he often associated with Projects executed by public sector institu-
tions-such as institutional instahility, frequent changes in nolicies and
key personnel, poor accounting and monitoring capabilities, and underfunding
-should not affect this diversification program, since the executing agency
has been deliberatelv selected hecause of its record of consistently solid
Performance. FF.DERACAFE Is a well-managed vrivate sector institution with
suitahle funding, which has responded to the needs of its membership without
being hampered by undue regulatory or institutional constraints.
1.16      In the years ahead, the Bank intends to increase its lending in
support of the Covernment's agricultural strategy in its drive to modernize
the sector and to maximize its contrihutions to net foreign exchanae, income
and employment.  Special emphasts will he given to projects with a stronz
prodtuction impact and on capitalizing on and developing further the most
important public sector institutions. Also, as part of project preparation
and execution, agricultural producer organizations are being drawn into the
entire process to ensure that these private sector institutions are part of
the Planning process and support the ensuing investment programs. In
response to needs so identified, the agricultural lending program has been
widened to encompass production aspects as well as input supply, processing
and marketing, to strengthen producers in these areas. To assist the less
advanced small farm subsector, selected rural development efforts will con-
tinue to be supported and special attention will be given to technology
generation and transfer, and marketing. To provide the necessary analytical
and policy framework, agricultural sector work has been intensified. Two
reports have been issued: 'Colombian Agriculture: Selected Issues and Some
Directions for Strategy,- Report No. 4275-CO, January 1983, and 'Colombia:
External Sector and Agriculture Policies for Adjustment and Growth," Report
No. 4981-CO, April 1984. Discussions of the findings of these reports have
deepened the policy dialogue, and, as a consequence, a wider spectrum of
projects are under preparation: (a) irrigation and drainage, with special
emphasis on rebabilitation of existing districts and small-scale irrigation
schemes; (b) agricultural extension, to follow-up on the recently approved
agricultural research project and ensure that research findings reach the
farmer; (c) agricultural credit, to improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of the country's most important agricultural credit institution; (d)
agricul-tural marketing of perishables and meat, to eliminate bottlenecks in
key areas of the existing marketing network; (e) watershed management, to
followup on the ongoing Upper Magdalena pilot watershed management project;
and (f) rural development and colonization efforts, to assist small farmer
development and provide continuity to ongoing successful projects.
_-



-8-~~~~~~~~%
It. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location, Climate and Soils
2.01      Except for Bogota, the proposed project area (IBRD Htap 18034) is
congruent with Colombia's coffee production zones which are mainly located in
densely populated areas on the slopes of the three north/south Andean ranges
dominating the central region of the country.  The area covers large tracts
of 18 Departments and includes approximately 575 municipalities (Annex 1,
Table 1). The topography is predominantly mountainous and soils are mostly
of volcanic origin, which in many areas has resulted in deep, well-drained
soils of medium-texture, rich in most-nutrients except for phosphorus.
Depending on the altitude and latitude, the climatic conditions in the
proposed project area vary considerably from cold zones above 1,800 m to
temperate in areas between 1,200 to 1,800 m and warm zones below 1,200 m.
Average annual temperatures range from 12° C in the cold zones to 25' C in
the warm zones. Rainfall in the central range of the project area averages
2,500 mm with two distinct rainy seasons, April-Kay and October-November.
The agro-climatic conditions in the proposed project area indicate that it is
suitable for a large variety of crops, and a diversified production pattern
varying in accordance with altitude.
B. Land Use, Tenure and Farm Size
2.02      Within the geographical limits of the coffee zone there are an
estimated 330,000 farms, of which about 300,000 grow coffee. The coffee
growing farms comprise 4.8 million hectares of farmland and have 1.1 million
hectares actually under coffee. The location by climatic zones, land use and
tenancy patterns, and size distribution of these coffee farms is given in
Annex 1, Tables 2-4, and are summarized in the following paragraphs.
2.03      Total land in coffee farms is about 4,776,000 ha, of which about
23% is under coffee; 9Z under other crops, such as sugarcane, corn,
plantains, cassava and beans; 45% in extensive pastures; and the remaining
23Z in fallow, scrub/regrowth and forest. Mtuch of the area presently under
fallow and regrowth is considered suitable for intensive farming, and
existing pastures can be substantially improved.
2.04      About 87% of the coffee farms are operated by their owners, some
12% are tenants who own part of the farm, and 1% are tenants and
sharecroppers. Almost 70% of all coffee farms are smaller than 10 ha, 25%
are between 10 ha and 50 ha and 6% are larger than 50 ha. However, the farms
over 10 ha (30X of the total) are estimated to produce more than two-thirds
of the coffee. In general, the share of coffee in the total area of a farm
tends to decline with increasing farm size. Correspondingly, the share of
land used and available for non-coffee crops (diversification) is higher on
the larger farms.



-9-
C. Farming Systems
2.05      Throughout the proposed project area, coffee is far and away the
principal cash crop within most farming systems. In the cooler, marginal
coffee areas above 1,800 m, small farmers grow "traditional"3/ coffee
interspersed with plantains and mixed food gardens; larger commercial or
semi-commercial farms combinre it-with arable crops (maize and beans) together
with natural pasture. In the temperate -optimum' coffee zone (1,200 to
1,800 m), the prevalent type of coffee is Caturra, an improved variety of
Arabica which in small farms is combined with small food plots and the
remaining land in natural pasture or regrowth. Larger farms almost always
grow Caturra 4/ coffee and increasingly, perennial tree crops like citrus
and other fruits. In the lower, warmer areas, coffee is interplanted with
plantains and food crops like yuca, vegetables and fruit trees. Most of the
farms also have underutilized areas of regrowth and rough pasture.
D. Physical and Social Infrastructure
2.06      The coffee growing area in Colombia enjoys a higher standard of
living and better physical and social infrastructure than the rest of the
rural areas of the country. This is, in large part, due to the efforts of
FEDERACAFE whicb, among other activities, finances the provision of social
and physical infrastructure. Up to 1981, FEDERACAFE had financed the
construction of 2,400 rural water supply systems benefitting almost one
million people, about 14,000 school classrooms, 7,000 km of new feeder roads,
11,000 km of improved roads, 180 new and improved hospitals, and 330 health
posts and village pharmacies.
E. Agricultural Services
2.07      The proposed project area is well provided with agricultural
services (technical assistance, credit, input supply, marketing, and
research). With the agreement of the Government, FEDERACAFE is responsible
for agricultural services especially technical assistance, input supply and
marketing. FEDERACAFE has its own, well-organized extension service, and
provides agricultural inputs through supply stores run by the Coffee Growers'
Municipal Committees or-Coffee Cooperatives which buy from national suppliers
or import directly through FEDERACAFE (especially fertilizers). Marketing
outlets organized and/or run by the Coffee Growers' Committees at different
levels are also available to the producers. Banco Cafetero, partially owned
by the Coffee Fund and administered by FEDERACAFE, is involved in providing
31 'Traditional- refers to the variety of Arabica historically grown with
low plant population (1,000 to 1,800 trees/ha), no regular pruning, no
application of fertilizer, permanent shade usually from plantain, mostly
family labor and low direct costs of-production and yields. -
4/   Caturra has a higher tree density (3,000 to 4,000 trees/ha) and yield,
is beavily fertilized, grown with or without shade, and because of the
large labor requirements usually requires hired labor.



- 10 -
credit through its branches in th..e proposed project area. Caja Agraria also
provides agricultural credit throughout the coffee area andCAistributes
agricultural supplies and inputs through a network of 335 stores. An
agreement exists between FEDERACAFE and the Colombian Agricultural Institute
(ICA) for ICA to conduct applied agricultural research in a variety of
products suitable to the conditions of the area.
F. Diversification Activities: 1963-1983
2.08      In 1963, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO started diversification
activities (para. 1.10) throughout the coffee areas by providing technical
assistance in conjunction with credit to small-, medium- and large-scale
producers interested in growing non-coffee crops and timber. Complementary
support activities, such as zoning and land use studies, production cost
analysis, price information and projections and farm management analysis,
were also started. By 1971, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO began a marketing and
agroindustrial pilot program which by June 1975 had handled 35,000 tons of
agricultural produce valued at Col$ 50 million (about US$3.3 million). On
the basis of the experience gained, and in order to actively involve the
producers in marketing, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO started to promote the
formation of producers associations and to finance collection centers wbich
would permit assembly of larger production volumes and a steadier flow of
products to wholesalers and retailers. In addition, FEDERACAFE/PRODESA-
RROLLO's activities included (a) technical assistance and financing for the
establishment of fruit and vegetable sections in the coffee growers'
supermarkets (56 such sections were in operation in 1983 marketing on average
2,800 tons/year); (b) provision of information on prices and market
conditions in the main markets of the country based on studies on cyclical,
weekly, monthly and annual prices at producer and wholesaler levels;
(c) publication of recommendations for suitable varieties and appropriate
production calendars; and (d) the promotion and organization of agro-
industrial enterprises by providing technical assistance and financing mainly
for meat, fruits and flour processing and panela-making plants and preparing
technical manuals on selected agroindustrial processes. Finally,
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO participated with equity capital in: (i) a large
sugar mill; (ii) nine forestry corporations; (iii) 80 collection centers
operated by cooperatives, associations or farmers groups; and (iv) a number
of special sections for perishables in FEDERACAFE-sponsored supermarkets.
2.09      From 1963 to 1982, the diversification program provided credit
totalling approximately Col$ 3,700 million (about US$146.2 million) to
finance about 99,000 ha in a variety of agriculture crops, 46 marketing
projects and 41 agroindustrial enterprises (Annex 1, Table 5). The entire
program is financed from a number of sources, including Banco Cafetero, the
Coffee Fund, Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (FFAP), repayments from an earlier
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) loan and from the Int-rnational Coffee
Organization's Coffee Diversification Fund. Most of these credit lines are
administered through fideicomiso arrangements through Caja Agraria and Banco
Cafetero, with FEDERACAFE intervening in the determination of lending terms
and conditions. Up to June 1982, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's direct
investments totaled Col$ 632.7 million (about US$20.4 million).



- 11 -
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and Brief Description
Objectives
3.01      The overall objectives of the proposed project would be to assist
in and accelerate the Government's and FEDERACAFE's efforts to diversify
agricultural production, employment and income in the coffee areas
(para. 2.01); to lay the institutional, organizational and physical basis to
make the on-going diversification efforts a more self-sustaining process; and
to lessen the regional dependence on coffee production.   In providing
alternatives to coffee production, the proposed project would indirectly
assist in reducing the overproduction and stock build-up of coffee and the
project areas' vulnerability to price changes and market constraints on
coffee. The proposed project would--by concentrating the diversification
effort on medium- and large-size farms-also help in maintaining and/or
enlarging the small-scale coffee grower's share in the limited coffee
market. In particular, the objectives of the project would be: (a) to
increase the production of non-coffee crops and the availability of food
commodities, and (b) to strengthen the marketing system and the
agroindustrial subsector.
3.02      Bank assistance for the proposed project is crucial to
institutionalize the diversification efforts within FEDERACAFE, and to expand
Its ongoing program to a scale that would become an effective supplement to
the Government's and FEDERACAFE's coffee price policy. The proposed project
would also provide the Bank a better opportunity to contribute to the
dialogue on coffee policies presently carried out through economic and sector
work, and to promote a closer relationship with FEDERACAFE, the most
important private institution operating in the rural areas of Colombia.
Brief Description
3.03      The proposed project would, over about a five-year period, seek to
accomplish its objectives by:
(a) providing agricultural production credit for short-, medium- and
long-term subloans and incremental working capital to finance the
development of non-coffee crops and livestock production by about
13,600 producers in the proposed project area;
(b) strengthening the marketing infrastructure by providing technical
assistance and credit and increasing the volume of agricultural
production marketed through project-financed organizations;
(c) promoting, helping organize, and providing technical assistance and
credit for agricultural processing activities throughout the
proposed project area; and
(d) providing support services to effectively implement the credit
components.



- 12 -
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Production Component
3.04       The proposed project would finance, anywhere in the project area,
investments for on-farm development mainly in land preparation, livestock,
planting materials, fertilizers, and other current inputs to participating
producers for the production of non-coffee crops. The proposed project would
complement existing credit lines available to producers (para. 2.09).
Subloans would finance: (a) mediumr and long-term investments in
diversification crops and livestock; and (b) incremental operating costs and
working capital associated with diversification activities. On the basis of
illustrative farm investment models (Annex 4, Tables 2-11), the average size
of medium- and long-term loans during the project period is expected to rrnge
around US$1,400 for small producers (up to 10 ha), USS3,900 for medium
producers (10 to 50 ha). and US$15,600 for large producers (over 50 ha).
Crop yields (Annex 3, Table 3) are expected to increase over the recent
stagnant levels in Colombia through the use of better seeds, more fertilizer
and intensive technical assistance under the project. Production techniques
are well established, and the proposed applied research program (para. 3.18)
would improve the technological packages available to project beneficiaries.
3.05  -  An estimated 13,600 producers, of which about 5,100 (35%) would be
small producers, about 6,500 (50%) medium producers, and about 2,000 (15%)
large producers, would receive credit under the project to develop about
60,000 ha in agricultural crops, 3,000 livestock units 5/ and 900 minor
species units I/ (Annex 3, Tables 1-2). The expected number of beneficiaries
has been determined on the basis of: (a) past diversification activities
(paras. 2.08-2.09); (b) the expected area to be financed (60,000 ha); and
(c) farm investment models (Annex 4, Tables 2-11). The financing targets in
the first year of implementation of the proposed project represent a 25%
increase over the pre-project level achieved by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO. An
average of about 20% annual growth rate has been projected for the five years
of the project. While the figures represent a considerable increase,
incentives have changed in the past two years and favor the production of
non-coffee crops. This shift is expected to continue (paras. 1.13-1.14).
3.06      The total cost of the agricultural component, including
contingencies, is estimated at about US$187.7 million. Approximately 75%
would be for investment costs (generally medium-term credit) and about 25%
for incremental working capital (short-term credit) (Annex 3, Table 7).
Marketing Component
3.07      On the basis of the experience gained in previous programs, the
proposed project would strengthen the marketing infrastructure and increase
the volume of agricultural production marketed through project-financed
organizations. The marketing process would include participation in the
wholesale market through farmers' organizations, collection centers and the
5/ For the purpose of projecting output and financing requirements under the
project, a unit is defined by fixed investment requirements associated
with different livestock production lines (Annex 3, Table 2).



- 13 -
supermarkets' fruit and vegetable sections owned and managed by departmental
coffee growers' associations and cooperatives.  These .ganizations would be
in charge of collecting, purchasing, distributing, and in some cases,
directly selling to consumers part of the beneficiaries' production under the
diversification program. They would also work in coordination with the Coffee
Growers' Agricultural Wholesale Agency (COMERCAFE) in Bogota. COMERCAFE
would feed price and markeeing intelligence through FEDERACAFE/PRODESA-
RROLLO's diversification information system to guide production and
distribution for domestic consumption and, in some cases, for export.
3.08      To achieve these objectives, the proposed project would provide
long- and short-term credit for construction; loading, weighing and packing
equipment; and working capital associated with these investments. It is
estimated that financing would be provided for (a) about 100 farmers'
production organizations; (b) about 22 primary and 12 regional collection
centers; (c) about 35 fruit and vegetable sections within coffee growers'
supermarkets; and (d) a new store for COMERCAFE in the central wholesale
market in Bogota (CORABASTOS). Under the approximate five-year
implementation period of the proposed project, the expected subprojects to be
financed and their phasing are shown in Annex 3, Table 8.
3.09      The total cost of the marketing component, including price
contingencies is estimated at about US$12.6 million, of which about 60% would
be.fixed investments and about 40% working capital (Annex 3, Table 8).
Agroindustries Component
3.10      FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would help promote, organize and provide
advisory services and credit to agroindustrial subprojects in the coffee
areas. The proposed project would finance fixed investment needs, such as
the purchase of machinery, equipment, spare parts, and services; construction
of industrial facilities; civil works; and related permanent working capital
for about 31 privately owned agroindustrial subprojects during the
approximately five years of project implementation. The subprojects have
been tentatively selected on the basis of departmental proposals which took
into account (a) market prospects for each product; (b) raw material
availability; (c) geographical distribution; and (d) demands on
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's advisory services capability. The proposed
project would also finance the renewal and/or expansion of about ten existing
processing plants. The subprojects would be distributed over the entire
project area (Annex 3, Table 9).
3.11      Preliminary feasibility studies already exist for 15 or the
expected 31 subprojects of which 4 are expected to process milk and its
derivatives, 2 are for slaughterhouses/cold storage/meat processing, 2 are
for animal feed, 4 are for fruit and vegetable processing, and 3 are in other
subsectors. The remaining 16 subprojects are only at the identification
stage and 10 of them are expected to be related to the animal industry and 6
to agricultural crop processing.
3.12      The ownership structure of the subprojects to be financed would
range from ownership by individual small private entrepreneurs to ownership
by large groups of stockholders, vhich may include departmental coffee



- 14 -
growers' associations, financial institutions in the coffee areas and
individual agricultural producers. Equity participation by;FEDERACAFE can
also be expected in some of the larger subprojects to give it leverage in
structuring the ownership of the subprojects. On the basis of the existing
feasibility studies, the investment cost of the subprojects before physical
and price contingencies is expected to range from about US$0.3-US$3.7 million
with the majority of them under. US$0.5 million. Subloan financing would be
subject to (a) the proven technical, financial and managerial feasibility of
the subprojects, (b) an economic rate of return of at least the opportunity
cost of capital in Colombia, estimated at present by the Bank at LIZ, for
those subprojects of more than US$0.5 million total cost; and (c) identi-
fication of the source and method of procuring the equipment, construction
and other inputs required. During negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided
assurances that FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would submit to the Bank for prior
approval any marketing or agroindustrial subproject of more than US$0.5
million total investment cost.
3.13      The total cost of the agroindustrial component including
contingencies is estimated at US$36.0 million, of which about 80Z would be
investment costs and 20% working capital. The expected phasing of the
subprojects is shown in Annex 3, Table 9.
Support Services Component
3.14      In order to effectively implement the credit components, the
proposed project would finance: (a) training of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's
technical assistance agents and staff and beneficiaries; (b) applied
agricultural research by ICA; (c) expansion and improvement of an
agricultural marketing information system; and (d) incremental staff costs
required by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO. These are discussed in sequence below.
3.15      Training.  The training program required for the successful
implementation of the proposed project would consist of:
(a) about 1,700 man-weeks of technical courses in crop and livestock
production, farm management and extension work for existing and new
staff of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO which would provide technical
assistance in diversification for approximately 700 participants;
(b) about 1,600 man-weeks of technical courses in marketing-related
subjects for approximately 1,400 participants of FEDEPACAFE/
PRODESARROLLO and coffee growers' departmental committees; and
(c) about 1,150 man-weeks of courses in industrial processing,
agricultural produce and food handling, marketing, project
preparation and evaluation and project management for approximately
125 staff of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO and of the departmental
coffee growers' committees and 250 beneficiaries.
3.16      A training officer would be appointed in FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO
with responsibility for preparing, organizing and coordinating the yearly
training program and identifying and helping to select the participants for
the courses. The courses would be organized and presented in-house by staff
of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO or would be subcontracted to training



- 15 -
institutions offering relevant programs such as the Servicio Nacional de
Aprendizaje (SENA), the Instituto Inter-Americano de Cayperacion Agricola
(IICA) or other appropriate institutions locally or overseas. During
negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided assurances that a training officer would be
appointed in FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO and that a detailed yearly training
program would be sent to the Bank by December 31 eacb year starting in 1984
and for the duration of the, project.
3.17      The estimated cost of this training component is US$2.4 million
without contingencies (Annex 3, Table 10).
3.18      Applied Research.  Over the five years of project implementation
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would subcontract with one or more research
insticutions to carry out a research program on specific problems in coffee
areas related to the diversification program. This program would not
duplicate ICA's research program under the on-going Bank-financed research
project (para. 1.16). Research areas would include: (a) the economics and
technical practices involved in interplanting plantains in coffee areas;
(b) new crop associations; (c) economic analysis of recommendations for crops
in the coffee area with special reference to farm management; (d) improved
pastures in areas below 1,800 m; and (e) applied research trials with green
beans, onions and mangos. During negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided
assurances that FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would draft and submit to the Bank
for approval by December 31, 1984, a detailed program of applied research to
be carried out under the project indicating the institutions which would
carry out the research, its phasing and timing and the incremental costs of
such a program.
3.19      On the basis of previous experience with research institutions, the
incremental cost assigned to the component is about US$2.5 million without
contingencies (Annex 3, Table. 11).
3.20      Marketing Information System.  To improve FEDERACAFEI
PRODESARROLLO's marketing intelligence, the proposed project would also
finance a modest extension of its computerized market information system to
provide information on production estimates, farm management, soils and to
expand the coverage of price and marketing data in the coffee areas. Six
computer terminals would be installed in the capitals of the major coffee
departments linking them with FEDERACAFE's central computer system in
Bogota. The cost of the marketing information system component is estimated
at US$0.6 million excluding contingencies (Annex 3, Table 12).
3.21      Incremental Staff.  In order to expand FEDEFe&CAFE/PRODESARROLLO's
technical assistance to credit beneficiaries and improve its administrative
capacity, the proposed project would finance for five years the incremental
staff costs of (a) agricultural, marketing and agroindustries technical
assistance services to be provided by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO to the
beneficiaries; and (b) two additional staff members in the central
administration.  In addition to FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO'i existing field
staff, the incremental requirements for agricultural production have been
calculated assuming a ratio i.. beneficiaries to extension agents of 50 to 1
the first year, 75 to 1 the second year, and 100 to I subsequently; and for
livestock, 30 to 1 in the first year, and 40 to 1, 50 to 1, and 60 to 1 in
subsequent years. On this basis, about 173 new staff would be added to



- 16 -
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO: about 155 for the agricultural production
component, 7 for the marketing component, 9 for the agrointtvstrial component,
and 2 for headquarters (Annex 3, Table 13).
3.22      The incremental staff would be hired, contracted or transferred
from FEDERACAFE's extension service as required by the project. The
agricultural and livestock extension staff would be responsible for the
preparation of all farm investment plans as the basis for credit requirements
and for the presentation of the subloan request to Caja Agraria or Banco
Cafetero. Once the subloan is approved and disbursed, the staff would
conduct periodic visits to supervise on-farm development and provide
technical assistance.
3.23      Including operating expenses required for technical assistance, the
estimated total cost of the component would be US$8.6 million without
contingencies (Annex 3, Table 13). This would be financed exclusively by
PEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO. During negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided
assurances that it would obtain the staff required to implement the project.
C. Project Cost
3.24      The total project cost is estimated at US$253.4 million, including
taxes of about US$7.4 million and contingencies. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$49.9 million, or 20% of total project cost. The
credit component cost is based on the expected investment cost and related
incremental working capital associated with the project's physical targets
over the five years. Physical and price contingencies have been applied
separately to the support services component assuming the following rates of
price increase:
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Local Costs (Z)        20.0    20.0    20.0    18.0    18.0    18.0
Foreign Costs (Z)       3.5     8.0      9.0     9.0     9.0      7.5
A correction was also applied for the Bank's projected devaluation of the
Colombian peso averaging annually about 26% from 1984 to 1985 and about 11%
from 1986 to 1989. The project cost is summarized in Table 3.1 and presented
in further detail in Annex 3, Tables 6-14.
D. Financing
3.25      The financing plan provides for a Bank loan of US$50.0 million,
including the capitalized front-end fee of about US$0.1 million. The
proposed loan, amounting to 20% of project cost net of taxes, would finance
the full foreign exchange cost of the project including the front-end fee.
Subborrowers would provide about US$53.8 million, or 21% of project cost,
including taxes, in the form of owner contributions to individual
subprojects. FFAP would provide about US$90.1 million, or 36% of project
coats including taxes and FFI about US$6.5 million, or 3Z of project cost.
FFAP and FFI would provide financing through the established rediscounting
facilities of the Banco de la Republica. FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would



- 17 -
provide US$53.1 million, or 21% of project cost including taxes (Annex 3,
Table 15). During negotiations, the Covernment provid&d assurances that it
would make the arrangements necessary to enable FFAP or FFI or any other
comparable financial facility to provide the necessary funds to finance the
agricultural production and agroindustries components of the project.
3.26      The Bank loan would be made to FEDERACAFE with the Government
acting as Guarantor of the loan. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
FEDERACAFE. The loan would have a fixed 17-year term repayment period which
has been adopted to prevent a sharp reduction in FEDERACAFE's lending program
for diversification after year five of che project.  During negotiations
FEDERACAFE provided assurances that thc proceeds of all payments made by
beneficiaries on subloans which are not utilized to make repayments of the
Bank loan would be utilized to make further subloans under its
diversification program.
TMale 3.1: PDJECr OMT SLMRY
Foreign
In ColS MilUn         In US$ MI1lion    Ex%d=
?qject Colxm3ws          o1al Foreign Total   Ical Foregm Total 
I. Cdit Conxwen
- Agricalma  proUcticn           27,104  4,346  31,450  161.9   25.8  187.7    14
- MarketIg                        1,814   339  2,153   10.6   2.0   126        16
- Agrl piHstris                   2,689  3,130   5,819   16.7  19.3  36.0    54
Sub-total         31,607  7,815  39,422  189.2  47.1  236.3    20
UI. Suport Servics
- Training                          177    39    216   1.9   0.5   2.4    18
- Applied reearch                   164    36    200   2.0   0.5    2.5    18
- Maketing ilformtion service       26    17       43   0.5   0.1   0.6    40
- Innre.ta1l staff osts             733    85    818    7.7   0.9   8.6    10
Sub-total         1,100   177   1,277   12.1   2.0   14.1    14
UII.     C      11
- Rhysical                          110    18    128    1.2   0.2    1.4    14
- tice                            1,170   253   1,423   1.0   0.6   1.6    18
TV. Toal Project Costs              33,987  8,263  42,250  203.5  49.9  253.4    20
Onaptsrle-                                -
1/ Qk ouppac service only.



Table 3.2: P PDJiCr FIN%NCINM
(US$ Million)
FFEDERAFE/
Beneficiaries     FFAP         FFI         MDESARR0LLO      Bank           Total
AniLzt   X    Amomt  %    Amxont X    Amimt   %    Annmt  %   Amount    %
I.  Credit Conponents
Agricultural productioxi       37.5   20       90.1  48    -        -     33.1   18    27.0   14   187.7   100
Mriceting                       1.9   15       -            -                            10.7   85    12.6   100
Agroindustries                  14.4   40       -    _      6.5    18      2.9    8    12.2   34    36.0   100
Sub-total                    53.8   23      90.1  38    6.5        3    36.0   15    49.9   21   236.3   100
I, Support Services
Training                        -               -           -              2.9  100       -      -      2.9   100
Applied research                -               -           -              3.0  100       -      -      3.0   100
Marketing inforution service    -              -            -              0.8  100      -       -      0.8   100            °°
Incremental staff costs         -              -            -             10.4  100              -     10.4   100
Subtotal                      -              -            -             17.1  100      -       -     17.1   100
Total Project Cost           53.8   21       90.1  36    6.5       3    53.1   21    49.9   20   253.4   100 1/
III. Front-end Fee on Bank lean                       -           - -                           0.1  100      0.1  100
Total Financii Required          53.8   21      90.1  36    6.5       3    53.1   21    50.0   20   253.5   10014
1/ Row adds up to 101 due to rounding.



- 19 -
E. Procurement
3.27      Bulk purchasing under ICB would not be feasible, since the lending
activities would be widely distributed geographically and in time, cover a
wide variety of investment activities, and involve a large number of
subborrowers. During the five-year implementation period, project
beneficiaries would purchaselinputs and equipment for on-farm development
through normal commercial channels from established local sales agents. The
agents represent a broad spectrum of international and local suppliers with a
well developed distribution and servicing system which provides a
satisfactory level of competition. Items to be procured under the project
have no quantitative import restrictions.
3.28      As part of the subloan approval process FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO
and/or Caja Agraria and Banco Cafetero would satisfy themselves that
equipment and civil works procured for marketing and agroindustrial subloans
are (a) suitable for the respective investment subproject; (b) reasonably
priced; and that (c) the beneficiaries have canvassed the main sources of
supply and would purchase from the most advantageous source. Any procurement
transaction by a subborrower for an equivalent value of US$1 million or more
would be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures.
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO staff would assist the subborrower with ICB
procedures as required.  All mal^eting and agroindustrial subproject
appraisals would be required to include a full discussion of procurement
procedures used, responses received, prices quoted and criteria used for
selection of suppliers. Such information would be kept in
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's files and made available on request to Bank
supervision missions. During negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided assurances
that it would follow the procurement procedures outlined in paras. 3.27 and
3.28.
F. Disbursements
Special Account
3.29      In order to provide for the maintenance of an adequate flow of
funds and to accelerate disbursements, a Special Account would be established
at the Banco de la Republica in the name of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO. The
Special Account would be used to finance the Bank's share of agricultural,
marketing and agroindustial subloans. This account would be established with
an initial deposit of US$3 million and maintained in US dollars. Each
withdrawal application submitted to Banco de la Republica would be
accompanied by a certified statement of expenditures from Banco Cafetero.
The Borrower would be required to submit to the Bank a monthly certified
statement of the transactions of the Special Account.
Project Account
3.30        The Borrower would open a separate Project Account in Banco
Cafetero with an initial deposit in Colombian pesos equivalent to US$l
million. This amount to be increased as required by the project's credit
program. Repayments from project subloans granted by Banco Cafetero and Caja
A&raria and interest payments on these subloans would be deposited in this



- 20
Project Account. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the
establisbaent of the Special Account and the Project Accoupt, with evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that an amount in Colombian pesos equivalent to
US$1.0 million was deposited in the Project Account.
Disbursement Percentages
3.31      All project subloans would be committed during approximately a
five-and-a-half year period and the Bank loan would be disbursed over
approximately seven years. FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would withdraw funds
from the Special Account against the following expenditures and percentages.
Table 3.3: DISB PEI        G  BY  EGGRY
CaNpvy               A,mt                Disbusent
*                        (~~~5$'stoo)               (Z)
1. Subl]ms for agiolturl
productir                24,900    18% i cf aumts disbursed    r subloans
2. Sublons for mrketlig       10,300   100% clf amts disbursed uxir subloam
3. Subloans for agroikbtrks    11,700    56% cf amts disbursed  isr sublkxs
4. Front-end Fee                100   100=
47 000
5. Imitial Deposit to
pecial Accunmt            000   -
50,000
Disbursement Schedule
3.32      The estimated disbursement schedule is given below. The estimated
date of project completion would be September 30, 1989, and the estimated
Closing Date would be September 30, 1990. The disbursement schedule has been
based on the Latin America Region agricultural credit disbursement profile,
advanced by one semester to take into acount the existence of a Special
Account.
Table 3.4:  DI9lR9D?FI SQEXJLE
(US1$ mind1an)
BEk Fiscal Yer   1985     1986          1987       1988        1989       1990      1991
S9seter         1   2     1    2      1    2    1    2    1   2          1   2    1   2
Disbursed
Iu.fg Semter  2.0 3.0  4.0  5.5   5.0  5.5  5.5  4.5  4.0  3.5   2.5  2.0  2.0  1.0
oilzatiwe      2.0 5.0  9.0  14.5  19.5  25.0  30.5  35.0  39.0 42.5  45.0 47.0 49.0 50.0



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would have overall responsibility for
project management, planning,,budgeting, technical assistance, credit,
administration, progress reporting, monitoring and evaluation, review of
procurement, and disbursement matters. FEDERACAFE's Departmental Committees
would also play an important role in the implementation of marketing and
agroindustrial activities through their ownership of primary and regional
collection centers for agricultural produce and the coffee growers'
supermarkets. The committees are also stockholders in some large
agroindustrial projects. Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria, two banks with
ample experience in agricultural credit throughout Colombia (Annex 2), would
be the financial windows for the lending program.
4.02     FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would (a) assist subborrowers in preparing
subloan applications; (b) provide subborrowers with technical advice;
(c) implement the training program to be carried out in-house by
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO staff or subcontracted to IICA, SENA or other local
or overseas training institutions; and (d) coordinate and supervise the
research activities to be subcontracted to ICA which would be eventually
integrated in the technical assistance package of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO.
At present, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO has some 200 staff: 60 at headquarters
and 140 in the regional departments. In general, the staff are well-
qualified and of good caliber with about 35% of them with university training
in agricultural sciences, engineering, economics, and business
administration. FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO is organized into five departments
(Research and Programming, Technical, Credit, Marketing and Agroindustries,
and Regional) and had a budget in 1983 of US$5.0 million (Annex 2).
4.03      The overall administration of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO is sound and
its organizational structure and systems are in accordance with the proposed
project's requirements. However, some improvements will be effected in
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO through the proposed Bank project in the internal
organization of training, research and monitoring and evaluation activities.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.04      For agricultural subloans, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO field staff
would continue, as it does now to (a) prepare the farm investment plans; and
(b) determine the (1) contribution of the beneficiary to the farm development
costs and the repayment schedule on the basis of beneficiaries' assets and
level of income and the subprojects' cash flow, and (ii) the technical and
financial feasibility of the investment plans. The subloan proposals are
reviewed on a sample basis by supervisory staff at headquarters to ensure
that the proposed terms are adequate and consistently applied.   This
flexible system allows FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO to tailor the beneficiaries'
contributions to their financial capacity and needs. It has resulted in the
past in large-scale farmers contributing an average of 30% to 40% of total
investment costs and medium- and small-scale farmers contributing an average
of 20%. The system is sound and would be continued under the project.



- 22 -
However, steps would be taken to avoid the possibility ofsubloan funds
substituting for large- and medium-size farmers' own resources, while
continuing to encourage diversification, especially for small farmers. The
subborrowers' contributions would be at least 1OZ for farmers with less than
10 ha, at least 20% for farmers with 10-70 ha, and at least 30% for farmers
with over 70 ba. The minimum qubborrower contributions would be stated in the
credit manuals of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO and the on-lending institutions in
a form acceptable to the Bank.
4.05      As is done at present, the Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria would
establish the guarantees for approval of agricultural subloans and disburse
the funds to participating beneficiaries upon the presentation of farm
investment models and credit requests prepared with the assistance of
technical staff of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO. The banks, in turn, would
rediscount each subloan with FFAP for the full amount permitted under present
-regulations of 'Ley 5a., averaging 48% of total investment cost or
approximately 60% of subloan amount taking into account the beneficiaries'
share. The balance would be financed by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's and Bank
loan proceeds. Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria would receive annual
commissions equivalent to 2% and 1%, respectively, payable monthly on the
average outstanding subloan portfolio of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO. In the
opinion of Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria, the commissions have been
sufficient in the past to cover their administrative costs and portfolio
risks of 100% and 30%, respectively. During negotiations, FEDERACAFE
provided assurances that eligibility for financing under the project for
creditworthy beneficiaries would be that (a) the farms be located in the
project area; (b) subloan funds not be used to finance coffee production; and
Cc) the beneficiaries not be credit recipients under the Integrated Rural
Development program (DRI) which is partially financed by Bank Loans 1352-CO
and 2174-CO.
4.06      Agroindustrial credit applications would continue to be reviewed
and evaluated on the basis of feasibility studies by the Agroindustrial
Section of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO and submitted with a recommendation for
approval or refusal to FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's General Manager. Subloan
approval would require, inter alia, demonstrated technical and financial
viability and, for subprojects of more than US$0.5 million total investment
cost, an economic rate of return of at least the opportunity cost of capital
in Colombia, estimated at present by the Bank at 11%, and prior approval by
the Bank (para. 3.12). Once approved, the application would be sent through
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's Credit Department to the corresponding branch of
Banco Cafetero with copy to the central office. Banco Cafetero would then
disburse the subloan against FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO *fideicomiso' account
after the collateral has been met and personal and commercial references
checked. The loan portfolio risk is borne 100% by Banco Cafetero which
receives a 2% annual commission payable monthly on the average outstanding
subloan portfolio. Under the project, approximately 18% of total investment
and related incremental working capital costs are expected to be discounted
through FFI under procedures similar to those of FFAP. The subborrowers'
contribution to total investment costs has averaged 45% in the past and is
not expected to be below 40% in the proposed project (ranging from 25-50X
according to the beneficiaries' financial capacity).



- 23 -
4.07      Marketing subloans would be granted to individuals, cooperatives
and farmers' organizations. As is currently done, credirt requests would
generally be prepared by the potential beneficiary with the support of
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's marketing assistants at the department level,
staff of the departmental coffee growers' committees, or in some cases by
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO directly. The subloans would be reviewed and
approved by regional marketing committees 6/ up to a total amount of Col$ 0.5
million when financing investment costs and working capital, and up to ColS 1
million, when financing only working capital. Subloan approval would require,
inter alia, demonstrated technical and financial viability and, for
subprojects of more than US$0.5 million total investment cost, an economic
rate of return of at least the opportunity cost of capital in Colombia,
presently estimated by the Bank at 11%, and prior approval by the Bank
(para. 3.12). The regional marketing committees would pro ose guarantees and
terms and forward them to the Central Marketing Committee /, which would
,approve the subloan and authorize Banco Cafetero to disburse. Subloans above
those amounts would be approved by the Central Marketing Committee after a
technical, financial and administrative analysis of the applicant by the
marketing and credit departments of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO and FEDERACAFE's
cooperative division, respectively. Disbursements would be made through
Banco Cafetero as the lending window with a 2% annual commission payable
monthly on the average outstanding subloan portfolio to cover administrative
costs. The credit risk would be borne entirely by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO.
Control of investments would be carried out by marketing assistants in the
regional offices. The subborrowers' contribution to total investment costs
has averaged 15% in the past and would be expected to remain at this level in
the proposed project and to be no less than 10% in any case. During
negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided assurances that the credit manual of
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would be revised by October 1, 1984, to specify
subborrower contributions to the farm and investment plans and to outline the
criteria for beneficiaries' eligibility for subloan financing and for subloan
approval (paras. 4.04-4.07).
4.08      The signature of subsidiary agreements satisfactory to the Bank
between FEDERACAFE and Banco Cafetero and between FEDERACAFE and Caja Agraria
to act as lending windows for the project would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
C. Lending Terms and Conditions
4.09      The interest rate for agricultural production loans would be 20%
plus an additional 2% for technical assistance, which is equivalent to rates
for loans rediscounted through FFAP (21% and a surcharge of 1% for technical
assistance).  In the case of agroindustrial subloans, the interest rate would
be 24% for most projects; for those located in Bogota, Cali and Medellin and
their areas of influence, the interest rate would be 26%. These rates are
61   Consisting of representatives of the coffee growers' departmental
committee (2), the regional cooperatives (1), FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO
(1), and the cooperatives division of FEDERACAFE (1).
7/  Consisting of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's manager, the marketing
department chief and FEDERACAFE ' cooperative division director.



- 24 -
based on those of FFI for agroindustrial subloans 8/,.  The interest rate for
marketing subloans for which no comparable line of credih.exists in Colombia,
would be 22%.  All the rates are positive in real terms with an inflation
rate at October 1983 estimated at 17.5% and expected to increase by about 20%
annually over the period of execution of the project. Repayment schedules
and grace periods would vary according to the nature and type of activity of
the individual subloans and aTe shown in Table 4.1 .
Table 4.1:  MMUJfG 1E6 SLU*RY
Subborr.ers'         Interest
Cotribution            Rates         Rep    t           Grace Perid
Agrio 1tural Production
Subloars
Farm                    No less than:
up to 10 ha           1CZ of investet costs    22% including   10 yeas           0 - 3 years
10 to 70 ha           20% cf invesnitr costs    other charges   uodm.m           depemling on
70 ha and uxaards     30% of invesruent costs                depending x         type of activity
type of activity
Mniaetim Subloams         no less tha 10X includ-   22% excluding  long-term credit:    0 - 2 yes
ing wortking capital (and   other charges  7 years madmn
expected to average no                 Short-term credit:    Nn
lesr than 15% annually)                 2 years mn,dm
Ag lnistrial Sublomns     25Z to 507. of cost     24% - 26%,     lim-term credit:    0 - 2 e
including wokding capital  excluding    6 years exmdiun
(speciflc contribution  other dcrges   Short-term credit:  Ncne
to be deternied on the    depending on  1year mwdmnm
basis of the benefidacry's the location
financal capacity)      of project
4.10   Starting on January 1, 1985, and every six months thereafter,
FEDERACAFE/PRODESAP.POLLO would inform the Bank of the interest rates proposed
to be applied to subloans during the next six-month period. The Bank would
review the proposed rates within 30 days and, should the Bank object to their
level, the Bank and the Borrower would review within 60 days the proposed
interest rates. In the event the parties fail to agree, the Bank may refuse
to authorize or approve commitments against subloans bearing the new rate and
precented to it after the end of the 60-day period. During negotiations
FEDERACAFE provided assurances that the lending terms and conditions for
subloans shown in para. 4.09 would be applied and that a periodic review
cechanism for on-lending interest rates, as outlined above, would be
introduced.
8/ An additional line of credit available from FFI at 18% is the 'Fondo de
Capitalizacion Empresarial" which finances enterprises with more than 100
stockbolders. The fund would be used by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO
wbenever a subproject meets those requirements.



- 25 -
D. Accounts and Auditing
4.11     FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's accounts would continue to be audited by
the Comptroller General of the Republic. Present reporting on
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's credit operations is satisfactory, although
expanded accounts would be needed for the proposed project. A suitable
format for financial reporting to ensure appropriate coverage and form in the
reports has been agreed upon with FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO.
4.12      FEDERACAFE's accounts have not been audited in the past.  Its main
income is a yearly allocation from the Coffee Fund (and the Coffee Fund
account are audited by the Comptroller General of the Republic) on the basis
of a budget. The Borrower has agreed to present proper audits of its
accounts.
4.13      During negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided assurances that it would
send certified copies of the audited annual accounts of FEDERACAFE/
PRODESARROLLO and FEDERACAFE and the Special and Project Accounts (paras.
3.29 and 3.30) and the report of the auditors to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of their fiscal year (December 31).
E. Monitoring, Progress Reporting and Evaluation
Monitoring
4.14      The Research and Programming Department of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO
would prepare the reports on physical and financial progress which would be
submitted to the Bank every six months coinciding with project year semesters
(October-March and April-September) no later than three months after the end
of each reporting period. The reports would include indicators on
credit requested, committed and granted, size of the subloans, area and type
of crops planted, production expected, and on the basis of a farm sample,
changes in farm production structure, productivity and income.
4.15      If in the opinion of the Bank, the diversification program is being
adversely affected by changes in coffee policies, the Bank would require
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO to prepare and send to the Bank a study measuring
the relative profitability of growing coffee versus non-coffee commodities
and the likely longer-term impact on the diversification project. Should the
study demonstrate that demand for credit for diversification is being
adversely affected, the study would also include a plan of action agreed upon
between FEDERACAFE and the Government, to raise such demand in accordance
with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Evaluation
4.16      No later than six months after the scheduled closing of the project
(September 1990), the Research and Programming Department of FEDERACAFEI
PRODESARROLLO would prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report. The



- 26 -
report would cover the overall achievements of the project!the progress of
the marketing and processing components and the project's imapact at farm
level. This report, which would be financed by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's
budget would be partially based on information at farm level collected and
analyzed by the Research and Programming Department throughout the period of
project implementation.         I
4.17      During negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided assurances that project
progress and evaluation reports would be submitted to the Bank as indicated
in paras. 4.14 and 4.16, and that studies measuring the relative
profitability of growing coffee versus non-coffee commodities would be
prepared and sent, if requested by the Bank (para. 4.15).
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production, Marketing and Markets
5.01     The estimated annual incremental project production at full
development is summarized in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1: EgrRITED ANNUAL INCPEMNL AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCrION AT FULL DEVEELR4N
Incremental
Hectares   Production     Value of Production
(to '000) (ColS million) (US$ million)
Fruit and Vegetables ('000 ton)    47,600   1,050       17,900       77.4
Anxual aops ('000 ton)         12,400         50         1,700        7.4
Total Agriculture ('000 ton)  60,000      1,100        19,600      84.8
Lvestock
- Milk (liter million)          n/a          72         1,900        8.2
- Cattle ('000 animals)         n/a          40         1,000        4.3
- Minor Species                 n/a         n/a           160        0.7
5.02      In general, the existing marketing infrastructure and facilities
for agricultural inputs and outputs in Colombia are inefficient and
relatively weak. This results in high production and distribution costs and
discourages agricultural production. The project area, however, has an
excellent road network linking the rural areas with the major capitals of the
country. It also enjoys a better developed and more efficient marketing
system because FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO directly pFovides inputs through
their input stores and establishes marketing outlets. The existing marketing
system will be enlarged and strengthened under the project by developing
additional outlets, vertically integrating production, marketing and
processing activities and providing the necessary technical assistance.



- 27 -
5.03      Colombia is in a deficit concerning production of food commodities
due to rapid rural/urban migratory population flows and"the marketing
limitations indicated above. Demand for food commodities is expected to
increase by 502 by 1990 over 1980 levels and by 120% by the year 2000. The
wide range of agricultural commodites to be produced under the project would
help alleviate the food imbalance in the domestic market and reduce the need
for imports. Approximately 25X of the project's incremental output is
expected to be sold through the integrated collection and distribution system
of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO, and another 10% is expected to be used as input
to the agricultural processing plants to be financed under the project. The
balance would be sold directly by the farm producers on the local fresh
markets or through intermediaries. While demand for specifc commodities can
be expected to fluctuate with market conditions, no overall marketing problem
is foreseen in the project given the many possible alternative crops that can
be grown in the project area, and the assistance to be provided by
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's staff.
B. Prices
5.04      Most agricultural prices in Colombia are determined by market
forces and there are no direct subsidies to the farmers. While the increases
in production resulting from the project might well result in localized and
temporary price decreases for some commodities, the current level is expected
to be at least maintained in real terms which at actual coffee prices and
cost of production provides a profiLability edge to many diversification
activities. The present price is expected to be maintained by (a) broadening
the marketing options and increasing the number of direct produce outlets at
competitive prices; (b) improving price information and; (c) promoting group
marketing to the wholesale markets in the major cities. Prices are assumed
to remain at 1983 levels to arrive at a financial rate of return for
subproject investments. Annex 4, Table 19 shows a detailed list of financial
and economic prices.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISK
A. Financial and Economic Rates of Return
6.01      As the actual mix, type and number of investments to be financed
under the project may differ from the illustrative investment models to adapt
to changes in relative product prices and market conditions, no overall
financial or economic rate of return to the project has been computed.
Financial and economic rates of return have been calculated for five selected
farm investment models, five marketing investment models and two agroindus-
trial investment models. The farm investment models are illustrative of
different altitude levels, topographic conditions, farm sizes and the wide
range of diversification activities prevalent in the project area. Farm
development costs would typically include land preparation, planting
material, fertilizers and other input requirements but do not require heavy
investment. Development of non-coffee production would mostly result from
bringing Into cultivation fallow areas and extensively used natural pasture



- 28 -
and by increasing intercropping with coffee. A tentative i4stribution of
land use with and without the project Is shown In Annex 3,   Table 5. The
farm models results are summarized in Table 6.1 and shown in detail in Annex
4, Tables 2 to 11. The economic rates of return of the illustrative farm
investment, marketing investment and agroindustries models are similar to the
financial rates of return since.for most project inputs and outputs there are
few price distortions and direct transfer payments. However, for those farnm
on which it is expected that coffee production will decrease as a result of
intercropping and the introduction of shade technology, the economic rate of
return (42%) would be substantially above the financial rate of return
(28%). The difference is mostly due to the limited economic value of coffee
production at the margin resulting from the high coffee stock levels
prevailing at present.
6.02      The marketing models reflect the different types of marketing
subprojects under the loan: (a) a farmers' production organization;
(b) a primary collection center; (c) a regional collection center; (d) a
fruit and vegetable supermarket section; and (e) COMERCAFE's new store in the
central wholesale market in Bogota (CORABASTOS). The two agroindustrial
investment models-a frozen vegetable plant and a milk pasteurization
plant--are representative of the type of agroindustry which iS expected to be
financed under the project. The marketing and agroindustrial models are
detailed in Annex 4, Tables 12 to 18, and the financial and economic rates of
return are summarized in Table 6.2.
6.03      For calculating the economic rates of return, all major project
outputs and inputs have been valued at their border price equivalent by
applying specific conversion factors. For coffee, a conversion factor of
zero has been assumed since on the basis of the present overproduction and
stock situation of coffee in Colombia, reduction of coffee production would,
at the margin, result in net savings of production and storage costs; that
is, in an economic benefit-not a cost. The economic price of fertilizer has
been based on its actual border price adjusted for freight and local
marketing costs. Labor costs have been calculated taking into account the
low rural unemployment and underemployment rates in the project area and in
general in Colombia. The result of sensitivity analysis on the economic
rates of return of all the models is presented in Annex 4, Table 20.
Financial and economic rates of return are not highly sensitive to increases
in costs or reductions in benefits with the exception of farm model III. As
part of the lending procedures (paras. 4.04-4.07), FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO
would analyze the viability of the different diversification activities and
before subroan approval it would ensure that the proposed subprojects are-
profitable.



Table 6.1:  FAR4 INVFM M3Nr MCDEIES:  SUtIARY OF DEVEWDfMET D4WACM AND PATES OF REIIRi
Model I            Model II             Model III             Model TV             Model V
Altitude                       Above 1,800 m      Above 1,800 m        1,200 to 1,800 n      1,200 to 1,800 m      Below 1,200 m
CLivnte                             Cold               Cold               Temperate             Iemperate               Hot
Type of Farm                       Family         Semn-amnercial           Fandly              Qnmrcial                Family
Area Suitable for
Ptodction (ha)                       6                 40                    8                     19                   9
Percentage of Farwa In
thls Category(%)                    12                 15                   26                     25                  23
Amiual Fsnily Inccme
After Debt Service
(a) Without Project (US$)           3,218             13,688                4,657                 7,995                3,278              N
(b) With Project at Full
Dwelopient (US$)             4,885             19,968                7,398                 12,389               5,701              r
Year of Fdl Developnent                 6                  6                     7                     8                   5
L=w Per Capita I/
(a) Wlthout Project (US$)             536              2,281                  776                  1,332                 546
(b) With Project at Full
Dvelopnent (US$)               814              3,328                1,233                 2,065                 950
Flnmacial Rate cf Return 2/            23X                19%                   29%                   28%                 25%
Ecncowic Rate of Return                19%                22Z                   12%                   42%                 18%
1/  In Farch 1984 constant prices. Average fandly size of 6. US$1 - Col$ 95.
2/ Includes return to capital and return to family labor.



- 30 -
Table 6.2: MARKETINJ AND AGROINDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT MODELS:
RATES OF RETURN 
Financial     Economic
Model                                  ROR (2) 1I    ROR (x) 1/
Marketing
Farmers' production organizations        20           30
Primary collection center                25           25
Regional collection center               27           27
COMERCAFE                                26           29
Fruit and vegetable section              16           21
Agroindustries
Frozen vegetable plant                   19            21
Milk pasteurization plant                20            24
l/ ROR - Rate of Return.
B. Employment Impact
6.04      The project area Is a net importer of labor from neighboring
departments during the coffee harvest periods. With the project some of that
migrant labor would be provided with year-round work. Therefore, labor
availability is not expected to be a constraint. At full development
(year 6), the project would create the equivalent of 26,700 man-years of
agricultural employment. It is expected that family labor would supply about
26% oe total incremental labor required and hired labor the remaining 74%.
Additional employment would be created by the marketing and agroindustrial
enterprises to be financed under the project.
C. Environmental Impact
6.05      With good farm planning, the introduction of the crops under the
project in the various climatic zones should not intensify soil erosion.
Pasture improvement in the higher areas would not destroy existing ground
cover. Planting permanent and semi-perennial fruit crops would provide land
protection while the areas of annual crops recommended would need to be sited
on flatter land where normal planting and cultivation techniques would
prevent soil erosion.
6.06      The project would require relatively low additional use of
pesticides and other chemicals, which would be provided mostly through
FEDERACAFE's and Caja Agraria's supply stores. Since the import and sale of
toxic or environmentally dangerous products is forbidden under Colombian law,
its use is not expected in the project.
D.  Project Risks
6.07      FEDERACAFE, the Borrower, is acknowledged as an efficient and
professionally run private institution which has served well the coffee areas
and the interests of their associate members in the past. FEDERACAFE|
PRODESARROLLO, the department in charge of Implementing the diversiflcatlon



- 11 -
project enjoys a considerable degree of autonomy and is equally well regarded
in terms of the capacity and experience of its manageLent and staff. Its
record in past diversification programs supports this view (paras.
2.08-2.09). On the basis of this demonstrated managerial, technical and
implementing capacity of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO, the projected large
Increase in physical targets for agricultural production over past
diversification programs ar, considered achievable.
6.08      The attainment of the project's principal objective, i.e, the
diversification of the coffee area's production structure, would depend on
the relative incentives of growing coffee versus non-coffee commodities.
Output prices and the cost and availability of credit have been consistent in
terms of favoring agricultural diversification in the past few years.
However, changes in the opposite direction could hamper these efforts and
slow down project implementation. Should credit demand for diversification
activities decrease in relation to expected targets, the Bank would require
the FEDERACAFE prepare an assessment of the relative profitability of coffee
versus non-coffee commodities, and suitable corrections would be sought
whenever required (para. 4.15). Prices of non-coffee commodities are market-
determined and would fluctuate with supply and demand. However, given the
many possible alternative crops that can be grown in the project area, these
price fluctuations are not expected to affect the overall profitability of
diversification activities.
6.09      The inefficient and relatively weak marketing structure in Colombia
poses an additional risk to this and other agricultural projects in the
country. However, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO has developed a well structured
marketing system from producer to consumer. The system started from an
almost exclusive orientation toward coffee has been diversified to all food
commodities in the coffee areas. It would be enlarged and strengthened
through the promotion and financing of processing activities under the
project.
6.10      The expected increase in the rediscounting funds made available by
the Government to FFAP and FFI may not materialize or they may even be
substantially reduced. In order to insulate the project a _inst a possible
shortfall of FFAP and FFI funds, the Government provided assurances that it
would make the arrangements necessary to enable FFAP or FFI to provide the
funds for onlending indicated in the financing plan (para. 3.25).
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the Government as Guarantor provided
assurances that It would make the arrangements necessary to enable FFAP and
FFI or any other comparable finaccial facility to provide the necessary funds
to finance the agricultural production and agroindustrial components of the
project (para. 3.25).
7.02      During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that:
(a) FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would submit to thie Bank for prior
approval any marketing and agroindustrial subloan of more than
US$0.5 million total investment costs (para. 3.12);



- 32 -
(b)  a training officer would be appointed in FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO,
and a detailed yearly training program would be sent to the Bank by
December 31 each year starting in 1984 for the duEt7tion of the
project (para. 3.16);
(c) FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO would draft and submit to the Bank by
-December 31, 1984, for approval a detailed pisgram of applied
researcb (para. 3.18)e
(d)  the staff requlred to implement the project would be provided
(para. 3.23);
(e)  the proceeds of all payments made by the beneficiaries on subloans
which are not utilized to make repayments of the Bank loan would be
utilized to make further subloans under its diversification program
(para. 3.26);
(f)  the procurement procedures outlined in paras. 3.27 and 3.28 would
be followed;
(g)  the credit manuals of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO and of the
on-lending credit institutions would be revised by October 1, 1984,
to specify the subborrower contributions to the farm and investment
plans, and to outline the criteria tor beneficiaries' eligibility
for subloan financing and for subloan approval (paras. 4.04-4.07);
Ch)  the lending terms and conditions for subloans would be those shown
in para. 4.09, and a periodic review mechanism for on-lending
interest rates under the project would be introduced (para. 4.10);
Ci)  certified copies of the audited annual accounts of FEDERACAFE/
PRODESARROLLO, FEDERACAFE and the Special and Project Accounts and
the reports of the auditors would be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the close of their fiscal year (para. 4.13);
(j)  project progress and evaluation reports would be submitted to the
Bank as indicated in paras. 4.14 and 4.16; and studies measuring
the relative profitability of growing coffee versus non-coffee
commodities would be prepared and sent, if requested by the Bank
-     (para. 4.15).
7.03      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  the establishment of the Special Account and the Project Account
with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that an amount in Colombian
pesos equivalent to US$1.0 million was deposited in the Project
Account (paras. 3.29-3.30); and
(b)  signature of the subsidiary agreements between FEDERACAFE and Banco
Cafetero and FEDERACAFE and Caja Agraria (para. 4.08).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$50.0 million, with a term of
17 years, including a grace period of 4 years. The Borrower would be
FEDERACAPE.



ODIlMBIA
AlEIlL'IURAL DIVERSIFICATION P1=
List of ProJect Departnmts mid Hntcipalities
mlo  lA:             vIga&h          San Vicente          La Captilla             CUlS:               LInza             Altan                  Rafael Reyes   Nataga
Fredatia          Sta. Barbara        IA Victoria                                 Janhalo           Anopoirm               Son Antonto    Oporapa
dxeUhill            Frotit10          . SCa. Rmoa de Q;as   Macmaal               "litzales            La Sierra         krolainn                  de Tenia     Patcol
Abejorral           Ciraldo           Sto. Ebedigo         Maripi                 AgiusmI             LA Vega            Arbelaez               Santl Pennido    Paleno
Abriaqui            tHrardota         SnituarLo            Miraflores             Auermn              Merculeres         Beltra                 San Cayetano    Pital
Aleiamdria          Conrez Plata      SegoVia              KigtU                  Aranzazu            MUralnid           Bttutim                Tinbita         Pitalito
Amia                Grmawl aai                            Mmxicpilra             BelalwAvar          Hbrmlas            Capirrapi              Tocalan         Rivera
nnIEf I             Oiadlupe          Soetramn             Ak.0o                  C.tnchlna            Padilla           Caqueza                Toptipi         Saladoblaico
ttnies              Quirne           T'Lnrs IOancha                               FiliadlEia           Paez             UawUltiI               Uba.la          San AgtLstln
Aigelopolis         QAatape           Taraza               Pachavita              la Merced            Patrta            (hmacbl                Ubqo            Santa Maria
^'Eatura            Holiccrda         Tarso                PHeZ                   Ma?nanarus           Pidanr El Colegto                       Utica          i.,aza
Aiort               Itaglt            Titiribi             Paralito               Winiato             rtirto TeJada      El Prnexl              Vergara         Targut
htltoqLa            ItwuiAo          Toledo                auia                  Mruetalla            cans              Foreqtue               Viani          TSalia
Ahza                Jardini           Trix)                Paya                   MaIal-41L            Saun Shuttimi     Fosca                  Villagormz      Tello
Apartntlo           Jerico            Uramita              Pisva                  Nalra               %SianaMer         FRL'agL3sga             Vitleta         Teruel
Argelta             La Ceja           Urrao                Rtuciia                Pacora               Sotara            Gachala                Viota           Tinnvt
Anrmnmiin           [a tstrelia       Vladivia            Sft FPkardlo            Palestinia           Tinblo            GAcheta                Yacopt
Barbasa             La tHgdalena      Vatpormlmo           Smn Jose de Pare       Pensi ivalta         Toribto           Clrm                   Zlpaexiw
Bello               Ubortnit          Venecla              Rmi lAts di (Cano      Riostelo            Totoro            Q(nuaal                                  1A CJAIR&:
Betanta             Maceo             Yalt                  -tn  ateon            Risaralda hktayabAl & Siqutnida
Hetulla               trtiniilla      Yanrmln              SDI Pablo cb  rborhir   Salamndlan          C.:               Qaayahetal              mIIA:          luohneha
Bolivar             Maitebello        Yolonth              Santmia                Sa mua                                 Jerusalen                              Barrmies
hirtttca            Matata                                 Samtamaria             Supla                Valledupar        Jwultn                 Netva           Fcxscea
Calcedo              MNrtio                                SonrMdoco              Victoria             A.ntachtca        la Mesa                Acevedo         S. JLm ieIl Cesar
Caldas              Olaya                 &YA                tntSema              VIlIlanrta          A*wtIn Godiuzz1   La Palrn                Agrado          VIlIaInieva
Cnanutnito          P%lol                                  Teimi                  Vtterbo              Becerri I         1A P(2m.i              Atpe
Canisgordas         Paqie             Alnsida              Toni                                        Chimntdchag       La Vega                Algecirmas
Caracoli             Ibehlorrlco      Berbeo               7kugula                 GM:                 Cirtgutwm         Macheta                Altamnra            W :
Carmita              Paerto Herrio    BrlRrao              ZetAquira                                   Curumait          Manita                 Baraya
Carsen de Viboral   Puerto Tritmnfo   ?AeAvista                                   Popayan              El Copey          Medina                 COapORlegre    Santa Marta
Carolina            Refmeditao         Lea Cadroe                                 Al n "ur             (iczalez          Nito                   Colonibla       Aracata
Chigorodo            Rettru           Chinivita             OSAW&:                Argelta              IA Gloria          Nmirmne               Eliam           Cienaga
Cisauerrs           Sabatalarga       Chita                                       Balhak               Patlitmas          Ncalma                Cirzcn          Fuidacili
Cocorna             Sahneta          OCitart"ie            Yoapxl                 Boltvar              Rio de Oro        Qipitia Perez          Gigante
Ccmcepcion          Salgar            Coper                Agunzul                Buse Aires           Roblea             Pacho                 Qiadlupe         mm,
Cencordia           Smi Andres        (irsgoa              QCamh a                Cajtbio              San Dtego         Paine                  Hobo
Copacahmia          Fan Carlos       (ateaue              Paz de Ariporo         Caldano                                 Paldi                 Iquira          Villavicncio
Ikabeiba            Sai Jeroiimo      Guayata              Recetor                Caloto                                  Pltil                 Iswas           Acacias
D[k  Mattas         Sn tkLtl          Jerico               Tazmra                 Corinto               aNu    iXA:    Quebradmicgra            Ia Arenttna   COstilla La Niea  
Ebejico             Sma Rafael        latranzagrarde       Taurameus              El Tanbo                               Quetane                La Plata        Sm  luts die
.Sm Roque                                                                         Agua de Dios       Qithile                                   Cubrral



Oanl                TmVia              Q1ID1):             Aratoca          ?kgotes                  COablmcA                a
El Calvario          lwiuerrom                              Barbosa         Ocamu1te                   twnrrml              ualagranle
GrmAa                YacLXquer        Arermla             Bnrichara        Olba                      Coyalm              Calcedonia
(iaml                                 BtLionvista          Betulta          Onzngn                    OJndlay              Dariei (Call
Ptruepo                               C4alarca             Bolivar          Pulmrr                    Dolores              Canielaria
San Jtua  de Aramn    IEB [R          Circasla             Cnbrern          Palnnm  del Socorro       Falan                Cartogo
SDIi Martin           SANAM:          Cordob               Califonila       Pnam                      Fresnio              vwl
FilmrKiia            Cnrcasi          Piedealesta              Ibrvoo               Al Aguilla
Qicuta           (bcwa                ainrail          Pinchote                  Tcxrnizo             El Cairo
IMR ,:              Abrego            La Tebtida         aUmrtit            Pte. Macilall            Lerida               El Cerrito
Arboledas        Maibteltsr           (1iim             RicegVro                 LAtlno               El Dcwto
ltwto               BIcouleim          Ptjno               azipata          SaIi Aidres               Mariqilta            Flortia
Altui                flucarmicA      (Qlndmya              Conceplotnm      Smi Insito                Mmignr               Gitiobra
Aictra               Cachira           Palaeto              calfixcs         San Oil                  Nategaimi            (Liacarl
Arboleda             aOliacota                             Cotitratacica    .I Joaquiln                Ortega              Jamuxit
ameaco               Chitagn                               Corocror         Sma Jcs do Mlranui        Plauadas             la (wtbre
(blai                Cctwonctcn        I09L'IA4              lreti          San Vicoite do Chicuri   Prado                 In Un1lM
Cosanca              OtIctilla                              El Cnaucamyo    S&wta Barbara             hxrificac.loi        La Victoria
Ciubitara           DIramsia           Pereira              Fncilco          Saita ilaelai            Rioblmico            Chuido
El Rosario           El Carmw         AplAa                Enciso           Simacota                  Rcnevalles           Pnalfdra
El Thblxn           Fl 7ZtUa           lfbo,a              Florlain        Socorro                   Rovirn               Obando
El TadO              crnamlote        Bolen do liubin      Flori&iblmack   Sualta                     San Mtcrn.o          Palindra
Flers                Ihcari           bDs  iehrbmias       GCilnl           Atcre                     gm lAids             Pracern
Qiaitarrilla        liernui           Qitica               Qunbita          Sarata                    Santa Isabel         Restrepo
lles                Lahatecn          La Celia             Girosi           Tons                      SAlarez              Riofrbo
Inues               la Plays          LA Vigilla           (inca            Valle la  San .lose       Valle de SUi Juan    Roldanillo
la Cnrz              lcirdes           iarsella            baclaqlvp         Velez VillisLeva         Vendillo            Snn Pedro
la Florida           Ocmn            Mistrato             (lapota          ?Apotoca                  Villcherma           Sevilla
La Uilw o            Panplomlta       RPeblorrico          (lavata                                    Vtillarrica          Toro
Linares              Racnvalia         Oinchit a           ()pso                                                           Tnijillo
L.i Aides            SalWsr            Santa Rosan t       llnto              MA                                            hlnt
Mallaim              San CallXto           Cabhl            JeFus Maria                                VALE:               UllOFs
Policarpa            Sa.  Caycetano    Saiturto            Jordan           Ithaio                                         VausaUes
Riuharte            S%Itingo                               La Belleza       Alpujarra                 CFli                 Viyas n
Samnilego            Sardiinata                            lardwri          A lvarado                 Alcala               Yotoco o                                         H
SUala                Teorarm            SANKFMD:            LA Paz          Atizoatoqut               Arkitlmcta           Ytuni
San Lorenzo          Tlht                                  Lebrija          Arnero                    Aserxievo            ZArzal
S,n Pablo           Tbledo            Ptcaraniuta          Io Sautos       AtACo                     Argelia
Sknta Cnz           Villnearo          AguA                Malan            Cajamirca                 Bolivar
Thrdnn3luo           Villa Psario      Althaia             Mntan2a          Carnmi de Apicalan        Buinaventura



axUnIA
AaUCML1DAL OVWWSFICATIN FWU1WT
tAId Use - Coffee 7lo
Drntrnat                                                                                   L a n d   U a e   o f  C o f f e e   Z o n e
kw              Total Coffee Zau         Coffee PltSd       _      ftturua  Pasture    X%  nE      (~L                 e                                 en2    at.w                 I
(ha             (ha)           2              (ha)                                                                          (ha)                      (ha)- --    
AitloqLad                      6,361,200       876,303         14             155,181       18         421,658        48         216,207         25         54,552           h        22,394         3    6,311       1
Boyac  (kid Catliaie)          2,318,90o       264,820         13              29,7/7        It        129,705        49           64,254        24         24,479           9        13,338         5     3,266      1
CaIdm                            7esa88,8,     2.58,564        33              88,393       34          102,822       40           45,3Yfl       1 8         5,3155          6         4.093         2     2,847      I
Cauca                          2,930,800       470,548        136              79,299        3 7        216,865       46          130,309        28         23,671           5        15,798         3    4,606       1
Olnlnaitrcs                    2,262,3C        386,246         37             103,946       26          377,222       46           56,497        15         32,834           9        12,244         3     5,504      1
hiala                          3,989,03w       293,212         15              47,924       16          170,104        58          47,667        36         15,365           5         9,573         3     2,580      I
mwdglaia, Gar, aGJlrj          6,694,100       194,28           3              41,028       21          63,345        33          82,385         42          4,486           2         2,436         1       298 
)hrlrn                         3,326,8W0        58,030          2              17,127       29           15,756       27            7,613        13          8,260          14         8,.02        14    1,243       2        L
tirte &I,takr                  2,165,800       230,625         31              45,607       20          102,895       45          64,157        28          12,338           5         3,3(X)        1    2,348       3
Qutailo                          184,50)       128,321         70              62,559       49          44,297         35          12,667        10          4,396           3         3,01)         2     1,602      I
Risarald.                        414,0oo       156,833         38              61,525       39          55,361        35           25,161        16          8,251           5         5,463         3     1,273      3
Saitauer                       3,053,700       409,371         13              63,033       15         203,607        49           85,a6s        23         36,633           9        17,555         4     5,497      1
Tollsa                         2,356,200       567,312         24             136,272       24         264,744        47          113,675        20         32,150           6        17,268         3     5,202      1
Valle Cair                     2,214,02o       338,951         15             126,852       37          136,318       40           55,190        16         10,925           3         7,618         2     2,048      1
i-tna                          8,563,500       316,344          1              10,505        9           59,0)3        51          31,635        27          5,325           4         9,156         8       90       3
Other                             n/a           26,90C        n/a               3,333        32           7,648        28          32,9B4        48          2,245           8           713         3        v       -
Total                      45,623,600     4,776,458         10!,          1,070,433      22       2,169,150        45        1,048,637        22        290,625           6       352,012         3   45,659       1
Total CoIoebla            113,891,4W
I/ Exadml   Ethr" from cth total coffee zae.
Sourcee  rnFAWME:  Csmo Cafetero 1980
March 21, 1964



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Area of Coffee Farms Distributed by Altitude
Altitude Levels            Total (ha)       Z
Up to                200           204         -
201     to        400          4,343        -
401     to        600         18,301        2
601     to        800         39,607        4
801     to      1,000         88,740        9
1,001     to      1,200        162,882       16
1,201     to      1,400        243,480       24
1,401     to      1,600        259,815       26
1,601     to      1,800        149,257       15
1,801     to      2,000         38,440        4
2,001     to      2,200            712        -
Above   2,200          3,798        -
Total                        1,009,579      100
Source: FEDERACAFE - Censo Cafetero 1970
Harch 21, 1984



- 37 -
A1N I
!Isble4
OCLGMBIA
PGtI:lL1URAL DLVERSFICATM:BI( EPSLJiCr
Coffee Farm Dlstrihiticx by Sim, Type of 0ration, and Land Tame
Farm Size (ha)       No. of Farns        ecentage          Accumlated Z
Less than     1           38,189              12.6               12.6
From   1 to   1.99        42,383              14.0              26.6
From   2 to   3.99        58,059              19.2              45.8
From   4  to  9.99        71,556              23.6              69.4
From  10 to  15.99        30,466              10.1              79.5
From  16 to  49.99        44,668              14.7              94.2
Abo.jre      50           17,624               5.8              100.0
Total.                302,945             100.0
Type of Opearim/Lad
Temre                    Family Farm     Comzrciazl     Total       Ir
Owner Operated                         176,803         85,415      262,218        86.55
Mixed with  awner Prebdoxinance         13,526         23,309        36,835       12.16
Tenancy                                  1,603          1,380        2,983         1.00
Mi,Bd with Teiant Predomtnace              163            172           335        0.11
tr,cro=npezs                               254            164          418         0.13
Otber                                      106             50          156         0.05
Total                               192,455        110,490      302,945       100.00
Sowce:  EDER1ACFE. Censo Cafetero 1970.
March 21, 1984



gm I
OWUISIA
AGRaIaL1U!L DIVtIFICPATICWN PROMT
Diveruificattan Prcgra: ktLivitles F1nmved 193-1982
1963-1979                    19-O                       19RI                       1982                        Total
1hits     tmw Grnted    Uiits    loom Gramtli   Lhitra            1m  Grseted    Uaits    l1an Grnmte        Unats      1Ins Ormted
Col$ Mllicn    _          Col$ MilUm                 ColS MilIUm                ColS MHiUcn                  Cal$ HLUlcm
AgrlOwturml Prncttim
- UiMi A   Platatn (t)                    16,340         148.5        1,298         32.4         1,342        42.3          1,169        44.3           20,148        267.5
- 9pir Cam m1 Yuca (ha)                   21,685        275.6         1,047        23.4          1,063        23.4          1,594        46.7           25,388        369.1
- Flhar aId SerboLltuzro (ha)                179          3.7            14         2.1             13          1.8            13         1.7             218           9.3
- FKuits, Veptable  ni FPla*rs (ha)       13,615                      2,451                      2,851        1             2,6R0                       21,602
-  Nireerles (no.)                            17         272.6           16        115.4             9        154.0            13        172.1              55        714.1
- Forestry (ha)                           12,643         128.7        3,143        48.0          2,649        57.4          3,443        53.8           21,878       2M7M9
- 11vntodk
Mlk, fattesirg (no. mnimls)          203,433          5           6,521                      5,218                      6339          8            221,511      130
Pauture (ha)                           5,031         855.2        2,438       ,156.1         1,           141.2                      187,6           9,867      1,340.1
i%b-totAt (ha)                     69,493       1,684.3       10,391        377.4         9,156        420.1        10,060        506.2          99,101      2,988.0
Minor .4xes
Aviailttire (no. hilhr)             1,818,045                   307,550                    289,250                    182,I                      2,597,645
PAw (no. mAlada)                      15,158         201.9          466         68.2         2,258         95.1         1,696         99.1          19,578        464.3
Apickilture (no. tl )ves)             25,152                      5,018                      4,004                      1,844                       36,018
- Others (outnxctiaos)Cno.)                  153          92.0           15          1.8             5          2.3             4         3.0              177         99.1
Total Agrieulturl (eIt                        1,978.2                     447.4                      517.5                      608.3                       3,551,4
Agroirmtril  (no. mnteprlpria)                22          44.7            6         19.9             8         16.8             5         14,4             41          95.8
Makeqm  (no. siterprlse)                      19          36.4           12         32,9            10         19.8             5         17.5              46        106.6
Sole: FUMAlEf3iM&                ad Ms
Hrch 21, 1984



-39                               ANNEX 2
Page =
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Projec_% Implementing Institutions
The National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia (FEDERACAFE)
1.        Organization and Management.  FEDERACAFE is a private, non-profit
institution created in 1927 and operated by Colombia's coffee growers. By a
contract with Government (signed in 1978 and valid until 1988 and expected to
he renewed) 1/, FEDERACAFE was entrusted with a series of actions with
the overall object of supporting and developing the coffee sector.
Internally, FEDERACAFE is managed by a general manager operating through four
sub-managers in charge of general administration, planning and coordination,
commercial and technical activities. The technical department is also in
charge of FEDERACAFE's coffee zones' development and diversification program
(FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO), Chart 1. The total staff of the institution is
3,800 people, of which some 800 are employed at the central office in Bogota,
350 at the coffee research station, and 530 in coffee inspection and
processing plants. The remaining 2,100 people are directly employed by the
Department Coffee Growers Committees. About 20% of the staff has
professional training, primarily in agricultural sciences, engineering,
ecnomics, business administration, and law.
2.        Financial Structure.  FEDERACAFE is paid for the services it
provides in the coffee areas by a transfer of funds from the Coffee Fund, on
the basis of a yearly budget containing the list of different administrative
and other tasks (research, marketing, etc.) to be discharged; the 1983
budget was for about US$103 million Z.  The Coffee Fund is a government
financial account (kept and managed by FEDERACAFE) which covers the buying of
coffee from coffee growers and its disposal through exports, sales and
storage. The Coffee Fund generates resources by keeping a part of the
different taxes and income collected (ad valorem, retention quota, etc.);
estimated 1983 income is US$460 million.
3.        By careful use of the funds received from the Coffee Fund,
FEDERACAFE has managed to create a surplus, which has been substantially
increased by interest received on the investment of FEDERACAFE's reserves.
The surplus at July 31, 1983 is ColS 1,905 million (about US$24.3 million).
A condensation of FEDERACAFE's Balance Sheets and Operating Account for the
last two years is shown in Table 1.
4.        FEDERACAFE has invested these funds, together with other reserves
for staff retirement and general reserve, totalling at July 31, 1983 about
ColS 4,000 million (US$50 million) in -Fondos Especiales, mainly Bonos
Cafeteros, Bonos -Con Casa- and deposits in banks.and Corporaciones
11 Copy of this contract is In the Project Files.
2/ All conversions of ColS are made at the rate prevailing at the date of
the financial statements.



-40-                          ANNEX 2
Page 2
Financieras of the coffee sector.  The income from these"1nvestments for the
seven months ending July 31, 19R3 is estimated at Col$ 750 million (about
US$9.6 million). The policy of FEDERACAFE in accumulating reserves, and
investing these reserves successfully, is sound.
FEDERACAFE's Development and Diversification Program of the Coffee Areas
(FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO)
5.        Background.  FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO was created in 1963 with
resoarces from FEDERACAFE, Caja Agraria, Banco Cafetero, the Colombian
Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA), and the Corporacion Financiera de
Caldas. Its main objective was and still is to provide financial and
technical assistance to foster diversification in coffee areas and promote a
balanced economic development.   It was initiated in the Departments of
Caldas, Quindio and Risaralda. The diversification program was based on a
CIDA financed study (1961-62) on coffee production in the Caldas Department.
Historically, the main developmental stages of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO are:
(a) The 1963-67 period. The creation as a private agency of the "Fondo
de Desarrollo y Diversificacion de Zonas Cafeteras," a technical
unit in charge of programming and coordinating technical
assistance, extension and credit program to small- and medium-scale
farms in the coffee areas, financed with assistance of a
USS7 million IDB loan;
(b)  The 1968-74 period.  In 1968, the Fondo de Desarrollo y
Diversificacion de Zonas Cafeteras was incorporated as a public
entity under the Ministry of Agriculture, to meet the
diveisification obligations of Colombia deriving from its
membership in the International Coffee Organization (ICO). At the
end of 1968, this entity contracted with FEDEPACAFE the execution
of the diversification program. FEDERACAFE created in 1970 a unit
at management level called "Programa de Desarrollo y
Diversificacion de Zonas Cafeteras" extending the geographical
coverage of diversification activities. As per the agreement
between Colombia and ICO, financial resources for the program were
forthcoming from a tax of US$0.60 for each bag of coffee exported
in excess of the first 100,000 bags; and
(c) 1975 to date. The diversification program was extended to cover
all coffee departments. In 1976, the Fondo was reinstated as a
private entity and as a consequence the Programa de Desarrollo
(FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO) ceased operating from an autonomous
juridical status and became directly and administratively dependent
of FEDERACAFE.
6.        Four phases of the diversification program have been implemented to
date (1963-68, 1969-73, 1974-78, 1979-83), a fifth one (1984-88) will largely
coincide with the project submitted to the World Bank for financing (para
2.09 of SAR).
7.        Organization.  FEDERACAFEIPRODESAPROLLO, organized as a -gerencia'
in FEDERACAFE's technical department, had in 1983 a total of 200 staff, 60 at



- 41 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 3
headquarters and 140 in the regional departments. About 35X of the staff
have university training in agricultural sciences, engineering, economics and
business administration. FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO is organized into the five
following departments (Chart 2):
(a) Research and Programming, with responsibilities for general
planning and programming and monitoring and evaluation and progress
reporting. This department was also responsible for the
preparation of the proposed Diversification Project;
(b) Technical Department, subdivided in sections according to the crop
and livestock activities promoted by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO;
(b) Credit Department, in charge of supervision of the credit
components and of managing FEDERACAFE's diversification funds;
(d) Marketing Department, with supervisory responsibilities for
FEDERACAFE initiated agroindustrial projects, producers
associations, "centros de acopio- and supermarkets. The department
includes a section on food technology and one responsible for the
price information system; and
(e) Regional Department, responsible for supervision of the
diversification work being implemented under the responsibility of
the Departmental Committees or directly under
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's technical assistance program.
8.        Activities.  To meet its oblectives, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO:
(a) identifies Projects and prepares feasibility studies;
(b) provides technical and financial assistance for project
implementation;
(c)  coordinates and channels its own resources and other funds for
project financing;
(d) intervenes in the ma-kering process through the organization of
marketing associations ac producer and regional level 3/,
wholesaling (COMERCAFE, FEDERACAFE's marketing agent) t/ and
retailing (through FEDERACAFE-owned supermarkets).
9.        Financial Structure.  All general and operating expenses of
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO are paid by FEDERACAFE under its own operating
budget. The Budget for FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's 1983 operations was ColS
375 million (about US$5.0 million), divided as follows:
3/ MERCALDAS in Caldas, MERCAFE in Valle, CENCOOP In Antioquia, Cooperativa
de Quindio in Quindio, CENCOTOL in Tolima.
4/ COMERCAFE operates as a wholesaler in CORABASTOS buying in the area of
Cundinamarca and also receiving products from the other regional
marketing associations.



- 42 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 4
FEDERACAPE/PRODESARROLLO's 1983 Budget (CclS million)
Staff and
Staff     General
Expenses    Expenses   Total
Management                                   40.0        9.2        49.2
Technical Department                        211.9        0.7       212.6
Marketing Department                         49.4        2.2        51.6
Research and Programming Department          34.5        6.0        40.5
Credit Department                            20.8        0.3        21.1
Total          356.6       18.4      375.0
10.       FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's agricultural credit operations have
reached Col$ 640 million in 1982, ColS 279 million from its own funds and
Col$ 361f million from FFAP. The 1983 program forecasts a 10% increase in
this lending program. Total outstanding loans financed by
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's own funds at December 31, 1982 was ColS 715.5
million, of which ColS 178.9 short-term and ColS 536.6 long-term. Table 2
shows an analysis of their Balance Sheet for the last three years.
11.       Having all its staff and operating expenses paid by FEDERACAFE
leaves FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLn with all the profit from Its lending
operations; these profits rose from ColS 75.1 million in 1980 to ColS 118.6
million in 1981 and ColS 137.5 million in 1982.   Tahle 3 shows its Income
Statement for the last three years.
12.       From 1975 to 1980, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO received grants from
the Coffee Fund totalling ColS 411.1 million; the accumulated profits to
December 1983 totalled ColS 554.9 million, thus FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO had
assets at December 31, 1983 of about ColS 975 million, of which about ColS
600 million were available for lending in 1983. FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's
debt service and cash flow under the project are shown in Tables 6 and 7.
13.       FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO's accounts are audited by the Comptroller
general of the Republic, and consist only of its credit operations.
Banco Cafetero
14.       Banco Cafetero was created 30 years ago, under Governmental Decree
No. 2314 of September 4, 1953. Its original capital was ColS 50 million all
originating from coffee accounts surplus; this paid-up capital was increased
throughout the years always from the same origin, and has reached at December
31, 1982 ColS 1,555 million (USS22 million at the prevailing exchange rate).
Table 4 shows a summary of its Balance Sheet for the last three years for
which Audited reports are available. Banco Cafetero has established itself
as a first class financial institution, active in all sectors of the economy
(although its lending has been about 50% to agriculture) 5/. Table 5 shows
the analysis of its loan portfolio for the last three years. Outstanding
loan portfolio at December 31, 1982 reached USS465 million.
5/  At December 1982, loan delinquency amounted to 2.37.



-43-                                ANNEX 2
Page 5
15.       Banco Cafetero has been one of FEDERACAFE/PRODESAROLLO's
bankers6/ for the diversification program since its inception through a
'fideicomiso' (trust) account where FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO funds (or
funds mobilized from external sources) are deposited and used for loans to
farmers on FEDERACAFE/PRODESAROLLO's instructions. Since Banco Cafetero
has also access to FFAP rediscounting, it finances diversification loans
from FFAP funds whenever feasible, and from FEDERACAFE/PRODESAROLLO's funds
for the balance. When the loans are granted, from whatever source of
financing, Banco Cafetero assumes responsibility and carries out
collections of interest and principal as they come due--crediting
FEDERACAFE/PRODESAROLLO's account with the proceeds of those loans financed
with FEDERACAFE/PRODESAROLLO's funds. Banco Cafetero collects as fees 2X
on the average monthly outstanding balance of the loan portfolio.
16.       The oustanding portolio for diversification up to Dec. 31, 1982
has been as follows:
Medium and
Short Term       Long-Term _      Total
------- --in ColS million-- 
Banco Cafetero                         131              392           523
Cafe Agraria                            48              145           193
Total                        179             537           716
Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja Agraria)
17.       Caja Agraria is well known to the Bank since it has been the
executing agency for Loans 448-CO and 651-CO (now fully disbursed), the
banking window for Loans 624-CO and 739-CO (fully disbursed) and for the
on-going Loans 849-CO, 1118-CO and 1737-CO and the agency responsible of
providing banking services, controlling, coordinating procurement matters,
and of progress reporting of Loan 1352-CO.
18.       Caja Agraria was established as a semi-autonomous Government
agency in 1931, to increase production through provision of agricultural
and industrial credit to small-scale and other clients which had no access
to commercial banks. Currently, Caja is the leading agricultural credit
institution, particularly in respect to small-scale farmers, and the
largest bank in Colombia in terms of banking/commercial infrastructure,
with 25 regional offices, about 852 branch offices, a network of 425
agricultural supply stores, and a total staff of 14,000. It has become the
largest monetary intermediary in Colombia and relies principally upon
savings and sights deposits and Banco de la Republica's rediscounts for
resources. Total assets, as of December 1980, was ColS 93.3 billion
(USS1,327 million); a comparative breakdown of Caja's main assets and
liabilities for the last three years appear below.
6/ The other institution is Caja Agraria.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
1982 in
At Prevailing
1980            1981              1982  Exdmn& Rate
in ol$ 1dLliUn
Assets
Cash and Bfak                   1,481            6,779            10,559      150.2
Investments                    1,258               987               521       7.4
Loan 1brtfolio                 38,275           42,459            60,883      866.2
Bldgs. 6 Equipment              1,352            1,444             1,695       24.1
Agricultural Supplies           1,662             2,773            1,887       26.8
Other Assets                    8,570            9,720            17,760      252.7
52,598           64,162            93,305    1,327.4
Current Accourts               10,742           13,411            21,349      303.7
Savings Acoamts                16,611           21,318            25,824      367.4
Redisacuts - BOR                9,705           11,268            16,639      236.7
BadOs                          5,479             6,685             7,611      10.3
Oth, Liabilities,
frovisions, etc.              8,291            10,702           27,080      385.3
Equity and reserves    5,531           6,134             7,422
Less: acon. losses 3,761              5,356            12,620
Sub-total              1,770              778            (5,198)     (74.0)
52,598           64,162            93,305    1,327.4
19.      The above, however, underlines Caja's financial problem, due to
the fact that it has been unable throughout the years to generate income
sufficient to cover its expenses. This has resulted in losses up to June
30, 1983 of Col$ 22,309 million (about US$290 million). Government had
reviewed Caja's problems at frequent intervals, and finally, In December
1983, passed a law creating additional resources for Caja (through a new 2%
ad valorem tax on imports, of which Caja is to receive the largest part)
and taking over Caja's deficit as at December 31, 1983 (expected to be
about USS320 million).
20.       Under the proposed project, Caja's participation would be limited
to tnat of a banking window, and given its solid operational Infrastructure
no problems are expected in this regard. Caja's role in the project is
necessary, as In some cases it is the only bank to which farmers have
access in some project areis and its field operatlons under other ongoing
Bank-financed projects arr. satisfactory. Furthermore, Caja has been
involved in FEDERACAFE/PEODESAROLLO's diversification activities since
their beginning, and is cne of the two financial institutions7/ handling
7/ The other institution being Banco Cafetero.



- 45 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 7
PRODESAROLLO's loans to small farmers, and processing those diversification
loans eligible for FFAP financing; its performance has been very
satisfactory8/. Caja is cooperating with FEDERACAFE/PRODESAROLLO under
the same 'fileicomiso" agreement as Banco Cafetero (see para 15).
8/ At December 1982 loan delinquency amounted to 12%, due in part to the
slower procedures for loan collection and to Caja's rule that the whole
loan becomes delinquent when one payment is overdue.



-46-                        Annex 2
Table 1
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
FEDERACA FE
Summary of Balance Sheets
Dec. 31, 1982
in US$ Million
Dec. 31     Dec. 31      at Prevailing
1981       1982       Exchange Rate
-in ColS million--
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                          301         313            4.5
Receivables                             652       1,146            16.3
Loans to Staff                          334         497             7.1
Coffee Inventories                                142            2.0
Investments                              24          24            0.3
Buildings & Equipment (net)             191         279            4.0
Financial Investments                 3,267       3,748           53.3
4,769      6,149            87.5
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                        908       1,469            20.9
Expenditure to be Inplernented        1,246       1,379            19.6
Long-term Debt                          206         306             4.4
Capital and Reserves                  1,549       1,984           28.2
Accumulated Profits                     860       1,011            14.4
4,769      6,149            87.5
Summary of Operating Account
INCOME
Profit on Local Coffee Marketing      1,057       1,354           19.3
Payment from Fondo Nacional
del Cafe for Services               4,630       5,655           80.5
Other Income                             25           -            -
5,712      7,009            99.8
EXPENDITURES
Contribution to Regional
Coffee Committees                   2,263       2,476           35.2
General Services Administration       3,219       3,992           56.8
Surplus                                  15         151            2.2
To various Reserves                     215         390            5.6
5,712      7,009            99.8
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1984



- 47-                         ANNEK 2
Table 2
COtLUBIA
~IcIaIIR~t DIVEtIICATIO4iN i'cER
FEHMACAE Agrilttral Credit Operaticns for Dv cation
Uzon  P1FIESAXV=U
- in Col$ million -
FR(M AIMIlD BAIANCE SHES                                 1980    1981   1982 1/
A. Fesoaures
IDB: Tnter-Aecan a ievelopuent Bank    ShDrt Term     5.7      5.7    5.8
Iong Term     12.1      6.4    0.6
Sbtkotal      17.8     12.1    6.4
Banco de la Republica - Swap          ShDrt Term      2.2      1.5    1.2
Iong Tenn      4.6      3.5    1.8
Subtrctal      6.8      5.0    3.0
National Coffee Fundafe                             342.6    401.9  411.1
Accumulated Profits                                 298.7    417.3  554.9
Total Resources                                  665.9    836.3    975.4
B. Application of Rumdr
Deposits in Badks: Baco Cafetero                     48.1    100.6    148.9
Caja Agraxia                      30.7      45.4    50.0
Otbers                             0.3      -         0.4
Sutotal                            79.2    146.0    199.3
Debtors for Intexest                                 33.0     48.0     60.7
OutstanIding Loans: .hort ernm                      138.4    160.5    178.9
loxg Term                         415.2    481.6    536.6
Subtotal                         553.6    642.1    715.5
Total -prk"ition of Furnds 2/                    665.8    836.1    975.5
1/ Audit Pendixg
2/ DIfferences due to ramdinIg.
Sorce: mAE/PE EESARMM
Mardh 21, 1984



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO Agricultural Credit Operations
II. Income Statement
in ColS million --
FROM AUDITED BALANCE SHEETS                                      1980     1981    1982 1/
A. Income
Interest Collected on Portfolio                              66.3     113.5      120.9
Interest Due                                                  9.0       6.4       12.0
Technical Assistance Fees                                     9.4      11.2       15.8
Portfolio Insurance Income                                    0.3       0.7        1.6
Total Income                                              85.0     131.8      150.3
B. Expenditure
Commission for Portfolio Management                           7.1      10.4       11.0
Interest on Foreign Debt                                      1.1       0.9        0.7
Commission on IDB Loan                                        1.3       1.0        0.6
Other Expenditure                                             0.4       0.9        0.5
Total Expenditure                                             9.9      13.2       12.8
_ -
Profit                                                   75.1      118.6     137.5
11 Audit pending.
Source: Mission.
March 21, 1984



- 49 -
ANNK 2
Table 4
AG:ICLTJAL DIVERSIFITICaI PRDJECr
ERN0 a9:ERO
Sunwy of BaLance Sheets 1980-1982
US$ mulicri
Excharge Rate
1980       1981       1982   at Dec. 31/82     X
-uI Col $ mlllia-
ASSE
Cash and Bm*                        11,140     13,710      17,808       253          22
Imnvestnm                            3,360      5,198       7,342       104           9
Ioam Ebrtfolio (net)                20,639     23,774      30,845       439          38
Overseas Debtors                     6,261      7,902      11,796       168          14
Other Debtors                        1,552      4,698       6,752        96           8
luildings & B*upment (net)           1,007       1,115      1,263        18           2
Other Assets                         2,925      4,696       6,161        88           7
46,884     61,093     81,967     1,166          100
Current Acanmts                     21,185     25,020      35,974       512          44
Savings Accmtts                      5,379      6,839      9,833        140          12
bRBiiuscnt;s BE                      8,507      11,286     13,282       189          16
Certificates of Deposit              3,444      6,579      11,272       160          14
Othr Liabilities                     2,885      3,846       2,725        39           3
Equity, Reserves and
Accumlated Profit                  5,484       7,523      8,881       126          11
46,884     61,093     81,967     1,166         100
-              --
Sce: Mission.
Mardb 21, 1984



- 50 -
ANEX 2
Tab]e 5
ACRICULTEIPAL DIVERSIFLRTIC3  FDER=
Analysis oF Loam Portfolo By Sector 198D-1982
(C1$ mlUicm)
US$ milix
At arvailing
198)      X       1981     X        1982     %     Ex___   Rate
AlICUIUE                 11,052    53.6    13,081    50.8    16,385    50.2        233
of idch: Offee         (5,789)   28.1   (6,440)   25.0   (6,784)   20.8         (97)
Other Crops   (2,609)   12.6   (3,449)   13.4   (5,045)   15.5        (72)
Livestoc     (1,797)    8.7    (2,145)    8.3    (2,845)    8.7        (40)
Others         (857)    4.2   (1,047)    4.1    (1,711)    5.2        (24)
INDUSY                    3,571    17.3    3,905    15.2      4,833    14.8        69
HUBIC SERVICS             1,515     7.3     2,844    11.0    2,935      9.0        42
_KN_S_ORT                  239      1.2       155     0.6      360      1.1         5
AIDE CONUlMERS            3,611    17.5    4,951    19.2    6,718    20.6          96
anuERS                     651      3.1      825     3.2      1,400    4.3         20
TDThL               20,639   100.0   25,761   100.0    32,631   100.0         465
Sourc: Mission.
March 21, 1984



- 51 -
A-- 2
ODOURIBA                                          Table 6
ACRMIURAL D1VEICAThI PJErC
FEaMACAFE/IPRLIARWUO'S Debt-Service Ihier the Project
Average                 loan Dsbursenents                t ed          Interest          Total Debt-Service
Excha~e                    in USS m.lllion    (a 0.75s in Cost in    010.08 in EstiJBted Total CGat Total Yearly
Rate     Perlcyi        Disbused  Balance  US Dollar  Ccl S m.   US Dollars Gol S m.  in Col $   in Cal $
110.75   Ort-Dec 1984      2.0      48.0    90,000        9.97      50,400       5.58   15.55       15.55
117.05   Jwi-Ma 1985        1.5     46.5    87,200       10.21      88,2(0      10.32   20.53
123.22   4pr-Jure 1q85      1.5     45.0    84,375       10.40     126,000      15.53   25.93
129.27   Jly-5ept 1985     2.0      43.0    80,625       10.42     176,400      22.80   33.22                 95.23
135.32   Oct-Dec 1985      2.0      41.0    76,875       10.40     226,800      30.69   41.09      120.77
141.36   JarrMar 1986      2.75     38.25   71,720       10.14     296,100      41.86   52.00
146.57   Apr-June 1986     2.75     35.50   66,560        9.76     365,400      53.56   63.32
150.97   July-Sept 1986    2.5      33.0    61,875        9.34     428,400      64.68   74.02                230.43
155.37   Oct-Dec 1986      2.5      30.50   57,200        8.R9     491,400      76.35   85.24      274.58
159.76   Jan-Mar 1987      2.75     27.75   52,030        8.31     560,700      89.58   97.89
163.89   Apr-June 1987     2.75     25.00   46,875        7.68     630,000     103.25  110.93
167.77   Jily-Sept 1987    2.75     22.25   41,720        7.0o     699,300     117.32  124.32                 418.34
171.65   Oct-Dec 1987      2.75     19.50   36,565        6.28     768,600     131.93  138.21      471.35
175.53   Jan-Mar 1988      2.25     17.25   32,345        5.68     825,300     144.96  150.54
179.57  AIpr-June 1988     2.25     15.0    28,125        5.05     882,001     158.38  163.43
183.70   July5-ept 1988    2.0      13.0    24,375        4.48     982,800     180.54  185.02                 637.20
187.92   Oct-Dec 1988      2.0      11.0    20.625        3.88       -          -        3.88      502.87
192.24   Jarnbr 1989       1.75      9.25   17,345        3.33   3,478,200     668.65  671.98
196.66   Apr--Jne 1989     1.75      7.50   14,065        2.77       -          -        2.77
201.19   July-ept 1989     1.25      6.25   11,720        2.36   3,478,200     715.85  715.85                1,394.48
205.81   Oct-Dec 1989       1.25     5.0      9,375       1.93       -          -        1.93     1,392.53
210.55   Jan-Mar 1990       1.0      4.0      7,50D       1.60   3,478,200     732.34  733.94
215.39   Apr-Jure 1990     1.0       3.0     5,625        1.21       -          -        1.21
223.35   July-ept 1990     1.0       2.0     3,750        0.83   3,478,200     766.42  767.25
225.41   Oct-Dec 1990       1.0      1.0      1,875       0.42       -          -        0.42     1,502.81
230.59   Jan-Mr 1991       0.5       0.5       938        0.22   3.478,210     802.04  R02.26
235.89   Apr-Jie 1991      0.5       _-                   -           -              -
Source: Mission
March 21, 1984



- 52 -
cxxux,Mu 2
able 7
ARiamURAL DrWICnkT!N PEiawB
=EEAAE/PR AZODS    Uh-!w U}dier the Pro1et
(CoS ,ulim
1984/85     1985186     1986/87    1987/(8     1988/89
Remm    at beg1imdxg                      8           274.8         7.4        159.7      692.8
Izitereat iw mLversiratic lwa            190.1       504.8       885.5      1,315.2    1,900.1
FPrE MCAFeaESABWUW's
Portfoito                    178.4      281.9        428.1       776.0      991.3
epayments: Dlversiffcation                  -         378.0       966.0      1,571.2    1,937.5
ROCWE/FPIESARWIO               80.0      194.4        275.8       443.4      730.6
lapt ftr   D3RD La                       711.6   1,02.9       1,664.0      2,104.0    2,848.4
Other                                                   - ___                             ___
Total Inflnw                         1,960.1    2,716.8     4,206.8      6,369.5    9,100.7
mAw for FmEA(CAE/IMSPOMMUD's
odtbr activitell                      422.0       557.0       838.0      1,436.0     2,135.0
Diveraification                          1,168.1    1,922.0     2,790.7      3,603.5     4,853.4
Debt Servlce 1/                            95.2       230.4       418.4       637.2      1,394.5
Total applicatimi                    1,f85.3    2,709.4     4,047.1      5,676.7     8,382.9
Belr                                   274.8        7.4       159.7        692.8       717.8
1  It-Service  By Year 6 the total armk loan wuld have bom dlabarse, represeating aboit Col$ 8,390 villion iadch
PeEMAFE/PFRESMILWU  mddwlt cntinue lendlng afterwards at an average of 21.7%. Debt service frou Year 6 an
is USS7.0 dilI-lan yearly ubkch tzepset In Year 6 aboit CoIS 1,500 millinm, incressilg by aou 10% yearly for
devaluatla.  Lhe repay,is of the raing 12 a2vtfzatlm of the Bak loan (first havg hen made in Year
5, ahbov) muld cete the foUadxi aitad; wAich wouM eahle FWDACAFESAEWZJ to repay fully the
Bk lom while eAzstiu the Baic furAls:
Year 2 of
DebL,-
Service   Year 3  Year 4  Yer 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Yer 9 YearlO 10Yea    Yearl 12 Year 13
Availabe resn
(CoLS 8,390 +718)    9,108      9,584  10,014  10,372  10,626  10,736  10,650  10,304  9,617   8,489   6,794   4,377
at 21.7%            11,084    11,664  12,187  12,623  12,932  13,066  12,961  12,510 11,704  10,331    8,268   5,326
D1bt-Servime         1,500     1.650   1,815   1,997   2J196   2,416   2,657   2,923  3,215   3,537   3,891   4,28D
ieamirm available   9,5814    10,014  10,372  10,626  10,736  10,650  10,304   9,617  8,489   6,79W   4,377   1,046
S     msia
Mard 21, 1984



NATONAL FEDERATION OF
COFFEE GROWERS OF COLOMBIA
r     CO c                 lv
I c           I
I           
"ee~ ~~I~ m I
T I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
I.d                                 --rw  - -1- - - - - -  i  ta       R.odJ
A-"t- I                                                                                              DU"          tn         Rd       I
~~~~~~~~~                                                                  &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wa  Aim  U.4  Dcw¶
AmotwO Lim agm ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     C~*~g~    ~         ~ t.~
(TIINI d)
C+eua                                                          ..g                                      I                                                                                                         II
Y'.
Alr



NATIONAL FEDERATION OF COFFEE GROWERS OF COLOMBIA
COFFEE AREAS DEVELOPMENT AND DIV/ERSIFICATION PROGRAM
Organization Chait
|   OFRCE OF 
|   THE MStAER  
.. . I
93B-RCTORATE
RESEARCH &
PROGRMING                    TEPAREDIT                                                                  _         REC40NAL
DEPATMENT        . . .         .                                                    D        _  _ _
ECONOMICS SETO                CAME & TUBERS               NACLSAT                     GROINDUSIRIES  IOP
ROECT                      SECTION                     S      CIOND
RURAL ADMNISTRN.                                         ACOUNG CTECHNOLOGY                                     C CUNDNMAC
SECIONBANNA PROJECT                             ;* SCIT)ON             |     SECTION                                 |  
RFU1 &                                               COLLECTION &                  BOYACA       SAAa 
AGf_OLOGY SECTION              VEEABLES                                                DESi   NSJANIR                               5P   d
F|OJECT                                                 SECTION                     CALTA        Calbe Gtowwn
_______   ~~~~~~~MrAConvrlttm
LtNSTOCcK                                               RAC
WES ECt                                        -       PLANNING &                  ANT -         Ad**talo rw d 
PROACT                                  Pwci~~~~~~~~~~~~MS SECTION  I    MMTctwkic Amls.
4    NK         wimdo the CO%fe
COORDNTOR                    R_A _      VAELE Dmmlt0fI
SMI ANMALS                                             Of PROOUCE RALE                             & Dw
PROJECT                                              ASOIAK
PROJECT
fROJECT
Woad SO*-26223
010



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Areas by Crop - Phasing
---- Project Years -           --
Crop                               1         2        3         4         5      Total
Avocado                          420        540       640      740       860      3,200
Citrus                           840      1,080    1,280    1,480    1,720       6,400
Mango                            270        330       400      470       530      2,000
Pineapple                        540        660      800       940    1,060      4,000
Blackberry                        50         70       80        90       110        400
Papaya                           390        480      580       680       770     2,900
Lulo                             200        250       300      350       400      1,500
Cocoa 1/                         540        660      800       940    1,060      4,000
Sugar Cane 1/                    540        660      800       940    1,060      4,ono
Plantain                       1,860      2,340    2,800    3,260    3,740    14,000
Corn/Beans                     1,695      2,085    2,520    2,955    3,345    12,600
Tomato/G. Beans                  420        540      640       740       860     3,200
Onion                            295        365      440       515       585     2,200
Total                        8,060    10,060   12,080   14,100   16,100    60,400
1/ Excludes 4,000 ha of cocoa and 6,000 ha of sugar cane to receive annual
maintenance credit.
Source: FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO and Mission.
March 21, 1984



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Livestock Production Units 1/ - Phasing
Unit                      Project Years 
No.          1         2        3        4         5
Milk Production                  500         80       100      100       100      120
Dual Purpose Production        2,500       400        500      500       500      600
Pig Breeding                      30          5         5        5         7        8
Pig Fattening                    120         20        20       20        30       30
Egg Production                   160        20         30       30        40       40
Boiler Production                200        40         40       40        40       40
Appiaries                        400        80         80       80        80       80
1/  Units defined by the fixed investment associated with the following:
Milk Production  Unit               -     20 heifers, 1 bull
Dual Purpose Production Unit        -     20 heifers/calves, I bull
Pig Breeding Unit                   -     20 sows, 2 boars
Pig Fattening Unit                  -     20 weaner pigs
Eggs Production Unit                -     500 chickens
Boiler Production Unit              -     5,500 chicks
Appiary                             -     50 beehives
Source: Mission
March 21, 1984



- 57 -
AN= 3
OWOLIA
:ManL1URAL DI S                   r
Indicative Crop Yields Exclu M _g Harvet lasses) l/
(ton/h)
Y e a  r s
0        1       2        3       4        5        6       7         8         9
Avocaco                            -       -         -        1       4        8       12        12       12
Citrus                             -       -         -        5       10      15       20        25       25
hrKV                                -      -         -        2        5       8       12        16        16
Cocoa                    0.7        -      -         0.05    0.3      0.6      0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8
Plantain                           -       6         9        6       -
Papya                              -      20        40       15*      -       20       40        15*       -
Bladcherry                         -       8        16       14      14      1lo        -        8        16
ulo                                -      if        15        7.5*    -       10       15         7.5*     -
Pineapple                          -      70        30*      -       70       30'       -        70       30k
Platain - Sole                     -       -        10       15      15       12       12        10'       -
Com 2/                   2.0        2.5   3Lo        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0
Dry BIs 2/               0.8        1.0    1.1       1.1      1.1      1.1     1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1
Tom.to 2/                -         22     26        26       26      26       26       26        26       26
Greaean  S 2/            -          8     10        in       10       10      10       10        jn       10
Onion 31                 7          7     10        15       15      15       15       15        15       15
*  Crp replanted
I/ Agricultura'. yields have stagnated in recent years in Colabia aM are not expected to increae without the
project. The use of better seeds, mmre fertilizer mid intensive technical assistanCe accomut for the
projected yield increases under the project.
2/ GrGwn in rotation in same year
3/ Sivcnonth crop - tw  crops per year
Source: FEDERACAFE/PFESARRD=  and Mssion
"arch 21, 1984



- 58 -
ANNC 3
Table4
AGRICJU1RL DIVSIFICATIGO  PKRDJ
Livestock - Proxctiron ani Sales Per Urdt
ProJect Years
Unit      1        2           3           4           54
!lk unit
m    -                       Ulit.   18,000    36,000     36,000     36,000      36,000
Male Calf                    No.         4         8           8          8           8
Female Calf                  No.         3         4          4           4           4
CU1 1C4W                     No.         -         -          -           4           4
nni Rirpose Uhnit
Hllk                         lit.    9,000   19,800       21,600)    21,600      21,600
Fat Steer                    No.         -         -           4          8           8
Female Cuf                   No.         3         4           4          4           4
cul Cows                     NO.         -         -           2          4           4
Pls - Breadingt
Fattening Pig                No.       200       400        400         400         400
Pigs - Fattening
meat                         kg.    4,700    9,400         9,400       9,400      9,400
Used Sacks                   No.       300       600         600        600         600
EgFs                         No.   125,000   125,000    125,000      125,000    125,000
Cast Hens                    No.       450       450        450         450         450
Manure                        t          6         6           6          6           6
Sacks                        NO.       500       500        500          500        500
Chicken - Broiler
Meat                         kg.    8,550    8,550         8,550      8,550       8,550
Mbanre                        t         40        40          40         40          40
Sacks                        NO.       500       500         500        500         500
Aprir
kg.    1,250    2,000        2,500       2,500       2,500
wax                          kg.         -        12.5        25.00      50.0        50.
Pbllen                       kg.         -        30          30         30          30
Nuclei                       No.         -        25          25         25          25
S=m-rce.     A    /PWMSAR=  and Missiont
Mbm c 21, 1984



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Land Use With and Without Pruo !Ct
(ha)
- Project      + Project      Difference
Traditional Coffee                        38,850          38,850             -
Caturra Coffee (sun)                      40,800         27,200          - 13,600
Caturra Coffee + Plantain                  5,250          18,850         + 13,600
Food Crops                                 6,450           6,450             -
Pasture/Regrowth                          49,700           7,940         - 41,760
Natural Pasture                           50,000         23,000          - 27,000
Improved Pasture                            -            24,000          + 24,000
Forage                                      --             6,000         +  6,000
Forest                                    32,400         28,400           - 4,000
Perm. Tree Crops                           6,800         22,430          + 15,630
Semi-Perm. Tree Crops (cool)                --            1,900           + 1,900
Semi-Perm. Tree Crops (warm)                --           21,710          + 21,710
Annual Crops                              14,000          17,520         +  3,520
Non Agricultural Use                      26,450         26,450              -
Total (ha)                             270,700        270,700                 0
Source: Mission
March 21, 1984



- 60 -                                     A= 3
lable 6
AGICMI L DIVEtSIICATI P:fflr
Total Cmts by CGlo   IZts - Bhoxn (indudig )ontl    )
(QO$ nilio)
1         2         3           4          5         Total
(1) Agricaltural Proctionl Copnet
Invest.mMnt Cbsts             1,914.0    3,454.7    4,657.6    5,993.9    8,016.8   24,037.0
Wirdking Capital                380.9      955.3   1,391.3    1,973.0    2,712.8    7,413.3
Subtotal                     2,294.9    4,410.0   6,048.9    7,966.9    10,729.6   31,450.3
(2) Marketing Coaponere
Investomt Cost                   84.7      87.8      265.3       340.5      522.3    1,300.6
Working Capital                  76.5       77.1     169.3       214.5      314.8       852.2
Subtotal                      161.2      164.9     434.6       555.0      837.1    2,152.8
(3)      .        Coaaent
InvestaEnt Costs                573.4      720.6     945.4    1,134.9    1,379.7    4,754.0
IWorkng Capital                 133.0      161.9     211.0       251.7      307.0    1,064.6
Subtotal                      706.4      882.5   1,156.4    1,386.6    1,686.7    5,818.6
(4)   aning 1/                          25.8      28.0       43.6        52-2       66.4      216.0
(5) AgOed ! isnih _/                    39.9      39.9       39.9        39.9       39.9       199.5
(6) Marketirg Informatima Servie_ /     17.2       6.6        6.6        6.6         6.6       43.6
(7) Irrecenral Thitensim Staff 1/       31.4      86.5      155.2       236.3      308.9      818.3
(8) Physical Cestsrgeic  (on
4, 5, 6, 7)                       11.5      16.1       24.6       33.5        42.2      1Z7.9
(9) Price lhes  (on
4, 5, 6, 7)                       29.7      87.0      210.6      407.8       688.1    12423.2
Total                         3,318.0   5,721.5   8,120.4   10,684.8    14,405.5   42,250.2
1/ Excludes aconingerci
Source: Missia
Harch 21, 1984



- 61 -
AINE 3
P1KLIRAL DIVESIFICMc  PIU1Jr
Agriodnal Predwtion Conts - fmr
(in CD1S dullcn)
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5       Total
19gJ85    1S85/8      IS86J87     1w77        lqe8/8
Agrioutual laoan
Invesamnts                              1,555.8    2,320.1     2,627.3     2,842.2     3,245.4     12,590.8
Wolkirg capital                           318.7      654.4       784.8       947.4     1,081.8      3,787.1
1,874.5    2,974.5    3,412.1     3,789.6     4,327.2     16,377.9
Of wiich:
Local Base1ie Cost                      1,651.7    2,647.3     3,025.8     3,339.5     3,807.6     14,471.9
InflatEgn Factors                          (0.21)     (0.452)     (0.731)     (1.046)     (1.414)
C4st Fecalation                           346.9    1,196.6     2,211.9     3,493.1     5,384.0     12,632.5
Total 1Cnl COsts                     1,996    3,843.9       5,237.7     6,832.6     9,191.6     27,104.4
Forelipan Rlr   Costs                    m222.8      327.2       386.3       450.1       519.6      1,906.0
Ili i Factor iadj. for dev.)              (0.33)      (0.73)      (1.10)      (1.52)      (1.96)
Cost Escalation                            73.5      238.9       424.9       684.2     1,018.4      2,439.9
Total Foreign Costs                     296.3      566.1       811.2     1,134.3     1,538.0      4,345.9
Total COstS                           2,294.9    4,410.0     6,018.9     7,966.9    10,729.6     31,.450.3
Of uo:ht
Baselire Coss                           1,874.5    2,974.5     3,412.1     3,789.6     4,327.2     16,377.9
Cost Escalation                           420.4    1,435.5     2,636.8     4,177.3     6,402.4     15,072.4
(in USS millon)
Tlal Baeine Cost I/                          17.4       27.9        31.9       35.2        40.1        152.5
inflatlon Factor 2/ -                       (-.05)      (-.04)      (.02)       (.09)       (.19)
Cost Escalation                             -0.9       -1.1         0.6         3.2         7.6          9.4
Total 1rocl Cast                         16.5       26.8        32.5        38.4        47.7        161.9
Foreign Baseline Cost 1/                     2.4         3.4        4.1         4.7         5.5         20.1
Inflatlon Faccor 3/                          (.053)     (.135)      (.236)      (.347)      (.460)
Cost EaCalaticr                              0.1        0.5         1.0         1.6         2.5          5.7
Total Foreign Costs                      2.5        3.9         5.1         6.3         8.0         25.8
Total Costs                                  19.0       30.7        37.6       44.7        55.7        187.7
GE itdch,
Baseline Cst                               19.8       31.3       36.0        39.9        45.6        172.6
Cost Escalation                           -0.8        -0.6         1.6        4.8        10.1         15.1
1/ Cet  into USS at the aeWe rate of Col S95.00/USS (Mardc 1984)
L1 Ifrlation ine (adjusted for deselopeat) from local costs to USS over bre coats of March 31, 1984.
hn     eato   inflation ici  ower be of 1arch 31. 1984.
Source: MLssiui
Muh 21, 1984



- 62 -
oxax                                         AN= 
ACNaflL VEIMAT                                     M C 3
1hz*atdx 2      t - }h          Cost
__in-G 152         3                     5         Total
A.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Y  * r s
FaPra  pron>er <rgm nizatim(ro.)         20         20         20         20         20          IP)
Gllla:tia   alu
Prdry cateta(no.)                       1          2          5          7          7           22
Feagl   t   (no.)                       -          1          3          3          5           12
cootERQs                                  I          -          -          -          -            I
Sipermrket 'zus l aw vePetahe
sectil  (no.)                          2          5         10         10         10           37
ToCal no. omahlom                   24        28          38         40         42          In
I. cost
Far    Pruhcr  rxudzat1au                19.8       19.8       19.8       19.8       19.8         99.A
collectin centazu
-Flitd Irnw                             4.R      27.8        81.5       41.1       129.4       335.6
-Wklng cqiital                          2.8       15.9       45.0       50.5       71.2        185.4
030RAFE
FEWI~ izwaiL42.3                              -                                                42.3
-woeng  capital                        27.1     -                -               -              27.1
=-1Ie Fndt md VemU
-    d Xnu it                           6.8       17.1       34.2       34.2       34.2        126.5
-1Idzm Catl                             3A.4       8.5       16.9       16.9       16.9         62.'
Total                              107t       9D.1       197.4      212.5      271.5       878.5
Local Once
Bei       T  P  shys  Ca_tites           113.9       f5.9      211.5      227.9      291.7        W40.9
lation   FaCze                            (0.21)     (0.452)    (0.731)    (1.066)    (1.414)
cost Escatlatn                            23.9       43.4      154.6      238A. 412.5            7Rf.8
Toaal 1 .1 Coa                         L137.8     139.1      366.1      466.3      7n4.2       1,813.7
*ese        pbicel Cay tiijm             17.6       14.8       32.6       35.2       44.9        145.1
InfintleoFtar (adj. for dev.)             (0.31)     (0-73)     (1.10)     (1.52)     (1.96)
Cot FaLtm                                  5.8       10.8       35.9       53.5       88.0        194.0
Tatal Fcgei. Coat                       23.4       25.6       68.5       88.7      132.9        339.1
Tota CAs                               161.2      164.9      434.6      555.0      837.1      2.152.8
(in USS lUllon)
local Baslije coats                          1.2        1.0        2.2        2.4        3.1          9.9
inflation Factor                            (-.)5)      (0          (2)       (.09)      C.19)
Coat EACalation                             -0.1       -           -         0.2         0.6          0.7
TOrAl Loa CoDt                           1.1        1.0        2.2        2.6        3.7         10.6
Folbm Bmelim Cat                             0.2        0.2        0.3        0.4         0.5          1.6
h Df   t Fact                                (053)      (.135)     (.236)     (.367)    (C.60)
Ot FaLtion                                   -          -          0.1         0.1       0.2          0.4
Taal ForenC Gzn                          0.2        0.2       0.         0.5        0.7          2.0
Tocal Cats                                    1.3        1.2        2.6        3.1        4.4         12.6
Cf ..4c:
BDella Coat                                 1.4        1.2        2.5        2.R        3.6        1I.5
Cmt F_CAlAtio                             -0.1        -          0.1        0.3        0.8           1.1
1/ Ar mrdi 31, 198f
Imrrh 21, 198A



- 43 -
I   2         2                      S        Tat
A. PNl  rW.
1. 0SIA          t310    a1                                 do -        -                    N
2.  Rg-Itqrhee                           -       SI -       -                      -        I
1. r_ Qwq* Isf        t      7                    -          - _    _                        S
L.  mk .ta                                        -          -          -          -          20
3. ftttMptia                             -    _          _              -          -         10
C- y nmU                                          - _                              - _ _
macs n              .     .    .    .    o..l      -     - 4             -          -        mm
e. Smlher.scr                            40        -          -          -          -         Se
1. ad_t 1_             r                 0                   -          _          _ 
L  flUiP ta                              -        _         *4          _          _         *
I.   Is3 I-I                            2 P       -          -          -          -         52
Lm     d ra                                                   'A                             m  A
I. C.ud kaffllat w  C               _            -          -             
L hetr fl                                -        -        10           -          -        Us
m C     srson- 19                                          ItO                     -         Ia
1.   G., _ atrlz Ibam                            to         1
W       131        11W        li           -        Ue
wu a                                    is       tim        ma'        i-           -        so
2. hey _alI          e           _               im         It          -        5     5     II
1. fle                                  - MP  -I                                   -         1 0
I. d.tIII PSo*o rrtats
a        ey  i _   S.                    -        -          -          -         1Y          R.
NAM
.l Fla. h   P0kwe                          _ ~ -            _          -e         _ 
Si-
IC 5
f-it rum  ne. anxe                                -          -          --i
r .      Plp  _i           -        -          2          -          - e.
SIt.d.    .F(tnP.aw-                             -         2         10                     M
C.   ccf- n                              -        - a                 liS VI.  "
y                                              _t.   tI  Pn  P  
Plot. -r                                      -          --cl     IA         IS          !f 4 5 * A5
2att  .94*                               -02) (A              (a ni    2*4%6    3.1'          f
C.ha    s  as.  Sma. cL.o.               31       Ii0.       31 4.5                           1
Tl 1.L- I.   Wa].       Sls4                       441/        fl'          1.i2aJi
e lid'
9. rat.
u i Jtohe.    al Cu         s            O"it    i.i tLS     WA         WJ          Ia  1   S.7
(dIe,..     ts                               (0.233   (0.412)    (0.113     (3.*4      0.'3'3
Cat Facal*Is                                  11.4    377.?      224.t D     01.       413.9    I.I.
Tti k,l Cc                               142.    *10.2       112.3      *12        77.s    :._S
_ica Pf ol xets Cat           r            4.    .2.1         *2.        114.1)Yl/1.2  I1.39
Wel  -h1e.         ff  .                  1(34B    I.it   3.34           (I.UI.  1.1.        tE.
Ct letis                                  jal.     WA *       111-.1     753        t..     j.12bJ
(I. S .ill-is
wa G
S, * ft_t  COC         d                L        D         mJ          L          1.        11.
CtW hess                                     -0.25    .0.         0.3a2     0a.1        Il         GA*
eofamrw                     >C-415    CuGsb                       MAP.                  0.16n 
Tel Is ce                                 L        L9         1.1        1.4        1.I7
wiaI C            t-              LICLI              'LI ..2                1.1       I5
oi?alJ Fe.r                                   (.1561)    ( l      3.212      ("Jf       t.W)
he meIsat.                                    0.2       O4        4.7         I.         U.         .
Tat _-oAI 1aL.                            Li       LI         I           1         4."       31.1
ST.   C-CA                                   5L        4.2        7.1         7.0       3          1.0
_aUl. Se                                     .9       1h *.                  .11.
Get heists                                    -         11        nJS                   LZ         4.7
1' &      S_o 3m O"  fmlbtlht  Mils          .
? h      .  titfmid be          r_0a   le ltwItty  .
1T is         . wI .
%.f 21 . 1_k



CIUIA
1d1L1L dbiV0 3CATl10 D        W
A[dulLt%r a    St af                Tto                            srt   ota_d    Total                                                                                                           7an4n
- blt  Rtdf            __       SttToa T______ _                                                        _mS_ II                      _ GM_      also                                                   TOWal 1dt        Wrt
Project Yau Pintkli.t*                      Id1 sta 3n. hrt                     tart Pdntldrawa                      u                                 El =______                  __   _______
I              *9             S8            2             8          *.5             0           160         7.0           25           170            20           IO          11.7           176           5M          23.2            20
2               67            116          31            124         10.9          165           237         9.1           25            70            30            50          5.2           318           587         23.2            20
3              la3           216           33           I32          14.7          276           328        14.3           25           170            40            70         10.4           692           916         39.4            20
4              IU3           82             65           18D         19.5          393           414        18.0           25            70            60           IS0          9.6           8U          I.J9          47.3            20             a
S              196            192          44            176         24.0           5D           515        22.8           25            70          l3l            23          13.1           8865        1,393         59.9            20
Total           56           1.122          155           620         73.6        13.36          3.636        71.2         125           550           250           6M          50.          2,57.55       4,58         394.8            20
Basting Cost I /I
67.0                                    64.9                                                               45.5                                   137.4
rore1~ 14.6                                                                                                    13.3                                                                 9.9                                    31.t
Total                                                                 81.6                                    79.0                                                               55.6                                    216.0
I/  Smeltn  tcmt *t l4nth 31, 1984. kml ^ up imp Am 370, 1983 by qlyia  Wnflattan factoa  of 31.38 fnr loal aw             wmt aid 0.993 far fomi3   quut.
Smre: Kissin
lbrch 21, 3984
oI!



- 65 -
ANNEX  3
Table 11
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Applied Research Cost - Phasing
(Col$ million)
Project Years 
1        2        3        4         5         Total
Total                          36.0      36.0      36.0       36.0     36.0      180.0
Of Which:
Foreign Exchange (20x)        7.2       7.2       7.2       7.2       7.2       36.0
Local Costs (80%)            28.8      28.8      28.8       28.8     28.8      144.0
Baseline Cost 1/:
Local                        32.8      32.8      32.8       32.8     32.8      164.0
Foreign                       7.1       7.1       7.1        7.1      7.1       35.5
Total                        39.9      39.9      39.9       39.9     39.9      199.5
1/ Baseline costs at March 31, 1984. Brought up from June 30, 1983 by applying
inflation factors of 1.138 for local component and 0.993 for foreign component.
Source: Mission
March 21, 1984



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Table 12
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Marketing Information Service Cost - Phasing
(ColS million)
---     -       -- - - Project Years ----
1         2          3         4         5        Total
Computer System                 10.4                                                 10.4
Operating and Maintenance
Costs 1/                      1.0        1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0        5.0
Salaries'2/                     3.0        3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0       15.0
Other Operating Expenses 3/    2.0         2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        10.0
Total                       16.4        6.0        6.0       6.0       6.0       40.4
Of which:
Foreign Exchange 4/            10.1        1.8        1.8       1.8       1.8       17.3
Local Costs                     6.3        4.2        4.2       4.2       4.2       23.1
Baseline Cost 5/:
Local                         7.2        4.8        4.8       4.8       4.8       26.4
Foreign                      10.0        1.8        1.8       1.8       1.8       17.2
Total                        17.2        6.6        6.6       6.6       6.6       43.6
1/  10% of investment costs per year.
2/ Five additional staff for departments of Tolima, Quindio, Risaralda, Caldas and
Santander at Col$ 0.6 million/staff.
3/ At ColS 0.4 million per staff.
4/ Computer system is 80% foreign exchange and 30% of remaining costs are in foreign
exchange.
5/ Baseline costs at March 31, 1984. Brought up from June 30, 1983 by applying
inflation factors of 1.138 for local component and 0.993 for foreign component.
Source: Mission
March 21, 1984



-67-
AMNEX 3
Table 13
C0LMBIA
ACRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Increental Staff Cost - Phasing
(ColS millon)
Project Years
1         2          3          4         5         Total
Salaries:
Agricultural Production Staff
Extension agence & veterinarians:
Staff (no.)                         2         iS        23         20        15          75
Cost (Co1S million) I/              2.4       20.4      48.0        72.0     90.0       232.8
Assistants - Staff (no.)              -         16         10         25       29          80
Cost (ColS million) 1/              -          9.6       15.6       30.6     48.0       103.8
Marketing St-ff
Professionals (no.)                   3          -          -          -        -            3
Staff-Cost (ColS mdllion) ei        3.6        3.6        3.6        3.6       3.6       18.0
Assistants (no.)                      2          -          -          2         -           4
Cost (ColS million) 'J              1.2        1.2        1.2        2.4       2.4         8.4
Agrolndustrial Staff
Professionals (no.)                   4          -          I          -        -            5
Cost (ColS million) 1/              4.8        4.8        6.0        6.0      6.0        27.6
Assistants (no.)                      3          -          I          -        -            4
Cost (ColS  illion) "/              1.8        1.8        2.4        2.4      2.4        10.8
Central Administration Staff
Professionals (no.)                   2          -          -          -        -           2
Coat (CalS mdllion) I/              2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4      2.4        12.0
Total Salaries (ColS million)   16.2          43.8       79.2      119.6    154.8       413.4
Operating Expenses
Agricultural Production Staff
(CGlS million) 2/                   1.0      14.9       30.4       50.4      69.5       166.2
Marketing Staff (ColS *) 2/           2.3        2.3        2.3        3.1       3.1        13.1
Agroindustries Staff (ColS *> 2/   3.2           3.2        4.1        4.1       4.1        18.7
Central Administration Staff
(C5l0  million) 21                 1.0       1.0        1.0        1.0       1.0         5.0
Total Operating Expenseg 3/         7.5      21.4       37.8       58.6      77.7       203.0
Other Staff Related Costs 4/
Agricultural Production Staff
(ColS a) S5                          0.6       8.3       17.2       28.2      35.5        92.8
Marketing Staff (CoLS a) 5/            1.3        1.3        1.3        t.7       1.7         7.3
Agroindustries Staff (ColS a) 5/    1.8           1.8        2.3        2.3      2.3         10.5
Cencral Administration Staff
(ColS  ) 5/                          0.6       0.6        0.6         0.6      0.6         3.0
lotal Other Costs 61                 4.3       12.0       21.4       32.8     43.1       113.6
Total Incremental Staff Cost        28.0       77.2      138.4     210.8    275.6        730.0
Of Which:
Foreign Exchange                        3.1        9.0       16.1       24.8     32.7        85.7
Local Costs                            24.9       68.2      122.3      186.0    242.9       644.3
Dageline Coat 7|
Local                                 28.3       77.6      139.2     211.7    276.4        733.2
Foreign                                3.1        8.9       16.0      24.6      32.5        85.1
Total                               31.4       86.5      155.2     236.3    308.9        818.3
1/  CalS 1.2 million per professional/year and ColS 0.6 million per sosistent/year.
2/ ColS 0.5 million per professional/year and ColS 0.4 million per assistant/year.
3/  201 of total Operating Expenses are in foreign exchange.
l Pension coats and subsidy on house and car loans.
S/ Co0l 0.3 mdllIon per professional/year and ColS 0.2 million per assistant/year.
6/ 410 of Other Cost are in foreiln exchange.
T/ Baneline costs at March 31. 1984 brought up from June 30. 1983 by applying inflation
factors of 1.138 for local cooponent and 0.993 for foreign comonent.
Source: Mission
March 21. 1984



AN  3
- 6 
5,t S5r4m - Tea Gmt irha Rlll aS lAd                 C stlS
ftoujc Tows
1         2          3          4         5         bTA
(iu3S rail S11)
taol CAW
Tr.dss                          21.2       23.0     3n.8        4L9       54.5       177.4
fIp1ld   _rdh                   32.5      32.5       12J        12.       12.5       164.0
VlwtlJE  ntmort  Swr.i5          7.2       4.5         .l        4.        4.5        244.
fruigal scft                   2613       77.6       139.2     211.7     276.4       13.2
_e Oat                        999.5    113.2       212.h     292.2       A.5      9.902.O
hysicil   Wc2 .e ()               9.91      11.9       29.1       29.2       '.         I 2n.2
lit                             g.3       252.0      m.9        121.4    405.4      1.211.2
LtElta Factr                       (0.21)   (0.452)    (06712)    (1946)   (1.14.)
Ice.! Irts Coasm..la            20.7      692.7      171.0      Db.2     3n.2       2.911.5
TOWl Ilst OA                   119.2      220.7        A.9      WA.      9A         2 J l.
TM1411K                          4.6 1A.0             7J         9.3        1.9       38.6
bPllrd N_rdb                    J.         7 .1       7.1       1.1        7.1        $15.
1tkt.oc Ld.tk  2r_:Slc,         90.0 a6a              1A         24        1941       17.2
Irr.nIaca  teft                 1.1        9.9       96.0       24.4      32.3        I
_dII Oat                      26.11      22.9       }2.7      Q2.        11.1      27t4
r. lcal C-ssirw..1   (2t)       2.5        2.3        3.1        4.3       5.1        17.7
T Wt                            21.1      2S.1       3b.0       47.1      S99.       2%
laisats Frog, (adi. Vs  ..-)   (0.11)       (0.73)     (1.20)      2.2)    (1.9)
rim rOne hu:bwt                 9.0       212.3      37.h       712      214.9 U     2S1.1
totAl Fela. Oas                 3 -I1     13.4       75.6      I11L7      173.1      47.5
t_.l Gtao U5IS                          23.1       u9.        77h.1   12.12.!    2., s5
titw .re.                      14.1       112.0     241.1      311r)    421.4      1.277.6
PrIca!  IC       - .I.1                   11.1       21.6       13L5      42.2       127.9
Prim Ct1w c1..                 21.1        7.0      210.       "7VA       W^.2    1421.2
(ia U15 Illt)
KrA  Ga I/
tra997.-                         0.2       n.2        0.4        0.1       01.         1.5
musE _w drch                    n.4        0.4        0.4        04        n.4         2.n
trf.IPA  tomtm 2.l 1rv          n0.     1  q.l        n I        n.2       n.1         n.15
Ineel..W stff                   0.1        . 04.      1.5        2.2       2.9         7.7
L_. r_e                        2.0        2.S      2L4         3.2       4.0        12.1
tr2a'2l  Opcbuwrie (9'Z)          0.2        0.2        0.2        0,3       0.4         1.2
TeOW                             1.1       2.7        2                    4.4 3I11
LWDCD.   ru. 2j                 (-_r6)    1--JA)      (.82)      (48)      (.99)
Proc, roclq.s                  -0.2       -n..        (L2       'L6        0.9 I81I
TMAI  lot Gva                    1.0       2.1        2.7        3Ll       $.2        14.1
TVp1.d   r                     0.1       n.l        0.2        0.2       0.9         0.5
!b4eti.wtW irSiSmVt  * .lI               -     ,    -          -         - r
h       l taft                -          n.         0.2        0.3       0.3         0.
Sm. Cat                      1.        0.3        0.4        'Ls       n.0.1       2.n
tiel OCele -.r   (IM)           -          -          -          0.2 I      9          n0.
.T.aN                         03.1       0.1       r0 .'      n0                     2.4
WlAct rac ft                  1.95])     (.5)         GM        .361     t.3h t.ln 
Pflw  EcItlte                  _         -          0.2        0.2       0.3         04,
TIt   tmfh  a                  0.3      n0.3   OJ.    I                  0.9         241
Tea 1nA                        1.3       1.9        3.2        4*        6L.2       17.1
Of -die
Blt.. Oat                        2.1       I1J        2.11       .7        4.5       19.1
Prim. rac ts.                   '2r        0.2        0.2        l.4.      0.5         2.-
Prim Csclaspnla                -4.1       -0.1        0.2        0.5       1           1
It 7 anrS t  w. 2I!Ss a :f   t   d a.p     of rai9lA      I t4E).
Tb liisatl   (a 7_.ad fr teltim) fin 1.! msc to V."o     tIm I_ ad assIst
-ht     d L   3                  r      w       "    I  191.
lth2.s1  t9                     er l _rt. 3 *11. 
!hrd, 21. 216



- 69 -
AN= 3
MIb1e 15
aZMA
AGIC1LIUAL DVRSICATI  PErr
1laog Prgram and  Ewng
yer I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Yeer 5    TOtWl
Agltsa         P        I4-
Investnatms                           1,914.0   3,454.7   4,657.6   5,993.9   8,016.8  24,037.0
Wk*wc1og capital                        380.9    955.3   1,391.3   1,973.0   2,712.8   7.413.3
2,294.9   4,410.0   6,048.9   7,966.9   10,729.6  31,450.3
Less: Farmwr's atribution (20a)         459.0    882.0             1,593.4   2,145.9   6,290.1
Literwi1 program                1,835.9   3,528.0   4,839.1   6,373.5   8,583.7  25,160.2
1-51 2--                                 -         -
Of which: Lwesternts                  1,531.2   2,763.8   3,726.1   4,795.1   6,413.4  19,229.6
wotiAig capital               304.7    764.2   1,113.0   1,578.4   2,170.3   5,930.6
Esatited FFAP cotribution             1,101.5   2,116.8   2,903.5   3,824.1    5,150.2  15,096.1
Bank finmnidg (14.6Z)                   334.4    642.6    881.4   1,160.9    1,563.4   4,582.7
PFftEi4UC   own fuids                  400.0    768.6   1,054.2   1,388.5   1,870.1   5,481.4
Subtocnl                            1,835.9   3,528.0   4,839.1   6,373.5   8,583.7  25,160.2
AgrobMmtrLes loom
Investments                            573.4    720.6    945.4   1,134.9   1,379.7   4,754.0
*kaddfg cpidral                         133.0    161.9    211.0    251.7       307.0   1,064.6
Subr-total                            706.4    882.5   1,156.4   1,386.6   1,686.7   5,818.6
Iss: Borrowers' CIctribjion (4O%)       282.6    353.0    462.6    554.6       674.7  2,327.5
Iaeii proraPm                         423.8    529.5    693.8    832.0   1,012.0   3,491.1
of Wich: IaeatmMts                   344.0    432.4    567.2    680.9       827.8   2,852.3
wkodeung Capita               79.8      97.1    126.6    151.1      184.2    638.8
FSttirtd WFI CMtributici (182)           127.1    158.9    208.1    249.6       303.6   1,047.3
Bank Firmcirg  (34Z)                     240.2    300.1    393.2    471.4       573.5   1,978.4
1 InCESAIROD am  funda                    56.5      70.5     92.5    111.0      134.9    465.4
i23.8    529.5    693.8    832.0   1,012.0   3,491.1
!MS-                                                           -        -
Ixweatnmita                            84.7      87.8    265.3    340.5       522.3   1,300.6
Wkodd.ng Capital                        76.5     77.1    169.3    214.5       314.8    852.2
Sib-total                            161.2    164.9    434.6    555.0       837.1   2,152.8
Lem: Borrowers'Goctributlon (15%)      24.2      24.7      65.2     83.3      125.6    323.0
ledrug Fpum                            137.0    140.2    369.4    471.7       711.5   1,829.8
Total Bink F1imaidg
Inltural PrO&Ictih n                   334.4    642.6    881.4   1,160.9   1,563.4   4,582.7
1lodtrtm                               240.2    300.1    393.2    471.4       573.5   1,978.4
Marketing                              137.0    140.2    369.4    471.7       711.5   1,M.8
711.6   1,082.9   1,644.0  2,104.0   2.848.4  8,390.9
lquivalent US diLUm                       5.9       7.5     10.2      11.6      14.7      49.9
Soaroe: MlPUa
Mhrch 21. 1983



ANNEX 4
- 70 -                          Table  1
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Distribution of Farm Investment Models - Phased
Models ----           -
Year               I        II       III      IV         V         Totals
1               240        300      520     510        460        2,030
2               290        400      630     610        560        2,490
3               320        400      700     680        620        2,720
4                350       400      770     750        680         2,950
5               400        500      880     850        780        3,410
1,600     2,000   3,500   3,400       3,100        13,600
Source: Mission
March 21, 1984



- 71 -
ANW 4
~aD1a
Far Im tt  NOdWl I (thi) - g7sla1  Pa _ateu
Pro act YM
o        1       2        3       4        5        6       7         8         9         10
In Use (he)
hadittta. Coffael
Plsnain               3         3       3         3        3       3        3        3        3         3         3
Fd Cts                                               I        1       I        1        1        1         1         1
-UOwW1Agr-.th            2         1       1         1        1       1        1        1        1         1         1
No. Atoilturmi
Value                 1          1      1         I        I        I       1        I         J        I1
Prodhuti  Per Ha (t)
Coffee                   0.75       0.75   0.75      0.75     0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75       0.75      0.75       0.75
Plnait                   0.8       0.8    0.8        0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8     0.P       0.8       0.8       0.8
Madtberiy                -         -       a        16       14      14       1O       -         8        16         14
Toa Maketed Volua
;fea                     2.25      2.25   2.25       2.25    2.25    2.25      2.25    2.25      L25       2.25      2.25
PIAd   1 1               1.9       1.9    1.9        1.9      1.9     1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9       1.9       1.9
Ilndcberjy  j      -         -       6.8      13.6    11.9    11.9       8.5      -        6.8      13.6       11.9
lAr       d (rnaMw)
CofefPl.Mnain          177        177    177       177      177      177     177      177       177      177        I77
Foodcrop                50        50      50        50      50       50       SO       50       50        50         50
Blackberry               -       189    336        326     294      294      230     230       230       230       230
Other                   20        20      O0        20       20      20       20       20       20        20        20
TSal                 247       436    5e3        573      541     541      477      477      477       477        477
Of 'Aich hired:
for hurintst
aifee 2/            18         la     1         18 18             is      18       18      s18        18         1
for h.zwmti7                                       76
b1a   rr r/                                                                                 7 7 n  77  6  6  48  _  77  67
Tm.l hird lbor        18         18     95        95       85      85       66       18       95        95        85
Net fadly labo
requird            229       418    488        478      456     456      411     459       382       382        392
Faaly labor
avilable - t<al  540          540    540       540      540     540      540      540      540       540        540
For birli off-fa.  3S4          384    384       384      3t4     384      384      384      384       3B4        3B4
haIblWe for
off-far Id r8z  "/ 155          -      -         -        -       -
11 Inlue imqe to hindlq md mewati: 2Z for plax;aIn ad 15S for blAdarry.
2  211 of labor rqulnd for 1utltzS   bs hW  (30 milhi) 90 x 2 - 18  -n-day  at ColS 750fdW.
3/       of lab I e- idr   for h.Inr_a    Ia hidt   at CIbS 41Oday.
/ 252 of the 155 day m   tdzd for Iurumdq at CDlS 750/day (125 ka x CbIS 6/f) ad 75C for the qgrltmn    sivitim
at =nS 410dy.
Hwch 21, 1984



-72 -                                                   MK4
giz
m , -    t
7I.NC   h.N        a -     13w fhtscm-
WIdWA                                        With kojsm. 3     -  -.
Ph*M            1            2          3             _5                       6            7
lnfl1w
Gift_                 2m.s          223.5         22s  5      2s.5  229.5        21 9      .5   229.5 229.5
1mwA1n                  15.4         15.4          15.4        15.4        1J4           15.4         15.4        15
la                       -            -             -         217.6       435.2         m.6          30.8        272.0
r "             z           ~~~    ~     ~~~ ~~1.9  1.9  1.9       1.9          J.9          1.9          1.9
(utl                    76.8                       -                        -             -            -           -
~i*m1 Value     J                  -             -           -                                      -     _      .2
Taw  mi lw           325.5         216.8        21.J 8       64.4        4620         627.4        427.6        56.
P1Afri Hau1a1a           -           43.2           4.3         -           -             -            -           -
13.Uu                    -            1.6          13.0        I2O 13.0                  13.0          3.0        13.0
Ouom1a                   -            2.6           5.2         1.2         5.2           5.2          3.2         5.2
M1oe  I.*     t          -            14.5          0.5         0.5          0.5          0.5         14.5         0.5
PImtuc &6 Pri            -             O3.7        19.2        19.2         19.2         19.2         19.2        19.2
lbddg                    -            -             -          12.0         12.0         10.0         10.          6.0
T?uupmt                  -            0.6           0.6        27.3        27.3         32.0          20          17.0
1rut1wun  CWfe             63           6.3          6.3         6.3          6.3           6.3         6.3          i.
1KL1 lr 31                13.5          13.5         13.5        45.         45.1          41.0         41.0        33.2
Cit-l A                -                         -2-                       -            -              
7OWal  cflw            29.8        173.0         90.7       12L6         128.          119.2       3332         100.4
TMAeA  wtit adom
ftnwm                I?305.7        73.8        156.1       335.8        553.4        SM.A         4            44.5
1.W1                                 (233.9)      (149.6)        .2l       217.7         2.7          1.7          140.8
P3wudal he Of how"    21
laflotim Pa,o                          (1.C  )       (U.29M)     (1.5u)      (1.7")            (2.10W)     (2.73)       (2.9w)
yet   eit Mew  Plm1ida  In
Omet 8IM                              60.6        2O.3        514.5        995.0    1,I.8              12.7        3,295.7
hmom Wld    Projeo CIrIocw)           3338          36.2        468.3        490.7           6            756.0        67.1
1.zA  lSdft in Omr.e 1im              (253.2)      (193.9)      462         441.3             427.4       46.7
ftaow=  ' GC -rthgg     5/            16.7          5.5         -           _                _            _
1) t           og-0.                            50.0         -            - 1  6                                    -
Ii)  2frtl.Wu7/                     415.9       27.3        3m             .2
? a1I.                       253.2         3J          335          45.2                                        -
3..
D -ef S
I)     1       1-tindj 8            -            _           -           37.7             50.2          .2         62.7
u) Lon-twromlAmt 97                 -              1           1           I1             3L8           26.8        13.6
1i.) sm.r. M.npl                     -            85.9       276.3        335.0             45.2         -            -
Iv)   mc-torm  lotmt e i            -            18.9        60W          73.7              9.9         -            -
Tol Ikk Sn%4m                  -           137.9       3U1.2        905              141.1        75.0         76.5
^a iWbeSuv3w                           213.2       1399         (6.2)       (6413)           (141.1)       (75.0       (76.5)
Not Inaam.a1 smIl After
-            -           -           -               2363         31.7        32.I
t  _1ncz          lt:t D1               -             -           -           -               135.8       I5A          114.4
11 Iwtlu-  155   I  io df-tw.  ploem. 250 of t             atffm pidl        (Cei 750/*d)  d mot  Cet.M 4l0(.
21 Odywalg aLrl
1J/ L W  zN  fW  -N  CAl.. Md bad&KuY Wrtb5q.
'fAMCi 1UMMA.        "OCtIaM Ct.
sm  t  YICs o  Gn          (EL o.rmI       
5/ ICS d        m o   e m    pWm)
6/W    ymvnad t4 ommi    yue P
V   ]   in    i            t aiw Pp-
Smm: "k
nc  n1. im



73 -                                                                             4
am. IIA    NO           (55 WA) -  N1 _os
hojm 1am.
O            1             2          3            4             5           1             7             a                          10
Lod U- ON)
T1tMtomlCdffm                                                                   a             I            a            a              a            aa
ftm                        4            10            10          10           10            10           10           10             10           10           10
_m                         0            10            10          10           10            30           30           30             10           10           30
OrAm                        I            a             2           a            I              2           2            2              2            2            2
m         1m              is            an            a10        10           10             10          tO           10             10           10           10
I_mpvd p       11          -             -             a           I            a             a            a            a              a            8            a
Pbr   Y                    -             -             2           2            2             2            2            2              2            2            2
Famt                      10            14            10          10           10            l0           10           10             10           10           t0
lbdrlc. VaLm               5             5             S            I           S      5                   5            5              5            5            s
Pn*Amti ibr lb
cAfl  (too)                 0.75         0.n           0.7$        0.7$         0.67          0.75         0.75         0.is           0.75         0.75         0.75
ar1  (LM)                   2.n           L.             .0.                    3.0            3.0          3.0         1        .0                 3.0          1.0
W. (iUN)                   0.R           1.0           1.1          3.3         1.1           1.1          1.3          :.I            3.1          1.1          1.1
UuIa (o,") 2,              14.0          34.0         20.0         30.0         n.o            .O         M0 oL. .0.0                             1n.0          Yo
Aidmi UwA.
IqAv. Itt) 11            0.1b          Q.A           0.11        0.3          0.11          0.b1          0.3b        0.11           0.11         0.31         0.31.
-:4nm= ain3dt
1i  -        -          I.=        19.D1        21.4         211.          21. 3        21 Am         21.60D        21.433      21.,
-  -          -           -            '~~~~~~~~~~                                                               ~     ~~ a  a  a  a  a  a
fr                         _             _             3                                                   4 4          4                           4
OaU.l  G-                                              -           '            2             4            4                           1            4
^U                  ~      ~-     -             -            _           _             I             _           _              _            I            _
Cl_ (ton)                   .0           40            4.0         b.0          *.0           *.0          4.0          6.0            *.0          *.0          4.0
ftt (tm)                  12.0          25.0            0         1.0          1.0            0.0          L.0         160           3D.0         )L0          30.0
lh. (ton)                  4.8          30.0          11.0        11.0         11.0          11.0         11.0         11.0           11.0         11.0         11.0
Uiln (tot)                 12.4          25.2         3b.0        1A.0         36.0          11.0          10    5        .0            .0     .0                  .0 = 0
-*dml  1lwm1W  (tan)       *.0           7.2          'Lb          3.4          3.            3.           3.           34             3.S         L3            IA
"Il (lit..)                 -             -                    1. l9.0D     21.D          21.1         21.0         2,1M           2.4          21.040       23.W
m   tu0md)4Z               -             -             -           -            4a                         a            a              a            a            a
'6fm0Cjo      I if)                                                             4             4            4            4                           4            4
IJad CA         )1          - _  _  _                               -            2            4                                 4      4                         4
WI 71                                                                                                                                               I _  _  _  _ -  _  _  _  I  _
tr I, , t
T .SiimA  Who ..          320           ro            320         320         32             2W           2)           2)              0           3           320
_  a                      4a             70           700         7b0          700          7I0                        760           700          7n 70
tbgura13munwm              so           40            20           20          20            2D           20            D0            2D           2D           20
_KSwad hob- _                                         120        4U            4l            U            4             A             A            4            U
.                           -            -            120          10          l0            10           70           70             70           70           70
Uuleb                     310                                     aasauS                                                             on            Ws          ID
Pal  tt                   _             _                         no           n             330          30           no              o           Mo          n30
Twa                  I.MO          2.7l          3.318       3.2&         3.22b         .20          1.200        3               .2b         3.2b         3.nb
Omm                       2a)           2t 2D0 )0                 2D           23            20D         200          200           2M 2O0                     200
alnd l    _w            1.41,         2.578         1.110       1.026        1.3a1         %.cm         3.331        S             36,.          1.0
!/ VJt  he 1f        d dm     N  2 t. fog   al_    an I    p&         me.at. it". 61ada   ilk.
t.   mf *-, aalime  ri dm  bfl .y tax Inn.
2J to em  p-. _1*-  w_m    dl    lot u3         ta d  to S.illqt  ,  mFm1i.
P/ Vwdm 1mWml    inmi , _1ml Odbgta) Pav. _tld a  1. mdml melt p.. t 0.2 ta
1s_10sf por- amelwt. MOQ2n ff in IN.
4/ At 0.' uam 2lvegdf am& wmi am GM Cel h lm.
f MoM  b'  . at GM$S 12.0Qam
G/ SId t WIS 108.00 .
7/ lalamit a W     0.WFM&
/ l md a- lA   wfil  .med1anm am. SWam - 10 Umcor  1md 2b o - p.
- 10 tmear bma  am  32   as"
l . C tzmpw  to       -          - X lS 0I0S).
h  21. 110



- 74 -
bnf ~~~                ~~                            ~~~                                        ~            ~U
Tar. leantm PESt Ifl HurSusi "fj - 55 to Fwm:
withmse                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~WMt Nuemet. By Tow.
lnflw
(hlf'se                            U112A0        611.0         612.0       61L0        612.0         62.0        612.0        61L0          612.0        612.0        612.0
Maine                               26L.0        1o            VWO         755.0       720.0         720.0       721.0        720.0         720.0        720.0       7n.o
B~                                  261.0       23Lo           6aon       660.0        60.0         661.0        660.0        660.0         660.0        6&.0        61.0
ad..                                315.0        315.0         610.0      9n          1.3.0        1.320        1,350.0     1.350.0       1.31.0       1.35.0       1.3S0.0
Adels Odin7)                        855.0        684.0         342.0       342.0       342.0         362.        342.0        34.0          342.0        342.0        34.0
milk                                 -             -             -         743.0       546           58.2        583.2        583.2         583.2        563.2        33.2
Strom                                -             -            -           -            -           152.0       30.0         30&0         306.0        34,0        :I56n
PESer.                               -             -            -          36.0         48.0         480          4.0          4L0           48.0         48o         48.0
allied raw                            -            -                        -            -            36.0        72.0         72.           72.0         72.0        72.0
541                                 -             -            -           -            -            -           400          -              -           _            _
SIhal lAM                            -             -            -           -            -            -            -           -              -           -           "L5
Total lU,                       2.358.0       2.187.0      2.7840      1,513.0      4.266.6      4.50.2       4.731.2     *.691.2        4.691.2     4.M1.2       4,77.7
Datflew
ffee                             2109.1        29.2.1                   269.1       269.2         369.1        269.1       39.1           269.2       269.1        26.2
Mam (es)                         50K6        IjoLo         ,1018.0   L028I.0 ,o0.lTo          2.120        2.0.         1,021L        2.MLO        1.01.0       ,0.0oLo
Odom                             327.7        655.4         655.4       655.4       655.4         655.4        655.4       655.4          655.4       655.4        6554
Nao     Fcare                     45.0         36.8          IL4         14         1.R           16.4        14           IL64          18.4         14.4        16.4
Dual Rapes tInt
Iscwjmm  G-                       -             -         I,4164       601.0          -            -           80            -             -            -           -
1tanb  ti                          -            -             -         221.2       221.2        2Z1.2        _21.2        221.2         221.2        221.2        221.2
kincar's Gm I                       (W88)        (85.8)       (8Me8)       M85.8)       (88)1|       (3O8)       (8.8)       C(5.39         fpq.8)       (85.8)      (8.L8)
Icatal   kbg Cegitl                  -                            5         -                         -
TO  alf)z                    l.C57.6       I.2tS         3.447.0    2,693.3      2,G.93       2.S3.3       2.173.3      2.71.3        2,0'S3       2.33.3      2,091.3
It kzdit itos  F1 g Ttal   1,3034                296.5        (663.0)     819.7      2.173.3       2.9         2.557.9      2.,57.9       2,597.9      2,57.9       2,4...4
hansewwAl                            -         (2.CL9)      (1.96.4)     ( 7)          872.9       1,23.5      2.257.5      1,27.5        2.297.5      1,297.5      2.3.0
R0CIn  1ts d l1 :                       I9
h* sts FPa                                            (1.9)         (1.296)     (1-.53)     (1.79t)       (2.23)       (L273)      (2.9W)        (3.466)      (4.003)      (4.69
It butt 1oem Flsaia0w in
Osctr   TOM                                         3Z3.         M8M.3)    1.255        3.9D7.6       5,0m.1      6,325,7      7.39.3        8.86.5      10,391.6    12612,7
lmeW5d8o  Rtuae  (ISdlu)                            1470         1,6853      1,92.2      2,338.2       2,761.2     35215.9      3.773.8       4.4"9.2      6.21.6       6.1234
-l_mral Raft.t tngrs Ta rm                         (1tIO.2)     (2.5A6.6)     (735.4)     1.569.5      2.33L9       3.107.8     3.765.3       4.419.3      5,2D.0   6.5b 7.3
'         rstrtlkou 1:                              183.7        297.3       1210          -                                      -             -
tam Usce lgO
;;j   1      /                                   734.8 M     1.19.!       48100-
11)   S _/-r.cC3I                                 277.7       1,436.7    2,312.5      ,71.7          56.2
ETra  Jal.                                 1.06.2        2.923.1    2.912.5      L.781.7        546.Z         -                          -            -
1) L1aterm PrInigpal 4/                            -            -           -            -1837                   411.0       6U1.0          602.0        417.3       123.0
11) tow-tr. LcteraLt                                -          161.7       423.3        52R.9        529            L4        32L6           2504        118.2         26.4
lii) Sat-tr. Pdncpl                                             1 277.7    1.43b.7     2,312.5      1.780.7        545.2         -             -        -         -
IV) Sat-term Ira, ..t S/                            -           39.1       316.1       S0.8         391.8        119.9         -             -            -            -
Te! Debt ServIn,                                          37i'5    2,176.1      %I3532        2.855 1      1,634.5       983.6          01.4        535.5        14S.4
lst Debt Servime                                    1,096.2       2.4,6A.      736.4    (1.69.5)     (2.338.9)     2."636.5)    (583.6)        (851.4)     (535.5)      (146.4)
lis 1.rta  laiAsft Altar
Fn1.ming                                              -            -           -           -             -        1,475.3      2,781.7       3367.9       4,654.5     6,360.9
met lc    l   ealt  Ilted                              -             -           -           -             -          5.6         9586         1,7.5       1,1616       1,354.8
If  2= of lintes Ca  (at oares prim.)
J ID: of Sntmet cots(onm  Prnncv)
girt muS     tlo mme    _wm Itfid l4d=  the proec
S Thraorye    amw  d rmet  In for. at.
= 22cennt p_..
S-.,:  mals
M6:ch 21, 1984



- 75 -
AN= 4
Table 6
CUDCIAL
AGXLWRL  EERnIrO PFD
Fru hwreintt Mxdl III (10 be) - Physical Parteru
Frojec 'fmr
0        1      2        3       4        5       6       7         8
1n Use (to)
Tradlrmioal Coffee/
lantaln              2.5       2.5    2.5       2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5
Commr Coffee/
PlmrA1n              1.5       1.5    1.5       1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5
-         2.0    2.0       2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2L0
PlarAin                 -         -       1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0
Food - Cro              0.5       0.5    5.5       0.5     0.S      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5
Pftr/ftoth          6.0        2.0    1.0       L.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0       1.0
.lI4rc. Value           1.5       1.5    1.5       1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5
Pro&jcim Per H. (t)
U10=010 CQffee/         0.75      0.75   0.75      0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75       0.75
plAan                0.8       0.8    0.8       0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8
Caourza  dffa/          1.5       1.5    1.5       1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5
plataln              5.0       5.0    5.0       5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
-a                   -         -      -         -       1        4       8       12       12
Ea      _               -         _       _        _      10       15      15       12       12
Tot-l YN*Armd Vobum  (t)
Cdfee                   4.1       4.S    4.1       4.1     4.1      4.1     4.1      4.1      4.1
PJaEnafn                7.6       7.6    7.6       7.6    15.6    19.6    19.6    19.6       19.6
-         -      -         -       1.8      7.2    14.4    21.6      21.6
T1edt1lru1 Coffae/
pIan               148       148    148       148      148     148      148     148      148
Cat       Coffee/
PLIuRtD            197       197    197       197      197     197      197     197      197
Frod                   30        30      30       30      30       30      30       3        33
AvoCo                   -       170   1I1.       114      114     114      114     114      114
PlaIntaft               -         -      94       86      98       98      88       88       88
Other                  20        20      20       20      2D       20      20       20       20
Total             395        565    603       595     607     607      597     597       597
Of Liddi hired labar 
for hzarestvr
coffee/lpman       15)
for harveting                  33      33       33      33       33      33       33       33
cacurra/plar.n     18)
Faly labor
r.c.gred            362       532    570       562      574    574     5E6      564      54
Faaly labor
avWA~ble            5840      540    54)       540      540     540      540     540      540
o    labor
hitred                -         -      30       22       34      34       24      24       24
Fally labor hired
off22m                          -       -        -        -       -       -        -        -
If  xnd wamage doe to hxiliW and um3cotix   202 for planain ad 10( for avomo.
M.rch 21, 194



- 76 -
AIIM 4
cmfluI                                                              Tle 7
Fa. "         Model Ifm: Oetl Zon - la to FaF
TIwtint Amlysi md Cinh Maw Pecto1.
Ulthst                                               With Pwoje. IV Twu
Project         I             2         3            4            5            6           7             8
bSlw
Caffee                             418.2        418.2         4182       4182 418.2                4182         418.2       418.2         4182
PlAtaln                             60.8         60.          60.8        60.8         60.8        124.8        156.8       156.8         156.8
hdoC                                 -            -            -           -            -           56.0       216.0        02.0          648.0
nwture/pago.ih                       7.6          3.8           1.9        1.9          1.9          1.9         1.9          1.9           1.9
Of-farm                             11.1          -            -           -            -            -           -            -             -
RI,  ...l.. 1i           v-                       -.... -                  -           -             -           -       _           _      - 
Talil kif1w                      497.7         482.8        480.9       48.9        480.9        598.9        792.9      1,X8.9        1,224.9
tlgflaa
mevntnt Coat
Avocdb                            -            98A           8.6        10.4         -            -            -           -             -
Plantain                          -            -            42.8        -            -            -           -
0eradng Costs
adItional Coffee & Pltan          5.3           5.3          5.3         5.3         5.3          5.3          5.3         5.3           5.3
Cra Coffee &Piwan                25.2          25.2         25.2       25.2         25.2         25.2         25.2        25.2          25.2
platain                           -            -            -          16.2         26.3         31.3         31.3        45.3          2L.3
eAvodo                            -            -             -          -           12.2         33           81.8        52.6          43.6
Hired labor - For Coffee         24.8          24A          24.8       24.8         24.8         24.8         24.8        24.8          24.8
(kher Avitie                      -            -            12.3        9.0         13.9         13.9         9.8          9.8           9.8
lac ial U*kL  Capital                -            -            6.5         89          -             -           -            -
Tal otfIaal                    55.3        15f.l         125.5       99.8        107.7        134.3       178.2        163.0         137.0
Not Buefir Before Fin.idng Tota    442.4        328.7         355.4      381.1        373.2        464.6       614.7        845.9       1,07.9
Increametal                                    (113.7)        (87.0)     (61.3)      (69.2)         22.2       172.3        403.5         645.5
Finanxdil Rate af Fecur            292
qfl-tio Facton;                                       (l.092)      (1.29)     (1.532)      (1.798)      (2.108)     (2.473)      (2.9M)        (3.406)
Net B.f it Before Flrnaci  in
'zrri Ter                                          358.9        460.6       583.9       671.0        979.4      1,52D2       2,454.8       3,705.4
I- Wkm  P-rject (iCated)                             483.1        573.4      677.8        795.4        932.6      1,094.1      1.283.8       1.506.8
lncrintal BRaefit in Ojnc Te                        (124.2)      (112.8)     (93.9)      (124.4)        46.8        4261       1,171.G       2.198.6
. '   ributi  I/                                   10.8          6.7         1.6         -            -            -           -              -
lown _aeic
i) 1 -erm 2/                                     97.1         59.9        14.3         -             -           -           _              _
Li) 9g       -/                                   16.3         87.5       219.3        429.7        515.1       272.4          -             -
Toalhfw                                     124.2        154.1       235.2       429.7         515.1       272.4         -              -
aitf 1w
Debt Sewz
L)     ter Prinpl                                 -            -           -           -             -          32.4         52.4          86.6
ii) I m g-ter.It '                                 -           21.4        34.5        37.7          37.7        37.7         30.6          19.0
LiL)  9at-tau PwiPl                                 -           16.3        87.5       219.3         429.7       515.1        272.4           -
iv)  9hott-tar kierest 5/                                       3.6        19.3        48.3          94.5       113.3         59.9           -
Toal Debt Serwio                              -           41.3       141.3       305.3         561.9       698.5        415.3         105.6
lMt Det Service                                      124.2        112.8       93.9        124.4        (46.8)      (426.1)     (415.3)        (105.6)
lht Iorr1ai Banedit After
F1X|Cad  -   -          -            -            -            -         755.7        2,09L0
Met DxwewoA1 Bmft Af ter Flxuiciz
Deflatd                                              -            -          -            -            -            -          260.4         614.5
1/  1( of 1e£raw         (at aCramm prim)
9( 9  of iwlm:t ca   (at camt prim)
2aw/  I9s t.1 nsrte              p      w tihee 1a   h
II   21, 1984



- 77 -                                                         AN= 4
Table 8
AciaLTENL DrJ W1qCTM  1WlE
Farm  weutaintc !lel IV (20.) - Thdcal Parazem
Project Yens
0            1            2           3           4             5            6            7              8
La  Use ha)
Caturra Coffee            12            10             8           8            8             8            8            8              8
a.tms                      2             6             6           6            6             6            6            6             6
CamturraCffee/Planain      -             2             4           4            4             4            4            4             4
Pasture Rerth              5             I             I           I            I             I            I            I             I
SD Agric. Vau              1                    I            I           I             1            1            1             1      I
Prdactioo Pr lHa. (t)
Caturra Cffee              2.1           2.1           2.1         2.1          2.1           2.1          2.1          2.1           2.1
Old Ctrus                  5            10            15          2D           25            25           25           25            25
Cururra Cffee/             -             2.1           1.8         1.5          1.5           1.5          1.5          1.5           1.5
Plazaln                  -             -             3.0         6.0          6.0           6.0          6.0          5.0            5.0
Niw Cztzs                  -             -             -           -            5.0          10.0         15.0        20.0           25.0
T-taX MNieted Volum (t)
Coffee                    25.2          25.2          24.0        22.8         22.8          22.8         22.8         22.8          22.8
aItDB 1/                   9            18            27          36           63            81           99          117            135
:1~a1n  1/                 -             -             4.8        14.4         19.2          19.2         19.2         17.6          16
Ler    d   (r/days)
5Cara Caffee            1,8)O         1,500        1,20D       1,20D        1,2D0         1,203        1,20D        1,20D          1.203
Cad CUm                   128          142           188         188          188           188          188          188           188
:dc.t?ts                   -           344           228         20a          256           2S4          376          376            376
szrau CaffeefPlmzain       -           300           790         814          768           788          788          788           788
Ocber                     20            20            20          20           20            20           20           20            20
lbzcal               1,968         2.356         2,46       2.430        2,432         2.480        2,572        2,572          2,572
1/ Incluzdm-tage In lmin1g; and  eeat.g: 2M for p1zain aid 10X for citns.
iMud 21, 1984



- 78-                                                                 M
-~~~~~~~~~~~~I&I
~        L D_Dfll1Ic 1
ra ImC.nar 19*d IV: at1zia Zm - 201w Fa.
b cZ   ttI.i  -u XbP3w Proetaw
Witot                                                 Whh Pzojea. By Yam
Prqlect          1             2          3            4             5            6           7              8
Inflw
,MQW,                              2,5704        2,50.4       2,.W8.      2,325.6      2,325.6       2,325.6      2,3Z5.6      2,325.6        2.5A.
plantain                              -             -             -          3.4         115.2         153.6        153.6       153.6          160.8
Wd CLtnu                             81.0         162.0         243.0       324.0        4cs.n         405.0         05.0       405.0          405.0
M , cb .                              -             -             -           -            -           162.0       324.0        486.0          648.0
PmAnRAtnth                            9.5           1.9           1.9         1.9          1.9           1.9         1.9          1.9            1.9
Ui1~a Valu                _                         -       _                 -            -             -      _            _       _
Totainlow                        2,660.9       2.734.3      2,692.9     2.689.9      2,847.7       3,0.1        3,210.1      3,372.1       3,521.3
;;Dan Omt
platan                             -            51.4          51.4
Cltzon                             -           361.2         136.0       127.6
Cffee Alm                       1,8)1.2       1,801.2      1.501.0     1,200.8      1.2Y.8               1,200.8  1,20    .8 I.fl          1,2 00.8
cofee + Piz (2 ha)                 -             -           221.2       227.6        231.6         231.6        231.6        231.6         231.6
Coffee + Prxe (2 ha)               -             -             -         221.2        227.6         231.6        231.6        231.6         231.6
COtnu  )n-  )                      -                                       -          127.6         20)b         2.48        404C           380.8
Ctnu  (e2dstq                     21.2          1Z24         22.0        190L4        190.4         190.4        190.4        190.A          1904
hrNtal Uodiq Cpicd                    -      _                    -          51.0         29.1          18.7        63.7         (9.3)           -
taW OtAfl                    1,901.4       2,336.2       2.111.6    2,018.6      2.007.1       2,073.5      2,162.9      2.26q.1        2.235.2
Not Beneffit Defdc  Plnmtfr: fl     759.5      198.        1   581.3        671.3        840.6         974.6      1,047.2      1,123.0       1,21 6.1
1iniea1.                                         (361.4)       (178.2)      (08.2)        81.1         215.1       287.7        363.5          526.6
Fimcxa Pate of Rebmr                2
Inflation Fectin                                       (1.092)       (1.296)     (1.532)      (1.796)       (2.108)      (2.473)      (2.9CM)       (3b06)
S't .enufit Udore Finnw&b  In
0 mwnt TDm                                           434.7         753.4     1.02.4       1,511.4      2,054.5      2,589.7      3,259.0        4,31D.5
b-- lat t Pruject (Inf)                                829.4        98.3       1,163.6     1,365.6       1,601.0      1,88.2       2,204.1        2,586.9
_1-nezal DInidir in Oret                              (394.7)       (230.9)    (135.2)       14S.8         453.5        711.5      1,054.9        1,793.6
inlr
IMMI OcKbac  1/                                       90.1          48.6       39.1                        -            -
im- lUedpt a
l)  2-tam2                                        360.5         196.3       156.4         -             - _   _ _
i    t) 3ttaz/                                       -            67.3      143.9         186.3         204           -            -              -
btal Inztlw                                  450.6         310.2       339.4        186.3          204                       -
)  mg-t.er  Pmipa1 4/                               -            -           -            -            90.1        138.7        177.8          304.6
i) 1mg-ta  Bnat ,                                    -            79.3       122.1        156.5        156.5        136.6        106.            67.0
Li) Shrt-tem Pndpzp                                  -            -          67.3        143.9         186.3         20A           -             -
IV)  art-tem Iizemt 51                               -             -          14.8         31.7         61.0          4.5
Tbotl Debt Snrvie                              -            79.3       204.2        332.1         473.9        300.2        33.9          371.6
atc Dew-  Serum                                        450.6        230.9       135.2       (145.8)       (453.5)      (30D.2)      (23.9)         (371.6)
Net rllulCd  anit Aw
POllg                                                 55.9          -           -            -             -          411.3        771.0        1,422.0
Nhc Io         Ibtt After fimdz
D                                                     5L.2          -           -            -             -          166.3        265.7          417.5
1/  102 of 1nwe.c    (at azrn priM)
2   8: of 1mnt    m    (a art  pdci)
Sh ot-ter latC.      to ptemm   im -  el   dwat th pudjecc
4I  Fo-vur 7                    in four Yom
t lerut p._.
)edh 21, 1981



- 79 -
At=  4
Table 10
AGRI U      DAzSnerAT       RWC
Faru Inveent Model V (15 ha) - Thyalcal P.ZOOMter
Pro1ect Yam
0        1       2       3        4       5        6       7         8
ImI Use (ha)
Tzaittonal COffee/
Plantain             3         3       3         3       3        3       3        3        3
Foodrqps                I         1       1         1       1        1       1        1        1
Pafture/Regmwth         5         5       4         4       4        4       4        4        4
03ea/plnt1tain          -         4       4         4       4        4       4        4        4
Papya                   -         -       1         1       1        1       1        1        1
Fcrest                  4 A       -       -        -        -        -       -       -
No Agric. Ube           2         2       2         2       2        2       2        2        2
Pro&1cion Pe Ha (t)
Coffee/                 0.75      0.75    0.75      0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75    0.75       0.57
Plantain                0.8       0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8
Cocoa                   -         -       -         0.05    0.3      0.6     0.8      0.8      0.8
PisitaIn                -         -       6.0      9.0      6.0     -        -       -         -
Papaya                  -        -        -        20.0    40.0    15.0      -       20.0     40.0
Total MHated Voluic (t)
Coffee                  2.        2.25    2.25      2.25    2.25    2.25    2.25    2.25       2.25
planalin 1/             1.9       1.9    21.1      30.7    21.1      1.9     1.9      1.9      1.9
GDOGIS                  -         -       -         0.2     1.2     2.4      3.2      3.2      3.2
Papaya 1/               -         -       -        34.0    29.8    12.8      -       34.0     29.8
Libor D1ed (alldays)
Coffee/Plantain       177       177     177       177     177      177     177      177      177
Foodcrops              50        50      50        50      50       50      50       50       50
Cocce/PIm,tain          -       5r6     268       320     348      316     296      296      296
Papyya                  -        -      112       179     144      89      112      112      112
OCher                  20        20      20        20      20       20      20       20       20
Total               247      783     627       746     739      652     655      655      655
Farm fauly labor
aailable 2/         540       540     540       560     540      560     540      540      540
Net   d±ll
labor r    remas      -       243      87       206     199      112     115      115      115
Of wich bired for
cffee harvetin       18        18      18        18      18       18      18       18       18
Of ich  birred for
otha  rzapurIi =      -       225      69       188     181       94      97       97       97
Available for
off-far hirdng      155
I/ Inrl,   wmtA   in bmldlg and mzketi: 7        = for plurain and 15% for pqya.
of uhldh 351 mlde    on be hired for off-farm wk if iD w&k Is re*pred om-frm
3/ 0Z of Iabr iAzd for brvtlg Is bhied at 5410/dey.
Source: wMss
Mwctb 21. 19B4



- 80 -
NAR 4
T"* 11
A3D6TA
Pm lJ t     Ihdal V:    1 lal t  - 15 ha Far
lritmmt Auly1  Id G h Flow kvlect1a.
(ColS$'OD)
Wftgj0g                                               11Wth Project. ay That
Pmjec            1             2          3            4            5            6            7              8
Indl
229.5        229.5         229.5       229.5        229.5         229.5       229.5        229.5          229.5
Ptuz/lbpch                            9.5           9.5           7.6         7.6          7.6          7.6          7.6          7.6            7.6
Pl1Adn                               15.4          15.4          15.4       168.8        245.6         168.8        15.4         15.4           15.4
Coin  -  -  -  -  27.0  162.0        324.0        432.0          432.0
1vp                                   -             -             -           -          306.0        612.0        230.4          -            306.0
Off-farm ice                         76.8           -0                                                  -            - O
R    l ValUe                          _                                                    ° -  -  0
TOW  !af                           331.2        254.4         252.5       405.9        815.7       1,179.9        806.9        684.5         990.5
atflw
InvmtK at
COWNIpats1n                       -            130.0         36.4         -            -             -           -            -              -
P18.                                                                       - -  -  3                                                          _
4ttwig CAM
7radizal Coffee/Plaain           6.3           6.3           6.3         6.3          6.3           6.3         6.3          6.3            6.3
C~./Plata1n  -  -          -          48.8         98.4          65.6         9R.8         42.8          42.8
Papipa                             -             -             -          16.8        178.4         146.4        81.4         30.A          178.4
Hlrd I r
FM Coff                            13.5         13.5          13.5        13.5         13.5          13.5         13.5         13.5          13.5
For Oder Avi                       -            92.3          28.3        77.1         74.2          38.5        39.8         39.8           39.8
Incrds1 1Wzj CqdtA1                          -                   26.2        84.5        (25.9)        (12.7)      (42.6)        59.0          (12.8)
Total Outflow                    19A          242.1        149.0       247.0        314.9         257.6        197.2        192.2         26H.0
Not Bandit afdore Pizmwidg
-1tal                             311.          12.3         103.5       158.9        470.8         922.3       609.7        492.3          722.5
lnanca1                            -          (299.1)       (207.9)     (152.5)       159.4        610.9        298.3        180.9          411.1
F.nmdal Rate df 11:tm               251
floftis Factor.                                        (1.092)       (1.296)     (1.532)      (1.798)       (2.108)     (2.473)       (2.9U)        (3.4%6)
Net  s.f et aom  Nzimdciw in
OmuO  T.a                                             13.4        134.1       243.4        86.5        1,944.2      1.507.8      1,428.7        2,460.8
bum Widmac Ftoject laisatd                             340.1        403.6       477.1        559.9         6564         770.1        9037         1.060.6
1      _nctaL BDmfkt In Omut Tem                      (326.7)      (269.5)     (233.7)       286.6       1,287.8        737.7        525.0        1,400.2
ro,m' cLtn                                           48.6          26.7         -            -             -           -            -              -
I) to        2/                                   194.2         106.8        -            -
i)  S    -ar`3/                                     83.9         281.1       642.8        563.8 
TaO  Infl,                                    326.7        414.6       642.8        563.8                 -                  -              -
Curflow
D    servim
1)     2      Pdl 41                                -            -           -            -            48.6         75.3         75.3          102.0
I) hns-ters Iemt 57                                 -            42.7        66.2         66.2    f      6.2         55.5         39.0          22.4
Iii)  &ez-m  Princij                                 -            83.9       281.1        642.8         563.8          -            -             -
IV)   aoegt-euintern  51                            _             18.5       61.8         141.4        124.0          -            -             -
T-ta Debt Seavli                               -           145.1       409.1     850.4            8tl.6        130.8        114.3         124.4
faO   Se  vim                                          326.7        269.5       233.7       (285.6)       (80.6)       (130.8)      (114.3)       (124.4)
Net 7ncruoWa Esut After
PFlmclzU                                              -             -           -            -           485.2        606.9        410.7        1.275.8
Wet Iz=emKAl ftdit After F1rmdzM
eflatd                                               -             -           -            -           23D.2        245.4        141.5         374.6
1/ 2o af lnwtmt cam (at acr pt )
2/  S1 af im'intz max (at  not prIM)
31  9at-tr lar to pinea inm lawi id             t d  pet
y      m Yea  grs  u a.1 AM  e    in fxw Yrs
s/ 2m inex  pa_
sl   : P21N.In
Mardh 21. 1986



- 81 -
AM= 4
Tabl 12
A%REL1URAL DWDSW              j 
rararws Produoexs (zgadzetix Model - Csh Flowi Proljectio
(CoXS '000)
1           2             3            4             5           6-7           8
Sales (ts)                          -           250         750        1,50D         2,000        2,500        2,500
ieveue                              -         7,292      21,875       43,750        58,333       72,917       72,917
Pil&ual Vaie                                     -                         -             -            -       _ 2,281
Total Pevem                      -         7,292      21,875        43,750        58,333       72,917       75,198
Cstat
Clots
FHase  1iela                      -         6,510      19,531       39,063        52,083       65,104       65,104
TranwportaC1i                     -           417       1,250        2,500         3,333        4,167        4,167
bwes adS1arlm                     -           914         914          914           914          914          914
Storeroom RBe                     -           240         240          240           240          240          240
Ocher                                         650         650          650           650          650          650
Sub l                           _         8,731       22,585       43,367        57,220       71,075       71,075
Icrintal weg Capital
panel  pd le 1/                 178           357         535          357           357            -
Other COss 2/                   185            69         104           69            70           _
Subtocal                      363           426         639          426           427            -
Motal Cos                     363         9,157      23,224       43,793        57,647       71,075       71,075
Net Cash FI.                 (363)        (1,865)     (1,349)        (43)          686         1,842       4,123
FiwLal Rate of Petun:          20
1I   Tdsda d
2/ Owe  mh of lnaemtal operrig costs
So: MUan
March 21, 1984



aOLaMA
.AaaJLTtRAL DIrYIFICAItN PRDJECr
Prinmy Collection Center Model - Goh Flro Prodecticx
o'000)
1           2            3            4             5            6            7              8
Sales (tons)                        -         1,500       1,800        2,100         2,500        2,500        2,500          2,500
Revme                               -        38,610      46,332        54,050       64,350        64,350       64,350        64,350
PRi&al Vale 1/                                                -            -             -            -            -          3,627
Total Revenue                     -         38,610      46,332       54,050        64,350       64,350       64,350         67,977
costs
nLsituut Costs 2/               4 810             -           -            -             -            -            -              -
Increm btal iWking Capital 3/      4            3           360-                                      -            -              -
Operating Coets                     -        37,515      44,664        51,813       61,345        61,345       61,345        61,345              0l
Product Purchase                  -        33,Q00       39,600       46,200        55,000       55,000       55,000         55,000
lTansport                         -         2,400        2,880        3,360         4,000        4,000        4,000          4,000
Hbidling                          -           300         360           420           300         50           500           500
Paddng                            -            45          54           63            75           75           75             75
tkilities                         -            60          60           60            60           60           60             60
Wased Salaries                    -          1,380       1,380        1,380         1,380        1,380        1,380          1,380
Extemnal Accountant Services      -           180         180I         180           I80           180         ISO            180
other Expeses_                                 150         150          150          150           150          150           150
Tbtal Costs                 6,756        37,875      45,024       52,293        61,345       61,345       61,345         61,345
Not Cahb Flow                  (6,756)          735        1,308        1,757        3,005        3,005         3,005         6,632
Financial Rate of Return:         25%
1/ 10% of invest- t Icots and incremital working capital.
j/ lciudirg pre-operatirg cots.
3/ 5% of proodct purdwe qulvalent to 15 wokirng dys of product purchm, 5% of trauport cost and ame urth of reminig qoerating costs:
Year 1: Prodct punrdse    Col$ 1,650
Tranuport cst             120
Other costs               176                                                                                                  w
Total              ColS 1,946
Swrce: Hission
Ebrch 21, 1984



ODLBtA
AMIaiLJAL DIVEPSIFICA   PMI=CT
ReMcnml coueetion center Model - Cash nlow Pmwlectiam
(col a i11am)n
1            2            3            4              S           6            7               8
Sale (" c)                           -         4,000        5,000        7,000         9,00t)       10,00        10,000         10,000
HaveNl                               -           103.0        128.7        180.2         231.7         257.4        257.4          2.57.4
Plsidual Value 1-                                  -           -             -             -            -             -             14.3
Total Reisa                        -           103.0        128.7        180.2         231.7         257.4        257.4          271.7
CMtn
1websunt CAsts 2/                   19.2                 -     -                    -                   -             -              -
Incramtal Worki7ng Capital 3/       5.2           1.2         2.4           2.4           1.2          -             -              -
Operating Costs                      -            99.8        123.7        171.3         219.0         242.8        242.8          242.8
Product Purchase                   -                        11.0           tw.0 19X.0                             220.0
Traport                            -             6.4          8.0         11.2          14.4          16.0         16.0           16.0
Handling                           -             0.8          I.)          1.4           1.8           2.0          2.(            2.0
Paddlrg                            -             0.          0 0.2         0.2           0.3          0.3           0.3            0.3
Utilities                          -             0.I          0.1          n.1           0.1           0.1          0.1            0.1
W&ges a1v Salartes                 -             4.1          4.1          4.1           4.1           4.1          4.1            4.1
External Acccxmtant Seivices       -             0.2          0.2          0.2           0.2           n.2          0.2            0.2
Other Exper                       -              0.1          0.1          0.1           0.1           0.1          0.1.           O.l
Tatn' rCsts                    24.4          101.0       126.1        173.7         220.2         242.8        242.8          242.8
Net ash Flcw                       (24.4)          2.0          2.6          6.5          11.5          14.6         14.6           14.6
FinRncLal Rate of RetLrn:           27%
1/ 102 of tnvestent csts and all inCrLts al Wrlonrg CAPital.
I/ InelwoRn pre-operatirg cnts.
3/ 5% of prokitct purchnse, eqsuvalent to 15 worki  days, 5% of tramport cost ami cm uvth of rentinls mperating cots:
Year 1: Pr&oct P'urdcase   CoiS 4.4
lrarwport               0.3
Other                   0.5                                                                                                  _
Total              Col$  5.2
cuirc  Mtssion
March 21, 19M4



OOUHBIA
AMRICLIURAL DrVEIFICATItM FRmJECr
SVpernanket Frit and Vegetable Section Model - Cmh Flaw ProJections
(Col $'Imllion)
1             2             3          '4                5             6             7              8
Sales (tonm)                           -          ;,350        1,550         1,800           1,800         1,800         1,800           1,800
Pbvenue                                              39.8         44.8          52.1           52.1           52.1          52.1            52.1
Residual Value 1/                                     -            -             -              -             -              -               2.6
Total Revemue                        -             39.8         44.8          52.1            52.1          52.1          52.1            54.7
Costs
Inve8t.ut Csts 2/                      3.4            -            -
Increwental Wbrkirg Capital 3/         1.7            0.3          0.3 
q!!peIiratg costs                      -             38.4         43.5          51.1            51.1          51.1          51.1            51.1
Product Purdhase                     -                          3.51 3S.0     40.7          4197           40.7           40.7            40.7
Wages aid Slaries                    -              5.3          5.3           5.3             5.3           5.3           5.3             5.3
Cther Eqxpe                          -              2.0          3.2           5.1             5.1           5.1           5.1             5.1
Tbtal Costs                       5.1           38.7         43.8          51.1           51.1           51.1          51.1            51.1
Net Cmh Flow                          (5.1)           1.1          1.0           1.0             1.0           1.0           1.0             3.6       .-a
Finacial Rate of Return:              16%
I  Gross mrketiig mrgin of 2&% over the prduct purdmsse.
2/  10  of invstnit costs and all incrental woiirg capital.
Swirce: Mission
Mardc 21, 1984



AGUCILIU1tAL DMERSIFICAnlN Pim lr
<RAFE Mode  - Cash Flow ProJectiam
(CoIS iLiUm)
1            2          3            4             5            6             7              8
SWles (tao)                         -         11,850      13,970        16,350        18,430       20,450       20,450         20,450
Remwe                               -            342.2       403.9        474.8         536.6         595.0        595.0          595.0
Cats
!;;wtuwnt Q.ts                    42.3           -            -            -             -            -            -
tilereaetal woirng CapItal         27.1           4.8          5.4          4.7           4.5          -            -              -
Operatit Costs                                   325.5       382.4        447.8          504,5        558.5        558.5          558.5
Pkukct Pardve                     -            263.2       310.7        365.2         412.8                      457,7          457.7
Trsuprt                            -             9.6        11.3         13.3           14.9         16.6         16.6           16.6
?adeng                             -             2.5         2.9          3.5           3.9           4.3          4.3            4.3
l11mmlrt                           -             1.0         1.2          1.4            1.6          1.7          1.7            1.7
Wales QCsustr                      -            19.1        22.5         26.4          29.7          33.0         33.0           33.0
Ves aid .9laries                   -            23.6        26.8          30.5          33.6         36.7         36.7           36.7
Malntenne                          -             1.5         1.5           1.5           l.5          1.5          1.5            1.5
Otwhr   qe                                       5.0         5.5          6.0           6.5           7.0          7.0            7.0
Tbtal Costs                    69.4         330.3       387.8         452.5         509.0        558.5        558.5          558.5
Net Qrh Flaw                      (69.4)          11.9        16.1         22.3          27.6          36.5         36.5           36.5
FlnmwJA& Rate of Return:            262
Sourc: Missio
March 21, 1984



MaOLnUMAL DrPJMCIclAN  FRiw
'rovm voetable Flat Mx*I - Ci fno Projectq
(IbiS Hillima)
1           2            3           4            5            6           7              8           9           10
SFles (tow*)                      -             -       2,226        2,597        2,968        3,339       3,339         3,339        3,339       3,339
Sales (t)-                                      -          77.9        90.9         103.9       116.9        116.9         116.9        116.9       116.9
ftmldil VAlI 2/-1                                                       -             -          _            -             _            -           16.8
Total PrHaLie                 -             -         7IJ,         90.9        103.9        116.9       116.9          116.9       116.9        133.7
Iiweitwit (bts                   28.4          28.3        -            -            -            -           -              -           -            -
ncrermital orkinrg Capital        -             3.9        0.5          0.5          0.5          -           -              -           -            -
Operat it Oneto
PrO&it C,rbae                    -55.7                               64.9          74.2        83.5         83.5          83.5         83.5        83.5
W1gw a&d Salaries                -            -           5.4         5.4           5.4         5.4          5.4           5.4          5.4         5.4
Other Exqvs_                                  -           8.0         8.0           8.0         8,0          8.0           8.0          8.0         8.0
Total Qt                    28.4          32.2       69.6         78.8         88.1         96.9        96.9           96.9        96.9         96.9
Net Cauh Flow                    (28.4)       (32.2)        8.3        12.1          15.8        20.0         20.0          20.0         20.0        36.8
Flniutctal Rate of Return:        192
!/  2C of rmMtmnt aowts and all Increeutal w rlg capital.
SQh: 21, 1                                                                                                                                                       x
Hbrch 21, 3964                                                                                                                                                 F



NAUaLLnM   D       mFI nCACN   r
Kilk  mteurizaticia Plait 1We - Cih Thue Projecticnl
(CalS W1111on)
-- - ~Y e a r s-
1           2             3            4             5           6-9           10
.Salce
Milk 1ittles (uillhmu)             -             -           3.1          8.8          10.5         12.3          12.3
Fat (tou)                         -             -           18.4         52.5          63.0         73.5         73.5
Milk (@ Col$ 26.5/Jttle)           -             -          82.2        233.2         278.3         326.0        326.0
Fat (9 CoIS 10DAglt)              -             -            1.8          5.3           6.3          7.4          7.4               1
RmIdkal Vkh w1t                   -              -           -                          _                        10.4              X
TOtAI Ammie                     -             -          84.0        238.5         284.6         333.4        343.8
Outs
liNmta.lt  asts A0.                             10.3         -            -             -            - 
IArkii* Capital                    -             2.3         2.3          0.8           1.0          -            -
(peratIrv Cost                     -             -          80.5 225.9               270.4         316.8        316.8
Raw Hiterial                      -             -           67.0        191.4         229.7        268.0        268.0
iwe awlIWadies                     -             -           3.3          6.5           6.5          6.5          6.5
flhdAiilg                         -             -            6.6         18.9          22.7         26.7         26.7
1itlittle                         -              -           1.5          3.5           4.7          6.5          6.5
Kalteltwr                          -             -           0.9          1.7           1.7           1.7          1.7
Rnit                              -             -            0.3          0.6           0.6          0.6          0.6
Q'twratl xqnsw                    -              -           0.9          3.3           4.5          6.8          6.8
Total hiits                    30.0          12.4        82.8        226.7         271.4         316.8        316.8             4
&t Cas Fl                          (30.0)        (12.4)        1.2         11.8          13.2         16.6         27.a a'
F1nc1al Nate oa Re un:             2
1/ 1IM of inmst'tlt cewt aid all wtkitg capitAl.
%xirce: Ktlmtai
Mtrdi 21, 1984



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Table 19
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices - Farm Gate
(Col$ per ton)
Financial                Economic
Commodity                      Prices                     Price
Coffee                        102,000                        0
Plantain                        8,000                    7,440
Citrus                          9,000                    8,370
Avocado                         30,000                  27,900
Mango                           30,000                  27,900
Papaya                          18,000                  16,740
Blackberry                     32,000                   29,760
Cocoa                         135,000                  125,550
Pineapple                      15,000                   13,950
Panela                         26,000                   26,260
Maize                           24,000                  22,800
Bean                            60,000                  55,800
Arracacha                       12,000                  11,160
To mato                         27,000                  25,110
Onion                          25,000                   23,250
Green Bean                      24,000                  22,320
Cassava                         15,000                  13,950
Meat (Liveweight)               95,000                  85,500
Lulo                           50,000                   46,500
Milk                                27/liter                25.1/liter
Source: Mission
March 21, 1984



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
Table 20
COLOHBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis: Switching Values 1/
-    X%        
Benefits            Costs
Farm Investment Models
Farm Model   I                     9% 2/             10%
Farm Model  II                    18%                22%
Farm Model III                     2%                 2%
Farm Model  IV                    57%                90%
Farm Model   V                    11%                11%
Marketing Models
Farmers' Organization 3/                     -23%
Primary Collection Center 31                 -25%
Regional Collection Center 3/                -34%
COMERCAFE 3/                                 -17%
Fruit and Vegetable Section 3/                -6%
Agroindustries Investment Models
Milk Pasteurization 3/                       -27%
Frozen Vegetable Plant 3/                   -18%
1/  Percentage reduction in benefits or increase in costs
that would make the investment models' economic rate
of return equal to the opportunity cost of capital
(11Z).
2/  Price or yield of blackberry.
3/  Reduction in the volume of agricultural
production collected or processed.n.a.= not
applicable. Subproject not sensitive to volume or
price changes.
Source: Mission
March 21, 1984



- 90 -
ANNEX 5
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. General Report and Documents Related to the Project
1. Plan de Diversificacion Agropecuaria para la Zona Cafetalera 1984-1988,
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO, Agosto 1983.
2. Censo Cafetero 1980-81. FEDERACAFE - Departamento de Censo Cafetero.
3.  Ev'aluacion General del Cambio Tecnico Economico del Cafe en los Anos
1966-1980 y Politicas y Estrategias del Desarrollo Cafetero en la
Decada de los Anos 80, Gabriel Gomez Gaviria, Septiembre 1980.
4. Economia Cafetera en Colombia. PRODESARROLLO.
5. Productos Agricolas Perecederos. Series de Precios 1981-1982 y
Proyecciones 1983. FEDERACAFE.
6.  Suelo de la Zona Cafetera - Clasificacion y Uso.  A. Grisales.
7. Estatutos 1982. FEDERACAFE.
8. Informe del Gerente General al XLI Congreso Nacional de Cafeteros -
Anexos 1, 2, 3.  Noviembre 1982.
9. Estudio Tecnico, Economico, y Financiero del Matadero Regional de
'isaralda. Pereira, Octubre 1982.
10.  P.oyecto para el Establecimiento, Comercializacion e Industrializacion
de los Citricos en la Zona Cafetera. FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO.
11. Programa de Produccion y Comercializacion Proyecto de Ganaderia. Junio
1983
12. Proyecto de Factibilidad para la Instalacion de una Planta Congeladora
de Hortalizas en la Zona Cafetera de Cundinamarca. Agosto 24, 1982.
13. Analisis Financiero de Montaje de una Planta Pasteurizadora de Leche en
Villavicencio. Septiembre 1983.
14. El Fondo Nacional de Cafe.
15. Contract between Government and FEDERACAFE.
B. Working Papers
1. Agricultural Component
2. Marketing Component
3. Agroindustry Component
4. Production and Credit Component
5. Economic Analysis



IBRD 18034
C                                          Some L  05' M-~~    --B    I    A-80.    /  FEBRUARY   1984L
C  O  L O  M    B  I                         o ¢-I--JA9w1R{7-                            -      --
COFFEE GROWING AREAS                                                                                   -
10                                              L
4~~~~~~~~~~~
a.~^CU DO  J~                            C'c       .       *'    :\              :
z5_  s   $~~  X /  1  X    vr  /           -        V  ~~E N E Z U E L A
Coffee Growing Areos                                         4                                 ,AR AUCA
Selecteda Roods
Notionol Copitalr
- Depor-men- Capitols                                                 LO
o   Towns
Pivers                          Ou,bd1
Marshesr                                                                                  OYC
-. -- Depar. nent Boundaries                            AC
-.  -Inrernoatoionl Boundores                                                                                     (
_0 -4Z/{f    f   9  Fy  sw    X        rtl-tZ'Ta,   °    50   100  150
so 10  10
"  i   r <, w    t                         !-LESo~~~~~~~~ SO  1°°
AREA QF VAP~-
\  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irio,- lenc o>                     4  rel ..   i....'  .~ .......... - |rr;
N                     utO     -\r"s *                   * n -   >,FLi.  -_
E C U A D O R                  ,eo  \ _ .  >. .                                                   P*    !      V - r- E 7) EZA
ii .



