Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
0/k' 2 8E-3- co
Rest N.6 P-3846-CO
REPORT AND RECOMIENMTtO-I
PRESIVENC OF HE
INMEML&TIONAL BAZI F(FR REComma=CTOf AND DEVELOPMfENT
TO THE
EECUTIVE DIRHTORS
ON A
PROPoDD LOWN
isAN AmOUMNr EQuivALENT TO uSt0.o MILLroN
TO THE
NATlIONAL FEDERATION OF COFFEE GROWERS OF COLOIBIA
WIH THE GuARANrEE (F
TRE REULIC OF COIDMBIA
FOR ME
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATIOLR FROJHET
June 7, 1984
This _wmntb    resiem dbrbi   zd ma be wed yrcpmtol nteprf-rme of
tber o Xie  dumIs contnsa not dwiw be disclsd wd           Wol Bm  sdrmi



CURRENC  EOIlE
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (ColS)
&verage Calendar 1982                      Average Calendar 1983
uSS I    ColS64.102                        US$S I    CoIS78.857
ColSi =  USSO.0156                         ColSI  - USSO.0127
Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 1984
USS 1.00 -ColS93-48
Col$1.00 - USSO.0107
WEIGETS AND MESURES
metric Sys tem
ABIREVIATIONS
Caja Agraria   - Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank
(Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero)
FEDERACAFE     -  rLational Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia
(Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia)
PRODESA3ROLLO -  Coffee Zones Development and Diversification Program,
A Department within FEDERACAFE
(Programa de Desarrollo y Diversificacion de Zonas
Cafeteras, Departamento en FEDERACAFE)
FFAP           - Agricultural Financing Fund
(Fondo Financiero Agropecuaric)
FFI            -  Industrial Financing Fund
(Fondo Financiero Industrial)
ICA            -  International Coffee Agreement
GOVERNN TUQ OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF COFFEE GROWERS OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEA-
January 1 - December 31



LORt OFFICL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECr
LOAN AND PROJECr SUReRY
Borrover:      National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia (FEDERACAFE)
Guarantor:     Republic of Colombia
Amount:        US$50.0 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:         17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:
The project vould support the Government's and FEDERACAFE's
policy of diversifying agricultural production in the coffee
areas through increased production, marketirg and processing
of non-coffee commodities. This strategy would lead to
substantial increases in food production and a reduction in
the economy's vulnerability to price changes and market
constraints on coffee, thereby assisting the country In
reducing overproduction and costly stock build-up of coffee.
The project vould accelerate significantly the borrower's
ovgoing diversification efforts and help make diversification
a more self-sustaining process through provision of:
(a) credit for agricultural production, processing, and
marketing; and (b) related support services, Including
technical assistance, applied agricultural research and a
price and marketing information system. As a result, the
share of crops other than coffee in the land-use pattern would
increase from about 10% to approximately 20%. Incremental
annual production at full development would be about 3% of the
value of national agricultural production in 1983. Direct
project beneficiaries would be some 13,600 farmers whose
income is expected to increase by about 50% at full
development, about 40 private agroilndustrial enterprises, anA
about 170 marketing entities in the coffee areas.
Project Risks: There would be little technical or managerial risks, since
FEDERACkFE, a private producer organization, is efficient and
commands a vell developed physical and organizational infra-
structure in the proposed project area, which would be
suitably strengthened for meeting the needs of the expanded
diversification effort. Also, the principal banking windows
Th1 document has a rticted distribuio ad may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their offical duties lt contents may oot otherwe be diseiod without Wodd Bank authoriztion



- 1i -
under the proposed project, Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria,
have consistently performed well in granting credit and should
have no difficulty in providing the banking services required
under the project. However, the pace of project execution
would criticallv depend on (a) efficient marketing of project
output and Cb) the Government continuing to maintain reduced
incentives for coffee production, which is its declared
policy. These two aspects vould be monitored tbrough
FEDEPAC&FE's marketing intelligence system to be strengthened
under the project and the introduction of a review mechanism
regarding diversification incentives.
Local   Foreign Total
-(UsS Mfillion)-
Estimated costs
Credit                              189.2   47.1    236.3
Support services                     12.1     2.0     14.1
Subtotal                            201.3    49.1    250.4
Contingencies: a/
Physical                            1.2    0.2       1.4
Price                               1.0     0.6      1.6
Total project cost                  203.5    49.9    253.4 _b
Front-end fee                         -       0.1      0.1
Total financing required            203.5    50.0    253.5
Financing plan
Beneficiaries                        53.8    -        53.8
FFAP                                 90.1    -        90.1
FFI                                   6.5    -         6.5
FEDERACAFE                           53.1    -        53.1
Bank                                  -      50.0     50.0
Total flnancing                     2D3.5    50.0    253.5
Estimated                      --------------USS Millions
Disbursements:   Bank FT       1985   196   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual        5.0    9.5   10.5   10.0    7.5    4.5    3.0
Cumulative    5.0   14.5   25.0  35.0   42.5   47.0   50.0
at Applied only to support services.
b/ Including local taxes of US$7.4 dillion.



Rate of Return:    23-25Z.I/
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 4966-CO, June 5, 1984
IBRD MAP:          No. 18034
1/ On the basis of illustrative investment uodels for farm development, and
marketing and agricultural processing sub-projects.



REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE NATIONAL FEDERATION OF COFFEE GROWERS OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia for the equivalent
of US$50.0 million, including capitalized front-end fee. to help finance the
agricultural diversification project.   The loan would have a terms of 17
years, including four years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOH!1/
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4464-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
mission was followed by a small updating mission which visited the country in
February 1984. Also, a mission to review the external sector and agriculture
visited Colombia during April/Hay 1983 and its report (4981-CO) was distribu-
ted to the Executive Directors in April 1984. This section reflects the
major findings of these missions. Country data sheets are presented in Annex
I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably.  The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration.  This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evelved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
1/ This section is an updated version of Part I of the report for the Power
Development Finance Project (No. P-3750-CO of larch 8, 1984).



- 2 -
4.        Real CDP per capita rose by about 2.ZZ on average during the
1950-83 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained in the 3.0O to 3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in fertil-
ity. colombia's population is presently growing at an annual rate of 2.0%.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute anai relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 63
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 3.5 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mortality fell
to 55 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the late 1970s, 79Z of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income groups have experi-
enced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, noblic services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
ner capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economv. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportaLion net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was conr
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping



the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were i-tr^_ducd a.- t.F_  Otharltlas e        1...J c   a    s som-      _
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colomhian goods in external markets. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and bv excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts fron coffee exports, together
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largelv
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 1 of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about USS4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreiRn exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy.  Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts tnto pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the effects
of increasing restraint on aggregate demand and the troublesome financial
market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of monetary
restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabilization
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export incen-
tives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints were
relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, Interest rates
on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance compa-
nies--and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit



- 4 -
operations of the Central Bank in eccess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
ve±llncee anr  control of the 'llegaJ. '   ort trd'e.  The effeeLs of tnc above
measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 4% In
1980, unemplovment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse and the
problems have continued through 1983. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5Z in 1981 fell to 1.4% in 1982 and to about 1% in 1983. Agricultural
output was hard-hit both in 1982 and 1983 as the production of cotton, oil
seeds, and other agricultural commodities dropped as a result of low interna-
tional prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse weather.  Industrial activ-
ity deteriorated on account of depressed aggregate demand, and unutilized
capacity continued to increase, particularly in manufacturing. After
experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit emerged in the resource
balance in 1981 of about USSI.5 billion, uhich continued at roughly this
level through 1983. These deficits resulted mainly from a drop in exports by
about 9% annually in real terms: ma Jor reasons were the slowdown in world
demand, a major devaluation and the introduction of import restrictions in
Venezuela-a major trading partner-in 1983, and the reduction in Colombia's
coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement significantly below
the 1981 coffee export level. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by
about US$1,800 million in 1983 and Colombia's net international reserves were
equivalent tn about 6.7 months of imports of goods and non-factor service at
year end. lo a significant extent, the fall in foreign exchange reserves was
caused by the difficulties in tapping capital markets which resulted from the
external debt problems of other countries. Inflation slowed down in 1983 to
a 202 average for the year, down from 28X in 1981 and 25Z in 1982.
11.       Since 1983 the Government has been introducing a series of measures
designed to stimulate aggregate demand and to initiate the adjustment process
required to expand and diversify non-coffee exports, stimulate domestic pro-
duction, and resume economic growth. The rate of peso devaluation is being
accelerated with a view to regaining the 1975 real exchange rate during 1984;
the housing construction industry Is being provided with incentives to
mobilize an increasing amount of resources; and open market operations are
being discontinued to increase liquidity in the economy. Temporary import
restrictions are being introduced to arrest the fallinB foreign exchange
reserves; these are to be lifted once the real exchange rate achieves its
equilibrium level and exports respond fully to this incentive.  The stabili-
zation measures introduced in 1977 have been gradually dismantled, followed
by government legislation, measures and regulations designed to reduce the
fiscal deficit and ease distortions and restrictions in the financial
system. While these measures have been in the right direction, there is need
for significant additional efforts, as recognized by the authorities.  In
particular, the country continues to be affected by the tight international
capital market in 1984, which together with a somewhat slower export growth
than expected by the Government, have produced further declines in foreign
exchange reserves. The continuing pressure on the external sector has
brought to the Government's attention the need for further and timely actions
to reverse the current trends. Such a policy package would need to include
export promotion, external resource mobilization, promotion of foreign
investment, fiscal and monetary measures.



-5-
_evelojpment Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing itS development obJec-
tives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This strategy
emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the benefits of
development to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved through
increasing participation of all social and regional groups in the process of
economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the resumption of
growth while maintaining price stability. The strategy strengthens the
previous emphasis on export promotion as a means of supplementing domestic
demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and on policy measures
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a continuation of the large effort in public investment, giving
high priority to energy, agriculture and industrial proiects and to the pro-
vision of transport infrastructure. Economic decentralization, regional
autonomy and the uniting of regional growth centers through improved tran-
sport, communication and financial links are directed towards creating an
integrated national market. The development plants strategy also places
emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale and commercial agriculture as a
means of diversifying and increasing exports, assuring adequate domestic food
supplies, holding down inflation and contributing to the Government's
nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy objectives are to provide an
environment of certainty, along with adequate credit and infrastructure, so
that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and expand output. Because of
its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating employment and bringing in
new technology, private foreign investment is to be encouraged. The finan-
cial sector is also to be strengthened. The Government's approach to helping
the poor takes on a new orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its
efforts sre focused upon improving efficiency in the use of resources, broad-
ening coverage of services and strengthening the social service institu-
tions. Programs in the housing, health, and education sectors are to be
better focused ard integrated, and selected low income and disadvantaged
groups, such as workers in the informal sector, children and unemployed
youth, are singled out for special attention. Combined with a significant
expansion in construction of low-income housing and the extension of the
Integrated Rural Development (DRI) program, the new directions given to
social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of low income
groups in Colombia.
13.       After many years of being a net petroleum exporter, Colombia a
became a net oil importer in the mid 1970s and, in recent years, 10-15X of
merchandise imports have been accounted for by petroleum. In the absence of
rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major constraint on
growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem depends on the
country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy resources--
hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas--and also upon increasing petroleum
exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will require energy
pricing policies that balance consumption with energy resource availabili-
ties, a least cost program of investments, sufficient domestic and external
financing for these investments, strengthened sector institutions, improved
program execution capability and rapid carrying out of investments. Although
planning and policy making have improved substantially in many energy sector
institutions in recent years, further improvements in overall sector planning
and coordination are needed. A recently completed National Energy study



- 6 -
carried out by the Government is providing the basis for seeking such
improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions have gone a con-
siderable way towards providing thc correct signals for regulating consump-
tion and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers (primarily
foreign companies) for 'incremental- and new' crude provide adequate produc-
tion incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products have been
increased substantially in recent years, reflecting, on the whole, interna-
tional levels.
14.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
the increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could an:d should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. MarketinR constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth and exports, affecting particularly
the development of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The
State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have taken steps to improve the country's
infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the ongoing
Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
16.       A large increase of public sector investment will be required in
the next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1984-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 52 p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the small- and
medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 9% of GDP during the 1984-86 period, and
is expected to total ColS1,312 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. In particular, the size
of the overall Central Government deficit will have to be reduced signifi-
cantly. The buoyancy of the tax system (excluding coffee tax revenues and



- 7 -
receipts from earnings on foreign exchange holdings), which has declined in
recent years, will have to be increased through new taxes and better tax
administration; the growth of expenditures will have to be checked; resources
will have to be used more efficiently; and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms. A package of
measures to tackle some of these issues was approved by Congress in 1983,
including measures related to broadening the base and increasing the average
rate of the sales tax, increasing other indirect taxes, reducing the earmark-
ing of revenues, reducing tax evasion, and strengthening tax administration
which are expected to have an effect in 1984. Additional actions on the
expenditure side are expected to follow. Since this effort Is likely to
coincide with increased private sector demand for investment resources, the
importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be vrer-stressed.
The recent capital market liberalization should encourage savings. A signi-
ficant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely, however, as long
as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization remains a sine qua
non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base ant sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are reasonably good and
significant advances in economic welfare are anticipated. However, because
of the decline in coffee prices and the weakening in exports caused by the
recession in some of traditional Colombian markets, in addition to the need
to increase imports to develop the country's resource potential. and restore
higher economic growth, the current account deficit of the balance of pay-
ments is projected to average US$1.7 billion per year during 1984-86, equiva-
lent to 4% of GDP. Almost half of the deficit is projected to be financed by
reducing foreign exchange reserves and by direct foreign investment. By the
end of this period, net official international reserves would have fallen to
a level of about three months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a
level which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's
creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real GDP of 4% during this period.  Beyond 1986, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a leveling-off of imports resulting from increased domestic production of
petroleum. The current account deficit would gradually fall to about 1% of
GDP by 1990. To achieve real GDP growth of about 4% per annum during
1984-86, gross fixed investment will have to be maintained at 20% of GDP, and
to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national
savings would need to average about 19% of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total US$6.1
billion in current prices for the 1984-86 period, for an annual average
requirement of about US$2.0 billion. Net foreign investment is expected to
account for UJSSO.9 billion during 1984-86. This should provide about 15% of
the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 85X (US$5.2 billion)
about US$2.5 billion, has been either committed or is expected to be secured
from multilateral and bilateral sources, while the difference, US$2.7
billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from financial markets and supp-
liers' credit sources. At the end of 1982, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$6.2
billion, equivalent to 16% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt



- 8 -
was 22Z. Reflecting the recently increased Colombian borrowing from commer-
cial sources, this share is expected to remain at about 202 during 1983-86.
The public debt service ratio at the end of 1982 was 182 and is expected to
climb to 25Z by 1986, peak at about 27Z in 1988 and then decline gradually to
24Z in 1990. The World Bank's share in public debt service is expected to
remain below 252 during 1983-86. With continued sound economic and financial
management, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness tlhough and
be,yond the 1984-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 104th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$ 4,033.3 million (net of
cancellations). Of this amount the Bank held as of March 31, 1984,
US$2,981.3 million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements bave been completed on 66 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged USS86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to US$250 million per year in 1981 and 1982, and to USS294.5 in
1983. While lower than those recorded in Latin America for similar projects,
concentrated efforts to overcome problems in project execution have resulted
in significant increases in the disbursement record over the last ten
months. Improving performance of social sector institutions, gradual
containment of inflationary pressures and increased Bank lending for
infrastructure projects, all point to a bigher level of disbursements in the
future.  IFC has made investments and underwriting commitents of US$119.9
million in 29 enterprlses and, as of March 31, 1984, it beld US$48.0
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
21.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has 1ecome quite diversified.  Although through tbe nid-1960s, 88Z of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank bas broadened its
participation In lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s, 53% of the
loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport and power. Of
the loans made since 1978, 39Z were for power and transport, 18Z for agricul-
ture projects, 17Z for industrial projects, 52 each for projects in water
supply, telecommunications, irrigation and urban development and 5% for
education and nutrition projects. The diversification was, indeed a desirable
aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader raigm of Colombia's
development problems. The experience gained has served to identify areas in
which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and, thus, to enable lending
to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can have a meaning-
ful impact.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY-33 consisted of loans for rural basic
education and agricultural research totalling US$78.4 million equivalent.
The current fiscal year's program includes the already approved loans for
coal exploration, the Popayan region earthquake reconstruction, power
development finance and vultipurpose water and power development. To assist
Colombia to face adverse economic conditions, efforts were stepped up to
associate the Bank to directly productive projects. Thus in addition to the
loan presented in this report, loans are being considered for small-scale



- 9 -
in&ustries which industrial credt t, and are expected to be presented to the
Executive Directors in the coming mouths. Work is also underway on projects
for export development, water supply and sewerage, electricity distribution,
agricultural extension and marketing, fertilizer, irrigation, rural roads,
petroleum development, and health for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next two years_
23.       The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy,
a sizeable part of the proposed lending would be for bydropomer. Bank
financing in the energy sector would also assist in strengthening major
institutions and in mobilizing external finance, particularly tbrough the
launching of a new power sector development fac-lity, as most of the projects
would require substantial cofinancing.. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to support the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment, and eo increase and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank lending for
infrastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-regional flow of
goods and services- 'Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of
the Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the Coloubian popula-
tion. Proposed lending for further rural development, agricultural credit,
water supply and sewerage, health, and irrigation projects are principally
designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in
Annex 1. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had
decreased since then to some 492 for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 60X of external capital requirements during the
eighties.  Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related
projects in addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural develop-
ment, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrifica-
tion and land erosion control which are aimed at improving living standards
of the lower Income population. In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.



- 10 -
PART III -TEEE AGRICULTURAL SEC-0R2/
Background
25.       Agriculture remains the most important sector in the Colombian
economy*, accounting for roughly one-quarter of GDP, which is almost twice the
average for middle income countries. Within the sector, crops and livestc*k
products contribute about 53Z and 402 respectively to the gross value of pro-
duction; the rest comes from forestry, fishing and other rural activities.
Agriculture provides employment for some two milllon people, or about 27% of
the national labor force. The sector's share in the country's total regis-
tered merchandise exports fluctuated between 682 to 75% in recent years. In
the past two decades, agriculture grew, albeit erratically, at an estimted
annual rate of nearly 42; while this was about 1% below the growth rate for
the economy as a whole, it was considerably higher than in most developing
countries. Since 1979, however, this rate has slowed down to 2-3% annually,
and is estimated at 0.5-1.0% for 1982. the lowest figure registered in many
years. During the last two decades. 55-60% of output growth was derived from
area expansion, except for coffee for which growth resulted primarily from
yield increases. Yields of major export crops are comparable with interna-
tional levels, but for many other commodities, especially food crops, they
are low and the scope for improvements is substantial. The performance of
the livestock subsector has been limited over the Last decade, and only sall
productlvity increases were achieved.
26.       The sector's growth in the 1970s was, to a large extent, driven by
external factors such as favorable arkets and prices for export crops
especially coffee. In the 1980s on the other hand, the international
economic environment caused the prices of coffee and other important agricul-
tural export commodities to decllne. At the same time, the cost of agricul-
tural inputs, including labor, remained relatively high; consequently, the
profits of agricultural producers declined in many instances. To resuoe
higher agricultural growth rates, to create additional inonme and employment.
and to stimulate exports. improvements in the productivity of land and labor
through the diffusion and adoption of new technologies are needed as the
potential for increasing production through expansion of agricultural land is
limited.  In additionu  the unrealized potential for agricultural diversifica-
tion in the coffee areas needs to be tapped, in order to reduce the country's
heavy dependence on coffee whose market constraints and price prospects
appear unfavorable.
Agricultural Credit
27.       Two principal sources, Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(Caja Agraria), and the Fonda Financiero Agropecuarlo (FYAP), account for
most of the agricultural credit in Colombia. Caja Agraria is the main
agricultural bank with an extensive network of some 850 branch offices, and
2/ A Sector Memorandum entitled -Colombian Agriculture: Selected Issues and
Some Directions for Strategy (No. 4275-CO) and a report -Coloubia:
External Sector and Agriculture Policies for Adjustment and Growth (No.
4981-CO) were distributed to the Executive Directors on January 31, 1983
and April 20, 1984, respectively.



- Il -
about 500,000 clients. anal FFAP is a rediscount window of the Bank of the
Repablic from which funds are on-lent by banking institutions, mostly to com-
mercial farmers. FFAP's resources are obtained principally from low yielding
bonds which banking institutions are required to hold in lieu of reserves.
FFAP has crop specific lending limits per hectare that are revised semi-
annuallv and generally cover only bet-ween 25Z and 65X of investment costs,
with the rest having to come from the borrower. In addition, there are other
sources of agricultural credit such as the Banco Ganadero and Banco Cafetero,
which finance principally livestock and coffee respectivelv. Agricultural
credit is generally linked to technical assistance; farmers need to have
approved farm plans bv authorized extens!on agents to qualify for credit.
Interest rates for agriculture vary cons derably depending on the institu-
tions involved and the specific purpose of a given credit line. On average
they are generallv lower for agriculture than for other productive sectors
and, given the decline in internal inflation during 1983. are currentlv
slightly positive in real terms.  For agroindustrial and industrial lending,
most of the funds are provided by coumercial banks, development finance cor-
porations, and the above mentioned agricultural banks. Their direct lending
is supplemented bv rediscounting funds of the Fondo Financiero Industrial
(FFI) of the Bank of the Republic, which is funded in part out of the reserve
requirements of the banking systems.  For marketing credit, no maior
specialized credit lines exist.
The Coffee Economv
2n.       Coffee continues to be of central importance in the economy,
heavilv influencing agricultural growth and producing major macroeconomic
effects. After 1975, coffee represented 5-9Z of total GOP and contributed
about 46-66% to merchandise exports, while within the agricultural sector
these shares have been about 21-31% of GDP and 71-852 of exports. The sub-
sector generated about 7.5: of Government's current revenues in the period
1974-81 and employs some 600,000 people, equivalent to about 30% of total
agricultural employment or about 8% of the national labor force. About two
million people, or one-quarter of the rural population, live on coffee farms.
29.       Total land in coffee farms is about 4.8 million ha of which about
23% is under coffee; 92 under other crops, such as sugarcane, corn, plan-
tains, cassava and beans; and 68% in extensive pasture, fallow, scrub/
regrowth and forest. Coffee farms are predominantly owner-operated and 70%
of all coffee farms are smaller than 10 ha, 25% are between 10 ha and 50 ha
and 5% are larger than 50 ha. However, the farms over 10 ha are estimated to
produce more than two-thirds of the coffee output. In general the share of
coffee in the total area of a farm declines with increasing farm size, and
conseque-itly, the land available for non-coffee crops (diversification) is
higher on the larger farms.
30.       Most small coffee farms are using traditional techniques, i.e.,
low-yielding varieties, low tree density (900 to 1,200 trees per hectare),
little or no chemical fertilizers, little weeding and only sporadic pruning
and spraying against diseases.  The labor input is limited to some lf0 man-
days per hectare per annum and yields average 500-800 kg per hectare. A new
production technology was introduced on some of the medium-sized and larger
farms starting in the mid-1960s. Its use continued on a major scale in the
early and mid-1970s. The new technology consists basically of the use of a



- 12 -
new variety vith a high tree density of 3,000-4,000 trees per hectare, heavy
use of fertilizer and intensive pruning techniques. Some 200-250 man-days
per hectare are required and yields average from 1,500-2,000 kg per hectare
depending on whether coffee trees are grown under shade or in sun,
respectively.
31.       This new technology has been adopted on about one-third of the area
under coffee and generates over half of the total coffee output. It has
fundamentally altered the Colombian coffee economy-at least until recently
when coffee rust appeared for the first time in Colombia, see para. 40--by
(a) making it substantially more capital- and management-intensive, (b)
reducing production cost per unit of output, and (c) increasing production by
more than 50% from some 7-8 million bags (of 60 kg) a decade ago to about 13
million bags at present. The adoption of new technology was facilitated by
relatively high international and domestic coffee prices durinRg the latter
part of the seventies and resulted in a shift of coffee production from the
small traditional coffee farms to the more entreprenearially managed medium-
sized and larger coffee farms with access to capital. In addition, it led to
a build-up of over 12 million bags of stocks, equivalent to more than one
year's exports, since Colombia's annual export quota is limited to about 8.5
million bags under the International Coffee Agreement (ICA),1 its exports
to non-ICA members is aroung 1 million bags, and its domestic demand is less
than two million bags and inelastic.  5ircumstances under which such large
stocks (as of the end of 1983, Colombia held 20% of world stocks compared to
its export share of 14%) could become economically useful seem unlikely, vet
they cost US$30 million in 1982 to carry.
32.       The dominant institution in all aspects of coffee production,
marketing, exports and policy is FEDERACAFE, a private, non-profit associa-
tion of coffee producers. The only requirements for becoming a member of it
are to have an annual production of 375 kg of coffee, or to cultivate at
least one hectare under coffee. Created in 1927 to protect the interests of
the coffee industry and to promote its development, it has been charged vith
the management of coffee policv under a series of ten-year government
contracts. Under these contracts, FED2ERhCAFE controls domestic and export
marketing and advises on rates of taxation and prices. Through its well-
developed physical and organizational infrastructure it also provides agri-
cultural inputs and extension services and is responsible for the preparation
and implementation of rural development projects, including diversification
efforts. FEDERACAFE has sponsored the establishment of a strong cohperative
movement which is represented in most municipalities Where local cooperatives
perform the functions of Input supply and purchases of coffee and also offer
social services such as medical care. In addition, the Federation sponsors
3/ The latest International Coffee Agreement (ICA) was signed in 1983. The
two key elements of the Agreement's provisions are export quotas with a
fixed and variable portion and trigger prices. The fixed 70% of the
quota is to be determined by periodic negotiations among producing
countries and the remaining 30% is determined by the stocks in each
country. Colombia's share of the ICA of 1983 (total annual quota - 52.9
million 60-kg bags) has been set at 16.2R2 or 8.5 million 60-kg bags.
Short- and medium-term world coffee price projections in constant terms
show a slight decline from their present levels. Only in the long run
(by 1995), are prices expected to regain their 1983 real level.



- 13 -
and administers an agricultural coffee research center and a foundation for
agricultural education and training. Over the vears, the institution has
diversified its coffee related activities and today also partially owns and
administers coffee storage facilities, general warehouses, an export company,
a shipping company and a coffee processing company. Finally, FEDERArAFE
administers the Government's National Coffee Fund, the main instrument for
regulating the supply and the price of coffee. Most of the taxes, including
taxes in kind, levied on the coffee industry accrue to this fund and are used
to:  purchase all the coffee grown at a guaranteed price, finance the stocks
that are being held, and promote the wider interests of the coffee sub-
sector. The remainder, a portion of the ad valorem export tax, accrues to
f        the Government at a rate that averaged about 7.5% of total government
revenues during the period 1974-81.
33.       FEDERACAFE is directed by the following statutory bodies:  the
National Coffee Growers' Congress, and the NZational, Departmental and
Municipal Coffee Growers Committees. Its decentralized strucrure allows the
latter to bring to the attention of the National Coffee Committee local needs
for rural development activities (rural roads, electricity, potable water
supply, health facilities, etc.).  This makes the institution responsive to
the concerns of coffee producers, and, in turn, allows it to influence signi-
ficantly the economic activities of its members. FEDERACAFE is efficient in
addressing agricultural production and marketing problems, and the fact that
overall the coffee growing area in Colombia enjoys a higher standard of
living and better physical and social infrastructure than the rest of the
rural areas can, in large part, be attributed to the efforts of this
institution.
34.       Internally, FEDERACkFE is managed by a general manager, is staffed
by 3,800 people (of which 1,700 are directly employed by the Departmental
Coffee Growers Committees), and has an annual budget of about USS103
million. About 20% of the staff has professional training, primarily in
agricultural sciences, engineering, economics, business administration and
law. The General Manager operates through four sub-managers in charge cf
administration, planning and coordination, commercial activities, and tech-
nical activities. The technical department, besides being responsible for
coffee extersion and research is also in charge of FEDERACAFE's coffee zone
development and diversification program (PRODESARROLLO), which was
established in 1963, to promote agricultural diversification through the pro-
vision of technical advice and credit.
35.       PRODESARROLLO is organized into five departments:  planning and
programming, technical services, credit, marketing, and regienal develop-
ment. It has a staff of 200 people-60 at headquarters in Bogota and 140 at
the departmental level. Of this staff, 35Z have professional degrees,
primarily in agricultural sciences, economics, and business administration.
The annual operating bud-et of PRODESARROLLO in 1983 was USS5.0 million.
Past Diversification Efforts
36.       Limited agricultural diversification efforts designed to reduce the
negative effects of coffee monoculture go back to the 1940s. In 1946, the
first contract was signed between the Government and FEDERACAFE to promote
the production of non-coffee crops in the coffee zones and over two decades



- 14 -
about US$150,000 annually were spent on these efforts. In the early sxfties
a special private fund (Fondo de Desarrollo y Diversificacion de Zonas
Cafeteras) was created to provide technical assistance and credit for agri-
cultural diversification in Caldas, one of the main coffee producing depart-
ments. In 1968, this fund was incorporated as a public entity under the
Ministry of Agriculture to meet Colombia's diversification obligations under
the International Coffee Agreement of the same year, and contracted with
FEDERACAFE the execution of the diversification program. From 1973 onwards,
Colombia, independent of other coffee-producing countries, continued with its
limited agricultural diversification efforts. From 1963 to 1982, FEDERACAFE
provided credit totalling about US$146 million to finance about 99,000 ha
under non-coffee crops, 46 marketing projects and 41 agroindustrial
enterprises not related to coffee. During these years, EEDERACAFE gained
valuable experience in agricultural diversification and built up a
technically competent staff. However, its diversification efforts were
hampered by the high relative profitability of growing coffee versus other
crops and the lack of sustained Government support. Consequently, the
diversification endeavour to date did not have a major impact on non-coffee
production in the coffee zones; yet, the need for diversification was never
as critical as it is today. Supply ard demand were basically in balance up
to the late 1970s, and the country did -aot have serious coffee stock bolldup
problems. Also, there was ample room for increasing the country 's food
production in other areas to meet the demdnd that has been growing at around
3-4% per annum, and therefore the Govern=eat did not accord high priority to
agricultural diversification.
Government Strategy for Agricultural Production and Diversification
37.       In its strategy to revitalize the economy, the Government bas
accorded high priority to agricultural development and has substantially
strengthened the policy formulation and planning capacity of the Ministry of
Agriculture and its decentralized agencies. The Government is accelerating
the exchange rate depreciation which will belp realize the sector's potentia
especially in terms of foreign exchange earnings, income and employment
generation, and restoration of its competitiveness in international mikets.
Coffee production is not affected by this exchange rate policy because of the
Government's offsetting taxes. Agricultural productivity and production are
being encouraged through programs aimed at: (a) the generation and diffusion
of agricultural technology; (b) rehabilitation of existing irrigation lands;
(c) provision of credit; and (d) the diversification of agricultural
production in the coffee zones. For these programs the allocations in the
1984 budget are significantly above the levels in previous years and are
projected to increase further in the future. To lower the costs of
agricultural inputs, Caja Agraria, the main supplier of agricultural credit
and key inputs, such as fertilizers, chemicals and seeds, will be reorganized
so as to increase its efficiency and effectiveness. This reorganization is
based on a Presidential Decree which mandated the reforms to be initiated
by June 30, 1984. To strengthen agricultural marketing, the creation of a
special marketing fund is under active consideration and a commission is
working in the Ministry of Agriculture to prepare a proposal to the
Government by the middle of this year. In addition, at the request of the
President of the Republic, a study was prepared and is at present being
considered, on the financial problems of the Government-owned marketing
institute. Also, the formation of marketing cooperatives are being



- 15 -
encouraged by the Colombian Institute for Financing and Development of
Cooperatives. Agricultural exports, in addition to the accelerated peso
devaluation, are being encouraged by a recent strengthening of the existing
system of tax reimbursement certificates which lower the tax liability of
exporters; and funds available under official lines of credit for agriculture
were increased by about 8% in real terms over 1983 levels.
38.       The emphasis on agricultural diversification is a reflection of the
Government's and FEDERACAFE's awareness that: (a) the International Coffee
Agreement with its quota system is likely to continue, and that Colombia's
quota cannot be expected to increase by more than 1.52 per annum; (b) the
international price of coffee in real terms is expected to decline and only
in the long-run may it regain its present level; (c) the present levels of
stock build-up cannot be financed indefinitely; (d) coffee production needs
to be brought in line with the country's internal consumption, the country's
export quota, and exvort possibilities outside of International Coffee
Agreement member countries; and (e) underutilized resources existing in the
coffee zones, which have and will continue to increase with the adoption of
the new coffee production technology, need to be diverted to alternative uses
to facilitate the needed reduction in coffee output while maintaining the
income levels of the coffee growers. These underutilized resources are
estimated at 10-20% in terms of agricultural land suitable for more intensive
use and 10% of underutilized labor, mostly migrant laborers, currently only
fully employed during harvest time.
39.       The Government and FEDERACAFE have begun to address these issues
through coffee-related policy measures which include: (a) not allowing the
guaranteed domestic price for coffee to increase in real peso terms even in
the face of short-term international price increases for Colombian
coffee;4/ (b) a curtailment of credit for new coffee plantings; and (c) the
promotion of diversification activities. More drastic actions such as coffee
eradication in selected instances, have not been ruled out. The Government
has also made clear that it would not subsidize coffee activities and that
financing of coffee stocks will continue to be the responsibility of the
coffee subsector.
40.        These policy measures have started gradually to shift the balance
of incentives away from coffee to the production of other agricultural com-
modities. As a result, coffee production has stabilized and many farmers,
especially the larger, commercially-oriented ones, have been induced to
experiment with growing alternative crops on a larger scale. However, the
scope for pricing policy measures has been constrained by the Government's
and FEDERACAFE's objective of maintaining reasonable incomes for the coffee
growers. Therefore, the full impact of these policies hinge on the extent to
which they are accompanied by measures to develop alternative sources of
income for the coffee growers by inducing and assisting them to deploy their
4/ The real domestic price index for coffee, taking 1975 = 100 stood at 83.6
in 1983. In 1977, at the height of the international coffee boom, the
index was 162.9 and has been declining since then. It is the
Government's policy in setting the producer price for coffee to prevent
sudden wide price swings, and to keep them well below their international
levels. Since 1970, the producer price of coffee relative to the peso
export price has varied from 0.40 to 0.63 and during 1983 was 0.57.



- 16 -
underutilized resources for non-coffee production and thereby gradually wean-
ing them away from coffee as their sole or major source of income. The
appearance of coffee rust towards the end of 1983 may also have a significant
effect on the level of coffee production in coming years. While the precise
impact of this fungus disease cannot be predicted, it is clear that produc-
tion costs on the farms affected will increase signif icantly and that the
less efficient farmers might well be forced out of coffee production, thereby
increasing the need for agricultural diversification. Also, the adoption of
the hitherto used high-yielding variety (caturra) will be slowed down con-
siderably, since farmers will be waiting to see how this variety will stand
up to this disease. At the same time, the presence of this disease can be
expected to induce many farmers to start diversification to assure their
overall income, in case this disease affects their coffee plants.
Bank Strategy
41.       Up to 1965, the Bank had made only two loans for agriculture in
Colombia, each for US$5.0 million. Since 1966, agricultural lending has
intensified, and the Bank made 14 loans totalling USS413.0 million equi-
valent. Three of these loans have been for agricultural credit, two for
livestock development, two for colonization, three for irrigation/drainage,
two to support the Government's rural development program, one for a pilot
watershed management project, and the most recent one for an agricultural
research project. Most of the projects have focused on increasing productiv-
ity, income and welfare of small farners, and all were executed by public
sector institutions. Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for
five of the projects (Loans 502-CO, Atlantico Irrigation; 624-CO,
Agricultural Credit; 651-CO, Second Livestock Development; 739-CO, Caqueta
Land Colonization; and 849-CO, Second Atlantico Development) and an Impact
Evaluation Report on the Atlantico Irrigation Project was issued in 1982.
While these projects were by and large successful, the irrigation and drain-
age projects experienced some technical difficulties and were hampered by
institutional weaknesses of the Colombian Agrarian Reform Institute. These
projects enabled the Bank to learn about the legal and administrative systems
operating in the sector, particularly the strengths and weaknesses of the
different public sector institutions, and the response of agricultural pro-
ducers to different government schemes. Many of the problems that have been
found to be often associated with projects executed by public sector institu-
tions-such as institutional instability, frequent changes in policies and
key personnel, poor accounting and monitoring capabilities, and underfunding
--should not affect this diversification program, since the executing agency
has been deliberately selected because of its record of consistently solid
performance. FEDERACAFE is a well-managed private sector institution with
suitable funding, which has responded to the needs of its membership without
being hampered by undue regulatory or institutional constraints.
42.       In the years ahead, the Bank intends to increase its lending in
support of the Government's agricultural strategy in its drive to modernize
the sector and to maximize its contributions to net foreign exchange, *Lncome
and employment. Special emphasis will be given to projects with a strong
production impact and on capitalizing on and developing further the mDst
important public sector institutions. Also, as part of project preparation
and execution, agricultural producer organizations are being drawn into the
entire process to ensure that these private sector institutions are part of
the planning process and support the ensuing investment programs. In



- 17 -
response to needs so identified, the agricultural lending program has been
widened to encompass production aspects as well as input supply, processing
and marketing, to strengthen producers in these areas. To assist the less
advanced small farm subsector, selected rural development efforts will con-
tinue to be supported and special attention will be given to technology
generation and transfer, and marketing. To provide the necessary analytical
and policy framework, agricultural sector work has been intensified; two
reports: -Colombian Agriculture: Selected Issues and Some Directions for
Strategy, Report No. 4275-CO, January 1983, and -Colombia - External Sector
and Agriculture Policies for Adjustment and Growth,- Report No. 4981-CO,
April, 1984, were issued and distributed to the Executive Directors.
Discussions of the findings of these reports have deepened the policy
dialogue, and, as a consequence, projects are under preparation covering a
wider spectrum; namely: 'rrigation and drainage, with special emphasis on
rehabilitation of existing districts and small-scale irrigation schemes;
agricultural extension, to follow-up on the recently approved agricultural
research project and ensure that research findings reach the farmer;
agricultural credit, to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the
country's mDst important agricultural credit institution; agricultural
marketing of perishables and meat, to eliminate bottlenecks in key areas of
the existing marketing network; watershed management, to followup on the
ongoing Upper Magdalena pilot watershed management project; and rural
development and colonization efforts, to assist small farmer development and
provide continuity to ongoing successful projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project was prepared by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO.
Following several Bank and FAO/CP preparation missions, the project was
appraised in October 1983. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in
Washington at the end of May 1984 with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Hugo
Valdes, Director, FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO, and assisted by representatives
of the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled 'Colombia - Agricultural Diversification Project-
(No. 4966-CO, dated June 5, 1984) is being circulated separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Rationale and Objectives
44.       The central objective of the proposed project is to assist in, and
accelerate, the Government's and FEDERACAFE's efforts to diversify agricul-
tural production, sources of employment and income. To this end, the project
is designed to lay the associated institutional, organizational and physical
basis to sign5ficantly increase the on-going diversification efforts and make
it a more self-sustaining process, thereby lessening the country's dependence
on coffee production. In providing alternatives to coffee production, the
proposed project would assist the authorities in gradually shifting the
policy incentives in favor of coffee to the production of other agricultural
commodities, as referred to in paras 37 to 40 above, thus indirectly helping
in reducing the overproduction and stock build-up of coffee and the country's
vulnerability to market constraints of coffee and associated price changes.
The project would also help small-scale coffee growers not varticipating
under the project to maintain their share in the limited coffee market to the
extent that coffee production of participating farmers will decline. More
particularly, the proposed project would help to: (a) increase the production
of non-coffee crops and the availability of food commodities, and (b) to



- 18 -
strengthen the marketing system and the agroindustrial subsector to handle
the increased output.
45.       Bank involvement in the project will be instrumental in helpizt to
institutionalize the diversification efforts within PEDERACAFE, and to expand
its ongoing program to a scale where it becomes an effective supplement to
the Government's and FEDERACAFE's coffee price policy and where it generates
enough momentum to make the diversification effort a self-sustaining pro-
cess. The proposed Bank loan would provide effective support and continuity
to the objectives mentioned above, and the Irasons learned especially in the
areas of agricultural marketing and processing will provide the basis for
subsequent improvements in these areas in other parts of the country.
Description of the Project
Credit Programs
46.       Agricultural Production.  The project would provide subloans to
some 13,600 borrowers for the production of non-coffee commodities on some
60,000 hectares within the coffee production zones (Map IRRD No. 18034).
Subloans would be made on the basis of integrated farm investment plans and
would finance: (a) medium- and long-term investments in diversification crops
and livestock; and (b) incremental operating costs and working capital
associated with diversification activities. The subloans are expected to
finance mainly investments for land development and preparation, agricultural
machinery and implements, farm buildings, livestock and livestock handling
facilities, planting materials, the establishment of non-coffee crops and
incremental current expenditure for seeds, chemicals and hired labor
associated with diversification activities.
47.       MarketLng.  This component is to provide about 170 subloans to
cooperatives, farmers' associations and private marketing entities to finance
the construction and equipping of marketing facilities including the acquisi-
tion of loading, weighiug and packing equipment, and related working capital
in support )f the agricultural production program.
48.       ILgroindustry.  Some 40 subloans are expected to be provided to
private agrnlndustrial entrepreneurs to finance the construction of indus-
trial facilities, the acquisition of agricultural processing machinery,
equipment and spare parts, and related working capital for the improvement or
expansion of project-related agroindustries (milk processing, slaughter-
house/cold storage/meat processing, animal feed production, and fruit and
vegetable processing).
Support Programs
49.       The project would also include the following agricultural produc-
tion support components:



- 19 -
(a) Training. Provision of some S.Q00 man-weeks of technical courses
in crop and livestock production, farm management and extension
work for existing and new staff of PRODESARROLLO; technical courses
in marketing-related subjects; and courses in industrial process-
ing, agricultural produce handling, marketing, project preparation
and evaluation and project management for the staff of
PRODESARROLLO, the departmental coffee growers' committees and
beneficiaries.
(b) Applied research program in support of the diversification effort
to be carried out by established research institutions (mainly the
Colombian Agricultural Institute) on a contractual basis.
(c) Support for improvement and extension of PRODESARROLLO's
information system including the acquisition and installation of
about eight computer terminals to provide up-to-date information on
price and market developments, production estimates and farm
nanagement data.
gd) Expansion of PRODESARROLLO's staff through hiring or contracting of
about 170 additional technical and support staff over the implemen-
tation period of the project, mainly for agricultural extension and
For the preparation and evaluation of marketing and agroindustrial
subprojects.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$253.4 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$49.9 million (20%), as well as
taxes and duties representing US$7.4 million. Physical contingencies are
included on the support services component, equivalent to 10% of the baseline
cost of this component. Price contingencies have been calculated assuming
(a) local inflation rates of 20% from 1984 to 1986 and 18% thereafter, and
(b) annual international price increases of 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9%
between 1986 and 1988, and 7.5% in 1989.
51.       The Bank loan would be made to FEDERACAFE with the Government act-
ing as Guarantor. The financing plan provides for a Bank loan of US$50.0
million, including the capitalized front-end fee of about US$0.1 million.
The proposed loan, amounting to 20% of project cost net of taxes, would
finance the foreign exchange cost of the project, including the front-end
fee. The credit component would be used to supplement existing credit
lines. Subborrowers would provide about US$53.8 million, or 21% ef project
cost, in.:luding taxes, in the form of owner contributions to individual sub-
projects. FFAP would provide about TJSS9O.l million, or 36% of project costs
including taxes, and FFI about US$6.5 million, or 3% of project cost. FFAP
and FFI would provide financing through the established rediscounting facili-
ties of the Banco de la Republica. FEDERACAFE would provide US$53.1 million,
or 21% of project cost including taxes. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that it would make the arrangements necessary to
enable FFAP and FFI, or any other comparable financial facility, to provide
the necessary funds for financing the diversification activities of the
project or to provide such funds directly to the Rorrower if necessary (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Sections 2.02 and 2.03).



- 20 -
Project Implementation
52.       Organization and Management.  PRODESARROLLO would have overall
responsibility for project management, planning, budgeting, technical assist-
ance, credit, progress reporting, monitoring and evaluation and review of
procurement and disbursement matters. In addition, it would carry out the
training program, and coordinate and supervise subcontracted research activi-
ties. Based on their knowledge of the local economy, FEDERACAFE's
Departmental Committees would also play an important role in the identifica-
tion and promotion of marketing and agroindustrial activities and, in
selected cases, their management by becoming stockholders in some larger
agroindustrial subprojects. Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria, two banks with
ample experience in agricultural credit throughout Colombia, would be the
financial windows for the lending program, a role which they have been carry-
ing out successfully for FEDERACAFE in the past. To carry out the project's
credit operations, FEDERACAFE would make the proceeds of the Bank loan avail-
able to them under terms and conditions to be set out in the subsidiary
agreements, which would be agreed beforehand with the Bank. The execution of
these two subsidiary agreements would be a condition of effectiveness and
changes in the provisions of these agreements would require prior Bank
approval [draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(b) and (c), and 7.01(a) and
(b)].
53.       While the overall administration of PRODESARROLLO is sound, and its
organizational structure and procedures are in accordance with the proposed
project's requirements, its staff would be substantially strengthened under
the project. Existing staff would receive in-service training in all project
related activities (see pa--a. 49) on the basis of a yearly training program
to be prepared by a special training officer. The courses would be organized
and presented mostly in-house by specialized staff of FEDERACAFE and the
balance would be subcontracted to training institutions offering relevant
programs. Also, about 170 new staff (see para. 49) would be added: 150
extension agents, 7 marketing specialists and 9 agroindustrial specialists.
No difficulties are foreseen in meeting those staff requirements, since they
will be needed only in the second year of the project and can readily be
reassigned from within FEDERACAFE, externally hired or subcontracted frou a
readily available pool of well-trained agronomists and economists. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that a training officer would be
appointed, that a yearly training program satisfactory to the Bank would be
carried out, and that the required incremental staff would be either hired or
contracted [see draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(a) and 3.04(a) and (b)l.
54.       Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures.  PRODESARROLLO field
staff would assist borrowers in the preparation of all agricultural produc-
tion, processing, and marketing sub-projects and appraise them. The
appraisal would be based on an investment plan and a cash-flow analysis for
agricultural production subloans, and a feasibility study, including a
detailed investment and financing plan for agricultural marketing and pro-
cessing subloans. Approval of subloans would be reviewed by specialized
staff of PRODESARROLLO at headquarters and would only be financed if they are
technically and financially sound. In addition, all subprojects for market-
ing and agroindustrial development of more than US$0.5 million of total
investment costs, would be submitted to the Bank for its approval and would



- 21 -
include the calculation of an economic rate of return, which would have to be
equal or above the opportunity cost of capital in Colombia.
55.       Beneficiaries' contributions would be determined on the basis of
their financial capacity and not be less than 10% of total costs for
marketing subprojects and between 25-50% for processing subprojects. For
agricultural subloans, PRODESARROLLO's field staff would propose how much
each beneficiary's contribution to the total farm development costs should
be, taking into account the beneficiary's assets, level of income, and the
subproject's cash flow. These credit proposals depending on their size,
would be reviewed by PRODESARROLLO's credit committee at headquarters. This
system has enabled PRODESARROLLO to satisfactorily tailor the beneficiaries'
contributions to their financial capacity and needs. In the past, this
system resulted in larger-, and medium- and small-scale farmers getting
finances of 70% and 80% of total farm investment costs on average,
respectively. Under the project, to avoid the possible substitution of
bigger farmers' own resources for diversification activities by loan funds,
while at the same time not discouraging their participation, the previous
average financing shares would be converted into ceilings for larger- and
medium-scale farmers; for small-scale farmers, the ceilings would be
increased. Consequently, the following sub-loan ceilings would be
established: 70%, 80% and 90% for farmers above 70 ha, 10 to 70 ha, and less
than 10 ha, respectively (draft Loan Agreement, para. 2 of Schedule 4).
56.       As is done at present, Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria would check
personal and commercial references, establish the guarantees for approval of
subloans that have been prepared and appraised by FEDERACAFE and disburse the
funds to participating beneficiaries. The two banks, in turn, would redis-
count the subloans with FFAP and FFI to the extent required under the
financing plan, and the balance would be financed by PRODESARROLLO's and Bank
loan proceeds. Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria would receive annual
commissions for their services, payable monthly on the average outstanding
subloan portfolio of FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO, sufficient to cover their
administrative costs and portfolio risks, except for the marketing credit
component wh.ere the credit risk would be borne by FEDERACAFE. The subsidiary
agreements with these two institutions would have to be satisfactory to the
Bank and are conditions of effectiveness (see para. 52). During
negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided assurances that eligibility for financing
under the project for creditworthy beneficiaries would be that (a) the farms
be located in the project area; (b) subloan funds not be used to finance
coffee production; and (c) the beneficiaries not be credit recipients under
the Integrated Rural Development program (DRI) which is partially financed by
Bank Loans 1352-CO and 2174-CO [draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para.
Ite)J.
57.       Onlending interest rates and repaynment terms for agricultural pro-
duction and processing subprojects would be set in accordance with present
Colombian policy guidelines as reflected in FFAP and FFI lending terms. They
would be (a) 22% for agricultural subloans with a repayment period of up to
ter years depending on the type of agricultural activity to be financed and
up to three years grace period; and (b) 24% and 26%, depending on location,
for agroindustrial subloans with repayment and grace periods for investment
credit of up to six and two years respectively. Working capital for
agroindustries would have to be repaid within one year. Onlending interest
rates for marketing subloans would be 22%, with repayment periods of seven
years maximum for investment credits and two years maximum for working



- 22 -
capital. Grace periods would be up to two years in the case of marketing
investment subloans and none for working capital. All the rates are positive
in real terms at present and expected inflation rates. Every six months,
FEDERACAFE would inform the Bank of the interest rates proposed for the
following six-month period. The Bank would review the proposed rates within
30 days and, should the Bank object to their level, the Bank and the Borrower
would review, within the following 60 days, the proposed interest rates.  In
the event of the parties failing to agree, the Bank may refuse to authorize
or approve commitments against subloans bearing the new rate and presented to
it after the end of the 60-day period. This procedure would ennble the Bank
to ensure that the onlending interest rates are positive in real terms and
adequate in its judgement (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. 2(b)1.
During the negotiations, assurances were also obtained from FEDERACAFE that
repayments of subloans would be utilized exclusively for making additional
loans for diversification purposes (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
58.       The loan would have a fixed 17-year term repayment period and would
be repaid in equal principal installments, since the expected large number of
subloans make a composite schedule impractical. While the composite term of
the subloans would be shorter than the life of the proposed loan, the 17-year
repayment period has been adopted to prevent a sharp reduction in
FEDERACAFE's lending program for diversification after year five of the
project.
Procurement and Disbursements
59.       For the agricultural production credit component , bulk purchasing
under international competitive bidding (ICB) would not be feasible, since
the lending activities would be widely distributed geographically and in
time, cover a wide variety of investment activities, and involve a large
number of subborrowers. Project beneficiaries would purchase inputs and
equipment for on-farm development through normal commercial channels from
established local sales agents. The agents represent a broad spectrum of
international and local suppliers with a well-developed distribution and
servicing system which provides a satisfactory level of competition. For the
marketing and agroindustrial credit component, PRODESARROLLO would, as part
of the subloan approval process, satisfy itself that equipment and civil
works procured are: (a) suitable for the respective investment project; (b)
reasonably priced; and (c) the beneficiaries have canvassed the main sources
of supply and would purchase from the most advantageous source. Any procure-
ment transaction by a major subborrower for an equivalent value of US$1
million or more would be procured under ICE procedures [draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(b) (IX)(B)I. PRODESARROLLO staff would assist the subborrower
with ICB procedures as required. All marketing and agroindustrial subproject
appraisals would be required to include a full discussion of procurement pro-
cedures used, responses received, prices quoted and criteria used for selec-
tion of suppliers. Such information would be kept in PRODESARROLLO's files
and made available on request to Bank supervision missions.
60.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of seven years
against mDnthly statements of subloans granted. The Bank would reimburse
FEDERACAFE for varying amounts disbursed under subloans for agricultural
production (182), marketing (100%) and agroindustries (562). In order to



- 23 -
provide for the maintenance of an adequate flow of funds and to accelerate
disbursements, a Soecial Account would be established at the Banco de La
Republica in the name of FEDERACAFEIPRODESARROLLO and would be used to
finance the Bank's share of all subloans. The Bank's initial contribution
would be USS3.0 million, eauivalent to the estimated Bank's contribution to
FEDERACAFE's lending program over three months. In addition, the Borrower
would open a separate Project Account in Banco Cafetero with an initial
deposit in Colombian pesos equivalent to USS1.0 million to be replenished
periodically. Subloans by Caja Agraria would also be debited to this
account. The establishment of the Special Account and the Project Account,
with evidence satisfactorv to the Bank that an amount in Colombian pesos
equivalent to USS1.0 million was deposited into the Project Account, would be
a condition of loan effectiveness [draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.OI(d) and
7-01(c) and (d)I. Each withdrawal application submitted to Banco de la
Republica would be accompanied by a certified statement of expenditures from
Banco Cafetero or Caji Agraria_ The Borrower would be reauired to submit to
the Bank a monthly statement of the transactions of the Special Account.
Accounts and Audits
61!       Accounts for FEDERACAFE, and PRODESARROLLO would be maintained in
accordance with sound accounting principles and methods consistently
applied. These accounts and related basic financial statements would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank following
appropriate procedures. Certified copies of the audited annual accounts, the
auditors' reports, including a separate opinion by the auditor in respect of
disbursements made against statement of expenditures of FEDERACAFE|
PRODESARROLLO, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
every fIscal year during project implementation.
Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
62.       The Research and Programming Department oz PRODESARROLLO would pre-
pare six-monthly reports on physical and financial progress. The type of
information on implementation progress and impact to be collected and the
format of presentation was agreed by FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO and the Bank
during negotiations. The information would include indicators of credit
granted, area and type of crops planted, production expected, and, on the
basis of a farm sample, changes in the farm production structure, productiv-
ity and income. In view of the complexities arising from the link between
coffee production and diversification policies, FEDERACAFE would maintain its
system to monitor the relative profitability of growing coffee versus
non-coffee commodities. Whenever the Bank should so request. FEDERACAFE
would prepare a specific study on the relative profitability of coffee versus
non-coffee production to determine the impact of such profitabilities on the
demand for credit under the project. Should the study show that credit
demand iS adversely affected by a relative decline in the profitability of
producing non-coffee commodities, FEDERACAFE, together with the Government,
would present a plan of act'on designed to ensure the continued viability of
the project at the same time the study's findings are submitted. The terms
of reference for these studies as well as the plans of actions would have to
be satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, FEDERACAFE provided
assurances that such a review mechanism would be established and followed
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).



- 24 -
63.       Within six months of the expected Closing Date (September 1990),
PRDESAvRROLLO would prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report on
project performance and its impact.
Production, Marketing and Prices
64.       The annual value of incremental production generated 1y the project
at fall development on some 60,000 hectares Is estimated at about US$98.0
million, consisting miinly of:  fruits (plaintains, citrus, avocado, pine-
apple, berries and papaya); vegetables (tomatoes, onions), some staples
(beans and corn); and milk, beef and livestock products from minor species,
such as broilers, eggs, pigs and honey. Uhile not very significant in the
national context, especially considering an expected growth in food demand by
50% between 1980 and 1990, the incremental annual production volume is never-
theless substantial in relation to regional markets. However, the project
areas- largely because of earlier investments by FEDERACaFE--has an excellent
road system linking the coffee zone with the major consumption centers.
This, the marketing Intelligence network that will provide feedback to the
extension agents and farmers on market developments, and the investments in
new arketing and processing facilities contemplated under the proposed
project would belp to ensure that the incremental project output would not
lead to marketing problems, and that the present price level for diversifica-
tion commodities would not decline in real terms.
Benefits and Risks
65.       In providing additional financing for the developrment of non-coffee
production, marketing and processing, the project would open up alternative
sources of Income for the coffee farmer and reduce bis dependency on coffee
and pave the way for the consistent application of a coffee policy for better
balancing demand and supply. Coffee area and production is expected to
decline slightly as a direct result of interplanting and expansion of shade
technology. In addition, the provision of alternative investment opportuni-
ties is expected to lead to a shift in resource allocation of participating
farmers way from coffee and rn lay the groundwork for such a shift by other
farmers. In addition, the pr ject would increase food supply by bringing
some 60,000 ha of mainly unutlilized or underutilized land into cultivation.
The multiplier effects of the project on the regional economy would be sub-
stantial, particularly since the processing and much of the marketing would
also be done in the coffee areas. Employment generated through increased
agricultural production at full development is estimated to be equivalent to
some 27,000 manyears annually. Finally, the success of this project can be
expected to lead more farmers to reallocate their resources at the farm
level, thereby helping to reduce the country's overall production of coffee
to a level which satisfies its domestic and external deeand.
66.       Although it is not possible to exactly quantify project benefits,
estimates based on five representative farm investment models indicate finan-
cial rates of return (including return to capital and family labor) between
19% and 29% for agricultural investments, and between 20% and 27% for invest-
ments in sarketing facilities and agroindustries. Incomes of participating
farmers, which at present range from about US$550 to US$2,300 per capita and
are below the national average, except for the 152 larger-scale farmers, are
expected to increase by about 50% at full development.



67.       Because of the uncertainty about the actual nature of the invest-
ments in agricultural marketing and agroindustries, no overall economic rate
of return for the proposed project has been calculated- The economic rates
of return of the illustrative farm investment, and marketing investment
models and agroindustries are similar to the financial rates of return since
for most project inputs and outputs there are few price distortions and
direct transfer payments. However, for those farms on which it is expected
tnat coffee production will be decreased as a result of intercroppivg and the
*        introduction of shade technology, the economic rate of return (42t) will be
substantially above the financial rate of return (28%)- In these cases, the
net social benefit is substantially hlgher than the benefit to the private
producer in view of the limited economic value of coffee production at the
margin given the high coffee stock levels prevailing at present. The same
will apply to those farms where participation in this proiect will lead
indirectly to coffee substitution because of resource constraints by
participants.
68.       There would be little technical or managerial risks, since
FEDERACAFE, a private producer organization, is efficient and commands a well
developed physical and organizational infrastructure in the project area,
which would be suitably strengthened for meeting the needs of the expanded
diversification effort. Also, the principal banking windows under the pro-
posed project, Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria, have consistently pe-rformed
well in granting credit and should have no difficulty In providing the basic
banking services required under the project. However, the pace of project
execution would critically depend on (a) efficient marketig o_f project out-
put, and (b) the Government continuing to maintain reduced incentives for
coffee production through its policy not to increase the guaranteed producer
price of coffee in real terms nor to provide credit for coffee expansion
which is its present and declared policy for tne future. These two aspects
would be monitored through FI-DERACAFE's marketing intelligence system to be
strengthened under the project (para. 49(c)) and the carrying out of specific
studies regarding the relative profitabilitv overtime of producing coffee
versus non-coffee commodities (para. 62). With these measures and given the
present and projected profitability of non-coffee crops, as well as the fact
that more innovative farmers have already started diversifying and the
appearance of coffee rust (para. 40) which increases coffee production costs,
ft I- reasonable to expect the project to succeed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUPENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National
Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Bank and the Republic of Colombia, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.  Special conditions referred to in the text are listed in Section
III of Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) a Special Account and a Project Account have been
established; and the Borrower has deposited US$1,000,000 in
the Project Account; and



- 26-
(b) FEDERACAE Wa entered into subsidiary agreemts with Banco
Cafetero and Caja Agraria, acceptable to the lak.
70.      I am satisfied tbat the proposed loan complies with tbe Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI -           IRE
71.      I recommend that the PEecutive Directozs approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 7, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 27 -                                      A=ex I
Page 1 of 5
TAIL! 36
COLOMI                -sOcLAL  DembRMs   D        :TA
CMAPM                      RZF~~~nwmERJ  OMMrs 00EWTED AWEE*GES) TX
NMesrdSI o                     3s:     ESTDUIAT) lb
196I3 :          Ngxr LKPE              PEDaL 1I?m
1960fb  t 97d-b                 -LA?. ACSKZCA* CARI            3530W
ART CTODeM  99. M)
UtrAl:1133.9                                 1131.L     1136-9
3350.      35305       335,
cu m  cirm C036)                     270_0      60.0       13VO-8            2063-2                  2'.S34
DF C~AI. !]7E17ALE373   31900                                   1407.6                  ISM03
CZ1_OC5AI OF C30L 2CIV;^LEC-                  .30.0      970-*"IOta                                 _
VOrMATZ03 -M Ur1 SMTATUTE
POPUL£T!..-ID-TEAaR  ( NOUSA    1575-.0   1nz266.      2662535_
CYAR POPCLATION (: GF TVL)          6.:        59_6       66-4               63.9                   67.e
POP.AT!O P       6OZECTIOf6
POPULATTON V-, YS   2000 (aLL)                          3L63
s-A-Tm%!m rPCPIA1O  (L)                                 62-O                 -
EA  SDTlaUm  POP. ZEtlO6                               2110
POPOLATTO M 0E91I
PER SQ- D.                       13.8        iI. .      22-7              3.56                    8R.0
PER S0. I  ACRT- LMM             46.9        60.7       72.6              93_2                   15Z72
POMIAJTTOS AE STCCT2E Ct)
0-::  1S                         668        46.Z       36.6                0.1                    31.9
15-1  ns                         5D.3        51.1       60.2             533.                     60.9
45 670 A05E                       2.9        2.6         3.6               _1                       7.2
POPLCLAT-O% CAWIR RATE CZ)
TOTAL                             3.1         3.0        ._0               2.3                      1.6
~R3AF               5_S7    5_2                          2_6                3.7                     3.6
C5tWE BIRTH RATF (PER 1110S)       617         34.4       29.4               31.S                   25_0
CECOC DEATH RATE (P!3 INUS)        !5_.        la.7      7z7 r                .                     9.1
CROSS RMElOCTIEO RATE               3.3         2.6        1.8               2.0                      1.7
=AICLT PLPIIC
ACCEPTORS. ARl}AL C.-sOCj)                  114 I.6    192
uszas (ZaF i..a;  ;                 -        3.;)0      46 0/c               -
NM AD   IRIXD 11
11EX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
C9O9-71-100)                      1OD_0        99.0      124.0              113.0                   10664
PER C APLA StPPLT Or
CAlRIES CT OF r3ckmE:s)         9*s0         89.0      103.0              111.3                   129.6
PROTInS (GRAiO PER DAY)          36.0       68.0        35.0              67.9                    9Z.3
OF UHICH AQITA. .7 PCLSE        2860        26.0       2ZSO/d             34.1                    3-6
C5ID (AGES 1-t) DEATH MAT          16.0         7.1        3.3                5.3                   10.6
LIE ErXPECT. AT BIRM  (YEARS)      53_1        59         63.3               66.6                   67.2
rHFASIr !tT. RATE (Pr Tl30S)      103.0        77.0       35.1              62.6                    71.4
ACCS TO SAFE WATER (210?)
OL                               30.0,.      63.0       66.01f             64-.
CRUS                             54.97;      86.0       73.07!             77.8
ItOAL                              67;       23.0       66.07!             44.3
ASS To ERCERTA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATI0N)
SOTAL                                        47.0         4/f              36.6
RIAP .I                                      75.0       60.07F             69.8
tONAL                              *. 6.0               16.07F             29.a
POPCLATION PE PPISICiAH          2660.0      2180.0     19201O6d           1776.0                 1096.6
POP. PER HORSIMC PERSO6          4220.0       730.0     t220.01            1012.2                   762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL NM!
TOTAL                           360.0       *s0.0      600.01a            £77.0                   336.0
OAJ-x                              --       3J0.0   * 9o0d71              6W7.3                   216.0
3 .RL                                                                    1921.6
ADRTSSIOS PER  OSPITAL O            _          229        29.316             27.2                    20.0
AVERACE SZZE OF W0USEOLD
SOBAU                              .. _       S.s. .                .                                ..
RURAL                              --         5-97i
AWVRa  30. O OF PESO/IROOR
TOAt                               _.         I.6/        _
UDA                                ..         t.67;i      .                   ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. C: OF O1ELLISCS)
TOTAL                            47.01.      So 31/       _
Mt:Rs&                           8 3.07 3T _7.5__
RURAL                             3.0/       13.2/        _



- 28 -
Annex I
TA NIK 3%                                Fage 2rof 5
.OIB-A SOCLIL  t sCA?WS  sI24
C.OI8ZA                            uUznmE-       PS (MU      A £zA, s) la
low                     (oesr MMST EsrstA) lb
197B , nil              ilS IeGULE To-CgK
1od-       19781bi~Sl           LT ArMW  6a cAI              WRE
AD  EWJW 1*710
P12*3:  ?0?SA                   77.0       1OL0      12.o0             105.0                  102.2
wALE                  77.0      107.0       127.0             10.3                   107.2
E                     t_" 77.0  t10.0       130.0             103.                    97.9
SECBt: TOM.                     1.0         Z.e       4*.0               40.0                  35.5
tIALE                 13.0       2L0         43.0              38L.                   43.4
FUILE                 It.0       24.0       £9.0             4*.2                     48.9
VOCLTIOIL (n or s1   A)           o0o11n    20.2         21-1s4            36.0                   22.4
Pu?m-TEAhNIl 3*lO
73.ZPA31                        38.0        31.n       31_0              30.7                   24.7
SECKOAXT                        11.0        17.0       20.0              16.7                   22.1
ADSUL LrTEAC  3*&T (23            6320        O0_8Ot l    10               79.5                  6497
PAR CANS/IH03 1o       0           5.7       11.2        1314             45.S                    52-9
noI 1mCE13512210I53   Mr         125.1      104.3       116.3-            228.2                  165.5
1? mLctI     6Sa  VW               9.5        38.1       34.9             208.3                  124.2
8SrP  (04fLST CiMa.
n1 2U03*3 PO!43.710             50.0 0.                50.2              64.1                   913
CIA AUSM. £TmKDalCCA,?A              .         -.        2.9                2.9                    2.9
TOTAL L*3 P   CE      )         4127.0      4353.0     8982.0
rFUtLE (P!R0IT)                 19.2       24.8        24.7              24.8                   34.5
A czLKt  (PERCENT)             51.4        37.9       25.3              3X.3                   40.7
03117 (ECP3r)                 19.2       21.0       21.2              23_9                   23-4
7ftN=%T    RATE (rC9)
TOAL                            30.0       29.9        34.0              31.1                   42.0
ff4L2                           48.8       45.1        51.1              49.8                   S5.2
Qf14                            11.5        14.8       164.              14.8                   29.1
CRD M       DA120          t.7        2.4        1.2               1.4                     0.9
3tcQsr  St or  mr*1DS:          41 41.0    31. j
= e8S13 22 OF n0D                7.77       60.t71       .                 .;:.
LOWS  20K OF 2D7iM1.5 . .                 .
1.03S1t 103 OPmCQS    ~1O
LOW5 40(W0115SINCLUS 
esDuz U     L^?   -  
LEU. (055FI3 CAPITA)
f                                 .           .       214 .0d           28.3
305.                              .           .       197.071           124.s
1.234. (0SS 933 CAPITA)
Una1..                                        .       267.014           519.3
M.                                           .       22.07             372.1                  *09.0
2SThSAE  P. mEW ANS5.0T1
01041322 DME LEM. 2
w                                 ..          ..       34.01               ..                      .
309.                                ..     - .
MOr £VAILAN.E
30 *FICAME.
N OT ItS
/a Thu Feup -*wa.  for goeb  .iLceottr e popdetlmu.mjSbtod arUt%tc _M. C*gre  f c_ctrfts am    the
luutSato. dem3154   m   elubItzry of dote _s i-t imifum.
7b 0t.1c  otbUmm4  oated. oest for 1960' rCfr t rme 9                     1r                           1969 ad
19n; an date for -mutc kme.t 1a13e batMw 1979 a" 1981.
Ic 1978t fd 1977; I. 1964; 7f 1976; & 39%2; lb L913; It reluIdUB teacber traluti  at tin thtei lel: L  Zetoaamlcicly
my 1983



3353 29..                                                                                                          333355S5 a5315 9.3 5.353533
3.3a.d.c -54 a3.I.3 3-.  gs39s.5  3-s3                                                    5j3 3.5  3 332 s 5.53-5.   33j..3335 35. d.35.33:.9- *5* *353.53 .33.5.
3-5513 '3.3  395'91 3-  533                                                             .'  2a531  3-535553 35 555- t9-S*55 35.9 3.5353-3 35.3  ,5.
59.33'i,3.3   3   3..3a5s.d.t ..js-..3a  as-si as .33..133.d         ____
5.. -'s.. 3.2-s .23-33 3s
,..s-53.3.C 33333 ;...s3.53 *3.33- 13 3.335
3*.3.. 335 S 5353.3 353 5:.s3sflsss.., .33
- 3.2.3                  3 53.3 3333555 s3adss3.i -  s33s .3 d-95.    - 353333333 *5.5 a* *3
s3.5.'s9  3.5 .   :3.S'a 3-' s33  -.: .'3'-3  a  a...a.a- i.r.a .5..               3.- a'.5. .5.5. 335.3  sd.s 955.          3353       .53  2 -:   33-%
-. 95.3553 3.53.5.3 335*453 3*5 :33.3-3155 :353 3.*3               333   .j -.33 *3   -  9.39333   33p....           3J 3555.4   9.a- 553433
.3-a 353      *335a3*           .  . -.353--- .33 a- *ss :....a.3                        -  -,  ..5.23.3433 *.saa... .,..a  5.. ..3.s.3333 -. 5335   34.a55..3
3354.3 534 0333- a.- *355.3-3.. *, :.3:    .s. -a.s3 ..n.,.. t.a..                      ...  ..5.5.d.  t.35   33-33 -3a 5.553 -. --5. --5-  .s5.5-s-.3
- 39a.a p... 5.3533- 535354 a. Si-n 5333) ...3s; . :3..'a ..5a.;.. 39)3.539)                          5.5. 33333- -- .33.- ..na-. 9.1-na -..:'.ta 3533' 333.3
-334.53.339                 33.5. *3   333- .335.3..a .33-l.a.. 9..  .t3             .53.3  3. a..
39' 'S .553J3953       3-5.. 531s33'5.. .33  3-.3133.3-5* .53ss3533.3                     *-a  V..  3-a                    ..33.3 3  333a333  afl3. 33.%
53135  - .35.5.-,- 5..! a..!  as..                       -a-s33                                     -p3-P ;s r   :.t  o..I  .33a55. 3.35      .3 333 -    .
- 3a- -* .35.J' - 33.3'- aad 5.34.. 35335 3-'3.3 3:333.3 *3335.   3335.5 Si                       3.3-. '5.933' a' -3.   33-ss  -   5335s. ...d) -334 s355-;a. 3.-ar.
.53'.3.jl5a.*3...5.3.35. 5.3.a3A.s3.I..5s'                                                                 ____________
'333  * 33.533 3.          53.33 3.34             3.35.2.3 .3.32.5s3 5 --               2.S..-3 -. r.a-----    *5..... .5...         S 5 as. 39            _______
- -.3  -. *323333-3                                                                                       53X3919
-.  5.3335.                        -3*s 53  95   a.'  5.3 *..33.5               39  b 5.333
a  .sas   )3 s3.3.3 3.33  3.-3 3  -: aa5.3  ..3 -a.3   - :.-3..  3s.3a.3                    tsC.:...  52.5. 3j ?3.3O3..5s.a  -.s531,a.: -..S5. - I 5.3.33 0
* :335.35- 35. 3.31313. - - 45"' '  -2. -  *3'3. - -.- -:                                 -s           333 5.35r 3'*.5 . 3 ..r-313 35. 3335. 3-C  .3-3 ''3   "St
5.-3-3553.:,33 33-a3                                                                                 353*
a;5  553.45.5 %'55.3d  33-a   3-al-3  5-':5.3      *,S2   --a  53.33.5
39353 .33                    55.-a a- -:".  9).a.a4 -        9.3 39.2  3-3a 53335 -533'a.3 *35333.
3- *353 *33 . 45.- L: a...s  .3393'-353 3. -s:.  - 'ta.*- -39.3333 .;..5.33                                    39. .*5: t   La. L3-3-5   --a.) a.-a 53-3 3a14.
-s 3- .5 3353 53 *5.: -5-..33 53-2.3 js
-   9...a2 3.5.3 35533 p'  ..33s3s4.3 35.3 4 .a5-53    '-335 95.333353.3                  333W L3 9.' 9)3-333 393-335 '3.33 t. 5 3523.3 335.4      -   .9a3s,3a.
..3.d9)2.35a55a.3 *S3. - -- -- 3.3.- 9393 5..' .53- 45'5 .33si ...s.a 5.331.a3 :.sS.a -s :'-.' 'a , .-,.3. a' 33.s.ad .3?fl
s5-.133335.a 5.19 I,. 3.' '3a93'3- *--a -. *?9 - 3233 33 5.5.3.33433 .5.s 59'235 - .3.ab a-: 9.9 33* 333 *3.3--' ,-5'3 a- 3-a' a ..-e55.
- *33.3 35493 s5.a  -.  .393   *s3  -  s.a.t.5.. -. 3.:.a.31-53 -                        -5-2- 43 .953.ad .5.5.) 5.93 *$3333' '35.323-3 25' --a
5.52.55353394 - 335.3. 9-s  3'5.  33, 35.333333 .a. 552.52335355394                              'S *5335 35 53353 33 5553.3 3    '-'S  333 5'a  a' - 33d
959* Gel 45.9  '5                   935393 a   as 52.3.       3.33 - 5595 sad .a1   .,.3*2-Thr:ifl..ainT 3.3
- ..55  33L3  5235 53533 3.35.2333333 -  -.       35    535353333-3  53                                               959 '45.3 3.3. :45.' .5.-,.5.I 333- 33*..3535s
3.13333155...  5..533.a3'..3'b.5..:5. 55 3339) 3313) -  53L.3 2s33*555;                  32.   a., 3..-aa    5 t.s..5. -.  ...n.r'3  a: s1 t-..a331.59 .s3 Ps. .3
fl99 3335 3- s.t3  3-.3 t33d5j35.9955.             3.32333 - 95553*5a                    ....91- 55.5..        0.2  535s3-5535.33 S,.*.            3-*s335.5.s33
5   331535.5 Laa3-aS3  95.s..3.          -'593 - 53.3335.5 53a.3.-.53                i-   isa 5.3. 5.25355.55.33 -. 9.34 3y 5. 3-33.  3-. .l..a5.33
da a.q. 335.2 I .3s-.'aad.              .333  3..3 - -3,3-a.3 *W.'s                              s.3555.133*59 35 535.33 3-  3S.5.33.3d    . 5.5 93- ..53335b
InS 52s. --.5.3 ., '3-3333 '. .333 335.5.3 33-33.3 3.2355'. .3 - 5353 .5. 5.9-31.3 - '2.53335.
339 5a3-. 95553    3  .535.5.9.  .59s 33W 3. 5.53931333                            333' .iat.s  ''35a333.a3  3535.5.5 3-353    -.3353'3.  39)5.5W   ''9.
33d.5'3" 53. '3533933-   ..s.s  W.5..'3s a.- s.-p.a..-.- -. -"a-s                     333 93133 a,.3 ..5-35  .55.C5..3 ..5,9'- 3-3a  .3 a' 3533355'353 .3a3-
.a. Zars..s  .....aad ..:3a. s35s-s3.a - 3.ss955s5..a.   3:. as..'  *33..                    5.35  .3333 - *3333a-3s a-                *5;L.53"5d3'  .333.- 354
-5.1...)- 3s334 3.3.953- 233s* a.-a:.s. -- 95.
335-5                     5.. s3i-35.3 3' ..5 53-3-33 .s..afl  - .    -..  a -- s
95.9 .5-aSI .ss.-5a. .3 ...5..5.e. b..sas....5  '3. 3.2   5.           '3                    5..35 35.3531. .-193.-3 3- '33:9- *33 ---  3.",.  39'35  339333*5*
3s- L33 .5.3 ..- 5"95. - a..; 3...as3 a.3 3.335. 1.4 .5.3.5.3.5 .3.53.33543.3-9.95. --5. 3-t33* - *: 53.
V.5--i.  3' 3* 530   53'.    .   5 -. -
* .. s ....j a..   a' .a.ai. s .s .s3599  - "3                     .553                                        ___________
32....-. :. 33 45.
.-3p..33..55*:53s.5.. -.- ...---                                                                                                                     5.t5. '-'v-
-.3.: '3  3 5353.335'. .s3.  s.   -3 :..3.J 3......- 3a3J.55..3  3.-..dd                 - -    . .3 s--3333 - ...    3353...                   - 5'55.55.3 545.53
3..,..a...         53 s          .335 9s3s. * aad - *353*33fl 5.4                                                                                -395ad
.9.s..,sj .35.'53'1.9 .3133sss                       93is33d  2I  i...s;:.s. .s 33353                    .33'33-.33a55. 5
33- 3355* 3)5.933.3.3 -  3.33.3 33. 35.333 333 935 *333j33 5.3 59. *33                  'a-at-,-  355.3.5. 39-33- - s.3..3-3           -.         - 5..3....3e .5.3
'59-3 3 s32.   53.a  5. a35 .5 59 .35.33535.3 5.5 .a.33.-3 3.i'ss3333                                                                                      -33-I
-   '359333 *.*15s3353 *5 9.335.3  3   '113'S  3933339 '-59)59359*33.                    -   -- *5  35.  .3 W5.29.3 5.53332.5                   5.3*3  5S3533s
2993 333 -33.533a 33 *33-: 339.          '3. 5.s.....34 3333 *33.5333.  2335                  35a 23.35.3339 3.3.333 .33.3333.:..3 .. .5 3-2333 -s 53399.3333 '.3335.
-.3,          .s.                  5., 39.3 3:2' 53... 9 -i-.a..  35. 333*3.3S-
-   3-335. '9333933.3 5.9'.5  3 '5.333  35.1' -.3.3 5333 95433. 3333                                                     -'a.                    5.! -3553W53533
53   35538.33 '39) 3335.35.33 - :3.3 3.:..3.t 5-.9.3--3.5333:.a-4  35333.3..               353s-.35 33 i33s3.3 33. *5..5.3.  95533   . 3s-5..ss.3 3333 *39u ..:.3 39-3
9.s344...633                                                 ... 3.3             3 .3.13.534.4 a...
5 3'9 ..3'3.3.133 539- 5s.-3  a  59.2.33333 -                                               5'  -    .           5.-'t-  3-    3-.5'3
533533 3-59.3   5 54q*. 3s3   -S.a.sfl . 23-3-3315.3-3.3W3.515  33-9-                       5.3'.  53335.33.3.93
'33533' W.5.3t.3a                                           3--.*  35. ..-%: '9)-....3 39) 3.33-33.33 3333
.3333555 5535.3.3'              -' '55'5'1          -s953    9. 333.13k                -'5' 533-3 .' -..333- - ir'rrvinn..  3-..--jja
-. 9-2:33.. 33.553 395'       52.333. 9-3  .,..sa5  - .3 3.3 333.5.3-5335.3                                              -.:n  ?.    . X..s *....s
33't 35-2333-5 533355.33. 33 5.533.533-33 -  3- 5...                  3-33-5.  '3333.3 a..    .   3.5          1... 5335333 52.3 -
..93395 33-333.3355.3 053333 3.33s 3 *"95a33.9-3.          35. 3.'s                    *35 - 5.9..          .3.          'sit  3.53333 - 335.3..               335..
'53534 .53  3-33.3.35                   5533 '-3333-35*. 35. 33-33    9-3.53.5 - - 3-3 2:-a--al-.        - 333

333233..s.3333.'43.-53.3-3.:-.3.3.3I.*ai                                            3.333*.-3.**.*   3..333-.3.r:-3:333-I.cd.3393..r*3   _______
*.ss3-..I .3.*5..s3 9.3.353. - 33933  a-.;  53-3, 3 33afl'3-33933S                                                                             s35.33.      32333
5333-3- 3..    5333-5.4 - 333.3j ". 5.9'  5935-3 - 33-1.32. ..3.3                                                                 335.-333 3. '32. *3' .333.3-s.O
34  3931.3. 59532555   3 3    355 53535.3-. .33.533 5.5.35..55                            -.'.sLa.:- 3-33-- 35. . 435..533 .4  .359333.3 *d32531:33* 3333
s-.35..j35.I3-...3r3.33.s3-                                                                                             v-i: .-.mi-..                  31383.
533  S.533'9. 33-533 *. ..a.5.3j 3.-33.  39)  .5.55359 3   .3.                       ;s.  s:5- a-- -a.. 3 -.  --: s... -- 33   53.43.5a - 332335
53.5. 555- 55.335131 3.3355. 35 3    s..s3.3  3.-5.3 3 .33.5.3                         .33533333'   53333   3 a3 3'   352 533.3233. 33   .3-333-351
23'da  a- ...s-3-333 3. 5333- 33'3333  5.5.. -- 533. 35. 3 323333                                33.35.3' 55.   333  s23.5 ..33.333 .
5s3  -  33    333 5.a) - .53..; .55.. 33   .           3-5332' -.3.134                        .33 32 33-3d.a  53. 5:..    3.3- :....jaa    : .3
...:33  353355353 33s3.-p.              5.333 335I5233333.a.353..3-355..3.5.fl.4  -333353..3.49'33.3.33'533.
5.334933*3                  339 .5..  1s   . '.333..333   .5 -.  33-... *:..3a5s. -,  .3.3d
- 3- 33.533 s...5;.5553.3 .a.2:.; .3 - -a Ci3- 5333.5.335.
*355.s33333.a 333:3 3.5 *.d3    .34.3 - ..i. -                   -.303-3 .s34sis   asi .3.5.3. ..3 55 333. 5.53 2.3i3a33. a' 3535.53
a....333    W 333133.5. 9.2   .5.3135a3-33.5.aS-.%3533-  33-ta.3.5*33                     3.S 3.333 3 -. 5.s**I.3- ..3: .2.329-9-.3-3                  335...3-4
- 5*3.a 3- 3433  53533 - -*335.53..s 5. 353-334  33I333333 33 3.3.3.                 *253  333            *3.3  -. '.513333. 535533333 -- 3-5235 3s3...'
-35333 5.53.aa..3                        *33333 3.35.2      s-3sa-3I51 23-a 3-3 3.523-3   .34.  333.
3-                                               335.533.33.3 .'5333.*                        3';: 55 -5.5.:2552      332.  35  533.33 .53 -.333 3-.52  *133
5333.233   33255.3-25.3355.    335.333335. .ast          . 33333
3305 3Wa3ss3 533-3 533       33 - 523 - 5.33 339 3.33_-3 33 3.5.3-5.. .9-3.33                   5.333 3. 3.43d  .33.313*33   .5-a .3-39'W333 ..333.:.a3  '5.333
3.3333  .935.3553333 r-5.3.3-5. -.                         333 2s2333      3.3.5.33533=3-  fl   33. 33 ..'lr5.33
-, 3.52'S  -  3.3333.3393-9931  33 33.33.3 -  '..d  .33535.2   9                         3.53  3       a. ..535335.3a ss3ta. 3435 *...33:. -    335. - *5313W33333
*35333.5. 5-2.r.3S.5 3133313.94.29.1 3- 5. .5.32 353.3355. -
3-  333' 5.3-9.53.3.. 3.3 .5..a33  Z5.5.              33525. -3333-                                               -.:.. 35.33     -.83  -5.5.2*323359.53
333 553.3- - 53 59' 3.333 35.33 a 335j132j3 333.5 alt
2354 3325.3 51 --. a' 3333 - 3493-3 53 5.3.3333 .35393394 -35.33
-   a' 5333.. 3.3 4 935533  *32353.  -ai                                                                                          5S9
-*5333-st 333 3-513- a3 33             3933            3   aS 3.53.13-                   35.3     :3..'. a' - - 2.3-5.3   a..i.3.1.   3.23fl3  5333
333-1 a3    *1   33553-233  s3s23..5. s.15.535.                                                                   5.4:41349.5. 4543    3.333'33.33
3-' 335.3313. 55339-3- *.2i3*9' 533.3 33 3*335 .5555
533.3 3- 592 553.5 4.33.*.53-233233    .    15  3t9353'... -'5.3                                                                     .a3 as.. 33.
    5335355.535.525 31'.3 3'359-.                  p.3s.23.3*1.333                       *asd3. -   2334*.53  3.: a-  .a53-5--d&'s-'3-   ;-aS.a..3 35
335533-  3..35-fl d.a3'.311   . 3   3as5.315. 533333 - 53.3555.9                      350   .33353  .3 5.3 3933.3  Ws.saaad '335.*3.  31.1  3'-   la3.. .33.13-
53353- 3555 3.5 -5323355 - 55. 3333.33 .5s..-.aad  33. a3253- i..s                            -333   3533s.35t33 3.333.  533335 - 4339Z- 333 - 34433-5.-a. *333351
- 5.25335. 33-53- 535. 35331d3. 53- 'r3-.5 -- -
3359-33.2 .;5333333  1*133    3.43-d    33525-3d -   3-33 33 -                                                                              *5- 35-2 9.3  3.32 .5335
3-53913 5-fl-a3.3   25554.3-3 53- *533533.3   5333-3' s2'333523fl5..3                           535. 5.-.a5.' - 55)33  -I 3333. - 3-5.53.5.553-5.33      -       
1.3)3.33 353513    p. '.33.33 .33.533 533 :239- 35 333.551353                         .5.3533 33    3333 -   .9)3*5:23 .a55.4 3.3 3 - - j5.3 *fl49  at -
.3- 55.2533.3 3- 3 3.35333 35333 5 3345.5g3.3.3 *. 5a.
'55.3333  35'94  -                     3   3. 5'             .5334."3                                                                       -323* 5   5
3.23 4S*   335.3353                  5555.5  335d *13 3 3 3-3333 0322' -   3s5.39' .3.3.3.33 .3333 333
ma  1*13-' 3.3. 553.55. '..i.  ..naS  .-a   9.   5                              9)333-    5333                    3. 5.a53 .5335 a* .33.119. -
4332-   3. 330  35. 99135' '3 sW5-st - sW5333 .-aass 333 33S3353333                                                                         --'-.5 -'45.2 3353 .S3
53.35 331-33.23. 33 43.5333 33133  3.353    135-f5    3):3.d                      55..2 '.33    9.3.5 5393.3  3-1 935.333.3 3333 *3aa- 3933-4 -
19233-333.3 3  33.5.35; 339)-Is ..sa.s.t.. - 335.25.353 33. 3333-5-35.                                                                        ,..s            *30
.0-SW -3a.3
3-3 5a53  5.3 5-3-   13 52- 333.s11            33 3.395 35. 9..5333  32 533.3. 333.3333 3.S3-.3s-13   -as.-. 93 33**3j-5            a  fla..3  5-i 333.3 -1 3-i 333
a- 33- 3533-3 s93S55   25. *1    .335 aS -25535.  35.3-3533. 335359355 331                  3.53301    35-33*3-3 .5.3 35.55.  3333135.5 333: 3j 33*5
*35  3133.35;3 a3 .353.335 39   33. -           -   3.3555532 5.33 .3  -3123-313- 3-3.5133.53353334 33-  0333 .5.5 95.9 5-.JW  .ins'.  331 9)  '532S3j3.
3...3333-31.3. 33d5-.a3. as.    3. .30231  - 5533 35.5. **.3 .45a3* -5.33. 3-3-5 32934  33    3.-iS 3.331334-3 It  3-3.3  593-  d   .5333*. '353.31 s9-
33333 flIt .330333 3-S 3-333    a333 355WS. 3                 35  33333 aaz.... - (33     3313  2351533 333 333.339 aas.a 303.2  .5: 333 33t5 *33333'3 .5.3
5.3333553 .3-333 3.3..333fl9 a.an *13133' 3.2333S31 953 .3-332 33-33.2 395'322.33. 3. 533 35135.3.
92 53*       955.2      3.3-9   s    3.9  .5  .55..Iw. -  3.33203 3.3335529 35.             .5.3.9a         131.d9 3.33333.22.    53.5 .33 j    3'   31.333
25fl339)2  -  33- a.. a.3. 2.35 3-5.9 -  3.39 *3*5.9 5 '353-1333         3.55*33333          3.3 sS.53 355.33.33  3.-333. sad   335    .fl3'5..3 .s33        3.33.
,sa)53*5 355395. 35 W53331dW
S 30 f
'jxanuy                                                   -6Z-



- 30 -
faLel  2b.91.10 CWd-t"n                                                                                                                  w l
w Perd    Ca.470 (l97 ,4  /r s
19D0     i1 1S    "aQ         1  Um 1f 1m-         5      11-    MO         Mw      1w7      "N       11        th
-    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IIIML AOM
Apied-         ~           t-E       w    ( %=i 1              ,ad                    T, r)    U=              n of OW - =  gi  17)
Ia  ,Z                     91     0,.1 10.9 D  8.47                4.2      6.S       2.      5.2      5.4       33    D.7         3.0      3L4      23.
Sw_                       12.517    13U,II    14.751    R8561      5.9       7.2      '.&     12       MA       42A4      417      e1       42.2     593
ONMNWI-                     25.139    21        21.31,     310       3A.      6.6       43      294      MA       812     X2           .      78.2     W.9
Om  2                        389    10 B0 .147  5.M        9.*       3.1      1.3       7.6     3S       VA       17a       352      272      Z5.3     7.7
EXOf    aE d  s              3.47      4.10      4.6       3.*1      3.1      4L3       l.      1.       14.2   U .5        16A                1        9.2
LOW      w at  ....d Ws      5.,1     66A1       6,41      4.        4.3      0.3      7.1      15.5     16.2     MA.      1)        NJ       16.2     1I
am_ mim                      3*25      3.489     7*Qu      7*49      52   5 A           3.      19.4    ILA       2.        n.        ..      211      19.2
Gn1fti  et %F1um[ ind CZ)
(at cwm~  ai)
1W5.C   1310    191        195      138      13       1in
IbdxtlAnVts (189             4.37      3 As      3.399               3.3      4.1       1.9    10.0    30.0    189.        11.      10.      313.
IftJo PrIEL7                                                ii w      7        'E     -W       -Mr        272    -M        7KY    -Mi
lbj   iw=2                   El7       a"9       gm1                -        5.       3.3       -      I0.     25.s       29.1     5.0      5.5
otbw                 4w         GM        Ml                         4.1      -7.3      -       17.4     au3      1mg       173      1
Mmbmt  tmps (CE)             460       5         ___                 3.5      2.1       9.9    130.     10*a    10.0    10.0    10.0    189.
pomale                       se3       721        5               -21.      13.      41.3      2.0       -       La0    12.        139      VA.
lohME7 ad ewpm             1,-1      1.In      2.M4                532      -4a      11.      42.      43.4      16.1     NA.      3L2      .3"
otbw   ~2,3                    .1 2.      48ZA               1.8      3.4      3.5     519       Si3      U.9      47.4     41.      45.3
III      197       197        197       me8       11        13       131 V    13  hi    Mv
MM~ AD 76 C MM d/
OW dd1atw                           27.6      T-A       23.4       23        1.1       21.1.     3.1       21.      5.3      3.9
mm*~  cm.                  2L~~.1   31.9       31.7      ]L3       29P.1      42.6     47.3       515      G41.     789
Iwim 1-s                      214.4     1j        20.8      377.9     2~        Goa3      773.4     10.0   1J1A   1,5.WA
Ivz p1m fti                        314.9     133.      3102      3M39       410.      Ma3i      MA.       73.5    am.   1.891.
Tam or                              113.7i  K  91.      In8.      153.      116.      117.      121.      18.      18.0    114.9
PU3.I F1= of
0mtm                                                               MA3.      1.2       22.9
_____PMln                                                          3.7       7.1        9.1
S.zpli C.) cc dhf1lc C-)                                           4.9       4.1        3.3
4c1rz      1nedi                                                    1.8      4.4        4.5
Foud  1mm.f 1f                                                     3.3        3.1       2.3
131)-7    157845    1975.43
Om nc3mm
arN -Itb=  (2)                                                     3.10      G.40      4.23
GNP piwo- mwih man (1)                                             2.89      4.89      2137
ang   maorb    -      o  CZ()                                      3.89      4.89      4.
amW V                                                             331       330        TMG
M,B&z inv±  mmr                                                    Om.1      0.14      0.16
1DxM dlict                                                        1.17      0.12       L.77
it  glmtd   am==   we            c fintr m    md dllw a  bm1   of inmium of -t irjbut t    a mAulkl
Smm b." m. 193.18
Ti  ~  dtsbw       of meRUal Imm fm tt maim .Mk  w2.
jI IkiU Sada SomwLy ad P b Vii.
hi low - 7r.
1Dlcum m 6 m  tlc inwSidI1m  10g w-Ec po-
Pfmkrn23. 1934
ogod" mvldm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



- 31 -
:Itic   25,965.00                                                MANZ1OF)  W  0A I  JNSL 01F  AM   M                                                    JI    I
QP Per Capita: 151.40 at                                                 (uIUnit  aMS Am s   prre-)                                                     %    5 or s
Pi~1
1974     1975        7       1977      1976     19"       130      1931 b   16 e       1d 63       1i4 1ti5           193
BMgE OF W15IM
DPKTa  of g1ds ad Z.ft          5 rwLw         1a        2, Z.8D   2,65    3.43    4.039    4,658         5,676    4*63      4*.       4.135       4.651     5,175    6.057
Irun c,  fM  ad         fz                     2.Oa7    2.G30    2.321    2.762    3.425        3.99      5.49     6.0       6.4       5.552      5.457    6.031    6.621
iem  fapmr                                      -n24       135   - 86          -                  719  - w         -1,42    -21D.4   -1 427        -601      -156      -564
%erummf i.                                        22         3        1 39     40         4        9go      16V      262       2Z23  227                      2S        235
Oa:ct  ca      Bairn                             '*-3%       -9S       210      4t        3         S          36  -1.653   -2.2         2,12   2  -lI       -1.617  -j156
;iet dirwt  torelp                                  36        32        14       43        67       104        52      22        26S       193         MD       ]0        350
aw--d 1 u   la. ('mC)                      207       361       1O        193       47        09       692    1.U43     IZO         41          539    I.ff4     1.323
to publc  ,zr                                   (1W]      (264)    (113)    (199)       (3M)    (564)    (777)  (1.0        (1.O6)    (471)         (66)    (f64)  (1.,z)
to wcl,at-  muLr                                 (253      (-3)    (-tx)       (-3)    C-33)      (45)    (-6)    (351)    (ItC)    (-61'          (-12)    (t14)    (39)
Other captal                                      -223       -56       236       t65      19        -38       214       LT         1      -25:        -25C       24        24
Cacical  h     o B.J.                               20       237                43        23        675       956    1 793    t.49         350         669     1.43 8     697
_       _     __n ..W.(  .                                                                                               - . )                                            ,,
0mq  In  3~ SD (-    h e)                          366      -t39     -ff2       ez       -610              -1.01      -160       773                 I           379     -137
eac aar aam         r     (offl                    .2        57    1,366       1.M3     2,62      4.16      5.416     5.3      4,.69     3.079       1,679     I,S      1.637
Per.as  -      to af lapart,                       0.9       3.2       6.0       80         7      12.5      11.8      11.1      9.1       6.7         4.1      3.1       3.0
Offal g                                           -         -         -         _        -         -         _          
C . dc                oE h                       376 3R7 257                   375      799       972     1.027    1.335     1.43D
_     !nueral                                   47        42       43        25        61        36        46       53        4S
BUR                                            (45)      t D)      O43      an9       t5         ZS)       O9)     t2Z)      t
0d~ ~1d1 1(2)  (2 )  (3)     (6)      (6)       (a)      (37)      (31)     (30)
-_________                                       329       345       214       35D      251       936      511    1,282      1.2
Off el q r ciae                                (19)      (15)       (1)       (1)      CB)      (1O)      (96)      (32)    (162
OtherImmlRl   ~D(                                       (2)        (75)     (65)      (i2      (139)    (28       (251)    (277)
aFcte   ud     t                               (6)       C2O)      (27)      (31)      33)      (36)      (44)      (75)     (64)
ert                               t201~~~~~~~~~~~M)    C2b'i   tl'!;  (2rn7 lS     (751)    (62I)    C,)    C-819
E_L Ir (ad of priod) dl
Debt omtstaq       al da                       2.138    2.372    2,472    2.692    2.8C9        3,374    4.t0S     5.1D7    6.211
Official                                     1.62B    1.72       1.795    1.870    1.996      2,115    2.361    2.599      2.912
IIED                                       O(62)    (616)    (672)    (716)    (751)    ()    (991)  (L.165)  (1.36)
Other                                        (23)      (22)      (2Z)     (22)      (22)      (22)      CZL)     (21)      (20)
Ocimt                                      (1."  C>.tD2   (1.=fl   (1.1=    G 3)   (1.255)  >.3-9)  (1.413)  (I.G
P'dvate                                        S         444       678      822       813    1.259    1.717    2,5U1       3.219
timb aletc                            63       6(0        35     I.mO    1.527       1.925    2,992    2.922      3.50t
EEr  eM   d4
iTol drk aebL  pq o                               27       238       239       315      387       636    S Z        S 66       911
of  dh  Inrmu                                  103       uS        C5        13       166       2i,       278      402       577
2        :     o as X. eapot of  . id
a       11 353                                          10.7       9.4      9.0       9.3      12.9        as   12.S        17.6
as n Z    w                             2.4       1.       t.8       1.6      1.7       2.3       1.6       1.8      2.3
A eIzatg C      - C:        )            7.4       7.5       6.7      7.3       7.9      10.1      13.3     12.3      20.6
OaFital                                       (6.2)    (6.3)    (0.6)       (7.3     (7.6)    (7.-)    (8S)    (7.6)    (9.3)
Ptrimt                                        (6.4)    (8.3)    (7.6)    (7.4)    (8.6)   (11.8    (15.7)   (14.0)   (12.9)
rL -       W  we  ma (vin)                  16.0     15.3      14.9      16.2     14.3      13.       14.6      12.9     14.6
affica                                        (22.7)   (26.3)   (23.5)   (1.4)   (16.5)   (17.1)   (17.7)   (16.6)   (17.1)
Prilalt.O(10.0)  (,.1)    (8)                                               (7.9)    (9.6)   (o10)   (12.9)  C(l.0)    (9.9)
coo Ep                 di
03 DMitowl  3D                                 32.3       26        27.2      26S      26.7      28        26.3     22.A      21.7
Dta dis abwmu/t al gm. disbzma                  229       27.4      29.6     22.7      274       1.3       21.2    U1.8       19
D ddct .victJtota  debt aarv1                   21.9      32.8      31.9     29.5      28L       19.5      27.3     214.3     20.9
- 3KL 03/cal DO                                  1.1       0.9      0.9       O._      OS        0.6      0.5       0.4       0.3
IDL dLsbw.at/tortl  m   db ma                    - _           _
M debt rnice/w1  .bt - lebt                      0.1       0.3      0.2       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
at 1td1A bark AL]  Md.
b/ PrfIIahy.
& FAt.
dl A62k ad Pliay 0--mad r            t
.'Imed 6, 1561
Coiatdia DOvlvia



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CRIRITS IN COLOMBIA (as of March 31, 1984)
(US$million)
Lean                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
66 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,406.1  23.5 I/    -
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0              4.6
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              5.3
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr.  64.0               1.1
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    58.3              25.5
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              7.3
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              8.1
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             24.8            11.2
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             20.1
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power              50.0-            11.2
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y         Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0              4.5
1624    1979  Colombia                         Airports           61.0              1.9
162B    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.0              2.0
1694    1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             13.5            10.1
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply        27.9             3.8
1723    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                72.0             35.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
municipal                     Water Supply       31.0             23.6
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0              12.7
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDK financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
Annex I1
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMEUT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Mareh 31. 1984)
Number Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              87.0             49.3
182     1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                11.3
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    32.0               2.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   150.0             85.9
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de *Iedellin  Power              1 .0              87.4
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                85.0             75.3
1966    1981  Colombia                         Rural Roads        33.0             18.2
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation         37.0             25.3
1999    1981  Corporacion Flectrica de la
Costa Atlantica               Power              36.0              6.0
2D08    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             359.0            294.3
2069    1981  Inatituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio        Watershed
Ambiente                      Hanagement          9.1n             7.8
2D90-   1982 Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                      Railways           77.0             77.0
2121    1982 Fondo Vial Nacional              Highways          152.3            139.4
2174    1982  Colombia                        Rural Develop-
ment            53.0             52.2
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                     Rural Education   15.0              13.3
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano            Agricultural
Agropecuario                    Research         63.4             62.7
23491/  1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.      Coal
Exploration       9.5             9.5
23791/  1984  Colombia                        Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0             40.0
23012/  1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0            170.0
TOTAL                                           3,818.8  23.5
Of which has been repaid                          837.5   4.1
Total now outstanding                           2,981.3  19.4
Amount sold                           51.0          -
Of which has been repaid              51.0          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,981.3  19.8
Total undisbursed                                                1,435.8
1' Not yet effective.
21 Not yet signed.



_ 34 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IYC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                          Type of             Amount In USS Milllon
Year                   Obligor                  Business            tooan   Uulty   Total
1959          Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board          .50              .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                    Food products       1.98    .08      2.06
1961          Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans           .70      -       .70
1961-1968     !Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                   Home furniture       .08    .09       .17
1961          Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical equipment .50      -       .S0
1962          Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                       financing           -   2.02      2.02
1962-1963     Corporacion Financiera            Development
Nacional                         financing           -   2.04      2.04
1963-1967     Campania Colombiana de            Textiles            1.98    .15      2.13
1968-196Q       Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de        Development
Caldas                           financing           -    .81       .81
1964-1968     Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging          -   1.27      1.27
1966          Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing         1.00      -      1.00
Deposito Santa 'e, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera               Livestock           1.00    .58      1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles            5.00   2.61      7.61
1969          Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism                -    .01       .01
Noteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973     Corporacion Financiera del        Development
Norte                            financing           -    .45       .45
1969           Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Valle                            financing           -    .43       .43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism              .23    .11       .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism              .80    .24      1.04
1973-1975     Corporacion Colowbiana de         Housing                -    .46       .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974          Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement              1.50      -      1.50
1975          Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement              3.60      -      3.60
1976          Las Brisas                        Mining              6.00      -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantics S.A.          Utilities          13.00   2.00     15.00
1977          Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.I Construction
Material         0.97   1.76      2.73
-2. 



- 35 -
Annex I1
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984) (Continued)
Fiscal                                             Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981            Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing              9.00    .17        9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.          Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86       16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing         1.00   0.54       1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.              Cement and
Construction
Material         21.91  5.00      X.91
1984            Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining              10.65  1.64      12.29
Total Gross Commitments                                93.55  X.32    119.87
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                  .      62.28   9.60      71.88
Total commitments now held by IFC                      31.27  16.72       47.99
Total undisbursed (including                           33.56   7.06       40.62
participants)                                           -



- 36 -
AMEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLCKIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Supplemtary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time required to prepare the project:         12 wmths
(b) The agenci es 'hich prepared the project:   FEDERACAFE,
PRODESARRfLLO, FAO/CP,
Bank
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                        October 1982
(d) Departure of the Appraisal Mission:           October 1983
Ce) Planned completiom of Negotiations:          April 1984
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained from FEDERACAFE that:
Ca}  its lending terms and operating policies and procedures for
subloans under the proposed project as specified in paras. 54-57
would be followed and reviewed periodically (paras. 54-57);
(b) a training officer would be appointed, a yearly training program
would be carried out, and that the required incremental staff be
eitber hired or contracted (para. 53);
(c) the maximum financing percentage for agricultural subprojects would
be 902 for small-scale farmers (less than 10 ha), 80% for medium-
size farmers (between 10 ha and 70 ha), and 70Z for large-scale
farmers (above 70 ha) (para. 55);
(d) eligibility for financing under the project for creditworthy
beneficiaries would be that (a) the farms be located in the project
area; (b) subloan funds not be used to finance coffee production;
and (c) the beneficiaries not be credit recipients under the
Integrated Rural Development program (DRI) which is partially
financed by Bank Loans 1352-CO and 2174-CO (para. 56).
(e) repayments of subloans shall be utilized exclusively for making
additional loans for diversification purposes (para. 57).



- 37 -
ANNEX fI}
Page 2 of 2
Assurances were obtained frocm the Government that:
(a) it would make the arrangements necessary to enable FFAP and FFI, or
auy other comparable financial facility, to provide the necessary
funds for financing the diversification of agricultural production
in the project area or provide such funds directly to the Borrover
if necessary (para. 51).
Assurances were obtained from FEDERACAFE and the Government that:
(a) should a study, to be prepared at the request of the Bank, show
that credit demand under the project is adversely affected by a
relative decline in the profitability of producing non-coffee
commodities, FEDERACAEE, together with the Goverment, would
present a plan of action designed to ensure the continued viability
of the project at the same time the study's findings were
submitted. The terms of reference for the study as well as the
plan of action, would have to be satisfactory to the Bank (para.
62),
Conditions of eftectiveness would be that:
(a) FEDERAC&WE has entered into subsidiary agreements with Banco
Cafetero and Caia Agraria, acceptable to the Bank (para. 52).
(b) FEDERACAFE has established a Special Accoant in Banco de la
Republica and a Project Account in Banco Cafetero and has sade an
initial deposit in the Project Account of US$1 million equivalent
(para. 60); and



tBRD 18034
C O L O M B I A                                                    L /       7    
COFFEE GROWING AREAS (7                                                                                        |
p 4                             - '    -:, <' -X                  4 r
14
4o
\    '.-47b /            Y\-.        -    5 -           ;     o 
C,-     -'    J                -' .                     ^        VENEZUELA
Qr~ ~ ~~~~~~~~1
Coffee G-owing Areas         r                                                     -      *ARAUCA
_Selecred Rocds
e   Deacrrment Copd -s
o   Towns
Rtversa
MAArshes                       '*C                                                  BOYACA
- -   Deportment Boundones *  .sC BOYACA 
- - - Inrernacroncl Boundaries
-/r)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,E-                            /     *      s  " O.
- ~~~~ ~    0    so  iao '5
AREA OF M       . 
-w:<'*vo4--~~~~~~~-.--- 'a o' X-Wa                                      -S
^                     ~~~~~~~~~~E TA  |  P; j  =      = 
N & R 0 ;s O  n   t s      c:,~~~ ''_~~-~   _ 2                ' o        vEr4EMEL
'  S; -  \  A llo.        _  _ __* __          w_                  r-t' '
?             -O         r,,                                                              BRAZIL
E C U  A  D O  R                  _-.st    -         0  >A -_-tE                            _






