Docum_t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqt N. 12249
PROJECT COMPLETION iEPORT
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2453-CO)
AUGUST 13, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12249
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Appraisal Average 1983 -  Col$ 79.53  - US$1.00
Average 1984 -  Col$101.33  - US$1.00
1985 -  Col$143.05  - US$1.00
1986 -  Col$195.60  a US$1.00
1987 -  Col$241.35  - US$1.00
1988 -  Col$299.78  - US$1.00
1989 -  Col$384.89  - US$1.00
1990 -  Col$502.21  - US$1.00
1991 -  Col$630.00    US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
Bank           -     The World Bank
FAO/CP         -     Food and Agriculture Organization
FFAP           -     Pondo Financiero Agropecuario
(Agricultural Finaneing Fund)
FFL            -     Pondo Financiero Industrial
(Industrial Financing Fund)
FINAGRO        -     Fondo para el Financiamiento del Sector Agropecuario
(Fund for Financing of the Agricultural Sector)
FEDERACAFE    -      National Federation of Coffe2 Growers of Colombia
PRODESARROLLO -      Coffee Zones Development and Diversification Program,
a Department within FEDERACAPE
FNC            -     Fondo Nacional del Cafe
(National Coffee Fund)
SAR            -     Staff Appraisal Report
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olfeu of D _eaeto4~111l
Optatio., Uvaluatlen
August 13, 1993
MEMORANDIJM TO THE EXECITIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Colombia
Agricultural Diversification Project (Ln. 2453-CO!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Colombia - Agricultural Diversification
Project (Loan 2453-CO) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part
nI was prepared by the Borrower.
The project aimed at reducing areas planted with coffee and diversifying towards
production of annual crops and livestock raising. Thbis project is tne first collaborative effort in
agriculture between the Bank and the private sector in Colombia (National Federation of Coffee
Growers). The project results exceeded expected estimates because of good preparation and
appraisal, a high degree of commitment by all parties concerned and an effective implementing
institution. Small-scale coffee growers unexpectedly benefitted from the project because the
Federation made an effort to reach them through supervised credit. Some positive environmental
effects exist due to the switch of coffee growing in marginal, high slope areas, to grass cover for beef
production.
The economic rates of return have been reestimated at 25 to 40 percent compared
to appraisal estimates of 19 to 42 percent. Overall, the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory,
its sustainability as uncertain and its institutional development as partial. No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K8pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2453-CO)
Table of Contents
Paae No.
PREFPACE ................................ 
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . .                               a . .                                                 i
Part I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . .d.en.t y..... ................    1
Project Background . . . . . . . ....................... 1
Project Objective and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Project Design and Organization  ........  .....# ......... 3
Project Implementation  ... .......... . ... .    3
Project Results  ... . . . . . . .. . . . .. .. ..   . . . .  6
Project Sustainability .. .   ..*.. ........9............. .   9
Bank and Borrower Performance                                 ..............  9
Project Relationships  ...................*....  ..........     11
Project Documentation and Data .o. .. . . . . . .#. . . .   11
Part II  - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation
and its Development Impact on the Project1l  . . . . . . .  12
Part III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits  . . . . . . . . .  . ..   18
2. Project Timetaeble o o ... .....................  21
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursement . . .  26
4. Key Indicators  . . . .   . . ...     - . . .    .. .. .. . . . .  27
5. Project Costs . .. .. a. ..  . . . .   . .   . . . . . . . .  29
6. Project Financing o . . . . . .   . .   . . . . . . . . .   .  30
7. Economic Rates of Return on Selected Agricultural
Production  .           . . . . o   . o   . o    .. ..  . . . . . . .# . .    31
8. Compliance with Loan Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
9. Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .o .  35
l/   Tho Borrcwr IL" eaatted a full PCM wern8 the UDERAGhf's fifth Five Yow Divardfteatica PI1 1984-1989 which
is vilable In LAC Files.
This document ha3 a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PEQJCT CMLTO  RORT
COLOMI
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSICATIOn n C
(LOA 2453-CO)
PRIEPACS
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Diversification Project in Colombia, for which Loan 2453-CO in the amount of
US$50 million was approved by the Bank on June 27, 1984. The loan closing
date was September 30, 1992, two years behind schedule. Final disbursement
was on January 31, 1993 and the loan account was closed at that time. The
loan of US$50 million was fully disbursed.
2.        This I.R was prepared by the Bank'. Agriculture Operations Division
of the Latin Avarica and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.        Pre aration of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mis4sion and is based, intr aliag, on the Staff Appraisal Report;
the Loan Agree&ent; supervision report.; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; F&I Evaluation of the Fifth Five-Year Diversification Plan; and
interviews with scaff involved in project preparation and implementation.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIPICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2453-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective
1.        The central objective of the project was to assist in, and
accelerate, the Government's and PEDERACAPE's efforts to diversify
agricultural production, sources of employment and income in coffee areas. To
this end, the project was designed to develop the associated institutional,
organizational and physical basis needed to significantly increase the on-
going diversification efforts, and make it a more self-sustaining process,
thereby lessening the country's dependence on coffee production.  In providing
alternatives to coffee production, the project was to assist the authorities
in gradually shifting the policy incentives to the production of other
agricultural commoditi.es, thus indirectly helping in reducing the
overproduction and stock build-up of coffee and the country's vulnerability to
market constraints of coffee and associated price changes. The project was
also to help small-scale coffee growers not participating under the project to
maintain their share in the limited coffee market to the extent that coffee
production of participating farmers would not increase. More particularly,
the project was to help to: (a) increase the production of non-coffee crops
and the availability of food commodities; and (b) strengthen the marketing
system and the agroindustrial subsector (para. 3.01).
Imolementation Experience
2.        The loan agreement became effective on March 20, 1985, with one
extension of three months to allow for delays in the Government's internal
legalization of the Bank loan to PEDERACAPE, a private organization
(para. 5.01). It was estimated at the time of appraisal that the closing date
would be September 30, 1990. In fact, the project was closed on September 30,
19929 two years later after two extensions (para. 5.07). Project
implementation went smoothly since PRODESARROLLO, the implementing group
within PEDE$ACAPE, was well experienced with the program. The annual
achievement of new diversification, measured in hectares of new crops and



- iv -
number of livestock, increased over previous years. This was due to the
strong demand for diversification, available fundos and the ability of
PRODESARROLLO to handle the increasing workload, especially in the areas of
technical assistance, and the evaluation and approval of subprojects
(para. 5.02). The higher than planned level of counterpart funds from the
coffee growers who participated in the project (481 of total investment, more
than double the expected financing plan of 232) facilitated implementation of
the project and the expansion of its targets, leading to positive achievements
at project closing. The increased contributions from the coffee growers was
partially due to the PFAP's provision of a lower level of credit to that
envisaged at appraisal. Another factor which positively affected
implementation of the project was the fall in the world price of coffee (from
US$1.56/lb in 1985 to US$0.70/lb as of February 1992) which actually
strengthened FEDERACAFE's commitment to the diversification objective
(p&ra. 5.09).
3.        Little technical or managerial risks were expectad for the project
since EMDERACAPE, a private agricultural producer organization, was efficient
and commanded a well developed physical and organizational infrastructure in
the proposed project area. Also, the principal banking windows under the
project, Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria, had consistently performed well in
granting credit and were expected to have no difficulty in providing the
banking services required ur-er the project. However, one element could
critically affect the pace of project execution: the efficient marketing and
processing of project cutput. In fact, the project's pace of execution was
not hampered because: (a) a large part of the increasing agricultural
production was readily absorbed in local markets; and (b) the development of
many agroindustries, financed under the project, provided an outlet for the
balance of farm output (para. 5.08).
Results
4.        Overall, project objectives have been met, i.e., there has been an
increase in production of non-coffee crops and the availability of food
commodities (such as citrus, lulos marecuya, papaya, plantain, pineapple,
pitaya, onions, tomatoes, cocoa, platano, sugarcane, beans, corn, and dairy
and meat products). Both the marketing system and the agro-industrial
subsector have been strengthened through some 239 marketing and 234 agro-
industrial projects (para. 6.01).  Physical achievements of the project were
well over the planned targets, particularly so for the agricultural crops
component where the area planted exceeded the 5-year project targets by 302
(78,665 ha vs. SAR estimate of 60,400 ha), and for the number of livestock
which exceeded the plan by 1102 (132,277 heads vs. SAR estimate of 63,000
heads). Over the 7-year period actually financed by the Bank loan, the area
planted re,-hed 175,126 ha (an increase of 1902 over SAR targets), and
livestock increased to 192,230 heads (2052 over SAR targets).   These
excellent results were due to the fact thats (a) demand for diversification
activities under the project was always very strong and, in fact, grew each
year; (b) the costs of on-farm investments were lower than expected, allowing
for increased diversification without a commensurate increase in furding; and
(c) higher thau planned level of participation by farmers allowed for greater



- v -
leverage from the loan resources (paras. 5.09 and 6.02). Through the support
services component, training was provided for MEDERACAPE technicians,
specialists from other institutions and beneficiaries; and the marketing
information system was improved, issuing to farmers monthly bulletins on
prices and market situation for a variety of crops (pare. 6.06).
5.        Total project cost was US$260.2 million, 1032 of appraisal estimate
of US$253.4 million (para. 6.07). At appraisal, rates of return for the
illustrative investment models for farm development, marketing and agro-
processing subprojects ranged from 23 - 25X. During project implementation,
these models were tested at least every six months to check on viability of
crops via a vis current market conditions and y4.elds. Results indicated that
the returns were consistently better than expected. Rates of return on
selected agricultural production ranged from 252 to >402.   For selected agro-
industrial/marketing projects, rates of return were in the range of 19S to
>402. Such positive rates of return can generally be attributed to lower than
expected investment costs combined with higher market prices (para. 6.08 and
Part III, Table 7).
6,        PEDERACAPE estimates that sbout 33,000 staffyears of agricultural
employment, 2,800 staffyears of agroindustry employment, and some 3,500
staffyears of marketing employment have been provided through the project.
The diversification program has contributed to a higher and more stable rural
employment through increased agricultural production and less seasonal impact
of a coffee-only environment. It has also attracted resources in the sector
ands by intensifying production and the development of higher revenue crops,
has resulted in higher rural income (para. 6.09).
Prolect Sustainabilitv
7.        Diversification continues to be an important activity for coffee
growers in Colombia. As the international price for coffee continues to fall
and the domestic prices are adapting to the new reality of the coffee market,
and returns on diversified activities remain attractive, diversification
should continue. However, the level of sustainability would depend on both
technical assistance and credit being available to participating farmers and
entrepreneurs.   The projected sixth Five Year Diversification Plan indicates
that, at the end of Year 5 (1994), approximately 89,300 ha for agricultural
activities will be diversified and approximately 403,840 units of fisheries,
livestock, and poultry would be developed. As production from the program
expands beyond local demand levels, agro-industry investments should be linked
more closely to crop production surpluses (para. 7.01).
Lessons of the Project
8.        This project generally confirmed the appraisal design of the key
ingredients for reaching and sustaining project objectives:
(i) project objectives were realistic in tne context of the
expected macro-economic and policy environment;



-vi-
(1i)  the project was thoroughly prepared cnd appraised,
facilitated by the ongoing program of diversification and
advance planning by the Borrower;
(111) flexible Implementation of the project;
(iv)  strong comitment to the project by the Borrower, hence
adequate local funding available;
(v) strong support from the beneficiaries to the project,
facilitated by effective extension provision and adequate
supply of credit (although at subsidized rates); and
(vi) competent project management (implementation by a private
institution with a record of solid performance, strong
leadership, and highly qualified technical staff).
9.    At the same time, a key lesson from the project is that borrowing in
foreign currency to lend in local currency requires continuous supervision to
ensure that lending rates to beneficiaries are adequate to cover the cost of
funds, in view of the fluc-tuations in exchange rates. Under the reviewed
project, failure to react quickly to changes in the relationship between these
two variables, particularly with a policy of keeping lending interest rates
low, resulted In a high subsidy and a substantial cost to the Coffee Fund, a
coffee stabilixation fund administered by IEDBR&CAIE. The extent to which
this subsidized interest rate may have contributed to the large supply
response alicited under the project, which went well beyond the original
output targets, is of course difficult to establish (para. 8.03).



PROJECT CGOPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFIATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2453-COJ
Part 1 - Prosect Review from the Bank's Perseective
1.          Proiect Identitr
Project Name:     Agricultural Diversification Project
Loan Numbers      2453-CO
RVP Units         Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:          Colombia
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsectors        Diversification
2.          Pro ect Background
2.01        Growth in the agricultural sector in Colombia in the 1970s was
driven by external factors such as favorable markets and price. for export
crops, especially coffee. In the 1980., international prices for food
commodities, including coffee, fell and at the same time the cost of
agricultural inputs, including labor, remained high. The country's heavy
dependence on coffee needed to be reduced and the unrealized potential for
agricultural diversification in the coffee areas tapped. Both the Government
and PEDERACAPE recognized the need for agricultural diversification as the
International Coffee Agreement with its quota system was likely to continue
and Colombia's quota could not be expected to increase more than 1.52 per
year. Purthermore, the international price for coffee in real terms was
expected to decline while the levels of stock build-up could not be financed
indefinitely. Therefore, coffee production needed to be brought In line with
the market, and underutilized resources existing in the coffee areas needed to
be diverted to alternative uses. This strategy would respond to increasing
demand for food crops, while at the same tiine maintain the Income levels of
the coffee growere.
2.02        The Government's agricultural diversification efforts to reduce
the negative effects of coffee monoculture go back to the 1940's. In 1946,
the first contract was signed between the Government and FEDERACAPE to promote
the production of non-coffee crops in the coffee zones and over two decades
about US$150,000 were spent annually. In 1963, FEDERACAPE formed a unit,
PRODESAJROLLO, to promote agricultural diversification activities throughout
*:he coffee areas by providing technical advice and credit. From 1963 to 1982,
credit totalling about US$146 million was provided for about 99,000 ha, 46
marketing projects and 41 agroindustrial enterprises.



2
2.03        At the time of project appraisal, Bank projects had focussed on
increasing productivity, income and welfare of small farmers, with all
projects executed by public sector institutions. The results, in general,
indicated that many of the problems with project implementation reflected the
shortcomings of the public sector, i.e., institutional instability, frequent
changes in policies and key personnel, poor accounting and monitoring
capabilities, and underfunding. In this project, the executing agency,
FEDERACAPE, was selected because it was, and remains, a well-managed private
institution with a record of solid performance. Bank assistance was sought in
order to expand PRODESAROLLO's then on-going program, i.e., the fifth Five
Year Diversification Plan (1984-1989), within rEDERACAFE.
3.          Prosect Obiective and Descriotion
3.01        Proiect Obiective.  The central objective of the project was to
assist in, and accelerate, the Gcvernment's and FEDERACAPE's efforts to
diversify agricultural production, sources of employment and income in coffee
areas. To this end, the project was dasigned to develop the associ.:ted
institutional, organizational and physical basis needed to significantly
increase the on-going diversification efforts, and make it a more self-
sustaining process, thereby lessening the country's dependence on coffee
production. In providing alternatives to coffee production, the project was
to assist the authorities in gradually shifting the policy incentives to the
production of other agricultural commodities, thus indirectly helping in
reducing the overproduction and stock build-up of coffee and the country's
vulnerability to market constraints of coffee and associated price changes.
The project was also to help small-scale coffee growers not participating
under the project to maintain their share in the limited coffee market to the
extent that coffee production of participating farmers would not increase.
More particularly, the project was to help to: (a) increase the production of
non-coffee crops and the availability of food commodities; and (b) strengthen
the marketing system and the agroindustrial subsector to handle the increased
output. Project Descrivtion. Over the five year project period, the project
was targeted tos (a) provide agricultural credit for short, medium and long-
term subloans and incremantal capital to finance development of some 60,000 ha
of non-coffee crops and livestock production with some 13,600 producers in the
coffee growing area; (b) strengthen the marketing infrastructure by providing
technical as3istance and credit for agricultural processing and increase the
volume of agricultural production marketed through project financed
organizations; (c) promote, help organize and provide technical assistance and
credit for agricultural processing activities throughout the project area;
and (d) provide support services to effectively implement the credit
components.
3.02        Bank involvement in the project was to help institutionalize the
diversification efforts within nEDERACAFE, and to expand its on-going lending
program and generate enough momentum to make the diversification effort a
self-sustaining process.



3
4.          Pro1ect Design and Oryanization
4.01        Promotion of agricultural diversification in the coffee growing
areas was included in the development policies of both the Government and
PEDERACAPE. The project, as prepared, was essentially a large part of the
fifth Five Year Diversification Plan for PEDERACAPE, covering the period
October 1984 through to September 1989 (the plan follows the crop year,
October to September). The increased targets for diversification in the plan
were in support of Government objectives to increase overall agricultural
productivity and production and FEDERACAPE's efforts to diversify production,
labor and income in the coffee growing areas. The Bank supported this
activity for both the development objectives stated for agriculture, as well
as to strengthen divereification operations under REDERACAPE, a private sector
organization and one of the key agricultural organizations in Colombia.
4.02        The project's design and organization contributed to the high
level of achievements under the project since the project scope expanded an
ci-going diversification program, well supported by the targeted farmers. The
implementing group, PRODESARROLLO, within PEDERACAPE, had a good deal of
experience with diversification, together with well qualified and competent
staff to carry out the w,rk. Under the project, these facilities were to be
expanded and eventually become an independent unit in FEDERACAPE, the Sub-
Gerencia de Diversificacion. At the time of project appraisal the staff in
this unit totalled 105 and at the end of the five years plan the staff was
increased to 251, a large part of the increase being in extension staff.
4.03        The project was prepared by FEDERACAFE/PRODESAROLLO based on its
fifth Five Year Diversification Plan. The Initiating Project Brief of May 12,
1983 was prepared by FAO/CP and provided the basis for the Bank's final
Project Brief of August 23, 1983. Project appraisal took place in October
1983. Board approval was on June 27, 1984 and loan signing on September 21,
1984 (Table 2).
5.          Proiect Implementation
5.01        Effectiveness.  The loan agreement became effective on March 20,
1985, with one extension of three months to allow for delays in the
Government's intornal legalization of the Bank loan to FEDERACAPE, a private
organization.
5.02        Implementation Period.  Project implementation went smoothly since
PRODESARROLLO was well experienced with the program. The annual achievement
of new diversification, measured in hectares of new crops and number of
livestock, increased over previous years.  This was due to -he strong demand
for diversification, available funds, and the ability of PRODESARROLLO to
handle the increasing workload, especially in the areas of technical
assistance, and the evaluation and approval of subprojects.
5.03        On December 31, 1986, at the request of the Borrower, the Bank
raised the disbursement percentage on Category l(a) - Agricultural
Development, from 182 to 322. This was agreed to because, since the signing
of the loan agreement in September 1984, the peso had devalued about 50Z



4
against the dollar (from Col$ 107 to 211/US$1.(O). The projected weighted
average ezhange rate over the project period was, in 1986, Col$ 2781US$1.00
versus the SAR expected average of Col$ 167. As a result of this devaluation,
the estimated foreign exchange component, in peso terms, had risen from
Col$ 8,263 million to Col$ 13,871 million, up from 20S to 292 of project
costs. In order to maintain the input of counterpart funds at the levels
expected at appraisal and avoid a funding gap of an estimated Col$ 5,608
million, the Bank chose to increase the percentage of disbursements under
Category 1(a) to 322. This was expected to cover the full foreign costs in
equivalent local currency.
5.04        On January 5, 1988, the above disbursement percentage for
Category 1(a) was further increased to 452 as the devaluation of the peso
continued to accelerate and the exchange rate remained well over the
projections in the SAR, i.e., on January 5, 1988 the exchange rate was
Col$ 260/US$1.O0, and was expected to average Col$ 320/US$1.00 over the life
of the project, versus the expected average in the SAR of Col$ 1671US$1.00.
The weighted average disbursement percentage for this category was expected to
be 352 over the life of the project. Other amendments to the project included
the requirement for an audit of the accounts of the National Coffee Fund
(July 1986) and the raising of the ceiling of the Special Account to
US$5.0 million from US$3.0 million (February 1988).
5.05        Under the project, it was agreed that PEDERACAPE would lend at the
prevailing FlAP average interoest rate, and would adjust its rates together
with PPAP. At the time of appraisal, and with the projections for interest
rate increases by PFAP and for devaluation, it was expected that the rate to
final beneficiaries would be adequate to cover at least the cost of Bank
funds, the cost of intermediation and the impact of the peso devaluation.
5.06        In the event, FEDERACA.?  rates did not keep up with PPAP's until a
large share of the loan funds had been disbursed. Devaluation too increased
much faster than projected at appraisal (over 222 in 1984/1986, as compared to
the projected 15S for 1985, and 10 for each succeeding year). Throughout
that period, PEDERACAPE continued applying the average rate of 21.72, although
by that time PFAP started raising its rates. PPAP did even better, starting
In 1989 it pegged its interest rate structure to the prevailing rate for
savings, DTF, thus maintaining a relationship with the inflation/devaluation
(although continuing subsidies to the sector, and to the small farmers in
particular). FEDERACAPE did not follow suit. The cost of Bank funds in
Col$ peso terms went up to about 382 (25/262 devaluation, 10.52 bank interest
rate and commitment charge, and 2 points for intermediation costs), while
diversification loans went at the same 21.7% rate. This forced the National
Coffee Fund (a Fund belonging to the Government but operated by FEDERACAPE,
which manages the surpluses from the exports of coffee) to cover the
difference between the prevailing lending rates and the actual cost of Bank
funds; this subsidy reached over US$12 million by September 30, 1989, while
the fall in international coffee prices, which started in 1988/1989, reduced
substantially the Fund's resources. While all along PEDERACAFE had indicated
that it was willing to apply lower rates as an incentive for diversification,
it became clear that they were not aware of the high cost. Several
supervision missions discussed the implication of the low FEDERACAFE lending



5
linked to DT@. By the end of 1989, the Bank put MEDERACAPE on notice that
failure to do so would result in the suspension of disbutsement from the Bank
loanzl. Adjusting the interest level was a complicated procedure, and
finally, in October 1990, FEDERACAPE raised its rates to the FFAP levels, for
all loans financed by the remaining Bank funds, and with the collections from
past loans. As of February 1992, interest rates are as followst for
Production: DTF+6 for medium and large farmeros DTF-4 for small farmers.
5.07        The Bank agreed to the Borrower's request for extension of the
loan closing date to September 30, 1991 (original loan closing date September
30, 1990) to allow for disbursement of the backlog of eligible expenditures as
a result of the suspension of disbursements. A second request from the
Borrower for a one-year extension of the closing date to September 30, 1992
was also agreed to by the Bank to provide continuity to the diversification
program during the transition period of 1990/91 when both a reorganization of
PEDERACAPE (para. 5.09) and a new agricultural fund, FINAGRO, was
announced1l.
5.08        Proiect Risks.  Little technical or managerial risks were expected
for the project since PEDERACABE, a private agricultural producer
organization, was efficient and commanded a well developed physical and
organizational infrastructure i1 the proposed project area. Also, the
principal banking 'indows under the project, Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria,
had consistently performed well in granting credit and were expected to have
no difficulty in providing the banking services required under the project.
However, one element could critically affect the pace of project execution,
the efficient marketing and processing of project output. In fact, the
project's pace of execution was not hampered becauses (a) a large part of the
increasing agricultural production was readily absorbed in local markets; and
(b) the development of many agroindustries, financed u=der the project,
provided an outlet for the balance of farm output.
5.09        Unforeseen Factors Affecting Implementation.  The higher than
planned level of counterpart funds from the coffee growers who participated in
the project (482 of total investment, more than double the expected financing
plan of 232) facilitated implementation of the project and the expansion of
its targets, enhancing the opportunity for positive achievements. Such
funding provided increased leverage with project loan funds and thus
complemented the increase in diversification activities over the levels
planned. The higher than planned level of contributions from coffee growers
was partially due to the RFAP's provision of a lower level of credit to that
[/    In fact, disbursements were suspended from the Bank loan for two months
from end July to end September, 1990.
2/    FINAGRO was created to replace PFAP and it was expected that FINAGRO
would provide the credit requirements for diversification at MEDERACAPE.
The transition from PFAP to FINAGRO was slow and was not completed until
August 1991 and during the transition period the flow of funds to
agriculture was greatly reduced.



6
envisaged at appraisal. Another factor which positively affected
implementation of the project was the fall in the world price of coffee (from
US$1.56/lb. in 1985 to US$0.70/1b. as of February 1992) which strengthened
FEDERACAFE's commitment to the diversification objective. However, in 1991
FEDERACAPE operations were reorganized and the Sub-Gerencia for
Diversificacion was merged with the main coffee technical and financial
groups. This slowed down diversification activities so that by the year
ending September 30, 1991 only an additional 12,434 ha (vs. 19,716 ha for
1990, 36,892 ha for 1989) were divereified. A follow-up credit project was in
the pipeline for FEDERACAPE but was dropped in 1991 when Government assured
the Bank that loans for agricultural credit for diversification, granted by
the banking system, would be eligible for rediscounting by FINAGRO.
6.          Proiect Results
6.01        For purposes of this report, project achievements and project
costs cover a 7-year period from October 1984 to September 1991. Disbursement
information is up to January 31, 1993 (the final disbursement date for
withdrawal applications approved before the loan closing date of September 30,
1992). Overall, project objectives have been met, i.e., there has been an
increase in production of non-coffee crops and tLe availability of food
commodities (such as citrus, lulo, maracuYa, papaya, plantain, pineapple,
pitaya, onions, tomatoes, cocoa, platano, sugarcane, beans, corn, and dairy
and meat products). Both the marketing system and the agro-industrial
subsector have been strengthened through some 239 marketing projects and 234
agro-industrial projects.
6.02        Physical achievements of the project were well over the planned
targets, particularly so for agricultural crops, where the area planted
exceeded the 5-year project targets by 301 (78,665 has vs. SAR estimate of
60,400 has), and for the number of livestock which exceeded the plan by 1102
(132,277 heads vs. SAR estimate of 63,000 heads). Over the 7-year period
actually financed by the Bank loan, area planted reached 175,126 ha (an
increase of 1901 over SAR targets), and livestock increased to 192,230 heads
(205X over SAR targets). These excellent results were due to the fact that:
(a) demand for diversification activities under the project waa always very
strong and, in fact, grew each yearl (b) the costs of on-farm investments were
lower than expected, allowing for increased diversification without a
commensurate increase in funding; and (c) higher than planned level of
participation by farmers allowed for greater leverage from the loan resources
(Part III, Tables 4 and 5).
6.03        Atricultural Production Component.  The project was to finance
investments for on-farm development mainly in land preparation, livestock,
planting materials, fertilizers, and other current inputs to participating
producers for the production of non-coffee crops. As of September 1991, the
area under coffee has remained stable, the coffee areas in the marginal zones
(under 1,300 meters above sea level) have diminished, and most switches to
disease-resistant coffee-replanting have occurred only in the optimum zones.
In the marginal zones the decrease in coffee areas has been compensated by
plantings in cocoa and other crops, while in the optimum zone cold-weather
fruit crop areas have exceeded the targets as a result of more efficient land



7
use. There were also increases in plantain and sugarcane plantings and
forage. For food crops, as mentioned above, the larger increases were in
cocoa, beans, corn, plantain and sugarcane, basic consumption crops in coffee
zones, and milk and meat, which reduced the deficit of these items. Fruits
and vegetables grown have mostly been absorbed by expanding local markets. A
total of 31,628 subloans for agricultural production and 10,803 subloans for
livestock were provided and credit amounted to Col$ 7,774 million for
agricultural production and Col$ 6,402 million for livestock, financing an
investment of Col$ 16,540 million for agricultural production and
Col$ 10,162 million for livestock (Part III, Table 4).
6.04        Marketinft Component.  In an effort to strengthen the marketing
infrastructure and increase the volume of agricultural production marketed
through project-financed sub-projects, the project was to provide long- and
short-term credit for storage constructiont loading, weighing and packing
equipment; and working capital associated with marketing investments. Overall
an increased efficiency in transport and processing of products has been
achieved through the project. Also, the volume of exports of non-traditional
tropical fruits (such as pineapple, passionfruit, pitaya and others) has
increased from 24 tons and US$46,000 in 1984 to 2,500 tons and US$3,500,000 in
1988. Overall an increased efficiency in transport and processing of products
has been achieved. A total of 239 subloans were provided and credit amounted
to Col$ 1,786 million for this component, financing an investment of
Col$ 2,928 million (Part III, Table 4).
6.05        Agroindustries Comoonent.  The project was to finance fixed
investment needs, such as the purchase of machinery, equipment, spare parts,
and complementary services; construction of industrial facilities; civil
works; and related permanent working capital for about 31 privately owned
agroindustrial subprojects during the life of the project. Through the
project, increased production has been integrated in agroindustries, mainly
milk and byproducts, tomatoes and citrus products. A total of 234
agroindustry subloans were provided and credit amounted to Col$ 4,953 million
under this component, financing an investment of Col$ 20,638 million (Part
III, Table 4).
6.06        SuPport Service  ComPonent.  Financing under the project was
provided for: (a) training of FEDERACAPEIPRODESARROLLO's technical assistance
agents and staff and beneficiaries; (b) applied project-specific agricultural
research; (c) expansion and improvement of an agricultural marketing
information system; and (d) incremental staff costs required by
FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO. 160 training events were organized with
participation of 3,560 attendees of which 352 were PEDERACAFE technicians,
19X were technicians and 122 specialists from other institutions, and
341 beneficiaries. Through the training program the Departmental Coffee
Committees were able to identify the priority needs of their tecenical
personnel. For applied agricultural research, 404 projects were undertaken.
The marketing information system was improved, issuing to farmers monthly
bulletins on prices and market situation for a variety of crops. Incremental
staff reached 145 with a total cost of US$8.8 million. The support services
component activities led to inter-institutional agreements, especially with



state entities, coffee producer association, Agricultural Secretariats and
the Federation of Cooperatives ( IDECOP).
6.07        Project Administration.  Total grgo1¢  cost was US$260.2 million,
1032 of appraisal estimate of US$253.4 million (Part IIl, Table 5). Increased
expenditures took place for the credit component - agricultural production
(102S) and agro-industries (1312), in line with the increase in production of
non-coffee crops and the strengthening of agro-industrial activities. Loan
dsburaents. The loan was expected to be disbursed over approximately 5-3/4
years, but, in fact, disbursements took place over a period of 7-3/4 years.
As of January 31, 1993 (the finae diobursement date) the loan amount (US$50.0
million) has been fully disbursed (Part III, Table 3). The extensions of the
loan In 1990 and 1991 were at the request of the Borrowur (para. 5.07).
However, only US$1.2 million wa, disbursed from the Bank loan over the 2-year
period (September 1990 - September 1992). Such a low level of disbursements
can be attributed in part to the reorganization of PEDERACAFE in 1991, which
caused disruptions in PEDERACAFE's day to day management of the project.
Agdit Reoorting was satisfactory, usually on time and with no major
qualifications. Covenants. There was non-compliance with the Interest rate
covenant (LA Schedule 4, 2(b) (c) (d) (para. 5.06) and disbursements were
suspended for two month. until the resumption of satisfactory interest rates
(Part III, Table 8).
6.08        Pinanclal and ¢Eonomic AnalY4si. At appraisal, rates of return
for the illustrative investment models for farm development, marketing and
agro-processing subprojects ranged from 23 - 252 1. During project
implementation, these models were tested at least every six months to check on
viability of crops vis a vie current market conditions and yields. Results
indicated that the returns were consistently better than expected. A suwmary
of these returns (as done by PEDERACAPE) by major crop and livestock for years
1985, 1988, and 1989 is provided In Part III, Table 7. Rates of return on
selected agricultural production ranged from 252 to >402. For selected agro-
industrial/marketing projects, rates of return were in the range of 19S to
>40%. Such positive rates of return can generally be attributed to lower than
expected investment costs combined with higher market prices.
6.09        Project Imnact.  At appraisal, it was estimated that at full
development (year six), the project would create the equivalent of 26,700
staffyears of agricultural employment. Additional employment was also to be
created by the marketing and agroindustrial enterprises financed by the
3/    At appraisal, financial and economic rates of return were limited to
illustrative farm models, and no overall rate of return for the project
was computed because the actual mix, type and number of investments to
be financed under the project may have differed from the illustrative
investment models, to adapt to changes in relative product prices and
market conditions. Economic rates of return of the illustrative farm
investment, marketing investment and agroindustries models were similar
to the financial rates of return since for most project inputs and
outputs there were few price distortions and direct transfer payments.



9
project. PEDERACAPE setimates that about 33,000 staffyears of agricultural
employment, 2,800 staffyesrs of agroaindustry employment, and some 3,500 staff-
years of marketing employment have been provided through the project. The
diversification program has contributed to a higher and more stable rural
employment through increased agricultural production and less seasonal impact
of a coffee-only environment. It has also attracted resources in the sector
and, by intensifying production and the development of higher revenue crops,
has resulted in higher rural income.
6.10        While the diversification program has created a substantial
impetus to diversification and intensification, it must be noted that its
impact has been more In terms of diversification of the regional economy
rather than in terms of diversification of coffee farms. The appraisal report
estimated beneficiary producers were to be about 13,600, over a 5-year period.
In fact, about 30,000 producers were beneficiaries of the project, over a 7-
year period. As expected at appraisals the project has required relatively
low additional use of pesticides and other chemical., provided mostly through
PEDERACAPE s and Caja Agrarial's supply stores, and therefore no negative
impact on the environment is evident.
7.          Sustainabilitv
7.01        Diversification continues to be an important activity for coffee
growers in Colombia. As the international price for coffee continues to fall
and the domestic prices are adapting to the new reality of the coffee market,
and returns on diversified activities remain attractive, diversification
should continue. However, the level of sustainability would depend on both
technical assistance and credit being available to participating farmers and
entrepreneurs. The projected sixth Five Year Diversification Plan indicates
that, at the end of Year 5 (1994), approximately 89,300 has for agricultural
activities will be diversified and approximately 403,840 units of fisheries,
livestock, and poultry would be developed. As production from the program
expands beyond local demand levels, agro-industry Investments should be linked
more closely to crop production surpluses.
8.          Bank and Borrower Performance
8.01        Bank Performance. The on-going nature of the diversification
program with an existing group of technically qualified staff meant that
project implementation started without the usual delays from recruitment and
training of staff, and the organization of an implementation unit. There were
ten multidisciplinarian supervision missions during the seven years for
implementation of the project. The Borrower has cited positive aspects for
facilitating project implementation such as (i) continuity of staffing and
specialized technical staff for Bank missions, and (ii) flexibility of Bank
during project implementation.
8.02        Borrower Performance.  The success of this project lies in the
advance preparation of the fifth Five Year Diversification Plan with project
scope and timing articulated well in advance of project implementation.
Consequently, project preparation and appraisal were supported by well Aefined
project objectives, components, cost estimates, and an implementation plan,



10
together with Government and FEDERACAFE strong commitment to implement the
diversification plan. Project implementation went smooi.hly, a contributing
factor being the staffing of PRODESARROLLO with qualified professionals,
coupled vith leadership by 8 strong director. There wYere no problems vith
reaching and exceeding the target levels of diversification. Important
factors for successful implementation of the project were the incentives for
producers to diversify, such incentives being provision of technical
assistance, availability of credit, evidence of profitability of product lines
and hence increase in producer's income. However, the interest rate issue
(paras. 5.05 and 5.06) and FEDERACAFE's slowness to resolve it caused some
project implementation problems (para. 5.09) and resulted in a high cost to
the Coffee Tund. From the Borrower's perspective this slowness has been
explained by the high commercial interest rates in Colombia in recent years
which had been contested by the farmers, and, at the time, by thxe coffee
growers who controlled FEDERACAPE.
8.03        Lessons of the Prosect.  This project generally confirmed the
appraisal design of the key ingredients for reaching and sustaining project
objectives:
(i)  project objectives were realistic in the context of the
expected macro-economic and policy environment;
(ii) the project was thoroughly prepared and appraised
(facilitated by the ongoing program of diversification and
advance planning by the Borrower);
(iii) flexible implementation of the project;
(iv)  strong commitment to the project by the Borrower, hence
adequate local funding available;
(v)  strong support from the beneficiaries to the project,
facilitated by effective extension provision, and adequate
supply of credit (although at subsidized rates); and
(vi) competent project management (implementation by a private
institution with a record of solid performance, strong
leadership, and highly qualified technical staff).
g . O  t  At the same time, a key lesson from the project is that borrowing in    --
foreign currency to lend in local currency requires continuous supervision to
ensure that lending rates to benseficiaries are adequate to cover the cost of
funds, in view of the fluctuations in exchange rates. Under the reviewed
project, failure to react quickly to changes in the relationship between these
two variables, particularly with a policy of keeping lending interest rates
low, resulted in a high subsidy, and a substantial cost to the Coffee Fund, a
coffee stabilization fund administered by PEDERACAPE. The extent to which
this subsidized interest rate may have contributed to the large supply
response elicited under the project, which went well beyond the original
output targets, is of course difficult to establish.



11
9.    Pro1ect Relationshios
9.01 Bank/Borrower relationship was satisfactory. As indicated in para.
8.01, in the Borrower's view the continuity of staffing and flexibility of the
Bank greatly facilitated project implementation. In the view of the Bank,
project implementation went smoothly in large part due to the qualified
professionals and leadership by a strong director within PRODESARROLLO.
10.   Pro1ect Documentation and Data
10.01 The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was an essential document which was
used a great deal during project implementation by PEDERACAPE. The SAR
provided the agreed physical targets for the project, as well as the levels of
financing for each component and the phasing of project implementation which
was used to measure project implementation progress.



12
Pt L  Prjc Review fro  Borrwer's Per~etv
The Borrowe has prepared a fAl evauation coveing the
FEDERACAFE's ffth Five Year Diversification Plan 1984-1989 which is
available in LAC Files. Part It is an unedited version of the Borrower's
review of the project.



13
93E0024     July 7, 1992
Spanish     (Colombia)
LA3AG       JRT:uh
FEDERACION NACIONAL DE
CAFETEROS DE COLOMBIA
PROJECT COMPLEXIOJI REPORT
PART_I I
A.          Bgckground
1.          The Colombian National Federation of Coffee Growers has always
sought ways to help coffee producers increase their income, generate permanent
local employment for them and produce food for their families. Thus, in 1946
a first agreement was signed by the Government and FEDERACAFE with a view to
promoting the production of non-coffee crops in the coffee areas.
2.          The most significant action in this regard took place in 1963,
when Banco Cafetero, Caja Agraria, INCORA and the Corporaci6n Financiera de
Caldas, with support from the Federation, established the Coffee-Area
Development and Diversification Fund. Its provision of technical assistance
and credit for diversification activities began initially in Caldas Department
and north of Valle and Tolima.
3.          In 1970, when the Fund changed its status from a coffee-area
development and diversification program and was placed under the Federation
for administrative purposes, its coverage became national.
4.          Between 1963 and 1984 the Program carried out four five-year
diversification plans. During this period, credit financed agrarian
production on nearly 96,000 ha, the development of stockraising programs for
more than 132,500 head, and the establishment of 41 agroindustrial projects
and 46 marketing projects.
5.          These activities were financed with resources from the National
Coffee Fund allocated to the Diversification Credit Revolving Fund; a credit
granted in 1963 by IDB in the amount of US$7.0 million; resources from the
liquidation of the ICO Diversification Fund created by the 1968 agreement,
which set a mandatory annual contribution of US$0.60 per bag exported; and
lastly resources under Law 5 of 1973 (Fondo Financiero Agropequario - FFAP).
6.          In 1984, when the Fifth Five-Year Diversification Plan was
formulated, the National Coffee Fund was faced with liquidity constraints
owing partly to a fa'l in the international price of the coffee bean and
partly to stock build-up. During the 1979/80 coffee season, the bean sold for



14
an average of US$1.96 per pound, falling to US$1.49 in 1983/84. In 1980 the
quota system was restored, and Colombia was allowed to export some 8.5 million
bags per year, a level that - given the country's annual production of 12
million bags - resulted in stock build-up of 12 million bags in 1984.
Under these circumstances, diversification became important as a
means of adjusting for over-production of coffee in Colombia, using productive
resources more efficiently and raising the income of the coffee growers.
Within this context, the Fifth Plan was formulated and made
possible by World Bank cofinancing, through Loan 2453-CO for an amount of
US$50 million.
B.          The Bank's Perforraance during Proiect Execution
7.          The Bank's performance in relation to the project was generally
very positive and few problems arose. The most significant aspects can be
summarized as follows:
(a)   Positive:
*     The same official went on most project supervision missions, which
facilitated the work and established a highly efficient means of
communication between the Bank and the Federation.
*     Some project supervision missions included experts with
international reputations in agronomy, agroindustry and the
marketing of perishables.
*     Support was given to inter-institutional relations with FFAP
during project execution, including an analysis of its agro-
livestock credit policy with a view to bringing it into line with
the diversification credit policy.
e     The Bank responded in the affirmative on two occasions to requests
to amend Agreement 2453-CO to raise the disbursement percentages
for Part IA of the project, on two occasions - December 31, 1986,
from 18 to 32%, and February 5, 1988, from .32 to 45%. These
requests were made because of the differences in the projected
increase in the exchange rate, on average 16% per annum between
1985 and 1987 according to the SAR, and the actual percentage of
32.4% during the same period.
*     For the same reason as above, a request was made, with a positive
response from the Bank, to increase the funds in the Special Loan
Account with the Bank of the Republic, from US$3.0 million to
US$5.0 million on February 22, 1988.
*     Because of the design phase of the Sixth Five-Year Coffee-Growing
Diversification Plan, the internal administrative reorganization
process within the Federation, and a period during which the



15
producers assimilated the new credit interest rates, the Bank was
requested and responded in the affirmative on two occasions to
extend the closing date of the loan - initially set at October 1,
1990 - to September 30, 1991, and then from September 19, 1991 to
September 30, 1992.
The Bank supported the FAO project impact assessment, which showed
that:
(i)   the project exceeded the physical targets proposed;
(ii)   the producers identified the greatest incentives to diversify as
technical assistance, credit, productivity and profitability of
the product lines (renglones), and increase in income;
(iii) the seasonability curve for the use of manpower was eased;
(iv) marketing systems for perishables were improved and the borders
for their marketing expanded;
(v)   in general, the project had a positive social and financial impact
on the coffee areas.
(b)   Negative:
a     Reduction in the number of supervision missions.
*     Insufficient feedback on the periodic sending of reports and data
furnished to the supervision missions.
O     Few supervision missions made field visits to observe, Inter 2lla,
progress with planned on-farm improvements, the opinion of
producers and administration of the project at the practical level.
*     In general, project supervision focused on financial aspects;
greater assessment and assistance in technical and administrative
matters, namely a comprehensive evaluation, would have been
helpful.
*     However, the Bank decided unilaterally on the manner in which
disbursements were to be made, which in the second half of 1989
slowed down the project because of a shortage of funds. Until
repayment request No. 37 of August 1539 was made, credit
disbursements did not run into any major problems.
o     The Bank's radical position, counter to that taken by the coffee
growers' guild, in relation to the interest rates on subloans,
which in reaching percentages that the Bank considered adequate,
caused a contraction of demand for diversification credit.



16
o     It had been hoped that the experience gained by  he Bank in
projects of this type would have generated models that could have
been applied to this project, but in this regard no major
assistance was received.
C.          Performance of the Federation
8.          The results under the Fifth Coffee-Growing Diversification Plan
clearly shot that the performance of the Federation with regard to the project
was highly satisfactory.
9.          On the basis of the experience gaiued in the four previous five-
year plans, the Federation strengthened the support services directed towards
coffee-growing diversification: technical assistance, credit, research,
training and price information, markets, production costs and rates of return.
10.         Producer income was increased significantly, through the use of
nonproductive areas of the coffee plantations.
The project also made it possible to improve the financial
position of farmers by offering them alternatives so that they could replace
investments in crops that have to be planted twice a year (cultivos
semestrales) with longer-term crops.
11.         It organized and associated with the project a team of experts,
both private and on its own payroll, with various specializations, to assist
the Central Office and the departmental coffee grower committees, wiLh a view
to providing all necessary support in technical, administrative and financial
matters to the agro-livestock production units, agroindustry and marketing
companies.
12.         The project researched, introduced and provided training in state-
of-the-art technology that made it possible to reduce costs, boost productivity
and, therefore, increase the rates of return on agro-livestock assets.
13.         It researched and trained producers in pre-harvest, harvest and
post-harvest treatments, with a view to satisfying the requirements of
internal and external markets.
14.         The project promoted the production of agrarian goods oriented
towards external markets. The process began with modest volumes, but has
served as a basis for subsequent development of this export alternative for
the country.
15.         In general, it supported a strengthening of marketing
infrastructure for agro-livestock production.
16.         The project fostered the establishment of producer associations
for the development of agricultural projects with major regional impacts
involving agroindustrial integration and the generation of new jobs.



17
17.         The efficient management of financial resources supplementary to
the financing allocated to the various lines of agro-livestock production by
FFAP made it possible to provide sufficient financing to carry out the Plan and
even finance product lines on oc.asions when FFAP funds had been exhausted.
18.         The negative aspects of project execution included uneven
development at the departmental level, primarily because the departments with
greatest coffee production have larger budgets, which enables them to allocate
more funds to diversification.
19.         A very wide range of product lines w-s promoted, although
initially somewhat too dispersed, causing fragmentation of efforts; the
project successfully encouraged crops concentrated by region, which led to
more efficient utilization of available resources.
D.          Effectiveness of the Relationshin between the Bank and the
Federation during P=oject Imnlementation
20.         The decisions indicated above taken by the Bank on the basis of
repayment request No. 37 and its position vis-&-vis interest rates on subloans
were not all-important, and the relationship between the Bank and Federation
was in general satisfactory and had a very positive effect on the final
results of the project.
The Federation complied with Bank requests in due course and
worked with it to demonstrate to other institutions, and even countries, how a
project of this type should be carried out.



18
Part III
Table 1
Page I of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOI4II
ACGICULTRAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LgA 2453-CO2)
Related Bank Loans a/
Soear of
Loan Title           Purpose        Approval   Status   Ceoments
Second Atlantico     Irrigation        1972     Closed  At closing, the project
Developmeut                                               internal rate of return was
(Loan 849-CO)                                            minus five.
The conclusion was that the
project could have been
implemented as a flood control
project instead of a sprinkler
irrigation project.
Caqueta Rural        Rural Dev.        1975     Closed  Works execution was adequate
settlement 11                                            but very slow due to the
Project                                                   permanent INCORA liquidity
(Loan 1118-CO)                                           probl.ms.
More counterpart funds were
needed due to delays in
execution and high inflation
rates.
Cordoba 2            Rural Dev.        1975      Closed  Land use did not change and
Agricultural                                              extensive livestock production
Development Project                                       continued in spite of the fact
(Loan 1163-CO)                                            that improvements were
introduced by the project.
INCORA had a precarious
financial situation.
Lack of counterpart funds and
experienced technical staff.
'l Agricultural loans before the Diversification Project.



19
Table 1
Page 2 of 3
Year of
Loan Title           Purpose         Approval    Status  Coements
Integrated Rural     Rural Dev.        1976      Closed   Project execution was
Development Project                                        extremely complex with 12
(Loan 1352-CO)                                            national executing aSencies
but results were positive
since farmers increased their
inacomes.
Bank disbursement process and
Bank funds delivery to the
executing agencies were
exceedingly slow due to
complex administrative
procedures.
Second Agricultural Agricultural       1976      Closed   The ?PAP credit system was
Credit Project       Credit                                inadequate for small farmers'
(Loan 1357-CO)                                            needs.
Lack of counterpart funds
especially reserved for small
farmers.
Third Agricultural  Agricultural       1979       Closed   The Government budget policy
Credit Project       Credit                                limited the bridge financing
(Loan 1737-CO)                                            responsibility of the
executing agency.
Administrative and technical
problems due to INCORA
weakness.
trr±gation           Irrigation        1981       Closed   Inadequate O&1 cost
Rehabilitation I                                           recuperation in the irrigation
(Loan 1996-CO)                                            districts.
The rehabilitated districts
did not achieve their
administrative independence
nor did they organize their
own irrigation associations.
Accounting procedures at
NI MT's headquarters did not
improve.



20
Part TIII
Table I
Page 3 of 3
Year of
Loan Title           Purpose        Approval    Status  Comments
upper Ms6dalena      Watershed        1981       Closed . INDERENA, the executing
Pilot Watershed      Protection                           agency, had oerious
(Loan 2069-CO)                                           administrative problems, weak
management and lack of
counterpart funds.
Integrated Rural'    Rural            1982       Closed  Project implementation
Development Project  Development                          encountered a lot of
Phase II                                                  difficulties, but most of the
(Loan 2174-CO)                                           physical targets were met.
Standard of living in the
rural areas has Improved.



21
Part III
Table 2
Pafe 1 of 5
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN 2453-CO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Timetable
Date               Date               Date
Item                    Planned            Revised            Actual
Identification                                                        1982,1983
Preparation IAO/CP                                                    1983
Appraisal                                                              1011983
Loan Negotiation.                                                     05/1984
Board Approval                                                        06/27/84
Loan Signature                                                        09/21/84
Loan Effectiveness              12120/84                              03/20/85
Loan Closing                    09/30/90           9/30/91            09/30/92
Project Completion                                                    03/31/93
mbanez projeettime                                                        07-Jan-93



22.
PART IrX
Table 2
Page 2 of S
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CO$OIA
ACRICULTURL DRVERSIFICATION PROJE-CT
(LOAN 24S3-COI
Issues Raised at Each Stace of Proiect Cygle
Identification
1.   FEDERACAFE, the  intended borrower, cannot assume the foreign
exchange risk. This, as well as the question of the loan guarantee
(FEDERACAPE is a private organization), would be reviewed by
FEDRACAFE with Government.
2.   Federacafe, although a non-revenue earning organization, acquires
equity in some ventures it promotes with resources from the National
Coffee Fund. Policies and procedures regarding these activities and
how these would be incorporated in the proposed project need to be
reviewed.
3.    What crops to diversify and who shall bear the cost of training and
extension services, since activities are carried out by public
sector Institutions.
4.   The project components and absessment of credit demand need to be
worked out to justify incentives for coffee diversification and the
large scale marketing and agro-industries programs envisaged.
5.    Coordination with other Government development institutions i.e. DRI
needs to be strengthened to avoid duplication efforts and to ensure
consistency of marketing and price policies.
6.    Detailed  arrangements  for  channelling  of  projects  funds,
responsibility for the World Bank loan and foreign exchange risk
have still to be worked out by FEDERACAPS with Government. The
accounts of FEDERACAFE and the National Coffee Fund are not made
public and are reportedly known only to the Minister of Finance and
Federacafe s general manager.



23
PART I I 
Table 2
Page 3 of 5
7.    The  financial  and economic  returns of  alternative crops  and
livestock as compared to coffee will have to be detailed during
preparation.
Prolnaratiga
1.    It is not clear if the Borrower would be FEDERACAFE or PRODESARROLLO
or if the National Coffee Fund would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The GN of PRODESARROLLO informed the mission that this issue will be
decided with the Government before the appraisal mission visits the
country .
2.    Incentives to encourage farmers to eradicate coffee, reduce coffee
yields by lowering the plant population per hectare; plant shading
crops (plantain, citrus, cacao); and increase cropping intensity, as
well  as  provision  of  subsidized  agrochemicals  and  technical
assistance will have to be reviewed at the time of appraisal.
3.    The method of distributing funds to the Departmental Committees of
FEDERACAFE will also have to be modified. Currently, the share of
the Budget to each Committee for improving its region is determined
by the relevant Department's share in coffee production. Obviously,
it is not in the interest of a Committee to give its full
cooperation to a program such as coffee eradication which would
decrease production and thus its budget.
4.    Interest rates currently charged for agroindustries and forestry
under the Diversification Progam of FEDERACAFE (18% and lS5
respectively) would have to be changed to agree with general Bank
policies.
PRE-APPRAISAL STAGEs
1.    The borrower has not been defined. FEDERACAPE, executing agency has
indicated that it could not assume the foreign exchange risk.
2.    Degree of disclosure and review by the Bank of financial statements
of FEDERACAFE and the National Coffee Fund.
3.    Project scope and coffee policy implications (diversification on
available lands on the coffee growing areas versus replacement of
coffee for other crops); to raise-incentives for diversification by
providing additional marketing and processing infrastructure for
non-coffee production.



24
Table 2
Page 4 of S
4.   Policies and procedures regarding equity investments made by
FEDERACAFn in some marketing and proceseing facilities
5.    On the coffee issue, the Bank'a position neuds to be defined i.e. on
how far can the Bank influence Colombia's coffee policy in
connection with the proposed operation, the extent of financial
disc2losure required from NCF and the degree of confidentiality to be
accorded by the Bank to the financial statement of NCF.
APPRAXSAL
1.    Since PEDERACAFE is eligible to be the borrower for the additional
funds needed beyond the available local resources and GCM
guaranteeing the loan, an agreement between FEDERACAPE and the
Government of Colombia on the matter of foreign exchange risk should
be reconfirmed.
2.   To identify the beneficiaries and their income level, how sub-
lending should be differentiated among categories of beneficiaries
to reflect their different income generating capacity, thereby
avoiding substitution of farmer's own resources for diversification
by loan funds.
4.    Interest rates in the diversification program are slightly above the
actual and expected inflation rates and positive in terms of
covering the lending institutions financial cost, but they compare
unfavorably with commercial rates of about 30%.
4.   Extension services and technical assistance will have to be
substantially expanded under the larger lending program and
additional staff will have to be recruited or transferred from
FNDZRACAFE's own technical services to PRODESARROLO or suitable
arrangements be made for provision of staff according to the needs
of the project in subsequent years.
Supervisions
1.   Records at the Center were not up-to-date due to delays in consolidating
regional data which brought the project behind schedule.
2.   Areas showing slow farmer response to diversification should receive
improved technical assistance coverage.  Development of adequate marketing
channels will be needed in areas of greatest diversification.



2S
Part III
Table 2
Page 5 of 5
3.   Disbursements were low due to the devaluation of the peso and the problems
the Borrower was experiencing with the Bank disburuement procedures.
4.   More higher level staff needed to continue broadening the base of
participating farmersa to identify more marketing channels and agroindustries;
and to expand the research and training programs for farmers and businessmen.
5.   Lending for diversification is still granted at heavlly subsidized interest
rates (20%) particularly for agricultural and livestock production.
6.   There are long delays in receiving reimbursements from the Bank to the
special account due mainly to improper documentatLon by FEDERACAFE.



26
Part ItI
Table 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN 2453-CO
PROJECT COMETIOI REPORT
CUM2LATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAIL LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   Fn89
(06130/85)
-------------------------------------------------------------_
Appraisal Estimte    5.C   14.5   25.0    35.0    42.5
Actual                 3.0    8.8   16.7    31.3    40.8
Actual as 2 of          602    612    672       892      962
Estimate
FY90    FY91   FY92    TY93
Appraisal Estimat    47.0   50.0    -         -
Actual                44.5   44.5   45.7    50.0
Actual as X of          952     891   912    100%
Estimate
banez :disbursements
17-Mar-93



27
Part III
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
COLOBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2453-CO)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
KEY INDICATORS
I                                        I          SAR    |              |    Actual|
|                                        I       Estimate        Actual        as 2 of
I                                        I         (1983)   I  as of 9/91 I   Expected
1I. Agricultural Credit Component        |                 |              |             |
A. Beneficiaries (No.)               |           13,600 |      30,000 |         22121
B. Crops                                                                            I
1. Loan Approved (No.)            j         n.a.            31,628 |          -
2. Investment Value (Col $m)      j          18,754 I       16,540 I          8821
0     3. PinFaced                        I                 I              I 
- Beneficiaries ( 2)                           20 |           53           26521
- Credit (2)                                   801            47j           592J
1
C. Livestock                                                                        I I  I
I     1. Loan Approved (No.)                       n.a.            10,803 |             I
2. Investment Value (Col $m)      |          12,696 |       10,162 |          8021
3. Flnanced                       |                  I              I            I
- Beneficiaries (2)             |              20 |           37 |         18521
- Credit                                       s 80o          631           7921
III. Marketing Credit Component                                                         I
1. Loans Approved (No.)           |             172 1          239 |         13921
2. Investment Value (Col $m)                  2,153 |        2,928 I         13621
3. Financed                       II                                             I
- Beneficiaries (2)            1              15 |           39           26021
|        - Credit (No.)                  1              85 |           61 I          7221
I                                        I                 I              I             I
1111. Agroindustrial Credit Component    I
1. Loans approved for ew Ps (No.)I               34 1          234 |         68821
2. Investment Value (Cal $m)                  5 5,819 I     20,638           355ZI
|     3. Financed                        II                                             I
- Beneficiaries                I              40 I           76 j         19021
- Credit (2)                   I              60             241           4021
-____



28
Part III
Table 4
Paso 2 of 2
SAR      j   Actual t      Actual
I                                          I      .gticato   I aof 9/91         ee 8
I                                          I      (1983)        ? 7-Year    f    of    I
|                                          I 5-Year Target I Achievementol Ebpected
I                    I                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~                                     ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~~~ I    I    I
nIV. Pr iuction and Yield Coefficients
1. Area planted In crops (ha)       I        60,400  I    175,126  I        29021
I        of uhich                                                                      I
2Plantain (ha)                                     14,000        15,582  I        1112
Cocoa (ha)                      I         4,000  j       7*003           1752
ruito (ha)                      1        20,400  I      19,207  I         9421
Sugar caon  (ha)                j         4,000  I       6,585          1652j
Cornseafts (ha)                          12,600  3      33,661  1       26721
2. Uivestock unit. financed                                         II
Poultry ('000 heads)            j         1,180          9,123  1       77321
|Ap1cu3.ture (hives)            j        20,000  |      30,889           19421
Cattle (heads)                           63,000  1    192,230  1        30521
Pigs (heads)                              3,060  1    146,437  1       478621
3. Indicative Yield. a/ (tonJha)    II                              I            I
Citrus                                     25.0  1       30.0  1         12021
Cocoa                                       0.8  1         1.2  I        1502
Plantal-Iaterplanted                        9.0             -             -  I
- Alone                 j          15.0  I        15.0  I       10011
Pineapple                                  70.0  j       80.0  1         11421
Corn                            j           3.0           3.0  1         10021
Dry leans                       |           1.1            1.2  |        10921
I         Tomato                           I          26.0  I       25.0  j         9621
aI Year of full development



29
Parn ttt
COLMTA ~    ~       ~       ~       ._._
UlmlCILSWuRL DZlDiSrnCAlCII hYYIJ
AI=  243-O0
project Cost*
.............
(08$lullau)
Apprdawl                                        Actual so
Ite.                                          Ibitteto                 Actual                o Apraial
1983                 1924-1901
X.  Credit COUSat
* erhtOural predutiem                                   17.7                    190.9                     102
i Krttg                                                  12.6                     9.6                      742
-   _i  it?*r6                                           24.0                    47.1                     1812
Sub-totl                     24.                     *47.4                     1052
ti. support Sewis.
- traimig                                                 a2.4                    2.4                     1002
* Applid  rrs b                                           2.3                     1.2                      40s
. 8zting Iafoztis  *"Ve"                                  0.4                     0.2                       32
- Zuoramautal ett  oats                                   8.6                     6.6                     10o
Sub-total                     14.1                    12.4                      692
MIt. Coatiuciss a/
- Iyst.al                                                1.4
PC"                                                      1.6
- Price                                                   1.4
IV. total Project Coat                                       253.4                  260.20                      1022
,.__.. ...... _.. ,_ 
of on support zsem.. =I1.
u ssp.jo.t                                                                                                          l ar4



30
ll rt ItT
Tablo 6
COLlIA
LOZICLTURAL DIESSFtICATtO  PRCT
4U* 2453-CO
PUiJWCT COMPLET=ON REPOIT
Project liauciug
1984.91
uso
PEDERACAPI
eeficiarise              "AP              nT          PRODESARROMO            Back             Total
...----            ---------    ------------   ................ __.______ ______ _._....... ____......... ---------------________
SUR      Actual   SU*       Actual  SU      Actual    U       Actual   SAR       Actal   SU*         Actual
___ _ , _ .~~......  ..... _ _ _ ......   ...          ------             -----   _____ ------__
I. Credit Comp_ent.
*Agrculturel productio            31.5    81.1    90.1       27.5                     33.1       48.S    27.0       33.$   167.7      190.9
Marketing                          1.9      2.6                                                           10.7       7.0     12.6       9.6
Agrondustries                     14.4    34.1                       6.5        -      2.9        8.2     12.2       4.6     36.0      47.1
w____ ______.          .....   ---    ....._____. ......  ..... _   .... __ -----     ......    -----
Sub-total               53.8   117.8    90.1       27.$   6.5        -      36.0      36.7     49.9       43.6   236.3    247.6
It. Support S rvica a*
Train_                                               .  -                      .        2.9       2.4      -         -        2.9       2.4
APplied Dasoarcb                   *        -        -        -       -        -        3.0       1.2      -         *        3.0       1.2
Marketing   oMtiou service         -        -        *         -       -       -        0.8       0.2      -         -        0.8       0.2
Iucremetsl staff coats             -        -        -        -       -       -        10.4      8.8       *         -       10.4       6.8
____ __ .....  .   -----   -----    -----    -----  -----      -----   -----     -----     -----     -----
Sub-total                -        -        -        -       -       -       17.1      12.6      -                  17.1      12.6
Total Project Cost          53.8    117.8    90.1    27.5   6.5         0.0    53.1        69.3    49.9       45.6   253.4    260.2
T.lU.ront-end fee oan BDk Loan                                                                                 0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
Totwl cinac     Reuird            53.8    117.8    90.1    27.5   6.5          0.0    53.1       69.3    50.0       45.7   233.5    260.3
a/ an fiures iclude physical and prics coutingencoes.
absuessprojectfluencing                                                                                                                  12-Jan-93



31
Part tI!
Table 7
CCLOHISA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIPICATION PROJECT
LOMA 2453-CO
PROJECT CO MPLTION REPORT
Economic Rates of Return on Selected Agricultural Production
Activity          1985          1988          1989
_________      __________                  ------ --e
Avocado               24O            42           Ss
Oranges                17           40           44
Lulo                  >40          >40           140
mango                  40            44           41
Mor&                   23          >40            41
Papaya                >40           *40          a40
Pieapple              >40           40           %4O
Cacao                  43          >40           >40
Sugar Cane             21            16           27
Plantain               23          >40           >40
Milk Production        36            42           42
milkImeat              14            29           31
Eggs                   13            39            0
Chicken               >40           28            32
Pork                   12           31            25
Selected Agro-Industriallarketing Projects
----------- fm -----------------------------
La Vega                                           26
Vedescol                                          19
Fruit Concentrate                                >40
Cooperative in Nerino                            D40
Collection Center in Vaeil                       >40
Source: FEDIRACAP  "Bases tecuologices costosa  ingresos do actividades
______             agropocuariaw do diversificacion" 1989.
(This document, wbich details crop models, is available In LAC
FimS).
mbanez : econrate
12-Jan-93



PAR IX
Table 8
32                                    Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
LOAN 2453-CO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN CONDITIONS
Appraisal
Loan                Report
Agreement         Refer-ence              Description of Condition               Present Status
LA 3.04(a)        3.16,              FEDERACAPE/PRODESARROLLO would, not            Fulfilled
7.02(b)           later than December 31, 1984, employ
a training officer to be in charge
of training activities.
LA 2.02(b),       3.29,              Establishment of a Special Account             Fulfilled
7.01(c) and       7.03(a)            (US $3 million) in Banco de la
Schedule 5.                          Republica.
LA 3.01(d)        3.30,              Establishment of Project Account in            Fulfilled
-<d 7.01(d)       7.03(a)            Banco Cafetero by Borrower with a
deposit of US $1 million equivalent.
LA 3.01(b),       4.08               Subsidiary agreements, satisfactory            Fulfilled
(c), 7.01(a),                        to the Bank, have been established
(b)                                  with Banco Cafetero and Caja Agraria.
LA 3.06           4.07               FEDERACAPE/PRODESARR0LLO would, not            Fulfilled
7.02(g)           later than October 1, 1984, revise
its Credit Manual to conform it to
the lending and operating policies
and procedures set forth Ln Schedule
4.
LA 3.01(a)        3.21,              FEDERACAFE/PRODESARROLLO to provide            Fulfilled
and Supple-       7.02(d)            the staff required to implement the
mentary                              project.
Letter
3.27,             Procurement procedures as outlined             Not applicable
3.28,             would be followed.
7.02(f)
LA 3.03(b)        4.14,              FEDERACAFrE/PRODESARROLLO would furnish        Fulfilled
7.02(j)           to the Bank semi-annual project
progress reports not later than three
months after the end of each semester
ending on March 31 and September 30
of each year.



Table 8
33                                   Page 2 of 3
Appraisal
wan                Rort
"moment          RDfeconc                 Description of Condition              Present Status
La 3.03           4.14,              PEDERACAPE/PRODESARROLLO would prepare         Fulfilled
(c)               7.02(j)            and furnish to the Bank, not later
than six months after closing
date, a project completion report.
LA 3.03(b)        3.16,              FEDERACAPE/PRODESARROLLO would furnish         Fulfilled
7.02(b)           to the Bank, not later than December 31
of each year, a training program to be
carried out the next calendar year.
LA 3.05           3.18,              FEDERACAFE/PRODESAROLLO would, not later    Fulfilled
7.02(c)           than December 31, 1984, prepare and
furnish to the Bank, a plan for the
carrying out of research activities
under the project.
LA 3.07(a)        4.15,              Borrower to prepare at Bank request, a         Fulfilled
(b)               7.02(j)            study in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank,
analyzing the profitability of coffee
production in relation to non-coffee
commodities and submit a plan of
action to increase demand for credit
under the project if it has been
adversely affected by such relative
profitabilities.
LA 4.02           3.26,              All payments made by benefiLiaries             Fulfilled
7.02(e)           under subloan contracts which are not
used by Borrower to make payments to
the Bank shall be utilized to fund
further agricultural diversification
activities.
LA 5.02           4.13,              The Borrower shall have its accounts           Fulfilled
7.02(i)           and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited and sent to the
Bank not later than six months after
the end of such year.
5.03              4.13               The Borrower shall have the Special            Fulfilled
7.02(i)           Account and the Project Account for
each fiscal year audited and sent to
the Bank, together with monthly
certified statements of such accounts,
not later than six months after the
end of such year.
Schedule       3.12, 4.06,        The Bank shall make no payment for             Fulfilled
3(b)           4.07,              expenditures for a marketing or
7.02(a)           agroindustrial subproject estimated
to cost the equivalent of US $500,000
or more, unless such subproject has been approved by the
Bank.



34                                   , Sable 8
Page 3 of 3
Appraisal
'an               Report
ae,emanz          Re£rence                Descrintion of-Condition             Present Status
LA                4.101              Subloan processing, terms and                 Fulfilled
Schedule 4        7.02(h)           conditions will follow the procedures
and policies outlined.
LA Schedule       4.10,              The Borrower will, not later than             Fulfilled
4, 2(b),          7.02(h)           January 1 and July 1 of each year,
(c), Cd)                            starting in January 1, 1985, submit
a proposal for the interest rates
to be applied to subloans during
the following calendar semester.



35
Part III
Table 9
CO1GEIIA                                        Page 1 of 2
UIACULTUR*L DIVRSIFIC&TION POJCT
IOAR 2453-CO
P130CT CO!PLITIO RIZPORT
USE or amI  SURCES
A. STAiN IhPUTS
(STAIPYIZS)
Ptoject Cycle        Plaaad       Actul       Comeoto
Through Appraisal                      28.4
Appralsal thrugh                       55.7
Bard Approval
Boad Apptroal                           4.2
Through Iffect±veaess
Suprvl*ion                             67.4
Total                  155.7
*baunosztafflupto
12-Jaa-93



36
Part ZUt
Table 9
£SICBlLTURAL DtUhvsnblCUl  nomCi
(LAU 2453-.0)
PEOJECT ca@umo SEPCIT
U.   K Hsstos
..__._,_..... __________.____..............................................__... ...__.____-_.__........ ....................... . -..- . .......-.----.-.---*.
STAC  0  P%OC?           NORTS/          t Of   DAYS m T8M   S             20 W.C S?boV       PuIJMC                  oP2 OF
CCtc     s      TM         PmoBs    D        z              UPISUIm  It            SAS118  SIAT  21  'CU(S St
__ .____ .................................. . _____..... . ...  ...... __._______._ . ................................... _._ ...........________ .._
dentlificatiof (Bank)      itiGI        5             a
1218:       8              a        a
lreparattoa (PAO)          21$3         S            1t         a.b,o
6183        4             14        b.e.b
(lak)         61S3         2             U4        a
8/8S        2             11        a
&ppralaa4                  10183        3            Ii            e.sf
21:4        *             to        c.S
Supervision
Supervision 1              9184         1            14        e                                    1                O
SuporvWaou 2               6/8f         S             7        c.s                                  1            0o  A, UK
Suporviat   3              Iias         2            26        eI8                                  1                0
Sup.crat  4                3187         1            10        g                                    I                t
Supervsion 5                1117        2            17         *. b                                I
supe.iwoc 6                10188        I             S        a                                    1 
Supervision 7              s189         1            1i        g                                    1                r
Supvtatao8 a               9189         1             4        8                                    1                t
Suprvtuon 9                1190         1             9        *                                    I                T
Suvervteto 10              3191         1             5        R                                    2                1
it a-agr?0ltur1ste  b.uaketlug specialsts c-eecoutats d.projact analyslt eaona.ult"I- fyotun  profeeelonl, g.flascnw
alyet; bhsareuouat.
21 I-problen fra.a Z-ud.rato problana  3-carlsu problom.
31 1-llaauotli 1(-Kaagocut; TAPleuical Maeataua. ?ftoeuaments 0-Other, ouc  as dalay  In proaseXlg utthdraval
applicationa and eubmiesson of audit report poor project propre  reportSs  VK- Varkoatsi.
21-Oct-SI



