                                Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/11/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: ETHIOPIA                                               Project ID: P074014
Project: FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT                        Task Team Leader: Gaiv M. Tata
OPERATION
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 22, 2003                   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: February 10, 2004                                IDA Amount ($m):
                                                                      IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE: 120

Managing Unit: AFTPS                                            Sector: General public administration sector (50%);
Lending Instrument: Poverty Reduction Support Credit            General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (25%);
(PRC)                                                           General industry and trade sector (20%); Banking
Status: Lending                                                 (5%)
                                                                Theme: Decentralization (P); Other financial and
                                                                private sector development (P); State enterprise/bank
                                                                restructuring and privatization (S); Rural markets
                                                                (S); Other human development (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The objective of the First Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSC I) will be to support the
implementation of the SDPRP by: (i) strengthening the focus on planning and budgeting processes
including through the provision of a framework within which interested budget support donors can
participate; (ii) stabilizing the public sector during a period of rapid state transformation in order to
maintain pro-poor expenditures; and (iii) improving the investment climate (including for the rural sector).

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
PRSC-I is expected to be an IDA grant in the amount of US$120 million to the Federal Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia. As indicated in the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to
the Board in April 2003, the proposed Grant, as the first in a series of PRSCs, is the Bank's principal
instrument to assist the Government of Ethiopia in implementing its SDPRP. It is envisaged that there will
be at least two further single-tranche PRSCs in FY05/FY06. The proposed PRSC 1 for Ethiopia supports
reforms geared towards the achievement of poverty reduction outcomes as defined in the SDPRP. Three
areas of intensive engagement underpin PRSC I. First, the cross-cutting issues of public sector reform and
decentralization (including measures to improve financial management in line with the recommendations of
the CFAA and measures to improve procurement in line with the recommendations of the CPAR) are a
primary area of focus. Second, the strengthening of PRSP implementation processes - in particular the
timeliness of the planning and budgeting processes providing greater predictability of resource flows to
local governments which deliver primary services ­ will be supported by the operation. Third, the
investment climate in urban and rural areas (i.e. private sector development, financial sector and rural
development) is an area of focus that will commence in PRSC 1 and continuing more intensively during
PRSC 2.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

                                                        2
                                                                                                       ISDS




B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments:


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes      No   TBD
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes      No   TBD
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  Yes      No   TBD
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    Yes      No   TBD
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes      No   TBD
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                 Yes      No   TBD
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        Yes      No   TBD
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            Yes      No   TBD
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes      No   TBD
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes      No   TBD



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The objectives of PRSC-I are to support the implementation of the SDPRP by: strengthening the
focus on planning and budgeting processes including through the provision of a framework within
which interested budget support donors can participate; stabilizing the public sector during a
period of rapid state transformation in order to maintain pro-poor expenditures; and improving
the investment climate (including for the rural sector). In the context of the preparation of the
First Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-I), the Government has identified its approach to
assessment of the social and environmental impact of the support provided under that credit and
for future PRSCs. There are existing weaknesses in environmental management in Ethiopia.
Specifically, the weaknesses are in: (a) the integration of environmental considerations into the
implementation of macro and sector policies and strategies, including the PRSP implementation
process, sector programs, and the application of environmental assessments; (b) incentives for and
accountability of policy makers and other actors in the public and private sectors for
environmental performance and outcomes, in spite of clear commitments to environmental
protection in the constitution, public statements, and a number of policy documents; (c)
implementation of environmental policies and the supporting institutional framework, especially at
the district/woreda and lower administrative levels; and (d) the availability and quality of
environmental information and policy analysis to inform decision making, build public awareness,
and strengthen accountability for environmental outcomes and performance.

                                                       3
                                                                                                          ISDS


II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.


II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.


II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)


II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Given that the objective of the PRSCs is to support the Government's program, the
Environmental Assessment would need to analyze and make recommendations on measures to
strengthen the overall institutional framework as well as on the capacity building needs of key
organizations within the Government. The Government has, in fact, commenced such work in the
context of a Country Environmental Analysis (CEA). The CEA has been undertaken in the
context of the SDPRP implementation, donor coordination and the increasing role of budget
support, deepening decentralization, and new environmental legislation at the federal level. It was
launched in April 2003 by the Ethiopian Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) in close
collaboration with the World Bank and DFID. The objectives of the study are to take a
systematic look at Ethiopia's institutional capacity for sustainable environmental management at
the federal, regional, woreda, kebele and community levels. The first two phases of the study have
been completed including (i) literature review; (ii) field research covering all regions, about 25
woredas, 15 kebeles, and several communities; and (iii) discussions with a broad range of
stakeholders. The third phase will focus on a synthesis and preparation of the report, which is
scheduled to be completed by December 2003. The recommendations of the CEA are expected
to focus upon: (a) "Mainstreaming" environment into development policies and sector programs
by enhancing horizontal links between relevant environmental and sector agencies/focal
points/desks at the various administrative levels. At the federal level, recommendations are
expected to focus on the priority to be given to the implementation of new environmental
legislation to establish environmental capacity and units in key agencies under the coordination of
the EPA; enhancing the role of the recently re-established Environmental Protection Council in
strengthening policy co-ordination; and improving the environmental assessment framework; (b)
Establishing incentives and conditions for enhanced environmental governance and
accountability through improved environmental information management (including the
improvement of environmental data quality, use of environmental indicators to support decision
making, and public awareness building), and the roles of public, private and non-governmental
sectors; and (c) focusing on decentralized support for environmental management by
strengthening vertical links between the various levels, and enhancing the capacity of woredas and
kebeles for environmental management. The Government will review the recommendations of the
CEA, identify key actions based on its recommendations and thereafter implement its findings.
The policy related aspects will be implemented in the context of PRSC-I or its successor credits,
as applicable.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

                                                      4
                                                                                                           ISDS




E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                             Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                      Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                                Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. No separate
environmental assessment is expected since the Country Environmental Analysis is under preparation and,
upon completion, the Government will review its recommendations, identify key actions based on
its recommendations and thereafter implement its findings.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                                  Date
Task Team Leader:                     Gaiv M. Tata                                          12/10/03

                                               5
                                                               ISDS


Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                      Name               Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye    12/10/03
Sector Manager/Director           Demba Ba           12/10/03

