                                     Initial Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                     Report No: AB549

Project Name                       ETHIOPIA - FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION
Region                             Africa Regional Office
Sector                             General public administration sector (50%); General agriculture, fishing and
                                   forestry sector (25%); General industry and trade sector (20%); Banking (5%)
Theme                              Decentralization (P); Other financial and private sector development (P); State
                                   enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Rural markets (S); Other
                                   human development (S)
Project                            P074014
Borrower(s)                        FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency(ies)           MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
                                   Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
                                   Address: P.O. Box 1905, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
                                   Contact Person: Ato Mekonnen Manyazewal
                                   Tel: 251 1 550107          Fax:         Email:
Environment Category               B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                  December 11, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date                October 22, 2003
Bank Approval Date                 February 10, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
Ethiopia remains one of the poorest countries in the world despite a decade of rapid economic growth. Its
poverty results from a number of structural factors including geographical isolation, extreme vulnerability
to weather shocks, health hazards (HIV/AIDS, malaria, and TB) and lack of infrastructure, rapid
population growth, and extreme environmental degradation. These factors have combined to lock
substantial parts of the population in a poverty trap. In order to identify a feasible combination of policies,
institutions and investments needed to escape from this trap, the Government prepared Ethiopia's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper - the Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program (SDPRP).

The SDPRP's goals, objectives and strategies were set in the context of a decade of progress in economic
performance and poverty reduction. Improved economic performance has translated into some poverty
reduction, especially during the first half of the 1990s, but less so during the latter part. At a 44% national
poverty rate or about 28 million Ethiopians below the poverty line in 2000, poverty remains extremely high
in Ethiopia. The challenge of poverty reduction is that, if the population growth rate remains at 2.9% per
annum, Ethiopia will need to grow annually by 4­5% just to prevent increases in the absolute number of
poor people.

The SDPRP is serving as the main instrument for coordinating international support around a locally
owned agenda, and for harmonizing support in ways to reduce transaction costs. Within this harmonized
approach, the policy dialogue covers a broad set of areas at different stages of policy formulation and
implementation (including governance and capacity building; rural development, vulnerability and food
security; private sector development; and human development). One year into the implementation of the
SDPRP, much of its vision has been developed into policies and programs which are under implementation.

                                                        2
                                                                                                            PID


2. Objectives
The objective of PRSC I will be to support the implementation of the SDPRP by: (i) strengthening the
focus on planning and budgeting processes including through the provision of a framework within which
interested budget support donors can participate; (ii) stabilizing the public sector during a period of rapid
state transformation in order to maintain pro-poor expenditures; and (iii) improving the investment climate
(including for the rural sector).


3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The case for multi-sectoral programmatic support to Ethiopia's SDPRP can be made on four fronts. First
the PRSP process is sound with a strategy that is appropriate, both in terms of growth and absorptive
capacity, backed by strong country-ownership with broad participation by civil society and the private
sector, and a credible implementation process. Second, the budget process is credible. Third, although
decentralization has placed strains on the fiduciary management system, fiduciary performance is
acceptable and weaknesses have been identified with measures to address them. Fourth, direct budget
support from other donors, in large part leveraged by the PRSC preparation process, will reduce
transaction costs by accelerating donor harmonization around the PRSP process.


4. Description
The first single-tranche Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSC 1) is expected to be an IDA grant in
the amount of US$120 million to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. As indicated in the World
Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in April 2003, the proposed Grant, as the
first in a series of PRSCs, is the Bank's principal instrument to assist the Government of Ethiopia in
implementing its SDPRP. It is envisaged that there will be at least two further single-tranche PRSCs in
FY05/FY06.

The proposed PRSC 1 for Ethiopia supports reforms geared towards the achievement of poverty reduction
outcomes as defined in the SDPRP. Three areas of intensive engagement underpin PRSC I. First, the
cross-cutting issues of public sector reform and decentralization (including measures to improve financial
management in line with the recommendations of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment and
measures to improve procurement in line with the recommendations of the Country Procurement
Assessment Report) are a primary area of focus. Second, the strengthening of PRSP implementation
processes - in particular the timeliness of the planning and budgeting processes providing greater
predictability of resource flows to local governments which deliver primary services ­ will be supported by
the operation. Third, the investment climate in urban and rural areas (i.e. private sector development,
financial sector and rural development) is an area of focus that will commence in PRSC 1 and continue
more intensively during PRSC 2.


5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.00)
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE ($120.00)
Total Project Cost: $120.00

6. Implementation
The grant amount would be disbursed in entirety into an account of the borrower after grant approval.
Grant approval will be conditional on policy measures having been fully implemented.

                                                       3
                                                                                                          PID




7. Sustainability
The sustainability of results of PRSC 1 will be subject to continued government commitment to poverty
reduction since policymakers need to ensure the steady application of changes in the policy environment
The sustainability of results could also be affected by external shocks interrupting the implementation of
the poverty reduction strategy.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
During FY01 and FY02, IDA provided two single tranche adjustment credits (the Ethiopia Emergency
Recovery Credit and the Ethiopia Structural Adjustment Credit) totaling $270 million. These credits
helped to stabilize the post-war economy, reallocate public spending to poverty targeted sectors, and
kick-start public sector management and private sector development reform agendas. Draft Implementation
Completion Reports (ICRs) are under preparation and key lessons will be available prior to PRSC I Board
presentation.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues    : Based on the objectives and sectoral coverage of PRSC 1, the operation was classified as
a sectoral adjustment credit (SECAC) in accordance with the Interim Guidelines for PRSCs of May, 2001.
According to Bank policy, the Operational Directive (OD) 8.60, Adjustment Lending, and Operational
Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental Assessment, apply. The credit was categorized as a B without a separate
Environmental Assessment. The Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) documents the main safeguards
issues and the measures proposed to mitigate any adverse environmental and social impacts that may result.


10. List of factual technical documents:
Initial Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet

11. Contact Point:

      Task Manager
      Gaiv M. Tata
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
      Telephone: 202-473-2175
        Fax: 202-473-5453

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:     (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

4
     PID

