Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H073 ET 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(First Poverty Reduction Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  March 5  , 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H073 ET 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 2004, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated December, 17, 2003, 
(the Letter of Development Policy) from the Recipient describing therein a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to reduce poverty in its territory by enhancing 
rapid and equitable economic growth, through rural and private sector development, 
while maintaining macroeconomic stability and strengthening public sector management 
and governance, including in the context of decentralization (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant 
in a single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  3
2
-
-
(a) 
“Birr” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(b) 
“CBE” means the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, a state-owned retail 
banking company established and operating pursuant to Regulation 202/1994 of 
the Recipient; 
(c) 
“CSA” means Central Statistical Authority, established and operating 
pursuant to Proclamation No. 303/1972 of the Recipient;
 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Recipient’s fiscal year beginning July 
8
and ending July 7 of the following calendar year;  
(f) 
“MEFF” means Macroeconomic and Fiscal Framework, a medium-term 
financing plan developed by the Recipient to achieve an integrated planning and 
budget system in Ethiopia; 
(g) 
“MoFED” means either the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Development or the Minister in charge thereof;  
(h) 
“NBE” means the National Bank of Ethiopia, the Recipient’s central 
bank established and operating pursuant to Proclamation No. 83/1994 of the 
Recipient; 
(i) 
“PIP” means the Recipient’s Public Investment Program; 
(j) 
“PEP” means the Recipient’s Public Expenditure Program; 
(k) 
“Proclamation, Regulations, Directives, and Circulars” mean various 
laws of the Recipient adopted respectively by the Recipient’s Parliament, 
Ministries, Regions and Public Agencies;  
(l) 
“PSIP” means Performance and Service Delivery Improvement Program, 
prepared by federal ministries, their regional bureaus and various authorities at 
all levels of government, and which include specific civil service action plans to 
support improvement in service delivery across the territory; 
Page  4
3
-
-
(m) 
“Region, Zone, 
Wereda
,
and
 Kebele
”
mean either a specific 
administrative area within the Recipient’s territory as defined in the Recipient’s 
Constitution or different local government levels within the Recipient’s territory 
established and operating pursuant to the relevant Regional Constitutions; and 
(n) 
“Access to New Land Program” means a component of the Recipient’s 
2003 War on Hunger Program, designed to address issues of chronic food 
insecurity in the Recipient’s territory. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Grant Agreement an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-three million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 83,400,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the 
Grant Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in NBE, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Page  5
4
-
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on April 15 
and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient undertakes to implement the Program with due 
diligence to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into 
effect. 
(b) 
The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
Page  6
5
-
-
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, 
a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
6
-
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development of the 
Recipient is designated as the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
The Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
 
P.O. Box 1905 
 
Addis Ababa  
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
21147
251-1-551355 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
    248423 (MCI) or 
    (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
      64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  8
7
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA  
 
By /s/ 
Kassahun 
Ayele 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Callisto 
Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa Region 
Page  9
8
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Recipient; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112  - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
 
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122             
- 
 
 Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
 Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
 Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  10
9
-
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
 
 Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
 
 Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmith
s’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 -   
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and the Association);  
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a 
beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
Page  11
10 
 
-
-
the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
11 
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B)  
of the Preamble to this Agreement 
1. Public 
Sector 
Management
In accordance with paragraphs 19, 20, 21, 22, 25 and 26 of its Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, of the following: 
(a) 
(i) approval by the Federal Cabinet of the MEFF for 2004/06-2006/07; 
and (ii) Issuance by MoFED of : (A) a Directive on the financial calendar; and (B) the 
indicative planning figures concerning the federal subsidy program to the Regions and 
MoFED’s federal specific purpose grants to the Regions; 
(b) 
adoption by Regional Cabinets of 4 selected Regions of the new chart of 
accounts;  
(c) 
issuance by MoFED of a Circular on the devolution of procurement 
responsibilities from MoFED to the federal budgetary institutions; 
(d) 
enactment of legislation to assign expenditure and revenue 
responsibilities to municipalities in four Regions and Addis-Ababa;  
(e) 
carrying out of: (i) institutional restructuring actions and performance 
improvement plans in Addis-Ababa and 16 selected municipalities; and (ii) PSIP pilots in 
11 selected ministries, bureaus and authorities of the Recipient; and 
(f) 
issuance by CSA of guidelines and service standards adequate to ensure 
the timely release of, and access to, unprocessed statistical data. 
Page  13
12 
 
-
-
2. 
Rural Development and Vulnerability Reduction
In accordance with paragraphs 29, 31, 32 and 33 of its Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, of the following: 
(a) 
enactment in 4 selected Regions of Rural Land Regional Proclamations 
to enhance land tenure security for rural households, and adoption of associated 
Directives for the establishment of land administration institutions; 
(b) 
(i) 
increasing the percentage of rural extension program staff not 
involved in delivering agricultural inputs or administering rural credit in connection 
therewith to about 70% of all such rural extension staff, and (ii) reducing the share of 
annual fertilizer sales backed by Regions’ guarantees to 200,000 metric tons; 
(c) 
issuance by MoFED of a Circular notifying the Regions that, upon 
finalization of the implementation guidelines for the Recipient’s Access to New Land 
Program, access to Recipient’s federal specific purpose grants for food security will 
require compliance with said guidelines; and 
(d) 
enactment of legislation for the establishment of: (i) appropriate 
environment protection administrative structures, and (ii) procedures and modalities for 
the carrying out of environment impact assessments and environmental pollution control. 
3. 
Private Sector Development
In accordance with paragraphs 35, 39 and 40 of its Letter of Development Policy, 
the Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, of the following: 
(a) 
actions adequate to ensure participation of the Recipient in global trade 
consultations; 
(b) 
approval by the MoFED of a restructuring plan for CBE, and thereafter 
commencement of implementation of said plan; and 
(c) 
reduction from $425 to $65 of the cost of registration for new businesses, 
coupled with a reduction from 44 days to 8 days in the time frame for registration of such 
businesses. 
Page  14
13 
 
-
-
4. Human 
Development
In accordance with paragraph 47 of its Letter of Development Policy, the 
Recipient has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, of the adoption by the Minister of Health of guidelines defining (i) 
contents of the minimum package of services at 
wereda
 level, including the health 
extension program; and (ii) responsibilities between health posts and health centers in 
relation thereto.  
Page  15
14 
 
-
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to read 
as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” 
shall continue to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in 
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
Page  16
15 
 
-
-
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are modified 
to read “commitment charge”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development financing 
agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit 
agreement or development financing agreement”. 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant.” 
7. 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, 
respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Page  17
16 
 
-
-
8. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05. 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
