Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    19725
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 39380; 3938A; 39390; 39400)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
February 4, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of September 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = Peso (P)
1 pesos= US$ 0.0250
US$ 1.00 = 40 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARF          -     Agrarian Reform Fund
CLF          -     Countryside Loan Fund
DENR         -     Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF          -     Department of Finance
EU           -     Environmental Unit
FXRC         -     Foreign Exchange Risk Cover
GOP          -     Government of the Philippines
GRT          -     Gross Receipts Tax
ISAP         -     Institutional Strengthening Action Plan
LBP          -     Land Bank of the Philippines
NG           -     National Government
PFIs         -     Participating Financial Institutions
RFP          -     Rural Finance Project
RBs          -     Rural Banks
RCF          -     Retail Cofmancing Fund
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
TBs          -     Thrift Banks
TRFP         -     Third Rural Finance Project
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:   Vinay K. Bhargava, EACPF
Sector Director:   Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Arie Chupak, EASRD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
l. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   7
6. Sustainability                                                                       9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                     12
9. Partner Comments                                                                    13
10. Additional Information                                                            21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004614                                         Project Name: RURAL FINANCE II
Team Leader: Arie Chupak                                    TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: February 4, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL FINANCE II                                    L/C Number: 39380; 3938A; 39390;
39400
Country/Department: PH[LIPPINES                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: AC - Agricultural Credit
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/12/93                                  Effective: 01/08/96            04/23/96
Appraisal:  04/28/94                                   MTR:
Approval:  09/14/95                                  Closing:  12/15/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: LBP/LBP
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jean-Michael Severino                      Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:      Vinay K. Bhargava                          Thomas W. Allen
Sector Manager:       Geoffrey Fox                                Pamela Cox
Team Leader at ICR:   Arie Chupak
lCR Primary Author:   Paul Harrison; Consultant
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. HL
Institutional Development SU
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was 'to help expand the volume
of medium and long term commercial credit to agriculture and rural development in the Philippines and to
enhance the policy framework of the rural financial sector by: (a) supporting the development of Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP) two funds, the Countryside Loan Fund (CLF) and Retail Cofinancing Fund
(RCF) to finance private sector investments in the rural areas; (b) strengthening LBP as the main wholesale
financial institution serving rural areas; and (c) upgrading the operational capacity of rural cooperatives,
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), particularly Thrift Banks (TBs) and Rural Banks (RBs), to
provide financial services in the rural areas'. The project was also concerned with environmental impact. It
was intended that... "sub-projects financed should be environmentally sound and comply with GOP
environmental laws and regulations".
These primary objectives were, and continue to be, important. Because of the undeveloped domestic
market in long term financial instruments, was, and continues to be a shortage of finance for long term
investments. Investment projects are financed by short term loans which are rolled over, exposing them to
potential liquidity crises when financial markets tighten, as happened under the recent financial crisis. The
objective of using retail as well as wholesale mechanisms reflected the fact that LBP has become an
important rural credit retailer as well as a wholesaler, and the inclusion of this fund would also allow LBP
to prudently expand its own long lending for rural investments. It provided the opportunity to broaden
project coverage beyond that of CLF I. The strengthening of LBP and upgrading of the various
intermediaries operational capacity were also important, and relevant, objectives as their achievement
would result in a system which functioned more smoothly and would be better able to make sound credit
decisions. The policy objectives of distancing LBP financially from the Agrarian Reform Fund, and
limiting dividends to rational levels 1/ were very important. In particular because of the 1992 law
requiring all State Enterprises, including Government Financial Institutions (GFIs) to pay dividends at 50%
of nominal profits. These objectives are still more important now because (i) the value of outstanding Land
Reform Bonds and their annual service/retirement cost are much higher than at the time of appraisal; and
(ii) the financial crisis has had a negative effect on the balance sheet strength of all Philippine Banks,
including LBP, thereby making conservation of real equity vital.
The approach on environmental matters was in line with the Bank's OD 4.00 - environmental policies.
However, for full compliance to have been realistic within a credit project, the tools for environmental
evaluation and enforcement, (i.e.: a strong and efficient environmental setting and regulations at state level)
should have been in place at the time of project inception. While GOP had a reasonable set of
environmental regulations, it had not yet demonstrated the capability of implementing them effectively. The
SAR did not raise concerns explicitly as to the extent that this objective could be achieved although
probably it should have done so. However the fact that the Bank encouraged the establishment of the
Environmental Unit (EU) in LBP indicates implicit concern about GOP's implementation capacity.
1/     There were covenants in the loan and guarantee agreements to require that exemption from the act should be
obtained. These were that LBP would pay only dividends out of profit in real terms after inflation adjustment and providing
additional equity to cover 1/8 of the incremental growth of agrarian lending (with the advent of the Third Rural Finance Project
(TRFP) this was modified to take account of the need for paying preference share dividends and to provide for incremental
equity to support CLF III incremental loans).
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The project would be implemented over five years, and would comprise the following components:
(a)  Credit: medium and long term loans to finance private investments in agricultural and
other viable rural operations, (both fixed assets and incremental working capital) for a
broad spectrum of agricultural and non-farm rural investment, (e.g. production,
processing, marketing, transport services, storage facilities, custom service or leasing
operations, and import of critical inputs). The credit operation would be determined by
market forces, with no earmarked allocations by crop or type of investment and would
bear a market determined interest rate. This component would include two programs.
(i)    CLF II: a wholesale operation to be carried out by LBP. CLF II resources
would be channeled through accredited financial institutions for onlending to
private investors;
(ii)    RCF: a cofmancing lending program for medium and long term rural
investments, implemented by LBP to finance, together with other financial
institutions, eligible sub-projects initiated by LBP's own customers;
(b)  Institutional Strengthening Programn  Strengthening LBP financially and
organizationally to ensure its sustainability in providing financial services to the rural
population. This component would support LBP's long-term development program
with concentration on private saving mobilization, agrarian lending policy, and
organizational streamlining. The component would consist of implementation of an
Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP) aimed at strengthening LBP's
financial and institutional capabilities as wholesale financial institution serving the
rural areas. An important element of this would be training and technical assistance
with special attention on the management and members/staff of the cooperative, TBs,
and RBs.
These components were well linked to the objectives of the project, and CLF II followed on from the
successful implementation of CLF under the earlier Rural Finance Project. Both ISAP and CLF II were
appropriate to the implementing capacity of LBP. The initial Bank approach had been to provide LBP with
medium and long-term resources entirely through CLF II. By the time of negotiations, GOP and LBP were
anxious for a retail component also. The Bank yielded to this request because (i) LBP as the administrator
of CLF had not been able to offer CLF funds to its own clients, thereby placing it at a disadvantage
compared with CLF accredited banks, and (ii) existing rural customers of LBP were being deprived of CLF
funds. However, the resultant RCF component was a compromise concept, which, although geared
towards achieving Project objectives, and aimed at SMEs in the countryside, was not capable of being
effectively implemented. Despite considerable preparation and promotion efforts, no lending had been made
under the RCF by early 1997. It appears that under the original structure of RCF, the maximum sub-loan
size was too small to attract co-financing. Shortage of long-term resources among potential co-financiers
(which was not addressed by the project in this component) may also have been a contributing factor.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
While the CLF II component remains as it was designed at the time of the SAR, the RCF component was
redesigned. This was a pro-active initiative to restructure the component before it affected the performance
of the entire project. In June 1997 the RCF component was amended as follows: (i) the fund was restricted
to lending to medium and small borrowers with a maximum of total assets of P60 million (US$2.3 million);
(ii) sub-loans were not to exceed P4 million; (iii) financing of sub-projects under RCF were as follows:
minimum 15% equity contribution by the sub-borrowers (as under the CLF II), at least 35% LBP's
participation using its own resources, with the balance, not to exceed 65%, be provided out of the proceeds
of the Bank's loans. Cofinancing by another financial institution was no longer required. At the same time,
as the component redesign, US$40 million allocated originally to RCF was reallocated to CLF II. [Loan
3938 (CPL) US$5 million; Loan 3939 (FRSCL) US$20 million; and Loan 3940 (VRSCL) US$15 million]
As a result of this reallocation total funds to be available for CLF II (under the three loans) was increased
from US$90 million to US$130 million and funds available for RCF were reduced from US$60 million to
US$20 million.
This change in RCF and expansion of CLF II resources is expected to (i) allow LBP to accommodate its
traditional customers; (ii) strengthen the CLF II and provide it with more funds to meet the strong demand
(within one year of project start up, more than 66% of the initial fund allocated to the CLF II had been
disbursed and an additional US$18 million of sub-loan applications were being processed); (iii) encourage
more PFIs to actively participate and finance viable investments in the rural areas, thus increasing the
generation of incremental gross value added and employment, and contributing to poverty alleviation
efforts; (iv) enhance project ability to meet its agreed objectives; and (v) accommodate potential rural
investors which otherwise may not have been supported, thus advancing project objectives.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Peer Reviewers and Bank decision makers endorsed the project design, its features and components.
Therefore quality at entry was satisfactory. (QAG did not exist at the time of project approval).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
There were no macro-economic policy objectives, nor broad sector policy objectives. However the
narrower sector policy objectives with regard to distancing LBP from the ARF, and limiting LBP's
dividends to real profits have been achieved to date. The ARF assets and liabilities are now outside LBP's
balance sheet and the original Land Reform Bonds, issued in LBPs name have been converted to National
Government (NG) Bonds with the same terms and conditions. Although there is still pressure from GOP to
try to obtain dividends from LBP in relationship to nominal profits, the existence of specific covenants to
prevent this has helped to ensure compliance with the agreement so far.
Other than being confined to 'rural areas', the credit component of the project was undirected, consequently
there were no specific physical development objectives under the project. Although if the achievement of
levels of investment which result in expansion of physical assets are considered as general physical
objectives, then the project was highly successful because the rate of investment has been more rapid than
projected at appraisal.
The project did not specifically set social objectives in the areas of poverty alleviation or gender concerns.
However, with incremental economic activity and creation of over 10,000 jobs in the rural areas being
likely results of investment under the project, it would be expected to have a positive impact on poverty
-4 -



alleviation. By the same token, enhanced availability of medium term finance and the involvement of a
large number of smaller financial institutions have both had a positive impact on private sector
development.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Credit. The project has been successful both in terms of the volume of lending and the proportion
channeled through TBs and RBs. By March 1999, some 678 CLF loans had been made, including 451
loans through TBs and RBs. The CLF and total targets for amount lent and the amount channeled through
TBs and RBs both have both been exceeded, but the RCF has failed to take off so far. Funds delivered
under the project, are now expected to support investment of about US$260 million, almost identical to the
level planned at appraisal, the main difference being that CLF will be substantially larger than initially
envisaged and RCF smaller.
The question of additionality for the credit component is open to debate. Under the project, commercial
sub-project selection criteria were applied, and, as a result, the investments supported were sound. Because
of this, many of the specific investments financed under the project would probably also have been made
'without project' using alternative funding. The project's additionality in this regard should be assessed not
on whether specific investments were induced but rather on whether it resulted in an increase in overall
investments and further that it did not 'crowd out' deposits, particularly term deposits. Macro data for the
Philippine banking system as a whole indicates that over the project period, there was on aggregate a
substantial expansion in intermediate and long term loans. Between December 1995 and June 1998,
intermediate and long term loans of commercial banks as a whole 2/ grew by P364 billion or 320%, while
the corresponding growth of short term and demand loans was 208%. The project's contribution to this
growth in term loans was about 1%. Project contribution in terms of rural investments is likely to have
been much larger than 1% as not all of the P364 billion total growth in lending went to rural areas.
On the resources side, there was a growth in deposits of the banking system over the period December 1995
to December 1998 of 72% overall, but a 118% growth in time deposits. The absolute amount of time
deposit growth was P280 billion (compared with project funds disbursed over the same period of P3.6
billion). Furthermore, over this period, Philippine banks, on average had adequate risk assets to equity
ratios, consequently, the limitation to lending was availability of resources. 3/ A reasonable inference to be
drawn from this data therefore is that the project contributed to the overall expansion of the availability of
longer term resources and hence loans and investment. There is no evidence of 'crowding out'.
Institutional Strengthening Program The institutional development objectives of strengthening LBP and
the PFIs implementing the credit component of the project were largely achieved. In addition, the
considerable support to co-operatives has resulted in improvements in their classification in excess of that
targeted within the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). On resource mobilization, LBP was successful in
mobilizing private deposits, but, partly as a result of the financial crisis, it has not yet issued long or
medium term peso debt instruments; 4/ LBP did, however, issue preference shares which partially
substituted for these. Some specific but minor institutional development components, unrelated to the credit
line such as the establishment of co-operatives' cross guarantee programs were not implemented mainly
because it became clear, that many of these co-operatives were too weak to undertake this additional
activity.
Through its Environmental Unit (EU), LBP has developed the ability to ensure that sub-borrowers can
secure the environmental permits required by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources
(DENR). To this extent it reported that by May 1999, 55% of subprojects obtained DENR permits,
- 5 -



compared to 70% targeted 5/ for the year end. However, spot check audits 6/ indicate that actual
compliance with environmental regulations is not being achieved in some cases. This deficiency can be
attributed to lack of enforcement by DENR, although it could be helped by more intense dialogue between
the EU, the PFI and the borrower to ensure that DENR stipulations are actually translated into mitigation
measures. Achievement of project with respect to ensuring that all sub-projects are environmentally sound
can thus be rated only as partially satisfactory.
2/      This data applies to the banking system as a whole, while the project was concerned with rural investment.
Nevertheless, the incremental lending and resource mobilization is so large that it is reasonable to assume that the picture for
the 'rural areas' (defined under the project as the Philippines, excluding Metro Manila) would have been similar. Funds
provided under the project would have still been small compared to total rural investment and time deposit mobilization.
3/      LBP's analysis of the 30 commercial banks with which it has credit lines indicates a weighted average risk assets to
equity ratio of 6.2 at end 1995, 6.8 for end 1996, 7.0 for end 1997 and 6.5 for end 1998. These are all well within the BSP
requirement of 10. Only at the end of 1997 were a significant number of banks (25%) having problems meeting this prudential
ratio.
4/      LBP is planning to retail a floating rate five year deposit instrument, which will allow depositors to take advantage of
recent tax law changes. That is, because its maturity is over five years, the instrument will be free of the 20% final
withholding tax on interest.
5/      Target added during project implementation. It assumes that by year end 1999, 70% O of requests for environmental
permits would have been fulfilled. Of the 30% remaining, most would be still in process and would be approved later.
6/      An audit of 18 out of 123 projects requiring environmental clearance indicated that 39% had fully complied with
regulations, 44% had partially complied and 17% had not complied at all.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, no specific 7/ estimate was made of the project's likely economic rate of return because at
that time it was unclear what types of demand-led investments would be made. Subprojects of above PI
billion were simply required to have ex-ante ERRs in real terms in excess of 12% (15% since June 1998),
and to be outside metro Manila. An analysis of the 47 projects (amounting to 52% of investment) for
which ERRs were calculated, ex ante, indicates a highly satisfactory median ERR of 27%. Because the
sub-projects are all quite new, an ex-post analysis of ERR would be premature at this stage. If resources
could be found, an analysis of ex-post sub-project financial and economic performance would be useful in
about 5-8 years time, by when, most of the sub-projects would be mature and the first round loans would
have been repaid.
7/      The SAR pointed out that ex ante FRRs for the first Rural Finance Project had averaged about 30% and ERRs 35%
and that similar results could be anticipated under this project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
In line with its objective, the project is contributing to raising the profitability of LBP, PFIs and
sub-borrowers. Analysis of LBP's internal accounts show the net profit from CLF II operations over the
first three years as follows:
-6 -



Year                                             1996           1997          1998
P Million      P Million     P Million
Income on CLF II Funds                           87.5           217.6         454.6
Interest Cost                                    41.6           133.9         184.3
FXRC fee, Guarantee fee etc.                     28.0            49.5         179.5
Provisions for loan losses                                          -           0.8
Estimated Administrative Costs                    6.1             8.4          11.4
LBP Profit from CLF II                           11.8            25.8          78.6
The net profit at a little over 2% of the outstanding CLF II portfolio is quite robust, with administrative
costs only amounting to about 12% of the gross margin. It will be important, however, that the provisions
for losses remain reasonable. It is possible that over the next year or so these would have to increase
substantially. If for example CLF past dues were covered 100% by provisions, loss provisions in the 1998
income and expense account would have needed to be P16 million, rather than P0.8 million, even so, LBP
would still have shown a profit of P63 million for the year.
The PFIs have reported operating spreads on CLF II funds of typically 3%-4% for medium - large loans by
commercial banks and up to 8-12% for rural banks. No detailed analysis of the marginal profitability of
PFIs from CLF II has been made, but the fact that there has been a fairly strong demand and significant
repeat business indicates that PFIs view this funding opportunity as profitable.
Ex ante analysis of sub-borrowers Financial Rates of Return (FRR) indicates that of those projects for
which FRRs were estimated, amounting to 84% of project investment, three quarters projected FRRs in
excess of 20%. The median FRR was 28%.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
See 4.2 - Institutional development was a Project component.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Asian Financial Crisis - this has had the effect of slowing demand and weakening the financial sector,
has reduced credit demand, rendered some PFIs no longer acceptable conduits and made achievement of
LBP's ISAP more difficult.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was prepared early 1994 and appraised in summer, 1994 and, after being updated through a
desk analysis in spring 1995, was negotiated in June 1995. The loan was signed on October 10, 1995,
became effective in early 1996 and started disbursing in the spring of 1996. The appraisal to negotiations
delay resulted from concerns of GOP' s cabinet. The secretary of finance at that time (who was also ex
officio chairman of LBP) postponed negotiations, just prior to their planned start because it was felt that
the Project should have been retail oriented. This was not acceptable to the Bank. By early 1995, GOP
accepted that the project would be basically a wholesale banking operation, as originally designed and
negotiations were set for June 1995. However, GOP pressured LBP to request a larger 'retail element'
during negotiations. As a result, the size of the proposed loan for the Retail Cofinancing (RCF) component
was doubled from US$30 million to US$60 million. Further, the proportion of the cofinancing element to
- 7 -



be sourced from LBP was to fall from 50% to 25%. This implied an increase in financing by other, as yet
unidentified financiers of a factor of four. It was seen as means to allow LBP to further develop its
cofinancing and syndication activities.
Other factors subject to GOP control include:
* The dividend policy for GFIs introduced in 1992 and the 1998 change in tax policy has reduced the
potential for LBP increasing its equity from organic growth.
* The long standing GOP Policy of not allowing provisions as a tax deductible reduces the incentive
for making adequate provisions against bad debts. This is a particular problem when balance
sheets are weakening as is the case at present (1997-1999).
* GOP's policy to keep agrarian lending rates low acts as a break on LBP expanding its agrarian
lending in line with its ISAP target.
*   The inconsistent interest rate policy among donors, which has recently become more significant, is
making wholesaling under CLF more difficult.
*   The moderate capacity of GOP's environmental agencies makes it difficult to ensure that
investments will be environmentally sound.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project was implemented by LBP which (i) provided funds borrowed under the Bank Loans on a
wholesale basis (via its CLF) to PFIs for on-lending to sub-borrowers based on a project implementation
manual agreed by the WB and LBP (ii) undertook retail financing using RCF 8/ resources, and (iii)
implemented an Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP) for itself.
* CLF II has benefited from experience gained from ALF and CLF I and LBP's decision to manage
these funds using the same staff and systems.
* There seems to have been a lack of interest in and full understanding of RCF (since it has become a
retail fund) by LBP's branches. This may be the result of LBP marketing too many loan products,
lack of appropriate incentives for RCF lending and possibly ineffective communications between
head office and the branches.
*   Over the past two years, perhaps as a result of organizational changes there appears to have been a
deterioration in the quality of accreditation and supervision of Countryside Financial Institutions
(CFIs).
8/ The initial cofinancing component did not move at all. The size of loan targeted (below US$3 million) was thought by
LBP to be too small and other banks did not want to participate, consequently, in 1997 the loan agreement was amended to
reallocate $40 million back to CLF. The remaining US$20 million was to be for retail lending by LBP specifically to SMEs.
The initial proposals were for loan size to be less than $150,000 and total assets of the borrower less than P60 million
(equivalent to US$2.3 million at that time).
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
As at March 31, 1999, the project cost 9/ to date, excluding minor 'second use of repaid funds' amounted
to US$206 million. Estimated project cost at completion (December 2000) is almost identical to the
Appraisal figure at $263 million. However, the CLF component at US$223 million is 86% larger than
anticipated, and the RCF component, now estimated to be US$38 million is substantially (73%) smaller.
CLF sub borrowers contributed significantly more to investments than the minimum required (30% rather
than a minimum of 15%). This, together with the PFI contribution of 17% of the sub-loan amount, rather
than a minimum of 13.3% helped to leverage Bank funds for CLF II well beyond the appraisal estimate
(US$1 of Bank loan supported US$1.71 of investment, rather than the appraisal estimate of US$1.33).
This offset the effect of a reduction in size of the RCF (in which Bank funds were planned to be more
- 8 -



highly leveraged). The cost of the training component was in line with the appraisal estimate. Despite the
devaluation, average exchange rate for the whole project - likely to be about P32 per US$ - is slightly lower
than that estimated at appraisal (P33 per US$).
Overall, the project has been implemented within the time frame envisaged. Delays have occurred in RCF,
but CLF is well ahead of schedule.
9/     Because this is a credit project, costs are mostly induced investment by private entrepreneurs borrowing under the
project. The cost figures for the CLF and RCF components represent the value of investments partly financed by project
resources.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is highly likely to be sustainable at sub-borrower, PFI, LBP and Government levels. For the
sub-borrowers, investments have been assessed as being profitable ex ante with a median FRR of 28%,
well in excess of the cost of funds. The fact that loan repayment record is substantially better 10/ than that
for the banking system as a whole, supports the thesis that loans under the project have been relatively good
and that on average, the investments are sustainable.
The PFIs under the project have set interest rates and fees at levels which make project lending profitable
to them. This, together with the long maturity of project funds means that this type of lending, will be
sustainable using project resources for more than another 10 years. Beyond that, other long term
borrowing from development or commercial institutions, increased capitalization or the issuance of bonds
would allow the levels of medium/long term investment lending initiated under the project to be sustained
and expanded.
LBP's internal accounts show that the project adds to LBP's net income, and so it will be sustainable
provided LBP continues to be prudent in its accreditation process and the need for loan loss provisions
against its lending under the project remains low (well below 1% per annum). However, if LBP becomes
constrained by its risk assets to equity ratio, there is a possibility that wholesale lending could be crowvded
out by retail lending with higher spreads.
Because of the timing of the Asian financial crisis and the associated devaluation, this project will probably
be less beneficial to GOP than RFP on which substantial fees were earned prior to the crisis, or TRFP,
which is post crisis. 11/ The simple Foreign Exchange Risk Cover (FXRC) fee is unlikely to be sufficient
to cover the foreign exchange loss. However, that fee represents only a small part of the direct project
benefits to GOP. In addition, GOP also receives a 1% 'guarantee fee' and gross receipts tax (GRT) both
on income to LBP from funds on-lent to PFIs or invested in Government Securities and further GRT on
interest paid by sub-borrowers to PFIs. The incremental GOP income from these direct fees and taxes and
incremental company tax stemming from incremental value added by sub-projects is estimated to more than
cover the foreign exchange risk exposure. Analysis based on past and projected interest rates, exchange
rates and project loans indicates that the net present value (NPV) 12/ to GOP of incremental Guarantee
fees, FXRC fees and Gross Receipts Tax (GRT) less incremental foreign exchange cover costs resulting
from the project is positive at US$1.2 million. If incremental income tax on estimated incremental profits
of LBP, PFIs and the sub-borrowers is also taken into account, the NPV rises to US$P32 million.
Environmental sustainability requires that LBP continues to insist on conformity with environmental laws
-9-



in future lending operations. This is probable, at least in the medium term, because the Bank, and other
environmentally conscious donors are continuing to fund projects through LBP and while this goes on, its
EU will remain in place and be reasonably effective. Its sustainability would be sure if the 'playing field
were leveled' and the code of practice presently adopted under the project were required for all investment
loans by the entire banking sector. Without certainty that this will happen, there are some minor doubts as
to the long term sustainability of the environmental objectives of the project.
10/    The overall level of gross past dues for the banking sector as a whole at end 1998 was 11% whilst those of CLF II sub
borrowers to PFIs was 6.6%.
11/    As a result of, and in response to, the Asian financial crisis a Third Rural Finance Project (TRFP) was approved by
the WB in December 1998. The TRFP's main objective is to provide financial support to the rural economy to overcome the
difficulties created by the regional financial crisis. The project was designed as a wholesale banking operation, incorporating
fully the lessons learned from RFP and RFP II
12/    Discounted at 10% real interest rate. Using a higher real discount rate (12% or 15%) would increase the net benefit
from US$1.2 million to US$2.1 million and USS3.1 million respectively.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
The first round of fund use under the project is virtually complete. Future operations revolve around LBP
continuing to collect the sub-loans from the PFIs and making new sub-loans using rolled over funds for
similar purposes. This process is already in place. The detailed operational manual will continue to be
used and lending procedures will be harmonized with those of the successor project (TRFP).
The institutional strengthening of LBP, initiated under this project through the ISAP will be continued
under TRFP's Institutional Development Plan (IDP). The performance of this will be monitored through
the TRFP KPIs.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The main elements of Project design (CLF and ISAP) were relatively simple, and took account of lessons
learned under the earlier Rural Finance Project (RFP). The initially proposed RCF sub-component, was
new and untested. It was intended to attract additional commercial finance to SME countryside lending as
well as to provide LBP with retail funds under the Project. The appraisal process was relatively smooth and
rapid. However, there was a substantial delay, caused by GOP, between appraisal and negotiations with
the project being negotiated some time after the appraisal mission. The decision by the Bank at
negotiations to agree to a doubling of the retail (cofinancing) element which had not been prepared in detail,
but then to insist upon 75% contribution from other banks was probably strategically sound. It kept the
project alive but created a component which was unlikely to (and indeed did not) move. In due course, this
component was amended. The time period from negotiations to board approval was normal and the project
became effective in Spring 1996. .
It has been the practice in some Bank credit projects to establish an environmental unit in the financial
intermediary processing the loan. Ideally, it is preferred that state environmental authorities should look
after monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulation. Experience in the Asia region shows,
however, that strengthening the national agencies is a slow process, often inefficient, that is never available
in time to serve the individual project under discussion. The Bank observed this situation in the Philippines
at the time of Project preparation, and, having evaluated DENR agreed with LBP to incorporate an
- 10-



Environmental Unit (EU) within the project structure, to enhance compliance. Because it lacked the
leverage, the Bank did not try to insist that all Philippine banks operate in this way.
The Bank also made a sensible decision to accept compliance with GOP regulations as the sole
environmental eligibility criteria under the project. This simplified the project's environmental
requirements and eliminated more demanding, complex Bank procedures. The training program
incorporated in the project helped raise environmental awareness inside and outside the LBP.
7.2 Supervision:
Following loan effectiveness, the Bank mounted supervision missions once 13/ a year.
Most supervision missions were staffed by a financial analyst and a financial/agricultural economist, with
additional support, on several occasions, from an environmental specialist. The supervision missions
worked closely with LBP on resolving any problems concerned with the credit lines, including amending the
size and scope of the RCF component. They also participated in the review and updating the ISAP, helped
fine tune policies to ensure adequate provisioning for agrarian loan losses and maintained dialogue with
GOP to ensure that the specific covenants which protected LBP's financial strength were met. On
environment, the Bank's initiative has meant that investments under the project are more environmentally
sound than they would otherwise have been, but it is not clear whether the improvement in environmental
systems will extend any further. An important feature of this project was Bank staff and consultant
continuity. This was appreciated by the borrower and led to good communications and a high degree of
trust and understanding.
During supervision, the Bank's missions identified a significant gap between legal eligibility to borrow
(from an environmental standpoint) and actual compliance with environmental regulations. To monitor and
help to close this gap, environmental audits have been incorporated in project implementation. As a result
of the EU introduced under the project, investments have been more environmentally sound than they would
otherwise have been. But the project has not come up with an improvement in environmental systems
which is sure to be sustainable. The Bank's performance with regard to environmental matters is therefore
rated as satisfactory rather than highly satisfactory.
13/    Because there were other ongoing activities with LBP during the project period involving the same task manager and
consultants, closer contact was maintained with the project than the one per year supervision missions indicated here.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory on project design and appraisal and highly
satisfactory during implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation of the project was largely undertaken by LBP, based on the knowledge gained from the RFP.
This was professionally undertaken and the main elements of the project, CLF and ISAP were
harmoniously developed together with Bank support and can be considered highly satisfactory. There was
little preparation undertaken on the RCF component however which is one of the reasons that in its initial
form it did not move. This is considered unsatisfactory. Taken overall, the borrowers preparation
performance can be considered as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOP's performance has been less satisfactory than LBP's. It delayed the project process for about a year
- 11 -



by postponing negotiations, but has still ended up with a project which is pretty close to the original design.
As Guarantor of the project GOP has needed to be reminded of its obligations, both in the area of dividend
policy 14/, and in ensuring that ARF does not become overdrawn at LBP beyond the covenanted level of P1
billion.
Overall, the performance of the project's borrower and guarantor, taken together can be viewed as
satisfactory, providing GOP cancels its 1998 dividend proposals and quickly restores the ARF balance to
an acceptable range.
14/    GOP's Initial proposals for dividend payments on ordinary shares out of 1998 nominal earnings were contrary to the
loan and guarantee agreements in that they sought cash dividends even though LBP's earnings were insufficient to cover
erosion of equity by inflation, adequate provisions for loan losses and preference share dividends.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
LBP, the principal implementing agency and the borrower has generally performed well under the project.
On the credit side, CLF funds moved quickly and in line with project estimates. Targets on numbers of
loans, numbers of PFIs and flows through RBs and TBs indicating diversity of coverage were all met.
Collection rates and levels of past dues have been good but some problems resulting from the financial
crisis appear to be surfacing. Until July 1997, there were no past dues to LBP under CLF, but now (June
1999), past dues from the PFIs to LBP amount to 0.82% - still a pretty low level. Performance under the
wholesale part of the project has been highly satisfactory. The main credit problem has been the fact that
the RCF did not move. Probably, the original design was insufficiently researched, although there also
appear to have been problems within LBP's organization of providing appropriate incentives to lending
units to make use of the funds. The program has now been redesigned somewhat and LBP branch
management expect that the reduced RCF (US$20 million) will be disbursed in the next 18 months, on time
for project completion.
LBP has made progress with most elements related to institutional strengthening, although the KPIs which
were set shortly before the financial crisis were not all met. LBP has taken the agreed actions to safeguard
financial strength, but growth in real equity has been lower than planned. Lending objectives have been
realistically set. Quite rationally, in view of market conditions, no long term peso instruments have been
introduced, but LBP intends that these will be introduced before project closure. The costs of agrarian
lending are still excessive, but a marked improvement has taken place between 1997 and 1998. Agrarian
loan loss provisioning has been rationalized in line with the ISAP proposals. Cooperative strengthening has
been implemented and the agrarian loan data base improved. The internally funded training and technical
assistance program under the project has been implemented more or less as envisaged. Overall, LBP
performance on this part of the project has been satisfactory. Project monitoring and reporting has been
satisfactory, with an agreed format, which allows performance against KPIs to be monitored, having been
adhered to and reports provided on time.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the performance of the project's borrower and guarantor, taken together can be viewed as
satisfactory, providing GOP cancels its 1998 dividend proposals and quickly restores the ARF balance to
an acceptable range.
8. Lessons Learned
The generally successful project outcome underlines a number of positive experiences on which to draw in
future and lessons learned when implementing credit projects in countries with a diverse banking system.
- 12 -



Firstly, using a sound wholesale institution with a strong accreditation unit to appraise PFIs, rather than
having the Bank review each can work satisfactorily in a system where there are many potential lenders.
Secondly, this type of project is a suitable mechanism for disbursing relatively large loans quickly to the
private sector, without placing much burden on Government. By on-lending at domestic market rates and
having the Government benefit from the interest rate arbitrage, but bear the foreign exchange risk, the long
term liklihood is that the Government will not lose and that domestic markets will be strengthened.
Furthermore, any benefits derived from the fact that a country can borrow Bank funds more cheaply than
commercial funds would accrue to Government. This type of operation is more transparent with single
currency libor linked loans than with pool loans.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT II (RFP 11)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Evaluation of the Proiect
A. Project Obiectives
-     The objective of the project which was to help expand the volume of medium and long term
commercial credit to agriculture and rural development in the Philippines was highly relevant at the time
of project inception considering the developmental needs of the Philippine countryside. Moreover, with
the underdeveloped capital markets in the country, the supply of long-term funds was very limited.
-     The project aimed to fuel economic activity in the rural areas and support the Philippine
government's regional dispersal policy. This is meant to achieve a balanced regional development
structure with strategic growth poles in the various regions outside the National Capital Region.
*     As a credit program , RFP II was designed to provide long-term financing to private sector
priority projects in the countryside. The focus sectors were agriculture, fishery, agro-processing,
manufacturing and services. These are high impact sectors with large multiplier effects in rural areas.
*     RFP II also aimed at increasing the supply of long-term  financing for small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) and further boost the development of the SME sector. The country's vision is to
develop SMEs as the principal engine of economic growth.
*     With regard to environment, sub-projects financed should be environmentally sound and
comply with existing environmental laws and regulations of the Philippines. Such objective would
safeguard the use of the fund to sub-projects which would not  adversely impact on the environment
and thus, promote sustainable development.
*      The project will continue to be significant as the long term financial market in the Philippines
has not yet fully developed. Most banks do not readily lend on long term basis unless long term
- 13 -



funds are tapped from special financing programs such as the Countryside Loan Fund II.
For the institutional component of the project, the principal objectives of the RFP 11 were as
follows:
1. To strengthen LBP as a development financing institution and deepen its impact as the
principal source of formal credit for small farmers and fisherfolk.
2. To expand LBP's role as a catalyst of countryside development.
3. To enhance LBP's financial soundness and delivery capability as
well as operational viability.
B. Project Design
*      The design of the wholesale credit component was highly effective as the project was able
to build-up from the experiences, organizational set-up, and systems and procedures of the two
predecessor projects which LBP successfully implemented - the Countryside Loan Fund I and the
Agricultural Loan Fund.
*      The project proved anew that a wholesale approach, with LBP as the apex financial
institution, was effective in reaching out to more beneficiaries nationwide. It was able to capitalize
on LBP's financial strength and capability to implement the accreditation process and performance
review of PFIs. LBP's strong presence in the rural areas, as well as the geographical location of
the rural and thrift banks, and the branch network of the universal/commercial banks also
contributed to the wide dispersal of the fund.
*      lThe project was likewise designed to respond to the needs of the countryside economy at the
time of its inception. In addition to the eligible projects of CLF I, CLF II was able to assist
tourism-related and environment protection projects. Moreover, CLF II loan in US Dollar denomination
became available to serve the long term foreign currency loan requirements of sub-borrowers.
*      Same cannot be told, however, on the original design of the Retail Countryside Fund, the
loan component for direct lending to LBP's clients. The initial RCF project design required the
participation of a co-financier. However, the sub-borrower's asset-size limit of P 250 Million was too
small to attract co-financing. The asset size likewise discouraged loan syndications as small loan
size would not be cost efficient. The rural banks, on the other hand, preferred to avail CLF II under
the wholesale operations rather than participate as a co-financier. The RCF features were
subsequently amended with the deletion of the co-financier and increasing the maximum asset size
and loan size. With such amendments, LBP management is confident that the remaining fund will be
fully disbursed before the end of year 2000.
*      Effective systems and procedures were in place to ensure that prior to funding, sub-projects
either had the necessary environmental clearances/permits or had been reviewed as non-coverage
projects. However, there were weaknesses in the monitoring of the sub-borrowers' compliance to the
conditionalities of the Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC) approval, principally because of
the government's weak enforcement of environmental laws and regulation. LBP   addressed this
thru itsown environmental audit but thecoverage of environmental audits being conducted by
LBP's Environmental Unit (EU) was constrained by the limited number of EU personnel.
- 14 -



C. Achievement of Obiectives
Credit Component - Achievement of the project's credit objectives was rated highly
satisfactory as proven by the following:
The project increased the volume of medium and long term credit in the countryside with an
aggregate of P3,790.141 Million for 672 sub-projects as of March 31, 1999. More importantly, the
project was able to encourage the financial participation of the PFIs and sub-borrowers at a level
exceeding the minimum requirement of the project. (The PFIs and sub-borrowers provided 12% and
30%, respectively, exceeding the minimum 10% and 15% participation). It could not be claimed,
however, that these project investments would not have pushed through without CLF II funding as
these viable projects could have otherwise tapped alternative sources of financing.
*     The loan releases and investment activities helped fuel regional development and contributed
to the regional dispersal policy of the Philippine government. Loan releases were distributed among
the various regions. The highest availment rates were in the following regions: Southern Tagalog,
Central Luzon, Southern Mindanao, Western Visayas, and Ilocos.
-     The objective to expand long-term financing for SMEs was adequately met. SMEs accounted
for the bulk of the loans granted with a 67% share or P2.68 Billion . In fact, for "small enterprises", the
total loans granted amounted to P1.81 Billion representing 45% of total loans.
*     Loan drawdowns had always been ahead of the 5 year drawdown schedule. After less than
3 years from effectivity date, 82% of the US$150 Million had been drawn from the Loan Account.
*     The project's key performance indicators which included total project investments, number of
loans, amount and number of loans released thru thrift and rural banks and employment generation
were all surpassed.
*      The project contributed positively to the overall financial performance of LBP, the PFIs and
the sub-borrowers. Aside from increased economic activity in the countryside, the project created
socio-economic impact through employment generation and revenues to the government.
*     All sub-projects had been reviewed and endorsed as environmentally acceptable by LBP's EU
prior to CLF II funding. The project likewise (a) promoted awareness of the PFIs and sub-borrowers
with the prevailing environmental laws and regulations; and (b) enhanced the PFI's environmental
due diligence through the conduct of relevant trainings and seminars.
Institutional Strengthening Action Plan (ISAP) - In 1994, LBP prepared an ISAP for 1994-1998.
ISAP was a medium-term business plan which outlined the main actions which were to be
taken by LBP to maximize its economic development impact while maintaining a high level of
financial health.
The achievement of the ISAP and RFP II institutional objectives was highly satisfactory. The strategic
impact of the actions taken is considered extensive. The benefits registered in the plan period
1994 to 1998 shall continue to be recorded in the coming years.
- 15 -



The following are the principal results of RFP II and its impact on LBP.
Sustained growth in loans to farmers and fisherfolk cooperatives. LBP was able to reinforce
its position as the principal source of credit for small farmers. From only P6 Billion in 1994 (the
initial year of the medium-term plan), loan releases to farmers' cooperatives doubled to P12.3 Billion in
1998. For 1999, loan releases to small farmers are projected to increase further to, at least, P13
Billion.
Consistent expansion in reserves coverage with the adoption of a stringent loan loss provisioning
policy. This is a very concrete and positive result of the ISAP and RFP II. Since the commencement
of RFP II, LBP adopted a highly conservative loan loss provisioning policy on its small farmers loan
portfolio. This exerted a drag on overall profitability but strengthened LBP's balance sheet. Moreover
the build-up in reserves was executed over a five-year period. Thus, during the crisis years of 1997 and
1998 the lumping of provisioning expenses was avoided.
AGRARIAN LOANS PROVISIONING AND RESERVES 1994-1999
Provision   Reserves for     Net Past   Reserves to
for Loan     Probable      Due Loans        PDL
Losses        Losses       (PMillion)
(PMillion)    (PMillion)
1994        733          1.363          1.644         45
1995       711           1.413          1,342          51
1996       1,383         2.424          746            76
1997       1,457         3,118          435            88
1998       403           2,270           376           86
1999 S      471           2,498           317          89
The provisioning formula adopted was -100% for past due loans of more than 2 years, 50% for
past due loans of less than 2 years, and 25% for restructured loans.
"Reserves to past due loans" or the coverage ratio was almost doubled from only 45% in 1994
to 88% in 1997 and 86% in 1998. This is deemed a highly comfortable level which will
insulate LBP from sharp turndowns. Moreover, the positive impact of the high reserves
will benefit LBP in the medium term.
Sustained improvement in agrarian loan quality. LBP has been highly successful in
improving the quality of loans to farmers and fisherfolk. From 1994-1997, the past due rate was at 30%
to 32%. In 1998, this was reduced to only 23.6%. The improvement was recorded despite the various
problems affecting the agricultural sector. As of September 1999, the past due rate stood at 25% with
past due loans outstanding at P2.8 Billion.
- 16 -



Agrarian Loans      Past Due Loans      Past Due Rate
Outstanding         (P Million)            (%)
(PMillion)
1994              11.688              3.006               31.2
1995              9,200               2,754               29.9
1996              10.672              3,170               29.7
1997              11,288              3,553               31.5
1998             11.176               2,646               23.6
1999 S            11.253               2.815               25.0
The improvement in loan quality was the result of various initiatives undertaken by LBP. The
strengthening of the farmers' cooperatives was highly instrumental. In addition, LBP revised
its "cooperative accreditation criteria" to strengthen the rating system.
Relative to the improvement in the loan quality was the  enhancement of the agrarian loans
monitoring system. Statistics on loan disbursements and collections were upgraded. This
led to the effective tracking and monitoring of agrarian loan performance.
*      Segregation of Agrarian Reform accounts and issuance of bonds by the Philppine
Government. On 25 July 1995, Executive Order 267 was issued and this provided for (1) the issuance
by the National Government of Agrarian Reform bonds; and (2) the segregation of the agrarian reform
accounts from the books of LBP. Previously, LBP was the issuer of Agrarian Reform Bonds used to
compensate landowners.
This was a high-priority item which was effectively implemented by LBP in coordination
with various government agencies.
The segregation has transformed the financial condition of LBP. Likewise, the Bank has been
insulated from possible cashflow risks arising from the acceleration of the CARP program
and inadequate program funding.
*      Transformation of Deposit Base - Rapid Expansion of Private Deposits and Growth in
Long-Term Deposits. The ISAP implementation spurred LBP to undertake a transformation of its
deposit base. Cognizant of the need to lower its dependence on government deposits and to expand term
deposits, LBP implemented various projects and initiatives. Over the past five years, deposit generation
and retention campaigns were carried out to boost private deposits. In all branches, customer service
became a crucial focus. Likewise, LBP floated 5-year Certificates of Deposit for private depositors.
In summary, LBP has been highly successful in transforming the deposit base. This has improved
LBP's liquidity position and asset/liability profile.
- 17-



LBP DEPOSITS PROFILE
(In P Billion)
MATURITY
TOTAL  PRIVATE  GOVERNMENT SHORT- MEDIUM/
TERM    LONG
TERM
1994       55          9.2            45.8           54.9         0.1
1995       75.1        14.8           60.3           75.0         0.1
1996      91.1         23.3           67.8           89.8         1.3
1997      113.2        38.8           74.4           103.1       10.1
1998      124.0        47.5           76.5           107.3       16.7
1999 S     135.5        49.7           85.8          116.6        18.9
D. Project Implementation and Operation Experience
*     The loan component was implemented strictly in accordance with the agreed CLF II and
RCF policy manuals.
*     The training program for CLF-related staff of LBP and PFIs were likewise successfully
implemented. Trainings in the field of financial analysis, economic analysis, project evaluation,
environmental impact assessment, among others, were implemented at the start of the project, thus
contributed to the capability build-up of the program implementors and PFI availers.
*     The regional financial crisis which started in mid-1997, however, had adverse effects on
project loan disbursements. With economic instability and lower consumer demand,  start-up or
expansion projects were deferred as  reassessments had to be carefully done to ensure project
feasibility during this critical period, thus slowed down PFI availments. Moreover, loan defaults
within the banking sector increased sharply, thus, precipitated more cautious lending from PFIs.
Coupled with the weakening in the financial position, particularly of the smaller banks, the number of
accredited PFIs decreased  by as much as 15%.
*     Additional operational workload were encountered in view of the three (3) loan currencies
availed under SRFP (Currency Pool Loan, Floating Rate Single Currency Loan in US Dollars, and
Fixed Rate Single Currency Loan in US Dollars) and the two loan categories (wholesale and retail)
under the three loan accounts, e.g., preparing the project loan documentation, applications for
funding and replenishment, servicing the bills payable, paymentlclaims regarding foreign currency
exchange cover, etc.;
*     The environmental requirement of the program  increased the awareness of the PFIs on the
significance of environmental due diligence in sub-project evaluation. Moreover, the level of PFIs'
environmental consciousness was further intensified thru the environmental trainings and seminars
conducted by LBP.
- 18-



E. Future Operations
*     The first generation funds are expected to be fully disbursed before the end of year 2000.
Reflows or collections will be relent anew in accordance with the approved CLF II / RCF policy
manuals.
*     The accreditation process and PFI performance review, particularly for the countryside
financial institutions, will be further strengthened thru enhancements of the organizational structure for
CFI lending operations.
*     The EU  will endeavor to expand its coverage of environmental audits of sub-projects .
Moreover, increased sub-borrowers' and PFIs' awareness with the compliance to the conditionalities
of the ECC approval shall be achieved thru the various environmental seminars and trainings to
be conducted by the EU.
II.    Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
*     The overall performance of LBP for the period 1994 to 1999 has been highly satisfactory. In the
agrarian operations, the performance was highly commendable and structural adjustments were
undertaken. These have set a platform for sustained growth.
*     In terms of overall financial performance, the trajectory was set during the first half of the plan
period 1994-97. Sustained growth was attained and this was projected to continue until 1999.
However, the Asian crisis which started in July 1997 and continued up to 1999, induced a downward
adjustment on the annual targets for 1998 and 1999.
*     The Asian crisis required an adjustment process as its impact will still be felt in the coming
years. In the medium-term, LBP shall be transformed into a stronger institution with a deeper impact on
the countryside.
*      Borrower's performance under the credit component was highly satisfactory. The KPIs were
all surpassed. The loan disbursements, particularly under the wholesale component, were always ahead
of the five (5) year drawdown schedule. Aside from the good product design, this could be attributed
to the various marketing initiatives of LBP which include client calls, conduct of product
briefings/presentations to PFIs and potential sub-borrowers, strong linkages with bank associations,
provision of incentives to PFIs mainly thru annual recognition awards to outstanding PFIs and CLF
training programs.
*     Collection rates had been highly satisfactory as a result of a very good PFI accreditation
process. Recently, however, there were some defaults from rural banks which experienced a
weakening of financial position. Past due level, however, was contained within a minimal level of
0.72% as of November 30, 1999.
*     LBP's performance with regard to environmental compliance can  be rated as highly
satisfactory. All sub-projects were reviewed for compliance to environmental requirements by the
EU which was technically capable of doing the said task. The EU was allowed by EMB to
clear non-coverage projects for CLF funding. Moreover, the EU  was given by WB the free hand
- 19-



to accredit environmental consultants without need for further WB clearance.
Lessons Learned
*      While there were benefits of availing under three (3) currency options, there were likewise
observed disadvantages such as: (a) More administrative work in drawing/servicing three loan
accounts; (b) So far, fixed rate single currency loans had been more expensive than the LIBOR-based
single currency loan and Currency Pool Loan (c) Because Fixed Rate Single Currency Loan has shorter
drawdown period, there was a need to extend for another year the closing date of Loan No. 3939.
*     The PFIs had been sensitive to CLF II pricing vis a vis the prevailing market rate. Initially,
the CLF II pass-on rate was repriced quarterly. However, the timing lag made the CLF interest rate
either lower or higher than market. To address this matter, CLF II interest rate for new loans was
reviewed monthly, but outstanding variable rate loans were repriced quarterly.
*     The inconsistent interest rate policies among various multilateral and bilateral agencies/
wholesale funders may work for or against a project. As far as interest rate was concerned, the
program could not compete with other wholesale funds as WB funded projects were more
expensive.
*      A good set of accreditation criteria and a good system of PFI performance review was
critical to the success of a wholesale lending program. The low past due level despite the financial
crisis proved that LBP successfully implemented the PFI accreditation process.
*      A major lesson learned under the RCF was the non-feasibility of syndicating small-sized
loans. The small asset-sized sub-borrowers preferred simple loan packages and documentation.
Rural banks, on the other hand, preferred to avail the wholesale funds than participate as
co-financiers.
*     The compliance of sub-borrowers to the terms and conditions of the ECC approval, however,
could not be strictly enforced by LBP as it is the task of the environmental agency. However, the
environmental audit being conducted by the EU   had contributed towards increased
environmental consciousness of the sub-borrowers. Furthermore, the environmental trainings
conducted by the EU had significantly contributed to the capability build-up of PFIs and LBP staff
in evaluating the environmental aspect of sub-projects.
III.   Evaluation of World Bank Performance
*     LBP's partnership with WB started in 1990 with RFP I. Since then and up to 1999, the
overall performance of the Bank, in general, and the project supervision team, in particular, has been
highly commendable. Indeed, WB has been very instrumental in making LBP a stronger institution
with a deeper impact in rural development.
*      The WB project supervision team has consistently shown foresight and fresh ideas. With a
wealth of experience and cross-country knowledge, the team has been able to assess LBP in a very
comprehensive manner. Likewise, new standards and measures have been established which are highly
relevant to current conditions.
- 20 -



*      The recommendations and insights of the team have been strategic and highly beneficial. For
example, the segregation of the Agrarian Reform accounts was a strategic issue. The benefits of this
move will continue to impact on LBP in the long-term.
*      The continuity of the project team was highly crucial in the clarity and consistency of
measurement and monitoring. Likewise common understanding of focus and objectives has been
attained. Because of this continuity, transition interruptions have been avoided. Moreover, the
continuity of the WB staff and consultants handling the projects likewise contributed towards good
communication and rapport not only  between the Bank and the Borrower but also with   critical
partners in the project implementation such as the guarantor and the PFIs.
*      The team has shown flexibility and open-mindedness in assessing LBP's attainment of
objectives and targets. For example, the liquidity targets were revised to take into consideration the
emergence of long-term government securities in the market.
*      The team has a good understanding of the macro environment wherein LBP operates. With
its understanding of the Philippine economy, the agricultural sector and the Comprehensive Agrarian
Reform Program, the team is very able to situate LBP in the appropriate context.
*      The team has been very effective in uhdertaking strategic discussions and coordination with
government entities such as the Department of Finance and the Bureau of Treasury.
*      The team has always shown the diligence and effort in fully explaining to LBP officers and
personnel the methodologies, empirical process and underlying logic in their supervision reviews.
*      Responses to borrower's queries and approvals/comments to loans exceeding the Borrower's
free-limit were promptly acted upon. The frequency of the supervision missions were likewise
sufficient to closely monitor the project and resolve any program issues.
*      The key performance indicators for the project were, however, negotiated  during project
implementation. This was in view of a requirement made by WB management after loan negotiation
and signing. Nevertheless, the task manager had been very objective in setting up the KPIs after due
consultation with the program implementors.
Fund applications/replenishments were processed by WB and received by LBP within reasonable time.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Number of Loans Made                   880 at Project Completion (690 by June 30, 678 as at March 31, 1999
1999)
Total Sub Project Investment           US$191 million at Project Completion   US$205 million by March 31, 1999
(US$158 million by June 30, 1999)
Number of Jobs Created                  12,500 by Project Completion (10,000 jobs  10,213 permanent jobs plus 5,918 jobs
to result from projects financed by June 30,  during construction period expected from
1999)                                  projects financed by March 31, 1999.
Amount Lent by Thrift Banks (TBs) and  US$ 29 million by Project Completion   US$47 miTlion by March 31, 1999
Rural Banks (RBs                       (US$23 million by June 30,1999)
Number of Active TBs and RBs           43 by Project Completion (35 by June 30,   48 by March 31, 1999
1999)
Cumulative Loans made through RBs and    520 by Project Completion (380 by June 30, 451 by March 31, 1999.
TBs                                    1999)
Output Indicators:
Real Increase in Equity over 1995 year end  32% by December 2000 (20% by Year end   17.3% real increase by end 1998
level                                  1998)
Proportion of Pnvate Deposits to Total  35% by December 2000 (30% by year end  33.3% (excuding foreign currency CDs) by
Deposits                               1998)                                  end 1998
Subsidy Dependency Index (SDI) for LBP as -5% (negative figure means LBP is not  5.3% (positive figure means LBP was
a whole                                subsidy dependent)                     subsidy dependent in 1998)
ISAP Quality Index for Agricultural Lending  85 for the year 2000 (75 for 1998)  80 for 1998
Operating Costs of Agrarian lending (as % of 7% for the year 2000 (9% for 1998)  10.6% for 1998
net outstanding loans)
Net number of co-operatives improving  250/year in 1999 & 2000 (200 for 1998)  663 upgraded and 219 downgraded, giving
classification                                                                net upgrade of 444 in 1998
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project                         Appraisal                    Latest Estimate                      Percentage of
Component                        Estimate                                                            Appraisal
CLF II a/                      120.0                               222.9                                186%
RCF a/                         141.2                                 38.5                                27%
TA & Training                    1.5                                  1.5                               100%
Total                          262.7                                 262.9                              100%
a/ Appraisal estimates and latest estimates are for investments financed (in part) by the line of credit under
the project. They can be considered as the investment induced by the project credit line.
Project Financing by ComDonent (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                    Appraisal Estimate              Latest Estimate                          Percentage of Appraisal
Bank    LBP    PFIs    S-Bs    Total   Bank   LBP  I PFls    S-Bs   Total   Bank    LBP   I PFIs    S-Bs    Total
CLF 11              90.0        -    12.0    18.0  120.0   130.0             26.6    66.3    222.9   144%    n.a.      222%    368%    186%
RCF                 60.0    15.0    45.0    21.2   141.2   20.0    10.8              7.7      38.5    33%      72%     0%      36%      27%
TA & Training          -      1.5       -       -   1.5              1.3    0.2               1.5              87%     Inf
Totals             150.0    16.5    57.0    39.2  262.7   150.0   12.1    26.8    74.0    262.9   100%    73%          47%      189%    100%
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
As this was a credit project no financial or economic analysis of the project was undertaken.
Ex Ante financial analysis on 192 sub projects, which accounted for 84% of project investment, gave a frequency
distribution of expected FRRs as follows:
Predicted FRR            Number of       Percent of those with  Total projects Cost Percent of cost of total
Projects       projections         (P Million)        projects with
projections
15% and less                  5                   3                  267                   5
Over 15- 20%                  41                  21                1,071                 20
Over 20% - 25%                35                  18                 916                  17
Over 25% - 30%                35                  18                1,180                 22
Over 30% - 40%                38                  20                 745                  14
Over 40%                      38                  20                1,276                 24
Total with Projected         192                 100                5,457                 100
FRR
No Projection Made           480                                    1,042
Total Projects               672                                    6,499
Ex Ante economic analysis on 47 sub projects, which accounted for 52% of project investment, gave a frequency
distribution of expected ERRs as follows:
Predicted ERR            Number of        Percent of those with Total projects Cost   Percent of cost of
Projects            projections    (P Million)         total projects with
projections
15% and less                   1                   2                 247                    7
Over 15- 20%                  13                  28                 581                   17
Over 20% - 25%                 9                   19                664                   20
Over 25% - 30%                11                  23                 721                   22
Over 30% - 40%                 4                   9                 216                    6
Over 40%                       9                   19                941                   28
Total with Projected          47                  100                3,371                 100
ERR
No Projection Made            625                                    3,128
Total Projects                672                                    6,499
The median ERR is in the 25-30% range, and the average, weighted by investment is about 30%.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
iStage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty       f          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation       Development
Month/Year      Count       Specialty                           Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation           5    A,B,D,F                                 S                   S
5/93
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appr. 4/94                5    A,B,D,F                                 S                  S
Pre-Appr.: 1/94
Nego.: 6/95               4    A,B,D,F
Board: 9/95               3    B,G
Sign.: 10/95
Eff.: 4/96
Supervision
7/96                      2*  A,B                                      S                  S
4/97                      2 *  A,B
2/98                      3 *  A,B,F
ICR
6/99                      4    A,B,F                                   S                   S
Specialty:      A: Agricultural Economist
B: Financial Analyst
C: Agricultural Credit
D: Financial Management Specialist
E: Economist
F: Environmental Specialist
G: Legal Counsel
(b) Staff'
Stage of Project Cycle                       ActualULatest Estimate
UNo. Staff weeks               us$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                  35.6                          150.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                       35.2                          119.8
Supervision                                49.6*                       180.0**
ICR
Total
*Because there were other ongoing activities with LBP during the project period involving the same task manager and
consultants, closer contact was maintained with the project than the one per year supervision missions indicated here.
** Info as of June 1999. No further report was available under SAP.
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Physical                                    *H OSUOM ON ONA
E Financial                                  *H OSUOM ON ONA
O Institutional Development                  0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                   O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Gender                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development                 0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                   0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
0 Other (Please specify)
*Poverty Reduction /Private Sector Development - The project did not directly address these issues, but
its outcome is satisfactory in terms of contributing towards poverty alleviation by providing incremental
jobs. In that its focus is entirely on improving financial access to the private sector, which it has done
successfully, it can also be considered as having a satisfactory Private Sector Development Impact.
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS   OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
[Z Preparation                                     O HS * S  O U  O HU
X Government implementation performance            O HS 0 S  C U  C( HIU
Z Implementation agency performance                0 HS 0 S  C U  C HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS   C U  O HU
Government Implementation performance - Would be downgraded to unsatisfactory if Dividend issues and the
those concerned with ARF's debt to LBP are not resolved by June 2000.
Implementation agency performance - Would be upgraded to highly satisfactory if RCF component disburses
fully and LBP meets its equity growth target by end 2000.
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report
Legal Documents
Supervision Reports
Progress Reports
Impact of Project on Government Cash Flow
- 28 -



