DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1159-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
GHANA
FOR A
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
December 8, 1972
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Cedi      =      US$0.7 8
1 US$       =      Cedi 1.28



INTERNATIONAL DEVILOPI'vENT ASSOCLTION
REPOUT AND RECONENDATION OF THET PRESIDENT TO THFE
E)ECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
GHANA FOR A SUGAR RjEHABILITATION PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ghana for the equivalent of US$15.6 million on stand-
ard IDA terms to help finance a project for rehabilitation of Ghana's sugar
industry through expanding cane production; replacing field and factory
equipment; providing more efficient management; and a feasibility study of
future expansion. The project also provides technical assistance for
strengthening the Agricultural Development Bank.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An IBRD economic mission was in Ghana in June-July 1972. The
mission's report (AW-4o) was an updating of the Economic Report (AW-32a),
issued in March 1972. Both reports have already been distributed to the
Executive Directors. The salient features of the economic situation are
summarized in the following paragraphs.
3.        The economy continues to be characterized by major structural
imbalances on external account and in public finances. Cocoa remains the
principal source of export earnings (accounting for about 70 percent of
merchandise exports) and with slow-growing world demand together with
widely fluctuating world cocoa prices the balance of payments situation
has been highly unstable. There has been a persistent failure to diversify
exports or to reduce the very high dependence on imports for meeting both
domestic consumption and production demands. The balance of payments
situation has been further strained by a rising burden of external debt
service arising from an intensive and largely inappropriate investment
policy in the early 1960's. Furthermore, with the existence of a manda-
tory 180-day credit system for the finance of imports since 1965 the cost
of the already disproportionately high level of imports has been increased.
These factors have resulted in recurring balance of payments crises, a
continuous deterioration in the foreign exchange reserve position and
a growing volume of short-term external debt.
4.        On public finances there has been a persistent tendency for
budget current expenditures to rise at a rapid rate and to outstrip budget
revenues which are overly dependent on cocoa export duties and import
taxes. In addition to the imbalances in the government budget per se,
there are a large number of public agencies and enterprises whose activities
have not been subjected to adequate economic criteria and which remain depend-
ent on budget support or easy access to bank borrowing. This imbalance in
public finances and the general high consumption orientation in the economy
have produced strong inflationary tendencies.



5.        In general, Ghana's pace of economic development over the last
decade has failed to keep abreast of population growth.
6.        This difficult set of circumstances confronted the new Government,
led by the National Redemption Council (ICC), which assumed office on
January 13, 1972. Its predecessors had failed to make very substantial
inroads on the basic structural problems. Just prior to the change in
administration, a major crisis in the balance of payments dominated the
economy. Cocoa prices declined by approximately 25 percent in 1971 reducing
export earnings by about 90 million dollars below the 1970 level. Following
import liberalization measures introduced in 1970 and 1971 import growth
was particularly rapid, short-term external debt increased dramatically and
there was a further decline in foreign exchange reserves which at end 1971
covered only about two weeks imports. The previous Government tried to
correct the situation in December 1971 by a 78 percent devaluation of the
New Cedi (from N$1.02 to $1.00 to N$1.82 to $1.00).
7.        One of the first actions of the NRC was to announce a revaluation
of the Cedi from N¢1.82 to the dollar to N1.28 to the dollar, thus effecting
a devaluation of about 25 per-cent compared to the pre-December 1971 rate.
In addition, the Government has returned all imports to direct licensing,
banned the import of a number of commodities, abolished the mandatory
180-day credit system and introduced a sight basis for import payment. An
import program involving a large retrenchment of imports for 1972 has been
adopted.  This measure, together with an irmprovement in world cocoa prices,
has resulted in a trade surplus of US$52 million in the first four months
of 1972 compared to a deficit of US$69 millionfor 1971 (a deficit of US$31
million in the first four months of 1971). The impact of the large cutback
in imports on general economic activity has so far been moderated by the
existence of large stocks of consumption and production goods from the
import boom in 1971. However, the Government has also embarked on a
vigorous policy of restructuring domestic production and consumption to
accord with realistic import possibilities. A program of rapid expansion
in domestic food production has been successfully launched and domestic
industries are now obliged to promote the use of domestic sources of supplies.
"Self-reliance" has become a keynote of the Governmr.ent's policy and so far
its efforts to encourage small-scale agriculture, to increase domestic
agricultural production and ensure its efficient distribution and marketing
have been impressive. There have been improvements in the preparation of
development projects as well.. A more lasting improvement in the balance of
payments position will, however, depend on a more rapid and consistent
expansion of exports. The Government has introduced a bonus scheme for the
promotion of non-traditional exports as well as adopting policies to
rehabilitate and revitalize the cocoa sector.
8.        In March 1972, the Chairman of the NRC indicated that the new
Government of Ghana generally welcomed private foreign investment, while,
at the same time, it intended to acquire through negotiations government
majority  participation in certain foreign-owned extractive industries,
particularly in the minerals field. In June, the Government invited six



-3-
mining and timber companies to negotiations on this matter. Subsequently, the
NRC Chairman clarified that the Government's approach was to achieve a greater
degree of what he called "partnership" in joint state-private participation
in extractive and other strategic enterprises within the Ghanaian economy. On
December 6 the Government issued a White Paper on government participation in
foreign-owned mining companies. The White Paper announced that the Government
had decided to acquire, with effect from October 1, 1972, 55 percent of
the equity in these companies, for which it promised full and fair compensation.
9.        The Government continues to be faced with a difficult budget situation.
A number of its initial decisions, e.g. to restore housing and transuort
allowances for civil servants, to subsidize prices of certain consumer goods anci
to increase minimum wages aggravated the already serious budget imbalance.    The
recent economic mission visited Accra at the time the Government was in process
of formulating its fiscal 1972/73 budget policies and measures. The mission
found that without new budgetary measures current revenue would decline by about
¢30 million -- or 7 percent below total revenue in 1971/72 and that the overall
budget deficit would reach about ¢130 million compared to ¢50 million in 1971/72. In
addition, there has been a very substantial increase in bank borrowing by extra-
budgetary state enterprises and agencies during the first half of 1972.    While
the mission alerted the Government to the imperative need for early, substantial
corrective action, it concluded that a more permanently viable budget and public
finance position could only be achieved gradually.
10.       In September, the Government announced new budgetary measures, among
them an import license tax, which should not only increase revenues, but also
help establish a more realistic alignment of domestic and international costs
and prices. Confronted with the difficulty of raising additional revenues in
a period of relative economic stagnation, the Government intends to implement
strict controls over recurrent expenditures. A move in that direction was made
by acknowledging the need to reduce the size of the government establishment and
by removing a number of socio-economic services from the government budget.
Post and Telecommunications is to operate as a financially autonomous body
outside the budget; similarly certain activities of the I'iinistry of lgriculture
(irrigation, seed multiplication, mechanization and transport) are to be in-
corporated and are expected to follow realistic commercial pricing policies.
The Government's priority of agriculture development is reflected in the fact
that about /39 million of an estimated capital expenditure of ,98 million is
to be devoted to agricultural activities. These aim at substantial production
increases to meet Ghana's domestic demand for food, feed and industrial materials.
Furthermore, the new budgetary measures included the introduction of a new
export bonus system -- acknowledging the need to diversify Ghana's exports.
While these budgetary measures move in the right direction, further action will
be needed to stem the inflationary pressures which now exist in the Ghanaian
economy. The Government is aware of this danger and has indicated its readiness
to take further budgetary measures. W4e intend to monitor the economic situation
in Ghana closely.
11.       Ghana's external public indebtedness was $644 million at the end of 1971,
of which about 50 percent consisted of long-term loans (largely secured since
February 1966), 45 percent of suppliers' credits incurred before February 1566,
and 5 percent of suppliers' credits accepted thereafter. Following debt re-
scheduling agreements reached under the 1966, 1968 and 1970 London Conferences
on Ghana's debt, total debt service obligations would have risen from $51 million
in 1972 to $61 million in 1976 and would remain at about that level through 1978.
On February 5, 1972, the Government announced a new policy towards its external



debt obligations. It indicated that it would continue to honor payments due on
all long-term loans, including IBBRD loans and ID.A credits.  However, medium-term
suppliers' credits contracted before February 1966 would be scrutinized
rigorously and the Government proposed to accept, as binding obligations, all
those established as valid contracts which had not been incurred 1... by fraud,
corruption or other illegality". While repudiating several of such alleged
cases, the Government was prepared to go to international arbitration (ICSID) on
issues arising from disputes on those contracts. On uncontested contracts, the
Government proposed repayments on extended terms (10 years' grace and 40 years'
amortization thereafter) because of Ghana's critical economic situattion.   It
stated its plan for similar rearrangement of obligations on suppliers' credits
contracted after February 1966.
12.       Subsequently, the creditor countries and Gthana asked me, in consultation
with the Managing Director of the !PF, to act as an intermediary in the settle-
ment of the debt problem. I agreed to provide good offices in this dispute after
having satisfied myself that there was enough flexibility on either side to make
it possible to hope that a solution could be found which would be acceptable.
It was agreed that the Bank would send an economic mission to Ghana, and that its
report would provide an assessment of Ghana's development needs and resources
against which the debt problem would be considered. Its conclusions served as
the bac'kground for a mid-October creditors' meeting in London.   At that conference,
the creditors agreed on a joint proposal for the settlement of the medium-term
debt problem and asked the Bank to transmit this proposal to the Government of
Ghana, expressing the hope that the Bank would continue to provide its good offices
in this disnute. The Government of Ghana received the proposal on November 6 and
is now considering it.
13.       No Bank loans or IDA credits have been made to Ghana since the new
Government came to power last January, although a number of oDerations were in
an advanced stage of preparation, including two proposed credits which had
already been negotiated. The un certainties created by the new Government's
initial measures in its economic program and the precarious financial and economic
situation warranted a cautious approach to new lending. Ghana's creditworthiness
position impedes Bank lending. I believe, however, that a resumption of IDA
lending is justified by the improved balance of payments situation, the Govern-
ment's positive budgetary and other actions, in addition to its readiness to
move forward towards a solution to the debt problem. The credit now before
you illustrates the emphasis we plan to give to projects which directly help to
strengthen the balance of payments.   The scale of IDJA operations will be deter-
mined against further evidence of the Government's willingness and ability to
make further progress in the ecionomic situation, including taking reasonable
steps towards finding a generally acceptable solution to the debt problem.    Over
the long term, the Bank's lending a-pproach will be guided by the indications
that Ghana would be unable to siecure more viable economic growth, even at a
modest rate, without both substantial debt relief and a higher level of con-
cessional aid than in the past.   This conclusion emerges from the recent Bank
economic report (7-GT40) which projects a substantial external resource gap over
the remainder of the 1970's.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
14.       The Bank Group has lent US$84.7 million of which Us$47 million was
a Bank loan made in 1962 for the Volta dam and associated infrastructure.
The remainder has been lent since 1968 for power, cocoa, water supply and
sewerage, fisheries and highway design. Annex I contains a summary statement
of loans and credits as of October 31, 1972 as well as notes on projects in
execution. There are no major problems in these activities with the exception
of the Fisheries project (Credit 163-GH).
15.       Ghana is facing the major task of restructuring its economy.   Bank
Group support of this objective will entail stronger effort in the agricultural
sector, for which plans are underway. In addition to further crop-oriented
projects, it will be important to improve Ghana's development institutions,
especially the Agricultural Development Bank which could serve an important
function in the Government's new agricultural program. Projects in which the
Bank Group participates will focus on institution-building and training of
Ghanaian nationals as a basis for further improvements in project preparation
and greater competence in project implementation.
16.       In mid-November, a Bank mission completed its field appraisal of
the proposed cotton, oil palm and rice projects described in Part III below.
Other future projects benefitting the agriculture sector are expected on the
basis of studies currently underway to explore the feasibility of livestock
development and, under Credit 163, expansion of fishing port facilities.
17.       In infrastructure, future Bank Group activity will remain substantial
but will gradually decline as joint financing with other donors develops.
The public utilities with which the Bank has been cooperating are functioning
well and should increasingly be able to attract financing from a number of
bilateral   sources.  Future infrastructure projects are likely to be, except
for the new field of telecommunications, mainly follow-on projects in line
with growth of demand for water, power and sewerage.
18.       The Bank has appraised and is now reviewing the assessments of up-
coming lending operations in road rehabilitation, water supply and telecom-
munications. For several years, the Government of Ghana has sought to re-
habilitate its trunk road network in order to repair road failures and upgrade
other road sections. On the basis of investigations of some 2,200 miles of
road, a team of consultants under the auspices of the U.K. Government has
identified several hundred miles for which rehabilitation would give high
returns, as well as contribute to agricultural marketing. The second project
entails a proposal to increase water supply to the Accra/Tema metropolitan
area and adjacent rural sections, following on the successful execution of
Credit 160-GH. Further, a project has been prepared to meet Ghana's more pressing
telecommunications requirements, including the rehabilitation of exchanges and
long distance facilities, expansion of local exchange capacity, and extension



of long distance and telex networks.   Joint or parallel financing arrangements
for the latter two projects are now being discussed with bilateral aid agencies.
19.       An education project may be ready for approval early next year.
Ghana's education system is re-Latively well developed and quantitatively large
by international standards.   The project would therefore focus on more economic
administration of the general educational system (currently accounting for a
major share of budgetary commitments) and on selective expansion and improvement
on the technical and vocational side. Later, it is hoped to evolve an approach
to further education of the teenage elementary school leavers who are at present
given no lurther training if they cannot get into the small formal secondary
system.
I10.      The Bank Group's share in Ghana's total external debt is small in rela-
tion to other lenders', but its proportion of long-term offical debt outstanding
was approximately 25 percent at the end of 1971.
21.       Within the past few years, bilateral commitments of external assistance
have totalled about $-2-54 million per annum.   In the future, Ghana will not only
need to reach a satisfactory settlement of the medium-term debt problem. It also
must mobilize substantial resources for its development.   There are some pros-
pects for further diversification of the sources of external aid and the Bank
Group-sponsored Consultative Group should facilitate the enlistment and coordina-
tion of this assistance, including joint financing arrangements. The Bank Group
also will have to provide substantial development financing to help Ghana resume
and accelerate its growth.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN GHANA
22.       Commercial agriculture is commonplace in the forest zone of southern
Ghana as a result of the long--standing development of cocoa farming there.
Most farmers in the country participate in the cash economny although some areas
of the west, east and northern regions, where agricultural subsistence farming
is characteristic of development,has lagged behind the south. Farm-holdings
in Ghana are small, mainly between two and ten acres, and absentee landholding
is generally limited to parts of the cocoa subsector where such arrangements
have been traditional.
23.       Agriculture accounts for about 40 percent of Ghana's GNP and provides
a direct livelihood for about 60 percent of its population. With growing
population but limited urban employment opportunities, the importance of
agriculture as a source of income will increase. Cocoa earns 60-70 percent of
Ghana's foreign exchange, the level varying with the world market and local
conditions. Given the limited non-agricultural prospects in the econonm, the
general level of prosperity in Ghana in the near term depends on significant
growth in the agriculture sector. This will require a marked reversal of the
stagnation of non-cocoa agriculture in the 1960's when farm output fell below
demand, leading to rising prices and increasing imports of commodities which



- 7 -
could be produced locally. This was partly due to the policies followed
under the First Republic (1956-1965) which emphasized large-scale para-statal
farming and discouraged food production by the traditional sector. The ex-
tension organization was dismantled and research disrupted. The Government's
investments exceeded its management capacities and were in several cases
badly located and only marginally justifiable. Some, including the two sugar
estates involved in the proposed sugar project, are salvageable, and the
Government is attempting to restore those to a sound basis. Meanwhile, much
Ghanaian farming still suffers from shortages of the requisite inputs, marketing
problems and outdated cultivation practices.
24.       The present Government's strategy is first, import substitution
for greater self-sufficiency; second, export diversification; and, third,
geographical spread of agricultural development. Considerable emphasis will
be put on labor-intensive techniques to create employment and to economize
on foreign exchange. This strategy is appropriate to the situation; food
and other agricultural imports now generally make up 15-20 percent of the
total (in 1970, after some import liberalization measures had been taken,
they rose to some US$80 million or about 22 percent of imports). Much of this
could be eliminated at economic cost. The new agricultural policy similarly
emphasizes greater production of raw materials for Ghana's factories.
Diversification of agricultural exports will be a slower process involving
expanded production of relatively unfami].iar products (e.g. pineapple, copra,
ginger) and sophisticated international marketing arrangements.
25.       An "Operation Feed Yourself" drive was launched earlier this year
with a $15 million program to promote increased production of traditional
local commodities, notably cassava, yams, plantain, fish, maize and veg-
etables. The campaign has consisted of apparently effective exhortation,
information services on radio and newspapers, supply of basic tools, seeds,
rehabilitation of feeder roads and bridges and guaranteed suDport prices.
Storage facilities have been expanded, as have agricultural credit and market-
ing facilities. The current harvest will be a partial gauge of the success of
the operation; up to now there appear to have been good results, not only
psychological but in growth of planting and harvesting and voluntary labor.
26.       The next stage is to tackle the less familiar and agriculturally more
demanding crops such as rice, cotton, oil palm, livestock, tomatoes and sugar.
For these, more detailed programs are being worked out to give sustained credit,
technical assistance and processing facilities. Expatriate advisors have been
assisting the Ministry to develop these projects, relying in part on the sectoral
analyses contained in recent Bank and U. S. studies. In the upper and northern
regions, programs for cotton and rice have ben prepared (with help from the Bank's
mission in West Africa and French technical assistance) and presented to the
Bank. These and an oil palm project in the eastern region were appraised last
month for possible Bank Group financing.



- 8-
27.       These projects emphasize institution-building in order
to enhance Ghana's capacity for broad-scale agricultural development.
The rice project in particular would attempt to strengthen the Ministry of
Agriculture's extension services which will be valuable for future programs.
The Ministry is already aware of the need to rationalize its structure
to secure better coordination of its technical branches and is carrying
out internal studies on how to achieve this.   Harvard Advisory Group
personnel and Ghanaians from outside the civil service have been assisting
the Ministry with project and program planning. The cotton project will
seek to upgrade the edisting development authority and thus serve as a
prototype for programs in crops for which Development Boards have been set
up but which until now have not been very effective.
28.       In this context, the proposed sugar project is an example of
import substitution, of rehabilitating past investments and of the close
coordination between production and processing. The sugar project revolves
around nucleus state-owned estates which, in addition to producing their
own cane, perform processing facilities and provide technical services to
outlying smallholders who market their crop at the estates. This approach
has worked well in other parts of Lfest Africa for crops which require
expensive processing equipment. The Government is aware that these programs
tend to require initial expatriate operating assistance and is making arrange-
ments, sometimes assisted by the Bank Group, to find them. Considerable
store is rightly set on the training aspects of expatriate assistance.
29.       Since credit will also be an integral part of the Government's
programs, much depends on the chief source of finance for farmers, the
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB). So far, ADB has had many problems
with poor management, credit control and bad debts. It is also in danger
of becoming increasingly over-extended in its operations. ADB will face
some additional financial problems since its lending rate has been
decreased to 6 percent. For a number of crops, including sugar cane, this
rate is unnecessarily low, and the Government is considering permitting
higher rates for some crops. The proposed sugar project would include
technical assistance for ADB in accounting and credit control. Involve-
ment of ADB in Bank Group agricultural projects would provide further
institution-building opportunities which, in turn, should serve to broaden
its role in future projects. The Governmeit is also trying to integrate
the various research efforts going on in Ghana into the agricultural develop-
ment efforts. Research will be an element in most of the individual
crop programs.



PART IV - THE PROJbCT
30.       The proposed project is partially based on stuces carried out by
Bookers Agricultural and Technical Services, Ltd., Hawaiian Agronomics, Inc.,
the National Investment Bank of Ghana and Tate and Lyle Technical Services,
Ltd. The project was appraised in April/Niay 1971. Negotiations were held in
December 1971 and the Ghanaian delegation was headed by- Mr. R. A. Quarshie, then
Minister of Trade and Industry.   Because of the uncertainties of the economic
situation in Ghana after the events described in paras. 6 and 7, the proposed
project was deferred pending the results of the Bank economic mission earlier
this year. The new Government has endorsed the project, now modified by changes
in project circumstances-' and the lapse in time, essentially as negotiated.
31.       The project consists of the rehabilitation of two sugar factories and
estates; the provision of management and equipment for improving their operations;
the expansion and rehabilitatim of sugar cane outgrowers fields; the provision
of credit to the outgrowers and the provision of technical assistance to the ADB.
The project would be carried out over the six-year period 1973-78.
32.       The two factories were built by Polish and Czech contractors and com-
missioned in 1967. Since 1968, they have been part of the conglomerate Ghana
Industrial Holding Company (GIHOC) which was established to direct various state
industrial enterprises set up under the First Republic. GIHOC contracted with
Associated Consulting Engineers (ACE) of Pakistan to take over the technical
management of first one factory (Komenda) and then the other (Asutsuare) for a
period of three years. The contract was extended for a year and expired on
June 30, 1972.
33.       The factories have consistently operated well below capacity.    Cane
supplies from both farmers and the estates have been inadequate. Sugar is a
relatively unfamiliar crop in Ghana, cultural techniques have been poor and, on
the estates, production has been limited by shortages of water and labor. The
factories also suffer from out-of-date and inappropriate design and lack of
foreign exchange to provide additional field and other equipment. Financial and
cost control have been lacking. In general, the magnitude of the various problems
has been beyond the capacity of ACE and GIHOC to solve, although improvements have
been achieved&in the last two years. Financial losses have been a recurring drain
on GIHOC's resources.
3h.       Asutsuare and Komenda are in areas generally suited to cane growing.
The areas available for the estate are 18,730 acres at Asutsuare and 5,500 acres
at Komenda. About 250 farmers on 5,000 acres and some 280 farmers on about 3,500
acres grow cane for sale to the respective factories. Farm acreages vary from
2 to over 300 acres with the farms around Komenda being generally smaller than at
Asutsuare. 40 percent of the acreage at Komenda comprises farms smaller than 25
acres, compared to 16 percent at Asutsuare. While some farmers are townspeople,
most are local and full-time farmers.   A limitation on farm size (25 acres for
first year plantings) is being set for credit eligibility under the project
to discourage over-ambitious plantings (and reduce the present high level of bad
debt). The larger commercial farmers would draw credit from the commercial
banks.   The project would include housing and health facilities at Asutsuare,



- 10 -
which is situated in a sparsely populated area where the lack of housing
has made it difficult to recruit a stable labor force.
35.       A newly registered limited liability company, Ghana Sugar Estates,
Ltd., (Ghasel) has been formed to own and operate the two factories and estates.
The Government will be the sole awner of the company except for shares worth
US$500,000 representing 5 percent of the equity capital, held by the Dutch
firm HVA Internationaal which is providing management services to Ghasel under
the project. Farmers in the project area would be eligible to receive credit,
extension services and plant-cane under the project and to sell their output to
Ghasel. Under a master agreement between Ghasel and ADB governing the purchase
of farmers' cane, technical assistance and loan recovery, the farmers would
enter individual loan agreements with ADB. Proceeds of loans so received would
be usable for land clearance, planting materials, fertilizers, a living
allowance in the first year for a new farmer, and for part of the labor costs
incurred for harvesting. The loans would bear interest at the rate of not less
than 9 percent and be repayable over four years.
36.       These procedures, together with the acreage limits attached to credit
eligibility are expected to give an acceptable debt recovery rate as well as
fair and efficient services for farmers. ADB's performance would benefit from
participation in the arrangements and from the technical assistance proposed
for it in the project. This should help to remove the shortcomings in ADB's
credit control and accounting procedures noted in previous President's Reports.
37.       To monitor the sugar industry generally and to advise the Government,
a Sugar Industry Committee is to be set up with membership and terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA. Its membership would include the relevant
government ministries, Ghasel ancl the Sugar Planters' Association. The Committee
would be concerned in particular with cane prices to be paid by Ghasel to
farmers, prices to be paid for Gliasel's products, and the administration and
levels of import taxation on sugar.
38.       Since February 1972, sugar has been included among the commodities which
are bought under centralized procurement arrangements and subjected to controls
to avoid abrupt price increases. Under this provision, the Government purchases
eleven essential commodities locally and abroad, in order to economize by bulk
buying and prevent hoarding and smuggling. It administers subsidies on seven
of these commodities, deemed necessary to soften the impact of devaluation. The
Government buys the locally-produced commodities, including sugar, at prices
which reflect costs and an agreed profit margin and then sells to retailers at
the subsidized price; imported sugar is also retailed at this same price. The
subsidy is a temporary measure wilich is expected to be phased out as consumers
adjust to the higher price levels generally following the devaluation.
39.       Most sugar is sold for household consumption with a small proportion
going for industrial use and some 20 percent for traditional distilling of a
local drink known as "akpeteshie".   Because of the shortage of sugar, there is
a campaign underway to substitute molasses, of which the factories have an excess
supply, in distilling.  The success of this campaign would improve Ghasel's
financial position as it can sell all the sugar it has and has too few customers
for molasses.



40.  Sugar consumption as a whole in Ghana has continued to grow despite
a rising price trend since 1967 and restrictive import licensing requirements
until early 1970. In 1970, total consumption of sugar reached 93,800 tons or
about 10 kilograms per capita, compared to 4.5 kilograms in 1963. The present
level of consumption is about average for Africa, and is expected to continue to
increase to the extent that total consumption in 1978 would be around 145,000
tons. In the absence of the rehabilitation and efficient operation of the in-
dustry, practically all the sugar would have to be imported at an estimate cost
of US$183 per ton, i.e. a total cost of about US$26 million per annum. With the
project, domestic production of sugar is estimated to increase from 9,500 tons
in 1971/72 to some 45,000 tons in 1978/79. The expected growth in consumption
of sugar would mean that imports would still be on the level of those currently
required. However, domestic production should then be sufficient to provide some
30 percent of total requirements, a ten-fold increase over the average in the
period 1966-71.
41.       The estimates of increased production are based on conservative yields
and factory recovery rates. Average annual cane yields per acre are estimated to
increase at Asutsuare from 10 tons for estate and 15 tons for farmers in 1969/70
to 31 and 20 tons respectively by 1978/79. At Komenda, the average annual
estate yield would rise from 19 to 21 tons but farmers' yield may fall from
21 to 17 tons due to limitations of the irrigation system and the high proportion
of newly planted cane. The average annual yield of 21.1 tons cane/acre in 1978/79
would compare with 25.3 tons achieved on average in Africa in 1968/69. The sugar
recovery rate would improve from about 5 to 9 percent compared with about 10-11
percent in other sugar-producing countries. If cane trials to be conducted
under the project succeed, actual yields achieved will be higher than projected.
With the given yield estimates, totalcane production would increase from
178,500 tons in 1970/71 to 486,000 tons in 1978/79.
42.       Total project costs during the implementation period are estimated
at US$24.8 million equivalent. The foreign exchange costs would amount to
US$16.1 million, or 65 percent, and would be covered by the proposed Credit of
US$15.6 million and HVA's equity contribution of US$500,000. The apportionment
of total costs between Ghasel, ADB and the Government and their financing is
sunmmarized in Annex III.
43.       The Government would relend US$14.4 million from the Credit to Ghasel
at 7-1/4 percent interest over 20 years with a six-year grace period. The Govern-
ment also would relend US$1.0 million from the Credit to ADB and 6.5 percent in
installments with each installment repayable over six years. The remaining
US$o.5 million of the Credit will finance technical assistance to ADB and a
study of future sugar industry expansion. Government lending for local costs
to Ghasel and ADB would be on the same terms as the on-lending of the Credit
described above. Goods and services required for the project would be exempt
from import duties.
44.       Within the total project, there will be procurement of about US$8.2
million for factory equipment, field and administration vehicles, and fertilizer.
This procurement will be through international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. However, to ensure
that the factories are renovated in time to meet the 1973/74 crushing season,
which must begin no later than October 15, 1973, it is necessary to carry out
minimum repairs and renovations. This will require, after direct inquiries to
specialized sugar equipment manufacturers, the purchase of certain items of



- 12 -
sugar-making equipment which must be integrated into existing machinery. This
is not expected to exceed US$1 million. Also, spare parts amounting to less
than US$500,oo0 which will be required to recondition presently unserviceable
field equipment, will be purchased from the original suppliers.
45.       Civil works totallingr about US$5.7 million comprising irrigation
(US$0.8 million), factories (US$1.4 million), and housing (US$3.5 million) would
also be subject to international bidding. Local firms which include subsidiaries
of foreign companies are expect;ed to win most of these contracts. Ghana is
not a party to any preferentiaL tariff agreement. Retroactive financing of up
to US$300,000 in respect of expenditures since October 1, 1972 on the ADB tech-
nical assistance component and on management expenses is proposed.
46.       The Government has negotiated a contract for management services for
Ghasel with PIVA Internationaal of Holland. HVA is one of the few firms qualified
for the type of work involved and has worked in a similar capacity on an IFC
project in Ethiopia.  The costs of management during the project period amount
to US$6.4 million, consisting of US$2.9 million for salaries; US$1.8 million
for allowances and other expenses; and US$1.7 million of management fees. A
large number of expatriates is considered essential at first, owing to the
scarcity of Ghanaians with experience in a well functioning sugar company. i
comprehensive training program has been laid down as part of HVA's functions
under the management agreement.  The managing director of Ghasel would be an
expatriate, directing the company's day to day operations subject to the general
policy responsibility of the Board of Directors. Management fees under the
contract are based on a flat rate and a percentage of the value of production
with the latter gradually replacing the flat rate fee altogether. The terms
of the contract are to last 5 years, after which they would be renegotiated and
submitted for IDA approval.
47.       The two sugar factories and estates have been losing money at about
the rate of /2 million a year, which loss has been covered by GIHOC and indirectly
by the Government. The financial projections made for Ghasel during the project
period show a profit for the first time at Komenda in 1974/75 and the following
year at Asutsuare. Under the provisions of the 1963 Capital Investment Act,
Ghasel would be exempt from duty on fuel oil and from income tax on profits for
5 years, with the possibility of carrying forward losses incurred during that
period. This would in fact preclude any tax liability for the first 15 years.
Ghasel similarly is expected to obtain a waiver from the turnover tax to which
companies in Ghana are liable.
48.       Ghasel's equity would be composed of ¢9.5 million of government con-
tribution for the transfer of the existing assets from GIHOC to Ghasel and
0?0.6 million subscribed by HVA in cash.  Ghasel would incur long-term debts of
t18 million on-lent from the IDA Credit and some /8 million lent directly by the
Government. In addition, to cover initial operating losses the company would
borrowv some $3 million from the Government, to be repaid in full by 1978.
The long-term loans are to be liquidated in annual installments starting
1977/78. Ghasel has agreed not to incur debts during the project period in
excess of those mentioned above without IDA approval and thereafter unless debt
service charges on long-term debts would be covered at least 1.5 times by
net cash earnings. In the case of short-term debt, the applicable limit would
be 20 percent of gross revenues.



- 13 -
lh.       'Me discounted financial rate of return would be 5 perceriL,
as:;tming ¢9.5 million to be the value of cxistiilg asseL2 tu be vested
in Ghasel, or 9 percent if these assets are considered as sunk cosLs
(since no profits would be made in the absence of the proposed new
investments). In order to ensure that Ghasel would maintain a sound finan-
cial position and be able to meet debt service charges, assurances were
obtained that Government and Ghasel would seek to maintain an annual return
on capital employee (including valuation of existing assets) of not less
than 8 percent after 1977/78 and that the prices of Ghasel's products
would be adjusted to achieve such return, if necessary. The main factors
affecting Ghasel's financial position which are more in the Government';
control than Ghasel's,include prices paid for sugar cane and imported sugar.
50.       It is estimated that Ghasel would operate profitably at a sugar
price equivalent to an Accra warehouse cost of 0260 per ton. The volatile
nature of the world sugar market and the prevalence of regulated prices
make forecasting and analysis of Ghana's competitive position difficult,
especially in the short run. However, the world sugar market is unuergoing
a transition from excess supply to excess demand and the Bank and FAO,
among others, are forecasting substantial increases in the free market
price of raw sugar. The details and implications of those trends are
outlined in the recent reappraisal of world sugar investment policies
(SecM 72-571). It noted that Ghana represents one of the more distinct
possibilities among LDCs for expanded sugar production which the report
indicated had considerable urgency. In the economic analysis of the proposed
project a conservative price estimate has been used, corresponding to a
c.i.f. Accra price equivalent for refined sugar of US$183 per ton during
the project's life. This is equivalent to 0242 per ton at the present
exchange rate. The current import taxation level is 045 per ton and i-
low compared to several other African countries. This limited measure of
protection is considered justifiable in view of the uncertainties of the
refined sugar market and in view of Ghana's current international price
and cost position.
51.       The economic rate of return on the project as a whole is estimatea
at 20 percent; for Asutsuare alone it would be 17 percent and for Komenda
31 percent. This assumes that past investment at Asutsuare is a sunk cost
with no market value and that without the project production would cease,
so that all future benefits are credited to the project, not just incremental
benefits as in the Komenda calculation. Shadow rates are used for labor
(75 percent of the official minimum wage in the modern sector) and for
foreign exchange (01.7 per US$1). Assuming cost increases of up to 20
percent, the rate of return would be 11 percent for Asutsuare and 23 percent
for Komenda.
52.       By 1978/79 as a result of the project, Ghana would have an efficient
sugar industry by international standards ane would receive net foreign



- 14 -
exchange savings on sugar imports estimated at US$5.2 million per year. The
Government would replace the current loss of about 02 million a year incurred
in maintaining the industry with operating surpluses of some 02 million
per year; it would further receive additional income taxes and excise
duties on sugar and alcohol of some 01 million. Against this, it would
lose some 01.6 million in import duties on sugar, assuming the current rates
of taxation, making a net gain of about 03.4 million. Without rehabilitation
of the existing factories, moreover, Ghana's sugar industry would probably
soon collapse. It has been estimated that building completely new factories
instead would cost nearly twice as much per ton of factory capacity than
the approach of this project. The project would also set a pattern for
future government irrigation projects, provide the basis for later expansion
of the sugar industry and strengthen the ADB as a whole.
53.       The project would ensure the continued employment of the 5,000
workers on the two estates, of whom the 3,000 at Asutsuare would otherwise
be laid off, and create about 1,700.additional jobs. The housing provided
at Asutsuare in particular will help to form a thriving community in depressed
areas.  The 530 or so existing sugar farmers would be able to better their
incomes and new farmers would join the industry. Taking 25 acres as the
typical farm size, a project larmer would average a net income after debt
service of about 01,850 per year starting with the first year of production.
54.       Conditions of effectiveness would include the conclusion of the
transfer of assets and current liabilities of the Sugar Division from GIHOC
to Ghasel, and commencement of the asset valuation; conclusion of on-lending
agreements, satisfactory to the Association, between the Government and Ghasel
and ADB; submission to the Association of work program for the project periou
by Ghasel; conclusion of an agreement between Ghasel and ADB governing
purchase of farmers' cane and repayments to ADB; ana establishment of the
Sugar Industry Committee. In addition, ADB's writing-off of its unrecoverable
debts, presently carried out, would have been completed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Association and the Republic
of Ghana, the draft Project Agreements between the Association and the
Agricultural Development Bank and Ghasel, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, 'Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, and
the text of a resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed
separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for credits
for agricultural projects.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of AgreemerLt of the Association.



- 15 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
December 8, 1972






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA - GHmIl.
AREA       2              POPULATION                                                 DENSITY
23235' 7   km                8.o million (mid-1970)                                     32 per
Rate of Growth:       (from 196oto197   ).                      per km2 of arable land
2.6 - 3.0
POPULATION CIHARACTERISTICS (1970)                                  HEALTH (year)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)     : 7-5,2                            Population per physician     li,,950 (19jo)
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)    1)-Ž2                               Population per hospital bed    1, 1 (1970)
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)  160 (1yo00 census)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1967)               Urban    itura-l           DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP (year)
°/ of national income, lowest quartile   71l.      11.1             % owned by top 10% of owners
highest quartile    25.8    hl .a8            % owned by smallest 10% of owners
ACCESS TO PIPED AND PUBLIC WELL WATER ( 970/71)                     ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (year)
% of population - urban    707 % of population - urban                                           1li
- rural    l %                                                      - rural
NUTRITION (year)                                                    EDUCATION (1969-70)
Calorie intake as % of requirements                                 Adult literacy rate            .
Pser capita protein intake             ..                           Primary school enrollment %    '   (6-11 age grouo
1/
GNP PER CAPITA in 1970 : US :260
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1970                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US $ Mln.       %                       1960-65           1965-70            1971
GNP at Market Prices :-/      95?1         100.0                      3-'               2. -0
Gross Domestic Investment      318          12.6                      1.                -5.5
Gross National Saving          3(5          12.1                     10.3              -1 1
Current Account Balance        -66          -2.6
Exports of Goods, NFS          465          18.2                      4.3              -1.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          495          19.6                      0.7              -(.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1.9 68
2/
Value Added                        Labor Force-                   V. A. Per Worker
Mlnm.                                         __                    us $         %
Agriculture                   779         8.5                    ...
Industry                      390       2l.3
Services                     1236       27.2                     ..        ..                     .
Unallocated
Total/Average           1605      100.0                              100.0                             101.10
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                          Central Government
(      Mln.)       7% of GDP                 (      Mln.)        % of GDP
197          197      196 -7                  1971Y71     1970/71 1968-71
Current Receipts                      ..            ..         ..                   491.5         18.6    15.8
Current Expenditure                    ..2).3                                                  .J2.2    -11-,.
Current Surplus                       ..            ..         ..                  +143.2          5t.2    1.5
Capital Expenditures                   ..           ..         ..                   118.2          -.5     3.7
External Assistance (net)              ..           ..         ..                     12.0         0.5     0.7
i '   a rrfl+--- c::rC,t La'b estimate is at 1970 market prices, calculated hb taking the revised i-oo 0 1 at market
lrrices c.ad a nlyrlg the growth rates in 1 969 and 1970 obtained from conventional i'ticona  Incomtee series
and convertinr, 1',70 est,nsates to US dollars by usin1g the we .ghted average exciange rate, 1  (1
' /  va5ed -op u ris'pci conventional llationa' Income accounts anlO the  a!Larnce oft )ayments data .- 1',7C
canvrt`ed at the then :-'evailing exchanRe rate.
not available
n-t -,nn1i->hlp



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA - GHANA
PJLIy
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                        1968        1969         1970        1971                      1972
(Million  Nl   outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                         350          388                      477 474 
Bank Credit to Public Sector (in,cl.coca     421          422         438          521
Bank Credit to Private Sector    tmancnng)     67           92                      175                       155
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             1i.9          16. 7        1 o.0        17.5
General Price Index (1963 = 100)              169.7        1i1.8        1d3.8        Ž95.5
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                             8.1          7.1          3 v.e
Bank credit to Public Sector                    3-4*                      2.H         21.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                  10.1         37.3         3 / . ,     38.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-71)
1969      1970     1971                                                 US $ Mln b   .
(Millions US $)
3 [   J3t         ~~~~~~~~Ccc,-l (DeCans3 and oroducts)  ,7y      7 ji
Exports of Goods, NFS            335      465;      3 9c                   (a      n    ru                           , 
ITm1ports of Goods, NFS         397       49L      179              Ti-     (   S   d 
Resource Gap (deficit =       -)   -12   T          -Y3                       ogsmorI                      1 
Plan alnese 
Interest Payments (net)         -.'0      -23       -2                 Afl other commodities              -_   _       3
Workers' Remittances              .    .      ..     *                      Total                         365 18 .5
Other Factor Payments (net)      -IT      -1?       -23
Net Transfers                     -I -1               1              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 197
Balance on Current Account        51      -60      -1 37
US ci Mln
Direct Foreign Investment         11       60        .0
Net KLT Borrowing                                                      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               445
Disbursements                  53       88        52                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  *.
Amortization                  -1?      -1(       -11                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal                        1        3        ti-c6/
Capital Grants                    ,.        .        ..              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19-,2-
Otlher Ccipital (net)             -       +18       +30C
Other items n.i.e.                 1       t        +22
Increase in Reserves (+)          -3       +9       -1.5               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)         90       75        dTh               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Net Reserves    (end year)L'      19        23       14
IATE OF EXCHANGE                                                IBRD/IDA LENDING, (latest month) (Million US S):
Throkq,h ,--c. 2, 1971                                                                                 IBRD         IDA
uis $ 10 
1.10   u US $ 0 98                                         Outstanding & Disbursed                141
Undisbursed                              1.2      11.3
Si 1Ce  -; .    '                                               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed            v         '1.7
US $ 1.00     eE 1i.S28
1.00)  US $ 3.22 
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at October 31, 1972)
Loan or                                                       US$ million
Credit                                                 Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year     Borrower          Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and two credits fully disbursed               47.0    11.5       -
618-GH     1969    Volta River   Power Generation
Authority                            6.0               1.3
160-GH     1969    ReDublic of  lWater Supply and
Ghana         Sewerage                       3.5       0.9
163-GH     1969    Republic of   Fisheries
Ghana                                        1.3       1.1
205-GH     1970    Republic of   Cocoa Rehabilitation
Ghana                                        8.5       8.2
256-GH     1971    Republic of   Power Distribution
Ghana                                        7-1       1.6
Total                                       53.0    31.9
of which has been repaid                   7.6      .2
Total now outstanding                       45.4    31.7
Amount sold                  .2
of which has been repaid   .1               .1
Total now held by Bank and IDA               E      31.7
Total undisbursed                            1.3    11.8      13.1
Note: There have been no IFC investments in Ghana.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 618 - Electric Power
This project i-ncluded the installation of the final two generating
units at Akosombo power plant and expansion of its transmicsion lines. The
project has been executed effectively anu is nearing completion. Deliveries
of items financed were made on schedule.  The supply of all electro-mechanical
equipment is now complete and its installation is well advanced.
Credit No. 160 - Water Supply and Sewerage
The project encompassed the extension of water distribution systems
in the Accra/Tema metropolitan area and improvement of Accra's sewerage
system.  These works are expected to be completed by March 1973, about
three months late but without significant increases in cost. The credit
also included the development of a management authority responsible for
Ghana's water supply and sewerage sector. The Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation is now a functioning entity with significantly improved manage-
ment and finances. Since the project began, GWSC's water revenues have
doubled and Ghana's three major water systems have become financially self-
supporting.
Credit No. 163 - Fisheries
The Credit 163 provided for (a) the construction of forty vessels
of the purse seiner type; (b) the provision of credits to fishermen for
their purchase of fishing vessels; (c) fishing harbor improvement and
expansion studies; and (d) the improvement of the Ghana Industrial Holding
Corporationts Boatyard Division. Implementation of the project has been
substantially delayed for all except the fishing port studies which are
almost half completed.
Problems related to the price of boats, which held up the major
portion of the project for over a year, were resolved in June 1971. At the
new price, demand from fishermen was strong but their request to increase the
size of the engine to allow f'or trawling (as well as purse seining) led to
further investigation and att.endant changes. A Bank mission found that
the original concept of the fishing vessel was no longer financially viable
due to decreased catches and prices of landed fish, exacerbated by increased
costs. It also concluded that fitting the project boats with larger engines
with dual purpose rigging (in order to extend the fishing season) could be
viable provided the number of boats was restricted in line with known fish
resources. On this basis, the Bank and Government agreed to reduce the
number of boats involved in the project to ten vessels from the original forty.
The procurement of gears and engines for the ten vessels is proceeding.
Further project delays have been encountered. Last May, the Government sug-



ANNEX II
Page 3
gested that the balance of the Credit, approximately US$540,o0o, be reallocated
to rehabilitate three high-seas vessels not nao fully operative and to
refit an additional trawler. Discussions on this request have, however,
been delayed by the Government's move to change the management of the State
Fisheries Corporation and changes in the arrangements between the private
and public enterprises which operate catching and marketing activities in
fisheries.
Credit No. 205 - Cocoa Rehabilitation
The project, principally involving the rehabilitation and replanting
of 87,000 acres of cocoa plantings, is proceeding quite well. During the
first year of field work, the replantings are good and on schedule with
excellent nursery practices. Control of swollen shoot virus disease is
well ahead of project requirements. These and other developments indicate
that the project unit is functioning effectively. The Bank and the Govern-
ment are currently discussing problems in connection with capsid control and
the interest rate for credits to farmers for rehabilitation and replantiing.
These problems appear likely to be resolved soon.
Credit No. 256 - Power Distribution
The project, a successor to the first power distribution project
now fully disbursed, is intended to complete the expansion of Ghana's dis-
tribution network for the overall 1968-1973 period. Deliveries of items
financed have been made on schedule although their installation has been
delayed somewhat because of a shortage of cement. Due partly to the general
economic stagnation in Ghana, sales of electricity have increased slowly
with revenues consequently deteriorating.   The Electricity Corporation now
faces the requirement for rate increases. The Corporation and the Volta
River Authority are collaborating in a study of the organization of the power
sector with an eye to streamlining its operations and eliminating overlapping
functions of the two utilities.






ANNEX III
GHANA - SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT CREDIT AND PROJECT SWMIARY
Borrower:              Republic of Ghana.
Beneficiary:           Ghana Sugar Estates Limited (Ghasel) and Agricultural
Development Bank of Ghana (ADB).
Amount:                US$15.6 million equivalent.  The proposed credit would
cover the project's estimated foreign exchange
component with the exception of US$500,000 equivalent
to be provided by HVA Internationaal of
Holland.
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms.
Relending:             The Government will on-lend US$14.4 million to
Ghasel for 20 years at 7.25% per annum;and US$1.0
million to ADB at 6.5% in installments, each
repayable over 6 years.
Project Description:   The project would assist the Government in re-establish-
ing the sugar industry in Ghana on a viable basis and
in improving agricultural credit operations. It would
include:
-- machinery and equipment for two sugar factories
and their associated sugar cane estates at Asutsuare
and Komenda;
-- planting 3,550 acres of sugar cane to complete the
two estates and replanting 7,350 acres;
-- provision of credit and extension services to
assist smallholders bring some 3,900 acres into
sugar cane production and to replant some 8,700
acres;
-- rehabilitation of irrigation works to meet all of
the Asutsuare estate requirements and pilot works
for about 600 acres at Komenda;
-- housing for management, staff and workers on the two
estates;
-- vehicles for management and staff on the two estates;
-- expatriate management services to establish opera-
tion of the sugar industry in a single Ghanaian
company and to train Ghanaian management and staff;



ANNEX III
Page 2
-- technical assistance to the Agricultural
Development Bank in credit accounting and control,
reviewing the financial position of the Bank, and
advising on credit policies and procedures;
-- a stuidy to determine the feasibility for further
expansion of sugar production.
Estimated Cost:
(Us$ million)
Component                           Foreign      Local      Total
Agricultural Development
a. Farmers                                0.87       0.53       1.40
b.  Estates                               3.12       1.21       4.33
c.  Fertilizer subsidy                    -          0.10       0.10
Factories                                   3.61       0.59       4.20
Buildings and Equipment                     1.85       1.56       3.41
Management and Training                     4.25       2.14       6.39
Incremental Working Capital                 -          1.48       1.48
Contingencies                               2.21       1.03       3.24
Industry Expansion Study                    0.04       0.01       0.05
Technical Assistance to ADB                 0.15       0.04       0.19
Total Project Cost                    16.10       8.69      24.79
Financing:                                         (US$ million)
Foreign      Local      Total
IDA Credit                                 15.60       -         15.60
HVA Equity                                  0.50       -          0.50
Ghasel - cash generation                    -          1.54       1.54



ANINEX III
(continued)                                              Page 3
Foreign      Local      Total
Farmers' own funds                                     0.23       0.23
Government                                             6.92       6.92
16.10       8.69      24.79
Estimated Disbursements:  Cumulative estimated disbursements at end of fiscal
year are as follows:
1973   1974   197    1976   1977   1978   1979
( 3$ millionT
2.4    7.6   10.0   11.6   13.4   15.2   15.6
Procurement Arrangements: Factory and equipment, field and administration
equipment and vehicles and fertilizer valued at
US$8.2 million would be procured on the basis of
international competition. However, certain new
sugar factory equipment must be integrated with
existing machinery- and spare parts needed to
recondition field equipment will be purchased
from original suppliers. Civil works contracts
for irrigation, factories and housing valued
at US$5.7 million would be procured through
international bidding, for which there would be
considerable competition fram local firms. Ghana
is not party to any preferential tariff arrange-
ments. Management services are being provided
under a negotiated contract by HVA Internationaal
of Holland.
Consultants:              The Government has appointed Berenschott, Bosboom
of Holland to assist the ADB in credit control
and accounting procedures, after evaluating
proposals from three interested firms. A study
will be conducted of the feasibility of sub-
sequently expanding sugar production in Ghana
beyond what is envisaged in the proposed project.
Consultants shall be selected for this study by
June 30, 1974.
Appraisal Report:         "Appraisal Report of the Sugar Rehabilitation
Project" (PA-lOOa), November 15, 1972.
Economic Rate of Return:  20%






~ML  XUPPER
La  C VOLTA                                      GHANA
`:jIVORY )
'E! COAST              SUGAR         REHABILITATION                 PROJECT i
I4X -L-                1       ESTATE          LOCATIONS *
*1'TOG'O
i 01.                                  B;kw-.
b oni
'                  ) \                    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~~~Atosormbo Dam //  
;:  -___X<                                                                                  X: 
Kade .f--ori.d.uH 5>Tarkw  .-    Intornati oial bauiidaries
Tokorod i                   41, 
'''Asu tsu rres .  cane  S
o  10  20  30  40  50  60
JU .1 1Y ,1                                         .I3jWi) 35e()l



