CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 354 GH
Project Agreement
(Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA SUGAR ESTATES LIMITED
DATED JANUARY 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 354 GH
Project. Agreement
(Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA SUGAR ESTATES LIMITED
DATED JANUARY 29, 1973


﻿GHASEL PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) of the first
part, and GHANA SUGAR ESTATES LIMITED (hereinafter called GHASEL) of the
second part.
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million six hundred thousand
dollars ($15,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in th Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that GHASFL agree to undertake such
obligations towards the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and GHASEL, the Borrower proposes to lend to GHASEL an amount
in various currencies equivalent to $14,433,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit
and certain additional amounts out of its own resources; and
WHEREAS GHASEL, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement,
the GHASEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GHASEL shall carry out Part A of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and


﻿4
efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural, engineering, administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   GHASEL shall apply the proceeds of the GHASEL Subsidiary Loan
exclusively to financing the cost of goods and services required to carry out the
said Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. GHASEL shall take all action which shall be necessary on its
part:
(i)         to implement the transfer to it pursuant to the GIHOC Transfer
Decree of the sugar business carried on by the Sugar Division
of GIHOC; and
(ii)       to complete the valuation referred to in Section 8.01(f) of the
Development Credit Agreement by not later than June 30, 1973
or such later date as the Association shall agree.
Section 2.03. In carrying out items (2), (3) and (4) of Part A of the Project,
GHASEL shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association to the extent and
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) GHASEL undertakes to insure the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by GHASEL to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, GHASEL shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) GHASEL shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, reports, specifications, contract documents and


﻿5
construction and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   GHASEL: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall enable the
representatives of the Association to inspect Part A of the Project, the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as it shall reasonably request
concerning Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. GHASEL shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Specified Agreements to which it is a party. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, GHASEL shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any of such Specified
Agreements or any of the provisions thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GHASEL
Section 3.01. GHASEL shall at all times carri on its operations, manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position and plan the future expansion of its sugar
business, all in accordance with sound business, agricultural, engineering, technical,
administrative and financial principles and practices under the supervision of
experienced and competent management and with the assistance of adequate,
qualified and experienced staff.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GHASEL shall
engage the Management Company for a period of not less than eight years from
the date hereof upon such terms and conditions as the Association shall approve.
Section 3.03. GHASEL shall at all times employ qualified and experienced
persons as the Managing Director and Financial Controller of GHASEL who, during
the period of ten years from the date of this Agreement, shall be persons acceptable
to the Association and shall be employed upon such terms and conditions as it
shall approve.
Section 3.04. GHASEL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
practice.


﻿6
Section 3.05. GHASEL shall enter into an agreement with ADB on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the purchase by GHASEL of
the sugarcane output of farms at Asutsuare and Komenda financed by ADB and
for the provision by GHASEL to ADB or to such farms of technical appraisal,
administrative, extension and other technical services.
Section 3.06. (a) Not later than November           1973, GHASEL, in
conjunction with ADB an. in consultation with the Association, shall formulate
and submit to the Association a detailed program for the development of sugarcane
production by farms financed or to be financed by ADB under Part B of the
Project with a view to ensuring that the total quantity of sugarcane available to
GHASEL from such farms, together with the sugarcane available to it from its
estates at Asutsuare and Komenda, will be sufficient to meet the capacity from
time to time of its sugarcane factories at Asutsuare and Komenda.
(b)   Upon formulation of such program, GHASEL, in conjunction with
ADB and in consultation with the Association, shall take such steps as shall be
required on its part for the implementation thereof in the manner and on the
basis of the time schedule therein provided.
Section 3.07. GHASEL shall purchase all of its sugarcane requirements for
its factories at Asutsuare and Komenda, other than sugarcane supplied from its
estates thereat, on terms and conditions (other than as to purchase price) approved
by the Association and shall not vary the purchase price of such sugarcane as
prevailing at the date of this Agreement unless it shall first have notified the
Association of any such proposed variation; provided that variations in such terms,
conditions or purchase price remaining in effect for an aggregate of not more than
30 days shall be permitted without such approval or prior notification when
circumstances so require.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. GHASEL shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. GHASEL shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently


﻿7
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of GHASEL and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) GHASEL shall take such measures as may be necessary
and appropriate, including the adjustment of prices for the sale of its products,
to yield a rate of return on its capital employed of at least eight per cent (8%)
as from and including its financial year commencing on October 1, 1978.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)        the rate of return in respect of any financial year shall be
calculated by relating GHASEL's net income from operations
for that year to the value of capital employed at the beginning
of that year;
(ii)       the term "net income from operations" means gross operating
revenues from the sale of sugar, alcohol and other by-products
less all operating, administrative and overhead expenses charged
to income in accordance with sound accounting principles
consistently applied, including adequate maintenance and
straight-line depreciation, taxes, duties and levies, if any, or any
payments in lieu thereof, but without deduction of interest or
other charges on debt:
(iii)      the term  "capital employed" means the sum of the value of
fixed assets in operation (less accumulated depreciation) and of
the value of current assets (less current liabilities).
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GHASEL
shall not incur:
(i)        prior to the Closing Date any debt other than the amounts to
be lent by the Borrower to GHASEL under Sections 2.01 and
4.01 of the GHASEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and


﻿8
(ii)        after the Closing Date any debt unless the net revenue of
GHASEL for the financial year of GHASEL next preceding such
incurrence, or for any later twelve month period ending prior
to such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for any
succeeding financial year of GHASEL on all debt including the
debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of Section 4.03(b)(ii) hereof and of this Section:
(i)         the term debt shall include the assumption and guarantee of
debt and shall mean all indebtedness of GHASEL maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of the contract or agreement providing for such
debt;
(iii)      the term "net revenue" shall mean gross revenue from all sources
adjusted to take account of selling prices in effect at the time
of incurrence of debt, even though such prices were not in effect
during the financial year or twelve month period to which such
revenue relates, less all operating, administrative and overhead
expenses and taxes, duties and levies, if any, but before provision
for depreciation, interest or other charges on debt;
(iv)        the term  "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt;
(v)         debt service payable in a currency other than the currency of
the Borrower shall be valued at the prevailing official rate of
exchange at which such other currency is obtainable on the date
the additional debt is proposed to be incurred for the purpose
of servicing such debt, or, if such currency is not so obtainable,
at the rate of exchange as reasonably determined by the
Association.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GHASEL
shall not incur:


﻿9
(i)        prior to the Closing Date any short-term debt;
(ii)       after the Closing Date any short-term debt unless the aggregate
amount of all short-term debt outstanding at any time shall be
less than 20% of the gross revenues from all sourccb of GHASEL
for the financial year of GHASEL next preceding such
incurrence, or for any later twelve-month period ending prior
to such incurrence, whichever is greater.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)        the term   short-term  debt shall mean all indebtedness of
GHASEL, other than liability to trade creditors incurred in the
ordinary course of business, maturing by its terms on demand
or one year or less after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii)       short-term debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date it
is drawn down pursuant to the contract or agreement providing
for such short-term debt.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and GHASEL shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and GHASEL shall from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of GHASEL and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and GHASEL shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and GHASEL of their respective obligations under the GHASEL Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the performance by GHASEL of its obligations under any of the
other Specified Agreements to which it is a party.
Section 5.03. GHASEL shall enable the representatives of the Association
to inspect all estates, factories, plants, sites, works, buildings, properties and
equipment of CHASEL and any relevant records and documents.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of GHASEL hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify GHASEL of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement or the GHASEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
I


﻿11
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For GHASEL:
The Managing Director
Ghana Sugar Estates Limited
c/o P.O. Box M39
Accra
Ghana
Cable address:
GHASEL
Accra
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of GHASEL may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of GHASEL
or such other person or persons as GHASEL shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. GHASEL shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of GHASEL, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by GHASEL pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
GHANA SUGAR ESTATES LIMITED
By /s / H. R. Amonoo
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Procurement
All contracts for the procurement of civil works, equipment or materials
in excess of $5,000 in value will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, according to the following procedures:
(a)   With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or more:
(i)         If bidders are required to prequalify GHASEL shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by GHASEL
to the Association for their comments before the applicants are
notified and GHASEL shall make such additions or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(ii)        Before bids are invited, GHASEL shall furnish to the Association,
for their comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
concurrence of the Association before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(iii)       After bids have been received and evaluated, GHASEL shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to whom it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for their review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award and the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or


﻿13
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement or with the
Development Credit Agreement, promptly inform GHASEL and
state the reasons for such determination.
(iv)        If the contract shall be awarded over the reasonable objection
of the Association, or if its terms and conditions shall, without
the concurrence of the Association, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked, no expenditure thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(v)         Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.
(b)   With respect to any contract estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $25,000, GHASEL shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement
or with the Development Credit Agreement, promptly inform GHASEL and state
the reasons for such determination.


