CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 354 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 354 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 29, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       January   29, 1973, between      REPUBLIC OF
GHANA      (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)    and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h); and
(c)   the words "or the GHASEL Project Agreement or the ADB Project
Agreement" are added after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in
Section 8.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings, reference to an agreement being reference to such agreement as the same
may, with the approval of the Association, be amended from time to time by
agreement between the parties thereto and including all schedules (including
agreements scheduled thereto as the same may likewise be amended), appendices,
statements or annexes thereto:
(a)   "ADB" means the Agricultural Development Bank established by the
Agricultural Development Bank Act.
(b)   "Agricultural Development Bank    Act"   means the Agricultural
Development Bank Act, 1965 (Act 286), as amended by the Agricultural Credit
and Co-operative Bank Act, 1965 (Amendment) Decree, 1967 (N.L.C.D. 182), dated
June 22, 1967.


﻿4
(c)  (i)         "ADB Consultancy Agreement" means the agreement
dated January 8, 1973 between ADB and Berenschot
Bosboom N.V. a company established with limited liability
under the laws of the Netherlands.
(ii)       "ADB Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and ADB.
(iii)      "ADB  ubsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and ADB on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower for the
lending by the Borrower to ADB of $1,400,000
equivalent.
(d)   "Cedis" means Cedis in the currency of the Borrower.
(e)   "GHASEL" means Ghana Sugar Estates Limited, a company
established with limited liability under the laws of Ghana.
(f)  (i)         "GHASEL-ADB Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between GHASEL and ADB referred to in
Section 3.03 of the ADB Project Agreement.
(ii)       "GHASEL Project Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and GHASEL.
(iii)      "GHASEL    Subsidiary  Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
GHASEL on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association for the lending by the Borrower to GHASEL
of $14,433,000 equivalent out of the proceeds of the
Credit and of certain additional amounts out of its own
resources.
(g)   "GIHOC" means the Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation established
under the Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation Decree, 1967 (N.L.C.D. 207),
dated September 16, 1967, as amended by the Ghana Industrial Holding
Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1970.
(h)   "GIHOC Transfer Decree" means the transfer of assets (GIHOC Sugar
Estates) Decree, 197  relating to the transfer to GHASEL of the assets and
liabilities referred to in Clause 7(b)(iii) of the Management and Subscription
Agreement.


﻿5
(i)   "GWSC" means the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation.
(j)   (i)        "Management and Subscription Agreement" means the
agreement dated December 18, 1972 between the
Borrower, GIHOC, GHASEL and H.V.A.-Internationaal
N.V., a company established with limited liability under
the laws of the Netherlands having its registered office
in Amsterdam.
(ii)       "Management      Company"      means     the    said
H.V.A.-Internationaal N.V. or such other management
company as the Association shall approve engaged by
GHASEL in accordance with Section 3.02 of the GHASEL
Project Agreement.
(k)   "Specified Agreements" means the ADB Consultancy Agreement, ADB
Project Agreement, ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement, GHASEL-ADB Agreement,
GHASEL    Project Agreement, GHASEL      Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement and
Management and Subscription Agreement.
(1)   "Sugar Industry Committee" means the committee to be established
by the Borrower referred to in Section 4.06 hereof.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million six hundred thousand
dollars ($15,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿6
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the GHASEL Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15,1983 and ending November 15,
2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on November 15,
1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies
to take all action which shall be necessary to enable GHASEL and ADB to carry
out Parts A and B, respectively, of the Project and shall itself carry out, or cause
to be carried out, Parts C and D of the Project, in each case with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound business, agricultural, engineering,
administrative and financial practices and the Borrower shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose
of carrying out the Project.
(b)  The Borrower shall lend to GHASEL under the GHASEL Subsidiary
Loan Agreement


﻿7
(i)        out of the proceeds of the Credit, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to $14,433,000;
(ii)       out of its own resources, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $6,395,000 less the dollar equivalent (as at
the date of payment) of any sum payable by the Borrower
to GHASEL in cash by way of share subscription in
accordance with Clause 7(b)(iii) of the Management and
Subscription Agreement; and
(iii)      out of its own resources, an amount of up to Cedis
3,000,000 as required by GHASEL for working capital
purposes.
(c)   The Borrower shall lend to ADB under the ADB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement an aggregate amount in various currencies equivalent to S1,400,000,
$972,000 equivalent thereof out of the proceeds of the Credit and $428,000
equivalent thereof out of its own resources.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the GHASEL Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the GHASEL Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any of the provisions
thereof.
(e)  The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary to enable GHASEL, ADB and the Managenient
Company to perform all of their respective obligations inder the Specified
Agreements and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might
interfere with such performance.
(f)  The Borrower shall take and shall cause to be taken all action which
shall be necessary
(i)        to implement the transfer to GHASEL pursuant to the GIHOC
Transfer Decree of the sugar business carried on by the Sugar
Division of GIHOC; and
(ii)       to complete the valuation referred to in Section 8.01(f) hereof
by not later than June 30, 1973 or such later date as the
Association shall agree.


﻿8
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall exercise its rights as shareholder of
GHASEL to procure that GHASEL shall perform all of its obligations under each
of the Specified Agreements to which it is party.
(b)   Save as provided in the Management and Subscription Agreement, the
Borrower shall not without the prior approval of the Association:
(i)         sell, transfer, charge or otherwise dispose of any shares in
GHASEL or of any interest therein from time to time held by
it;
(ii)        permit any such disposal of any shares in GHASEL or of any
interest therein from time to time held by the Management
Company or any affiliates or subsidiaries thereof;
(iii)       permit any increase in the authorized or issued share capital of
GHASEL or other alteration of capital or variation of rights
attached thereto; and
(iv)        permit any alteration of the Regulations of GHASEL as in force
at the date hereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall appoint consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to it for the purpose of carrying
out Part D of the Project by not later than June 30, 1974.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, reports, contract documents and work schedules
for Parts C and D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the


﻿9
Association shall reasonably request c-oncerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all interests in land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such interests in land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b)   In the event that it shall appear to the Association that the total
quantity of sugarcane available to GHASEL from its estates and neighboring farms
at Asutsuare or from its estates and neighboring farms at Komenda are insufficient
to meet the respective capacities from time to time of its sugarcane factories thereat
and that either
(i)         the sugarcane production levels from such neighboring farms at
Asutsuare for the years ending September 30, 1976, 1977 and
1978 shall be less than 109,000, 115,000 and 122,000 tons
respectively and for the year ending September 30, 1978 and
any subsequent year shall be less than 128,000 tons, or sugarcane
production levels from such neighboring farms at Komenda for
the year ending September 30, 1976 and any subsequent year
shall be less than 72,000 tons, or
(ii)        such insufficiency shall arise in any such year for any other
reason notwithstanding the attainment of the production levels
specified in sub-paragraph (i) hereof
the Borrower shall transfer to and vest in, or cause to be transferred to and vested
in, GHASEL such additional land suitable for sugarcane growing, or shall take such
other action as the Association shall approve, to enable GHASEL to increase the
total quantity of sugarcane available to it to meet the capacity of its factories
at Asutsuare and Komenda as aforesaid.
Section 3.07. (a) Not later than July 1, 1973, the Borrower shall cause
arrangements satisfactory to the Association (including, without limitation, financial
arrangements relating to supply to farmers) to be made for the procurement, supply
and distribution by GHASEL of all fertilizers required by GHASEL and by farmers
financed under the Project in respect of sugarcane production.


﻿10
(b)   Withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of fertilizers shall
distinguish between fertilizers procured for the purposes of Part A and fertilizers
procured for the purposes of Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to facilitate
the recruitment of labor by GHASEL as required for the purposes of Part A of
the Project;
(b)   The Borrowei shall promptly cause the water supply system serving
factory and domestic requirements at Komenda and to serve, in addition, the pilot
irrigation scheme included in the Project, to be put in good and substantial w, rking
order and to be maintained in such condition and order.
(c)   (i)        The Borrower shall maintain the water supply and
irrigation system at Asutsuare in good and substantial
condition and working order and operate the same so as
fully to satisfy the water requirements from time to time
of the estate of GHASEL thereat;
(ii)       In the event that, in the opinion of the Association, such
requirements shall not be so satisfied, the Borrower shall
upon the request of the Association appoint consultants
acceptable to it to carry out a study of the said system
and to make recommendations for the improvement
thereof;
(iii)       Upon the making of such recommendations the Borrower
shall furnish the same to the Association and, in
consultation with it, take such action as may be required
to implement the same;
(iv)        In the event that notwithstanding the foregoing provisions
such water requirements shall not, in the opinion of the


﻿11
Association, be satisfied (other than by reasons beyond
the control of the Borrower) the Borrower shall, upon
the request of the Association, transfer the operation of
the said system   to GHASEL on such terms as the
Association shall approve.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause such foreign exchange to be made available
to GHASEL as shall enable GHASEL from time to time to purchase from the
original or equivalent suppiliers all necessary spares, replacements, renewals and other
parts required for the proper maintenance and repair of its existing milling, refining
and other factory and field equipment at Asutsuare and Komenda or, in
consultation with the Association, shall take such other action as shall enable
GHASEL to maintain and repair its said equipment on a basis no less favorable
to GHASEL.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall procure that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no import, excise or other dutV, levy or surcharge shall be
imposed (save by way of imposition followed immediately by cash refund) at any
time on fuel oil or, prior to the Closing Date, on any goods or services required
for the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) Without limitation to the obligations of GHASEL under
the GHASEL Project Agreement, and in particular Section 3.01 and 4.03 thereof,
the Borrower shall take such action as shall enable GHASEL to earn the rate of
return specified in the said Section 3.03 having due regard to the liability, if any,
of GHASEL to taxation from time to time.
(b)   In addition, the Borrower shall have due regard to the provisions of
sub-section (a) hereof in making or varying any imposition permitted by Section
4.03 hereof or in taking any action as referred to in Section 4.05 hereof.
Section 4.05.    If the Borrower shall consider that the measures relating
to the importation, and marketing of sugar in effect at the date of this Agreement
are not operating satisfactorily to regulate the supply of sugar and to promote
the efficiency of the sugar industry, the Borrower, in consultation with the
Association, may replace, vary or supplement such measures in such manner as
the Borrower may consider necessary for such purposes.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall establish a Sugar Industry Committee upon
terms of reference as to membership, constitution, function and otherwise,
satisfactory to the Association. In particular, but without limitation, the Sugar
Industry Committee, which shall include representatives of the Ministries of
Finance, Agriculture and Industries and of GHASEL, ADB and sugar growers


﻿12
associations and sugar producers, shall advise the Borrower on matters relating to
the sugar industry, including sugarcane prices and sugar prices.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by GHASEL and ADB of their respective obligations
under the Specified Agreements to which either of them is a party, the
administration, operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures of
GHASEL and ADB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures of
GHASEL and ADB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations tinder the
Development Credit Agreement or the performance by GHASEL and ADB of their
respective obligations under the Specified Agreements to which either is a party.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all farms, estates, factories,


﻿13
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of GHASEL
and ADB and any relevant records and documents and to visit any part of the
territories of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the GHASEL Project
Agreement and the ADB Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof imposed under
the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   GHASEL shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of GHASEL under the GHASEL Project Agreement or the GHASEL
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿14
(b)  ADB shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of ADB under the ADB Project Agreement or the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)  Any of the parties to the Management and Subscription Agreement
shall have failed in a manner adverse to the Association or the Project to perform
any of their respective covenants, agreements or obligations thereunder save where
the Management and Subscription Agreement shall have been terminated by reason
of the default of the Management Company and arrangements satisfactory to the
Association shall have been entered into providing for the continuance of the
management of GHASEL.
(d)  The Agricultural Development Bank Act shall, without the prior
consent of the Association, have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of ADB
to carry out any of its covenants, agreements and obligations under the Specified
Agreements to which it is a party.
(e)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall, without
the prior consent of the Association, have taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment of GHASEL or ADB or for the suspension of their respective
operations.
(f)  GHASFI shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or prc  ing shall have been taken by GHASEL or by others whereby
any of the property of GHASEL shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(g)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that GHASEL cr ADB will be able to perform their respective
obligations under any of the Specified Agreements to which they are respectively
party.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  the event specified in Section 7.02(a) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, GHASEL and ADB.
(b)   any event specified in Section 7.02(d), (e) or (f) of this Agreement
shall occur.
(c)  the Borrower or GHASEL shall have failed in a manner adverse to
the Association or the Project to perform any of their respective covenants,


﻿15
agreements or obligations under the Management and Subscription Agreement and
such event shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and GHASEL.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Borrower has established the Sugar Industry Committee in
accordance with Section 4.06 hereof.
(b)   The execution and delivery of each of the Specified Agreements on
behalf of each of the parties thereto, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   ADB has written off in its accounts all debts, formerly owing to the
Rural Credit Department of the Bank of Ghana and subsequently transferred by
such Department to ADB, which are properly regarded as irrecoverable.
(d)   GHASEL has submitted to the Association a detailed work program
in respect of the carrying out of Part A of the Project in terms satisfactory to
the Association.
(e)   (i)        Unencumbered freehold title to the sugarcane estate at
Asutsuare comprising 18,730 acres approximately 40 miles
northeast of Accra adjacent to the Volta River below
Akosombo Dam together with the sugarcane factory
situated thereon is duly vested in GHASEL.
(ii)        Unencumbered leasehold title for an unexpired term of
not less than 50 years to the sugarcane estate at Komenda
comprising 5,705 acres approximately 120 miles west of
Accra adjacent to the coast together with the sugarcane
factory sitUated thereon is duly vested in GHASEL.
(iii)      GHASEL is entitled (in the case of the estate at Komenda,
during the said term of years) to full exclusive and
uninterrupted possession of the said estates and to carry
on the business of sugarcane production and processing
thereat.


﻿16
(f)   All of the assets and liabilities referred to in Clause 7(b)(iii) of the
Management and Subscription Agreement have been duly vested in, delivered to
and assumed by GHASEL as therein mentioned, and the valuation referred to in
the said Clause is in course of being carried out.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that (i) each of
the Specified Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, each of the parties thereto other than the Association
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of each such party in accordance
with its terms; (ii) the GIHOC Transfer Decree has been duly issued and is in
full force and effect in Ghana in accordance with its terms; (iii) no compe!sation
is due or payable by GHASEL Linder the State Lands (Akase-Asutsuare Sugar
Project) Instrument, 1969 or otherwise and no rental accruing prior to the Effective
Date is due or payable by GHASEL in respect of the sugarcane estate at Komenda;
and (iv) the titles and possession referred to in Section 8.01(e) hereof are duly
vested in GHASEL.
Section 8.03. The date April 30, 1973, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02, 3.06,
3.07, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 30 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana


﻿17
Cable address:
Prudence
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ H. R. Amonoo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿18
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each
category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the
Credit                    % of
Allocated (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                         Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.   Part A: GHASEL
(i)        Civil Works                 2.211               100% of foreign
expenditures or,
if locally pro-
cured, 55% of to-
tal expenditures
(ii)       Equipment and               5.959         (     100% of foreign
Vehicles                                   (    expenditures or,
( if locally pro-
( cured, 80% of lo-
(iii)      Fertilizers *               0.404         (     cal expenditures
(iv)       Expatriate Management
(a)  Salaries and            2.565              55% of total ex-
Expenses                                   penditures
(b)  Management              1.680              100% of foreign
Fees                                       expenditures
11.  Part B: ADB
(i)        Fertilizers *               0.274               100% of foreign
expenditures or,
if locally pro-
cured, 80% of lo-
cal expenditures
(ii)       Land Development            0.596               60% of ADB loans
to farmers exclud-
ing fertilizers
*    See Section 3.07(b) of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿19
Amount of the
Credit                    % of
Allocated (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                         Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
III.  Part C: Technical Assistance          0.150               100% of foreign
to ADB                                          expenditures
IV.  Part D: Industry Expansion             0.045               100"V of foreign
Study                                           expenditures
V.   Unallocated                             1.716
15.600


﻿20
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower,
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I and III on account of
expenditures incurred after October 1, 1972 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of S300,000;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit then allocated to such Category and
no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing
correspondingly the unallocated amount of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
I


﻿21
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the proceeds
of the Credit subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the GHASEL Project Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the reasonable
opinion of the Association represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
set out in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any
sub-category of Category I or 11 shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are
available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower. adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals Under either such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the re-establishment of the sugarcane industry in Ghana on
a viable basis and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(1)   Planting of GHASEL estate cane of approximately 2,300 acres at
Asutsuare and 1,250 acres at Komenda, replanting of GHASEL estate cane of
approximately 4,100 acres at Asutsuare and 3,250 acres at Komenda, and
fertilization thereof and related activities.
(2)   Rehabilitation of irrigation works at Asutsuare and installation of pilot
scheme irrigation works at Komenda.
(3)   Rehabilitation, modification and additions to GHASEL cane transport
and field equipment, cane yard, mill, workshops and laboratory at Asutsuare and
Komenda and to GHASEL refinery at Asutsuare.
(4)   Completion of partly built housing and provision of new housing and
of training, health and social facilities for management, staff and labor of GHASEL.
(5)   Provision of vehicles for management and staff of GHASEL.
(6)   Provision of GHASEL senior management, supervisory and extension
services staff.
Part B:
Extension by ADB of credit facilities for the planting of farmers' cane of
approximately 2,375 acres at Asutsuare and 1,500 acres at Komenda, the re-planting
of farmers' cane of approximately 5,200 acres at Asutsuare and 3,500 acres at
Komenda, and fertilization thereof and related activities.
Part C:
Technical assistance to ADB in implementing improved credit accounting and
control, reviewing its present financial position and advising on credit policies and
procedures.


﻿23
Part D.
Study to determine the feasibility of further expansion of sugar and sugar
by-product production at Asutsuare, Komenda or elsewhere.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1978.


