Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-4120-MAI
.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 11.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
August 29, 1985
This douet bu a redM dsuioinm           y be modl by relsm  od in th perfeu  of
thi  ffidd dmlb cotmtany "4 adrws be disde  v                 Wad   m  atrzao.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Units                        M Malawi Kwacha (MK) and
Tambala
US$1.00                              MlK 1.80
MK 1.00                              US 0.56
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACAO          -   Assistant Chief Agricultural Officer
ADD           -   Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC        -   Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ART           -   Adaptive Research Team
CAO           -   Chief Agricultural Officer (Extension)
CAS - NRDP    -   Controller of Agricultural Services
DAR           -   Department of Agricultural Research
DCAO          -   Deputy Chief Agricultural Officer
DOA           -   Department of Agriculture
GOM           -   Government of Malawi
ICB           -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB           -   Local Competitive Bidding
MOA           -   Ministry of Agriculture
NARP          -   National Agricultural Research Program
NRDP          -   National Rural Development Program
PD            -   Planning Division in Ministry of Agriculture
PS            -   Principal Secretary
PPAR          -   Project Performance Audit Report
RDP           -   Rural Development Project
SAL           -   Structural Adjustment Loan
SMS           -   Subject Matter Specialist
TA            -   Technical Assistant
USAID         -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PRCJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Malawi
Beneficiary:      Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:           SDR 11.7 million (US$11.6 million)
Tetms:            Stat-dard
Project           The proposed Project would support an institutional development
Description:    process aimed at (i) improving Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA)
analytical and long-term planning capability; (ii) strengthen-
ing the national extension system through development of more
effective mechanisms for program priority setting, resource
allocation and financial management; and (iii) upgrading the
managerial, administrative and technical skills of Department
of Agriculture (DOA) and Planning Division (PD) staff. Main
features of the project include: (i) strengthening MOA's
Planning Division through technical assistance, training and
logistical support and Cii) strengthening Department of
Agriculture's capacity to plan, implement and monitor the
agricultural extension program by (a) supporting a substantial
training program for extension staff and establishing a
training unit in MOA, (b) introducing a technical career stream
and a promotion system for professional and technical staff,
(c) supporting and testing innovative approaches to
agricultural extension and information transfer in Mzuzu
agricultural development division including provision of
Incremental seasonal credit to smallholders in the Mzuzu area
to encourage adoption of improved technical recommendations,
(d) strengthening the existing system of financial management,
(e) supporting production of improved technical and training
materials and (f) improving extension and research linkages.
The project, to be carried out over 5 years, provides funds for
civil works; vehicles, furniture and equipment; training;
technical assistance; and operating costs.
Benefits and      Economic benefits under the proposed Project are expected from
Risks:          (i) improved efficiencies in agricultural sector planning and
extension planning and budgeting and (ii) increases in
u                               agricultural production and productivity.  Possible risks
include ineffective management of the planning and extension
programs, inadequate provision of budgetary resources, and low
acceptance rates by farmers. To minimize these risks the
project provides for a new extension planning and budgeting
system to achieve greater efficiency with existing staff and
infrastructure, substantial managerial and technical in-service
training and consultancy services to supplement local
expertise; a firm commitment from Government to provide
adequate budgetary resources, and the opportunity to test and
perfect different approaches to information and technology
transfer in the Mzuzu ADD before introducing them throughout
the country.
This document has a resricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance Of
their of ria duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs a/                              Local        Foreign       Total
- (US million)-
Planning Division                                0.37          1.69         2.06
National Extension System
National Ext. Planning, Mgt. and Training      1.09          4.54         5.63
Agricultural Communications Branch             0.03          1.58         1.61
Adaptive Research Program                      0.02          0.15         0.17
Mzuzu ADD (including Seasonal Credit)          1.50          3.22         4.72
Base Cost                                    3.01         11.18        14.19
Physical Contingencies                           0.38          1.08         1.46
Price Contingencies                              1.46          3.09         4.55
Total Project Costs                          4.85         15.35        20.20
a/ Inclusive of taxes and duties vhich are neglible.
Financing Plan:                                 Local        Foreign       Total
(USS million)
Government                                       0.9           1.5          2.4
USAID                                            0.6           5.6          6.2
IDA                                              3.3           8.3         11.6
Total                                        4.8          15.4         20.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fscal Year               1986   1987   1988   1989   1990    1991
(US$ million)
Annual                      0.7    2.6    3.9   2.1      1.5     0.8
Cumulative                  0.7    3.3    7.2   9.3   10.8   11.6
Economic
Rate of Return:                  Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                          Report No. 5453-MAI, dated August 29, 1985
MEE:                                 IBRD NO. 18833



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 11.7 million (US$11.6 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms for an Agricultural Extension and
Planning Support Project. In addition, the Republic of Malawi is arranging
cofinancing of US$6.2 million from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled 'Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report" (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. An economic mission visited
Malawi in March 1984. A Country Economic Memorandum is under preparation.
Findings of the mission on recent economic events in Malawi are reflected
below. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about 6.6
million people in 1983) landlocked coantry in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        With a GNP per capita of US$210, Malawi has been identified by
the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries.  Nevertheless,
since independence in 1964 until 1979, Malawi had steady economic growth,
averaging six percent per annum in real terms (three percent per capita).
The leading sectors were agriculture and manufacturing. Investment rose
from 9 percent of GDP at independence to 33 percent in 1979, financed by
increased domestic savings (from nil to 14 percent of GDP in 1979), and
official and private capital inflows. In 1980 and 1981, Malawi met with
serious difficulties due to world economic conditions, and GDP contracted
by six percent over these two years. Consumption fell somewhat, but
savings and investment were reduced drastically.  Since 1982, recovery has
been underway, with annual GDP growth averaging 4.6 percent through 1984.
5.        With the exception of the 1980-81 recession, Malawi has enjoyed
steady economic growth, due in large part to the pragmatic policies of the
Government. Malawi has adopted an outward looking strategy based on
agriculture, consistent with the country's resource endowment. Government
investment has concentrated on provision of infrastructure, utilities and
support services to encourage private initiative. The Government has also
emphasized smallholder agriculture, a sound policy given that 90 percent of
the population lives in rural areas and depends on agriculture for its
livelihood. Traditionally, three quarters of the development budget has
been directed towards agriculture and transport, the rest for
administrative and social functions.



- 2 -
6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tobacco, tea, and sugar) and is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. Since 1974, there have been periodic balance of pay-
ments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid escalation
in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate and capital goods;
(b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar and tea; (c)
significantly higher costs of transport for exports and imports owing to
rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in Mozambique, and disrup-
tions of overland transport; and (d) debt service burden.
7.        Beginning in 1978, Malawi's chronic balance of payments problems
became less manageable. The current account deficit rose from a level of
8-9 percent of GDP in the mid-1970s to 18 percent in 1978 and 23 percent in
1979. This balance of payments crisis was due to declining terms of trade,
which fell 40 percent between 1977-80, increased transport difficulties and
drought. Import prices rose by 39 percent over this period, primarily due
to petroleum price hikes. Conversely, export prices declined by 16 percent
(due mainly to falling tea and tobacco prices). In 1980 and 1981, a
drought led to reduced agricultural exports and necessitated increased
imports of subsistence crops (maize). Nevertheless, by 1981 Malawi enjoyed
a surplus on the merchandise trade balance thanks mainly to a contraction
in imports and has increased this surplus steadily since 1981. Continuing
current account deficits were due to a large deficit on the service
accounts. Transport costs for imports and exports were greatly increased
due to continuing problems with traditional export routes through
Mozambique. Debt servicing also contributed to the deficit on the
invisibles account. These current account deficits were initially financed
by sharply increased private capital inflows. These were still not
sufficient to finance the current account deficit and the country drew down
its foreign reserves to less than one month of imports by end 1983. In
1984, the current account deficit was greatly reduced to three percent of
GDP and reserves were increased by US$65 million. This was due to
improvements in the terms of trade, led by record tea prices, and a sharp
increase in exports, as previous stocks of tobacco and sugar were moved out
of the country, resulting in a large trade surplus, nearly matching the
deficit on the services account. The outlook for 1985 is for a larger
deficit as export prices have declined and carryover stocks are not as
large.
8.        The economic difficulties of 1980-81, as well as problems with
public corporations led to an increase in the Government budget deficit
reaching 16.5 percent of GDP in 1981, double historic levels. This was due
primarily to a rapid increase in government expenditures, attaining 35
percent of GDP in that same year. Much of this was made up of recurrent
expenditures, especially interest payments. Revenues did not increase
commensurately, given the recession, hence the large fiscal deficit. These
deficits were financed by government borrowing, primarily domestic. The
fiscal position has improved since, with increased revenues and restrained
spending so that the deficit has been reduced to 8.2 percent of GDP by
FY85, an improvement, though still above target levels. Improving
expenditure control is a key element to continuing Malawi's economic
recovery. Inflation has been steady at approximately ten percent since
1981.



9.        Given Malawi's early stage of development, foreign capital
inflows, especially of a public nature, have been important in development
financing. In the pre-recessionary period (1969-79), foreign savings
financed approximately half of domestic investment. During the recession
(1980-81), public and private capital inflows were used to maintain
consumption levels, and domestic saving fell. Since 1981, domestic savings
have been increasing, while private inflows have virtually ceased. Public
transfers continue, financing approximately 50 percent of all investment,
much of this from World Bank Group loans and credits. Grants and bilateral
transfers have declined from past levels, and have not kept pace with
Malawi's needs.
10.       Initially, the country attempted to ameliorate the economic
downturn of 1979-1980, by increased external borrowing, mostly on
corsmercial terms, in order to maintain import levels and thus production,
employment and consumption. Investment in the economy declined sharply,
while consumption declined only slightly. It soon became evident that with
increasing inflationary pressures and fiscal and balance of payments
disequilibria, more stringent adjustment efforts were needed. The
Government, therefore, launched a stabilization effort designed to reduce
short-term fiscal and balance of payments disequilibria and a structural
adjustment program designed to improve efficiency of resource use and
ensure that positive growth of per capita income can be reestablished and
sustained over the medium and longer-term within the context of a
manageable balance of payments current account deficit. The structural
adjustment program is broad-based; aimed at encouraging diversification of
production and exports, improving performance of productive sectors,
rehabilitating, restructuring and otherwise strengthening key development
institutions, and improving resource mobilization and allocation in the
public sector.
11.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a standby program for SDR 22
million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aimed at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involved phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on government external commercial borrowing. The standby was
implemented satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF concluded a new
multi-year program, and a three year Extended Fund Facility was approved in
September 1983 and, except for a six-month interruption in late 1984-early
1985, it has been implemented successfully so far. As part of the Extended
Fund Facility, the Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 12
percent in September 1983 and switched to a basket of currencies in January
1984.
12.       The Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan in support of the
Government's program was made in June 1981, for US$45 million. After
initial difficulties, good progress was made in implementing the
Government's adjustment program: additional funds were allocated to the
agricultural sector, certain agricultural prices were adjusted, public
utility tariffs were increased and the budget for 1982-83 was trimmed, with
sufficient resources provided for major development sectors. The second



- 4 -
released in April 1982. However, during 1982 the country's efforts were
set back by increased disruption of the traditional transport routes and
continued depressed demand for Malawi's export products. Nevertheless, the
country was able to hold its current account deficit to 11.3 percent of GDP
in 1983, reduce the budgetary deficit for FY1983 to 9 percent of GDP, and
meet its IMF standby borrowing ceilings.
13.       The second phase of the structural adjustment program was
supported by SAL II, approved by the Board in December 1983. The program
continues and builds upon the reforms of SAL I. SAL II has been partially
successful in diversifying exports and increasing smallholder share of
exports by improving incentives for export crop production. Oil imports
have been reduced thanks to local ethanol and electricity production.
These factors, and stable international prices, have led to a reduced
current account deficit - three percent of GDP as of 1984. The financial
position of public enterprises has improved, though it remains weak.
Efforts to improve control and allocation of public expenditures and reduce
the overall size of Government have been slow. Nevertheless, the fiscal
deficit has been reduced to 8.2 percent of GDP as of FY85, and further
reductions are planned. Price controls have been reduced, while wages
flexibility must still be improved. The second and final tranche was
released in November 1984. The Bank is currently working with the
Government on the preparation of SAL III.
14.       By the end of 1984, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$741 million. In late 1982, Malawi rescheduled both
its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing, including
repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130 million,
equivalent to over 40 percent of exports of goods and services. This
compares to a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. A second year of
rescheduling was agreed to in October of 1983, keeping the debt service
ratio to 26.7 percent in 1983. The Government has indicated that it will
not be asking for any further rescheduling, and the debt service ratio is
expected to remain at about 30 percent over the next few years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
15.       Over the past 19 years, Malawi has received 33 IDA credits and
one Special Fund credit totalling about US$451 million and 8 Bank loans
totalling US$99 million, of which 2 were on third window terms. Of the
Bank Group assistance, some US$153 million (28 percent) was for agricul-
ture, US$108 million (20 percent) for education, US$114 million (20
percent) for roads, US$98 million (18 percent) for structural adjustment,
US$39 million (7 percent) for power, US$11 million (2 percent) for water,
and the balance of US$27 million (5 percent) for health, development
finance, technical assistance, and urban housing. The first Bank loan to
Malawi was made on third window terms in June 1976 and the first standard
Bank loan in April 1977. IFC's equity participations and lending
commitments in Malawi total about US$17 million and include investments in
textiles, sugar, a DFC (INDEBANK), tourism, and the manufacture of alcohol
from molasses. In addition, a US$0.5 million equity subscription and



- 5 -
US$1.8 million loan investment in the Viphya Plywoods and Allied Industries
United were approved in August 1984, but are not yet signed. Annex II
contains a Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations as of March 31, 1985.
Bank Lending Strategy
16.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be designed to help Malawi restructure its economy, especially
to help improve agricultural productivity, dealing with the transport prob-
lem in order to improve the balance of payments and strengthening the
effectiveness and efficiency of government and other development institu-
tions. The remainder of the 1980s are likely to be a difficult time for
land-locked Malawi which must continue its adjustments which it began with
its two structural adjustment programs in the early 1980s. Investment and
savings levels will need to increase as a proportion of GDP, the current
account and budgetary deficits will have to be further reduced, export
promotion and diversification will need to go forward and recurrent
expenditure levels in key development agencies should be raised if past
investments are to be utilized fully. These measures will have to be
complemented by policy and/or institutional reforms in agriculture and
industry to further increase the production and industrial incentives. A
third structural adjustment loan embodying further key reforms was
appraised in May and will be presented to the Board this fiscal year. It
will help the Government increase the efficiency in the productive sectors,
better mobilize and manage resources and improve development administration
and the capacity for policy formulation.
17.       Experience to date in Malawi has demonstrated that a combination
of appropriate policies and sufficient external assistance channelled into
productive investments can generate a sustained growth rate in per capita
income. The Government's medium-term public investment program requires
further Bank Group support in agriculture, transportation, education,
population/health and water supply as well as medium-term fluance for
diversification and agro-industrial investment. These Bank-financed
investments will complement the Government's structural adjustment program
providing the necessary technical, financial and institutional support to
enable Malawi further to increase smallholder productivity, maximize the
effectiveness of its external transport routes (particularly the northern
route), rationalize and prioritize investments in the education and water
sectors and address the single most pressing issue for Malawi's long-term
future, the very high rate of population growth. Sector investment plans
and strategy statements in health/population, education and transport are
under preparation. All of these programs will be co-financed thereby
helping Malawi to obtain some of the additional external financing it needs
to reach its modest GDP growth targets. The United States Agency for
International Development, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Overseas
Development Administration and the Japanese have expressed interest in
co-financing the third SAL.
18.       The Bank Group's economic and sector work will continue to build
an analytical base for discussions with the Government on the key
development issues. The major pnints of focus will remain: how to
increase productivity in the economy; how to improve the financial



- 6 -
performance of the public sector; how to improve the management of the
economy and how to slow the rate of population growth. In agriculture we
have concluded a study on diversification and the steps needed to help
broaden the export base of the economy; a study of the whole question of
land utilization and what can be done to improve the productivity of this
scarce resource is underway, as are project funded studies on livestock,
smallholder irrigation and management and training in the Agriculture
Ministry. In FY87, we will prepare an updated Agricultural Sector
Memorandum, looking at progress made in structural changes in the sector
and also analyzing further sub-sectoral policies pertaining to such
matters as agricultural manpower training, production of perennial crops,
etc_ In the transport sector we will finish the current study on external
transport in FY86. In the social sectors, we will complete in FY86 a study
of the dynamics of population growth, its implications for the economy and
the recommended development assistance strategy for the sector. In
education we will study the traiLting needs in the economy with special
emphasis on the agriculture, health and transport sectors. These studies
will provide the basis for helping Malawi develop appropriate sectoral
strategies and investment programs and for mobilizing external assistance.
19.       During the next three years, two Country Economic Memoranda will
be completed, a Public Sector Investment Review will be carried out, and a
special study on the institutional aspects of development finished. The
CEM, which is now under preparation, will update our knowledge of the
economy and focus on the resource requirements for sustained adjustment and
growth. A Consultative Group meeting is planned in FY86 to improve donor
coordination and increase the kinds and levels of resources needed to
support the adjustment process in Malawi. The CEM planned for FY87 will
concentrate on the long term constraints to Malawi's development
(population, agricultural land pressure, etc.). The special study on
institutional development will look at the shortcomings in the Govenment's
institutions and bureaucratic system which have led to some of the
structural weaknesses in the economy. This study is expected to be
finished in FY86.
External Debt
20.       The Bank Group's share of Malawi's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 1984 was about 51 percent (IBRD: 10 percent,
IDA: 41 percent), and its share in debt service was about 12 percent.
Because Malawi is one of the least developed countries, many other donor-
give aid on grant terms. Other major donors have been the United Kingaom,
the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Economic Community and the
African Development Bank.
Disbursements
21.       Disbursements of the Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi
generally have kept close to schedule and compare favorably with other
countries in the region and even on a Bank-wide basis. During the period
FY80-84, the disbursement rate on loans and c.edits to Malawi (excluding
the effect of non-project lending) averaged about 27 percent per annum,
significantly higher than the Eastern Africa Regional average of 19 percent
and the Bank-wide average of about 21 percent.



-7-
Project Implementation
22.       Overall, implementation of Bank projects continues to be good.
The Audit and Project Completion Reports underscore Malawi's sound
development record and progress in extending nationwide the benefits of its
investments. However, the third National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
project and the Fifth Highway project have experienced moderate problems
due to inadequate budget provision and management shortcomings.
Implementation of the third NRDP project has subsequently improved with
adequate budgetary support and fertilizer inputs supplied and progress made
in constructing the marketing and input infrastructure. The staffing and
management difficulties facing Highways V are being addressed and
sufficient budgetary resources for the projects are expected to be
allocated later this year. With these corrective actions, the projects are
expected to regain lost momentum.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
23.       Agriculture is the leading sector in Malawi, accounting for 40
percent of GDP and 85 percent of exports in 1983/84, and employing 85
percent of the labor force. The smallholders on customary plots (93
percent of tilled land), produce mainly subsistence crops such as maize and
account for 78 percent of agricultural GDP. The estates, on freehold land
(the remaining seven percent) are the major foreign exchange earners,
producing export crops such as sugar, tobacco and tea. Relatively fertile
soils, fairly reliable rainfall and a widely ranging relief permit the
production of a broad variety of food and cash crops with nearly 90 percent
of the arable land cultivated. Annual real growth in smallholder and
estate agriculture averaged 4.3 percent and 2.9 perc'nt, respectively,
between 1980 and 1984, the productivity of the smallholder subsector being
well below its potential due to: Ca) poor price incentives; (b) limited
availability of appropriate technology for many smallholders; (c)
Government limitation on smallholder production of selected high-value
export crops; (d) untimely and limited availability of fertilizer; and (e)
poor transmission of technical advice to farmers. The growth of the estate
sector was dampened by depressed international prices for tobacco, sugar
and tea and problems of transportating these commodities to ports for
export.
Ministry of Agriculture
24.       The Government's Ministry of Agriculture is the central
institution responsible for overall policy formulation, planning,
coordination and management of the smallholder agricultural sector. It is
also charged with providing most of the agricultural services. MOA is
headed by a Principal Secretary (PS) and is divided into five
organizational units, including the Department of Agriculture, which
comprises the national extension system, and the Planning Division. In
1978, in an effort to integrate the management of the National Rural
Development Program into the government structure, the country was divided
into eight Agricultural Development Divisions (ADDs) and respective



sub-regional units for the purpose of extension planning and agricultural
management. The ADDs report to the PS through Controller of Agricultural
Services (CAS-NRDP).
25.       NRDP.  Initially, NRDP was mainly an investment program to build
up rural infrastructure (roads, housing, offices, training centers,
marketing centers, health clinics, dip tanks, water supply, etc.) in the
econogically defined rural development project areas (RDPs). Agricultural
and rural development staff were placed at all levels from the regional
Program Managers at the ADD level to the technical assistants at the field
level. During the period of systems build-up, insufficient attention was
paid, inter alia, to the quality of the extension content (quality of
staff, crop husbandry, women's program, etc.), the linkage between
extension and research, adaptive research and training of farmers and DOA
staff. These deficiencies were highlighted by the 1982 NRDP Review, which
recommended that the RDPs focus on activities that directly support
agricultural production, while the execution of non-agricultural activities
(roads, forestry, health, etc.) became the responsibility of the respective
sector ministries. The Review endorsed the overall structure and approach
taken by NRDP but recommended reorganizing basic services (extension,
planning, research, veterinary, etc.) at MOA's headquarters and ADD levels,
maintaining minimum effective staffing levels and identifying career
streams. It also recommended a reorientation of the research and extension
programs to farming systems rather than a single crop approach, to
developing appropriate technical packages and to reducing investment and
recurrent costs by providing lower cost housing and adopting more
conservative staffing levels. Almost all of the recommendations were
accepted by the Government in 1982 and are being introduced nationwide
including strengthening the management of the MOA by the appointment of a
senior deputy secretary and two technical deputy principal secretaries.
Emphasis is now being placed on the strengthening of the national systems.
A National Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1549-MAI), whose objective
is to revamp the research program, is being implemented.
Agricultural Services
26.       Agricultural Extension Services.  The extension service has been
organized on a block extension basis since 1981. Much of the
infrastructure for this block system is now in place and it is adequately
staffed. The field extension worker (Technical Assistant) is the basis of
the extension program. The role of the Technical Assistant (TA) is to
transmit appropriate technical advice (on crop production and farm
management) to farmers with the goal of increasing agricultural output and
income levels. Each TA is responsible for a Technical Assistant's Section
- composed of five to eight blocks - each with approximately 100 farmers -
giving an average extension worker to farmer ratio of 750 to 1. The TA
makes a fortnightly visit to each block, to meet with farmers, show new
techniques on the demonstration plot, transmit extension messages and
answer questions. The 2,600 TAs cover the eight ADDs. This staff is
supported by Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), numbering 500, who give
advice on specific technical areas. The system provides a channel for
delivery of extensien messages to a greater number of farmers. What
remains lacking is an institutional framework for better defining extension
and research strategies and establishment of priorities. The proposed



Project is the first phase of a long-term national program to improve the
focus and quality of Malawi's smallholder agricultural extension system, to
formulate an overall strategy for its development, to improve the
efficiency and economy of ongoing efforts, and to reinforce critical
linkages between the extension and research programs. The major
deficiencies in the present extension system to be addressed by the project
are: (i) the limited number of adequately trained and experienced
managerial and technical staff; (ii) inadequate formulation of technical
packages for smallholder crops; and (iii) inadequate extension planning and
-          budgeting system.
27.       Agricultural Research Services.  Agricultural research for all
commodities except tobacco, tea and sugar Is principally conducted by the
MDA's Department of Agricultural Rede-arch (DAR). In addition to crop and
livestock research, DAR also has responsibility for: (a) the production of
breeders' seed for certain crops; (b) the propagation and distribution of
selected fruit and nut trees; (c) the provision of plant protection and
phytosanitary services; (d) soil survey and analysis; and (e) seed
inspection and testing services. Agricultural research is also conducted
by the Tea Research Foundation, the Tobacco Research Authority and by the
Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Malawi. Research programs are
organized on a crop basis and are reviewed from time to time when
objectives are redefined. However, extension staff have had little
involvement in this process, and, as a result, there has been a
proliferation of commodity programs which often do not relate to problems
faced by smallholders. Resolving these issues is among the key objectives
of the recently approved National Agricultural Research Project (Credit
1549-MAI), which aims to improve the focus and quality of the smallholder
agricultural research program, strengthen linkages between the research and
extension programs and improve the efficiency and economy of DAR's ongoing
activities.
28.       Agricultural Marketing and Input Supply.  Provision of
agricultural inputs and marketing of smallholder crops is largely provided
through the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC).
ADKARC purchases smallholder crops, sells food crops and markets
agricultural seed, fertilizer, chemicals and farm implements. ADMARC has
traditionally been one of the more effective crop handling parastatals in
Eastern Africa. For the estate subsector, fertilizers are supplied
principally by Optichem, a locally incorporated company, and other
agro-chemicals are marketed by various commercial firms.  Estate produce is
marketed almost entirely through the private sector. The National Seed
Company of Malawi produces a wide range of agricultural seed for both
smallholders and estates.
29.       Agricultural Credit Services.  There is no central agricultural
credit institution in Malawi, and smallholder farmers have access to
seasonal and medium-term credit through the Ministry of Agriculture's rural
development projects, which have their own credit funds and staff. (The
estate subsector obtains credit, which is primarily seasonal financing,
from the two commercial banks.) Seasonal and medium-term credit are both
provided to smallholders in kind. Although both types are available to
individual smallholders and to smallholder groups, in practice seasonal
credit is only given to groups and medium-term to individuals. The



- 10 -
formation of smallholder clubs and credit groups has been encouraged in
order to reduce the administrative cost of MOA's services to farmers and to
increase the effectiveness of the extension system. The use of credit
groups has also minimized defaults through the joint liability of group
members for individual loans. Repayment rates of individual credit have
averaged about 70 percent compared to between 90 and 100 percent for
farmers' clubs/groups. Interest ("service charge") on seasonal credit is a
flat rate of 10 percent. Most of the farmers' clubs (about 85 percent)
repay the principal and interest within 9 months giving an effective
interest rate of around 13.5 percent.  This rate exceeds the current
inflation rate of 12 percent. The costs for administering the scheme are
unknown. However, the Government is committed to eliminating any subsidies
after a thorough review of the existing system has been carried out to
determine what the interest rate should be and how the system should be
modified.
Smallholder Production
30.       Smallholders, grow a wide range of crops including maize,
groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco, cotton, pulses, cassava, rice, sorghum and
millet. Over the past few years, smallholder agriculture has been
characterized by a steady swing into maize from a more diversified cropping
pattern, although significant price increases in 1984 led to some recovery
in tobacco and cotton production. Recently, maize has been produced with
sufficient surplus for regional export. The Government is attempting to
provide incentives for both smallholder and estate production to support
the overall strategy of continued self-sufficiency in food staples with
expansion of agricultural exports and improvement in rural incomes. The
potential of the smallholder sub-sector for increased productivity of both
food and cash crops is clearly indicated by the following comparison
between current average smallholder yields with those obtained in research!
station trials (potential yields): hybrid maize 3,000 kg/ha (7,000kg/ha),
composite maize 2,000 (5,000), blue bonnet rice, 2,175 (5,000), beans under
maize 350 (1,000), confectionary groundnuts 360 (1,800), dryland wheat 900
(2,000), cotton 600 (2,000), coffee 150 (1,500), and dark-fired tobacco 500
(1,200). The National Agricultural Research Project together with the
proposed Project should help in reducing the average yield gap.
31.      The Government, on recommendation of the Price Commission sets
official prices for smallholder crops, and these are the prices ADMARC
pays. Farmers who are indebted to MOA (due to loans for inputs) are
obliged to sell part of their crop to ADMARC, up to the amount necessary to
repay the loan. Any excess, and the crops of non-indebted farmers may be
freely sold to private traders, who may or may not offer higher prices. In
practice, private traders obtain the bulk of some items (such as beans)
because they offer higher prices. Except for maize and tobacco, the prices
of major crops are set near the appropriate export or import parity price.
Maize prices are set between import and export parity with the objective of
long run self-sufficiency. Tobacco prices are set at levels which will
provide returns to farm labor competitive with alternative crops.
Constraints of MOA's Planning Division
32.       The Planning Division, headed by a Chief Projects Officer, is
responsible for: (i) the preparation of annual budget estimates for MOA;



- 11 -
(ii) identification and preparation of project proposals; (iii) annual
evaluation of on-going projects; (iv) provision of advice on sectoral
policies (including annual submission of smallholder crop price proposals);
and (v) compilation and maintenance of agricultural statistics. To perform
these functions, the PD is divided into five sections: marketing, project
preparation, central evaluation, project processing and agro-economic
surveys. In recent years, PD's volume and complexity of work have
increased significantly. At the time of Project appraisal, 14 of 23
established positions in the Planning Division were vacant including the
Chief Projects Officer, Principal Planning Economist, Principal Evaluation
officer and Senior Economist Project Preparation. Although most key
positions have now been filled, the lack of experienced staff has meant
that the Chief Projects Officer and other senior staff must contend with
numerous routine but time-consuming administrative tasks leaving little
time to focus on work programing or to provide adequate supervision and
guidance for junior staff. Recently, a series of actions has been
considered by MOA to address these problems, including, inter alia,
upgrading PD's level to that of other departments in MOA with the
consequential upgrading of the division head's position, the establishment
of additional positions to handle the increased workload, and the
undertaking of a diligent search to recruit qualified persons to fill
vacant positions. The proposed Project would assist the Government's
efforts to support improvements in PD's planning capacity.
Experience with Past Lending for Agriculture
33.       Prior to the establishment of the NRDP, IDA helped finance three
of the four large integrated agricultural programs, in Lilongwe, Karonga
and the Shire Valley (Credits 113-HMAI, 244-MAI, 550-MAI, 282-MAI, 114-MAI,
and 363-MAI; with related PPARs 751, 1597, 3414, 2576, 895 and 2593
respectively). Implementation of these programs was generally good and the
projects were popular with farmers although crop production increases were
often lower than originally forecast. Since 1978, IDA has assisted the
Government with the development of the NRDP in the TLlongwe, Dedza,
Thiwi-Lifidzi, Ntcheu, Mzuzu, Mzimba, Karonga and Chitipa areas (Credits
857-MAI, 1183-MAI and 1343 MAI). The impact in these areas has been mixed,
as stated in the NRDP Review of 1982. The Operations Evaluation Department
more recently did a study on the impact of the Shire Valley Project and an
agriculture sector operations review on Malawi and Upper Volta. With few
exceptions, appraisal targets for production have not been reached. In
some cases, yields have not been as high as projected, but more often it is
the uptake rate of input packages that has fallen short of expectations,
perhaps because particular crops had unattractive returns or because
farmers preferred to plant subsistence crops to ensure food supply. This
experience and the conclusions of the various related Project Performance
Audit Reports have highlighted the need (i) to develop acceptable crop
technical packages for subsistence crops, (ii) to incorporate area-specific
extension advice on crops in the farming system in each area and (iii) to
ensure that this advice is both technically sound and financially
attractive to farmers. The National Agricultural Research Project is
designed to assist in the formulation of more appropriate and productive
extension recommendations for the different crops and sections of the



- 12 -
farming community. The proposed Project aims to, better promote and
disseminate technical advice by means of upgraded management and staff and
a more focused approach.
34.       There have been other problems under NRDP projects.  The cost of
providing housing, to which all Malawian civil servants are entitled, has
been high, but steps hLave been taken to reduce the unit costs.   The record
on the handover of infrastructure for operation and maintenance from the
Ministry of Agriculture to parent ministries (roads, health, water
supplies) under NRDP has sometimes been less than satisfactory. As a
consequence, several departments and ministries have developed, or are
planning, a national program for rural investment which establishes
national priorities with regard to staffing and available resources.
Finally, there is the quiestion of the lack of sufficient operating and
maintenance funding for existing NRDP projects. This shortage of recurrent
finance implies that ongoing projects must be scaled down, costs cut on
vehicle replacements and measures introduced to facilitate smoother phasing
of projects from the development to the revenue budget. Under SAL I and II
(Loan 1427 MAI and Credit 2026 MAI), the Government was committed to
reviewing recurrent budget allocations to MOA (on a regular basis,) to
ensure that they were adequate. However, while the allocation has grown by
about eight percent annually in the last four years, there is evidence that
the sector is still underfunded. The proposed Project would introduce
improvements in planning and budgeting within MOA to achieve better
resource utilization and cost effectiveness within the NRDP program.
35.       IDA has also assisted the Government with development of its
national woodlot program (Credit 992-HAI) and, with IFAD, has provided
finance for a Smallholder Fertilizer Project (Credit 1352-MAI). The
establishment of a fertilizer revolving fund, the standardization and early
procurement of fertilizer for the next growing season and the strengthening
of ADMARC have greatly improved the availability and timely distribution of
fertilizer.
Sectoral Strategy
36.       The Project forms an integral part of our sector development
strategy and is closely tied with the on-going (Smallholder Fertilizer
Project and National Agricultural Research Project) and prospective
investments affecting the sector (SAL III, DFC II-estate credit-and the
proposed Smallholder Credit project). The increases in real farm prices
brought about under SAL I and SAL II together with the good rains have led
to a strong production response with emallholder output growing by 8.3% in
1984. The SAL III program calls for continued use of price incentives.
Agreement on input and crop price proposals for 1986/87, including a
specific target for fertilizer subsidy removal would be a condition for
release of the second tranche. This trend toward export parity levels has
been greatly facilitated by the timely availability and supply of
fertilizer provided under the Smallholder Fertilizer Project. The proposed
FY86 DFC II project would provide the estate subsector (which makes a major
contribution to agricultural production) with medium- and long-term capital
(supported by management training and extension schemes) to encourage crop
production and diversification.



- 13 -
37.       Given the Government's severe financial constraints, it is
unlikely that MOA's budget will be increased substantially, if at all, over
the medim-term. Therefore, there is a need to link Investment objectives
and priorities more closely with resource availability and to achieve
greater efficiency with existing resources, staff and infrastructure.
IDA's assistance strategy to Malawi's agricultural sector is one of
long-term institutional development. The lending operation now proposed
focuses on agricultural extension and planning, and together with the
recently approved research operation is part of a major long-term effort to
develop Malawi's key agricultural institutions at the national level. The
strengthening of national systems (principally smallholder agricultural
research, extension and planning) should be pivotal in expanding
agricultural productivity and output, improving diversification,and
increasing export earnings. Specifically, the proposed assistance to MOA's
planning division aims to develop a consensus on its function and to
strengthen its staffing so that it can provide continuing technical adv,ice
to policy makers on investment priorities in light of Malawi's agronomic
potential and comparative advantage. Strengthening the extension system
would assist DOA in improving the technical competence base of its
extension staff so that it is better able to disseminate advice on improved
technology to farmers. The improvements in the relevance and quality of
agricultural research, extension and planning are crucial to the import
substitution and export growth effort and to raising the productivity of
the Malawian smallholder.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       The proposed Project was prepared by the Malawi Government with
assistance from the World Bank. The Project was appraised in the field in
September/October 1984. A post-appraisal mission discussed the Project
with the Government in February/March 1985. Negotiations were held in
Lilongwe, Mala7i, from July 25 to 30, 1985. Th'  Malawi delegation was led
by the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Finance. USAID participated as
observers. A report entitled Staff Appraisal Report, Agricultural
Extension and Planning Support Project-, No. 5453-MAI, dated August 29,
1985 is being distributed separately. Supplementary Project data are
provided in Annex III hereof.
Objectives and Description of the Project
39.       The Project is designed to strengthen the existing extension
system by ensuring sufficient trained staff and subject matter specialists
at all levels to support field staff and by developing an institutional
framework at the national level for better defining extension strategies,
setting priorities and programs to guide the work of regional extension
staff, and ensuring consistency in approaches and adequacy in levels of
funding.
40.       The Project would aim to do this by (i) improving the Ministry of
Agriculture's analytical and long-term planning capability; (ii)
strengthening the national extension system through development of more
effective mechanisms for program priority, resource allocation and
financial management; and (iii) upgrading the managerial, administrative



- 14 -
and technical skills of Department of Agriculture and Planning Division
staff. To meet these objectives, the five-year Project would have the
following main features.
(i) Strengthening MOA's Planning Division so that it can
formulate an improved long term development strategy for the
agricultural sector and provide better technical advice to
policy makers on agricultural investment priorities.
Specifically, the Project would provide consultant services
for technical, financial and management support to conduct
studies and supplement local expertise in PD; support a
program of specialized training for selected PD staff;
provide for up to six economist trainees and provide
micro-computer facilities and other office equipment.
(ii) Strengthening DOA's capacity to plan, implement and monitor
the agricultural extension program. The Project would:
(a) support a substantial program of local and overseas
training for extension staff to improve technical,
financial and administrative skills and establish a
training unit in MOA to implement the above;
(b) introduce a technical career stream and promotion
system for both pr.fessional and technical staff;
(c) support production of improved technical and training
materials to allow better dissemination and application
of the results of agricultural research to farmers;
(d) improve extension and research linkages through extension
staff participation in Adaptive Research Teams based at
ADD level, in research-extension workshops, and in
development and dissemination of locally-specific
technical recommendations, and
(e) strengthen the existing system of financial management
and expenditure control;
(f) support innovative approaches to agricultural extension
and information transfer in Nzuzu Agricultural
Development Division including the provision of ten
marketing sheds and incremental seasonal credit to
smallholder farmers in the Mzuzu area for agricultural
inputs to encourage adoption of improved technical
recommendations.
Detailed Features
Strengthening the Planning Division of MOA
41.      The Planning Division, would be upgraded to the level of other
departments in MOA. The Chief Projects Officer in the PD would be assisted



- 15 -
by an internationally recruited Planning and Management Advisor (funded by
the Association) for a period of at least 30 months after which time a
review would be conducted to determine whether the contract should be
extended. The advisor would provide technical advice and policy guidance
to PD on, inter alia, commodity pricing and the agricultural investment
program, including assessment of project proposals against identified
sector priorities and available resources. In collaboration with the head
of PD, the advisor would help formulate a five year plan for MOA which
would include an agricultural sector strategy statement, major studies to
be conducted, staff and training needs and budgetary requirements. This
five year strategy plan would be forwarded to the Association for review
and comment by July 1, 1987 (para 3, Schedule 5, draft Development
Agreement). PD, assisted by the planning and management advisor, would
examine its overall functions and future manpower needs to determine
whether modifications are required to achieve its objectives. After a
review by MOA and the Office of President and Cabinet, a staff recruitment
program for PD would be developed and submitted to the Association for
comment by July 1, 1986. PD would formulate detailed annual work plans and
budgets and submit them to the Association for review and comment by
September 30 of each year (para. 3, Schedule 5, draft Development Credit
Agreement). In light of the importance of the planning and management
advisor, it was agreed the post would be filled by April 30, 1986 (Section
3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
42.       The Project would also provide finance for PD to recruit a
systems analyst for about a year by March 31, 1986 (para. 4, Schedule 5
Draft Development Credit Agreement) and a pricing policy economist on a
periodic consultative basis. In addition, the creation of up to 6
additional positions in PD would be supported to create a pool of trained
professionals to meet future needs. Funds would be provided for
specialized training to upgrade the qualifications of the PD staff, through
degree and in-service training under the Planning and Management Advisor,
12 person-months of short-term technical assistance to conduct monitoring
and evaluation studies, on-going pricing policy evaluations, and other
minor studies would also be financed.
National Extension System Development
Management and Systems Improvement
43.      The Project would build on the substantial experience Malawi now
possesses in agricultural extension work. The block extension system has
shown good promise in its early implementation, but its effectiveness has
been hampered by the management, planning and other constraints previously
noted (see para. 26). Utilizing the technical packages available and
linking closely to the parallel, recently-initiated National Agricultural
Research Project, the Project would strengthen the overall planning and
management system, achieving greater efficiency with existing staff and
financial resources. It would support the establishment of an extension
program planning capacity within DOA to assist DOA and ADD management in
(i) formulating a five year extension strategy plan, (ii) developing
extension program and supporting budget proposals for annual submission to
MOA and Treasury, (iii) analyzing annual ADD work plans to ensure that
objectives, targets and resource allocations are adequate and tie with



- 16 -
priorities set for the extension program, (iv) ensuring timely
implementation of, and monitoring, extension program performance, and (v)
arranging for specific ad hoc studies as needed to improve the quality of
the extension program.
44.       Responsibility for the extension program planning and related
functions in DOA would be assigned to a newly created position of Deputy
Chief Agricultural Officer CDCAO), who would be employed by March 1, 1986
(para 5, Schedule 5, draft Development Credit Agreement), and be assisted
by an economist seconded from PD. A senior extension management and
planning advisor, recruited internationally for 30 months, and reporting to
the Chief Agricultural Officer would help the DOA carry out its expanded
work program in coordination with other entities involved such as PD, the
ADDs and the MOA Training Unit. This advisor, financed by the Association,
would be in post by March 1, 1986 (para. 5, Schedule 5, draft Development
Credit Agreement). Under the project, DOA would be provided with a total
of 274 person-months of long-term and 71 person-months of short-term
technical assistance. The project would also finance staff training
required to design, implement and monitor the performance of the improved
extension system for DOA and the ADDs.
45.       A new annual extension planning and budgeting system would be
developed by DOA, assisted by an internationally recruited financial
specialist/controller, funded by the Association for a period of 28 months
and in post by July 1, 1986 (para 5, Schedule 5, draft Development Credit
Agreement). DOA, would be responsible for implementing the planning and
budgeting system, which would provide a framework for: estimating the
minimum annual budget requirements for DOA and ADD programs; setting
operational guidelines for elimination of low-priority recurrent
expenditures; evaluating the efficiency of existing investments;
identifying areas for potential cost savings and cost recovery; and
establishing a system for achieving better resource utilization and cost
effectiveness within DOA and the ADDs. The system would initially be
introduced and tested in the Mzuzu ADD by April 30, 1987 and, thereafter to
other ADDs subject to such modifications as may be introduced by NQA0
(para. 6, Schedule 5, draft Development Cred$t Agreement). To monitor this
process, DOA would prepare annual extension work plans, containing detailed
descriptions of proposed work with supporting budgets, for DOA and the
Mzuzu ADD.
46.       To facilitate introduction of the proposed changes in the
extension system, DOA would introduce annual workshops for ADD program
managers to enable them to assess the results of their extension programs
and to make appropriate adjustments in program targets and design.  This
would assure that feedbackl from ADD managers is taken into account in the
formulation of extension strategy. Workshops would also be held. On the
basis of information obtained from the above described planning and
budgeting system and from recommendations of the Planning Division, a five-
year extension strategy plan would be formulated by DOA (with the
assistance of the extension management and planning advisor and in regular
consultation with USAID and the Association) and submitted to the
Association for review and comment by July 1, 1987 (para. 8, Schedule 5,
draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Introduction of a Career Development System and Strengthening of DOA's
Managerial and Technical Capacity
47.       A study to assist in planning a long-term training program for
all categories of DOA staff was conducted in May 1985. Job functions would
be periodically reviewed and updated by DOA and ADD managers with the
*          assistance of a training specialist to identify new training needs
resulting from staff turnover or additional work requirements induced by
changes in the extension program.
48.      Staff Incentives and Career Development.  DOA's staff promotion
ladder is limited by (i) the small number of grades assigned to each of its
current civil service ranks and classes and (ii) the absence of a technical
career stream for Subject Matter Specialists. A Civil Service Review
Commission has recently reviewed all aspects of the civil service structure
including the setting up of scientific and technical career streams and its
report has just been released. Under the proposed Project, the Gove.-nment
would establish a professional career stream for extension subject matter
specialists permitting them to advance on the civil service ladder without
moving into the administrative/management track. In this way, extension
subject matter specialists would have similar salaries and career
development opportunities to those of staff of the same grade in other
departments and specialists in the private sector. There is, in addition,
a need to review advancement opportunities and incentives for technical
assistants whose work in the field is of high quality. The MOA would
propose in consultation with IDA the establishment and implementation of a
career stream for subject matter specialists and introduce a promotion
system for extension professional and technical staff, satisfactory to the
Association, by March 31, 1987 (para. 9, Schedule 5, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
49.      In-Service Training.  Demand for Malawian managerial staff has
increased dramatically with the rapid expansion of NRDP. Given present
manpower constraints in the country, these positions cannot always be
filled by persons with management experience and instead are filled by
technicians who are expected to acquire management experience over time.
This has contributed to the variable quality of management and other key
staff within the extenslon system and highlights the need for a
strengthened management training program.
50.       To increase the managerial and technical capability of DOA staff,
the proposed Project would support a substantial (over 13,000 weeks)
training program, including: (i) 20 fellowships for post-graduate training
at M.Sc. level and 34 fellowships at diploma or specialization level for
selected managers and SMSs to provide skills to improve overall performance
of the extension program; (ii) short-term fellowships for selected senior
staff in their field of competence; and (iii) in-country courses and
workshops for managers, financial controllers, and technical staff
designed to (a) improve management skills in planning, budgeting and
administration of extension programs, (b) provide field extension staff and
SMSs with specialized technical knowledge and job specific skills needed to
disseminate technical recommendations to farmers, and (c) upgrade the
ability of training officers and extension staff to plan, design, conduct
and evaluate training activities. The proposed credit would support all
management training and USAID will finance all technical training.



- 18 -
51.       The training program would be implemented by a Training Unit to
be established in the office of the Controller of Agricultural
Services-Institutions; the setting up and staffing of the Training Unit
will be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Training Unit, staffed with a Malawian
training officer (head) and two Malawian training specialists, will be
assisted by the USAID-financed Training Advisor and Training Specialist,
and be responsible for consolidating MOA's ongoing training activities in
addition to developing (and implementing) the long-term training program
referred to above. The Training Advisor is being financed under the
National Agricultural Research Project and by the end of 1985 would be able
to work on the entire MOA training program and help in the setting up and
staffing of the Training Unit. The Training Unit would be responsible for
establishing criteria for determining overall training needs, preparing
criteria for selecting programs and candidates, developing procedures for
evaluating the training program, identifying training instructors and
suitable training institutions and organizing a record keeping system for
trainees. A cadre of instructors would be formed by the Training Unit in
teaching techniques and methods. The Unit would be guided by a Training
Advisory Committee, representing DOA, DAR and PD.
Extension Materials Development
52.       The proposed project would provide support, under USAID
financing, for the Agricultural Communications Branch (ACB) of DOA and the
Audio Visual Sections in the ADDs to produce a wide range of audio and
visual training materials for use by extension staff. The project would
finance incremental staff, technical assistance, training, production and
acquisition of films and slides, materials, equipment, spare parts and
vehicles for both ACB and Audio Visual Aid Units in the ADDs.
Extension-Research Linkages
53.      The National Agricultural Research Project and the proposed credit
would help improve extension and research linkages. Adaptive research
teams would be established under the National Agricultural Research Project
in all ADDs to combine research and extension staff in a program of farming
systems research and on-farm trials and demonstrations, with the objective
of making locally-specific extension recommendations on food as well as
cash crops to be used by the extension services in the ADDs. Commodity
Research Teams and the extension subject matter specialists would play a
critical support function to ADD staff with regard to both the local
research program and technical recommendations to farmers. USAID would
finance establishment of eight ARTs in the ADDs.
Strengthening Extension Services in Mzuzu ADD
54.       Extension Services.  The Mzuzu ADD, as the second largest ADD and
representative of most of the country's agricultural areas, has been
selected for the first phase of this nationwide program to improve the
extension service. Different types of mass media and approaches to
information and technology transfer would be tested under the Project.



- 19 -
55.       New extension and management strategies, programs and
methodologies developed would be further tested and refined in the Mzuzu
ADD prior to being implemented nationwide. The improved block extension
system would be extended throughout the Mzuzu ADD (two RDPs will be added),
while an improved mass media conmunications system and extension program
linked with the adaptive research teams (financed under the NARP) would be
developed and the new management models put into place. Implementation of
these changes in the on-going system would be phased with modifications
being first tested over three planting seasons in Mzuzu. The project
provides the needed support (additional infrastructure, equipment,
personnel) to complete the extension system in the Mzuzu ADD. Emphasis
would be placed on evaluation and monitoring of the system.
56.       The Project would support a pilot mass communication scheme to
identify more cost effective methods of disseminating technical information
to greater numbers of men and women farmers. The high rate of illiteracy
among adults in Malawi (estimated to be 47% for those 15 years and older,
but varying considerably between districts and between men and women) means
that visual presentation is key to reaching the rural population. The
Project would cover the costs directly attributable to this pilot scheme.
Under USAID the Project will also provide funds for an internationally
recruited agricultural extension adviser to be in post in March 1986, and
who would provide guidance in the design, supervision, implementation and
evaluation of the improved extension systems. Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that DOA would introduce a mass communication scheme in the
Nzuzu ADD not later than October 31, 1986 and furnish IDA with annual
report on progress made in its implementation (para 12, Schedule 5, draft
Development Credit Agreement). Such a scheme would be tested over a
three-year period prior to extending it to other ADDs. USAID would finance
costs directly attributable to the communications scheme, while the
Association would finance staff housing, offices and office furniture,
marketing sheds, equipment, vehicles, demonstrations and staff training.
The Association would also finance the services of a seed multiplication
specialist for three years to conduct demonstrations on higher yielding
improved varieties of groundnuts particularly suited to parts of the Mzuzu
area.
57.       Credit.  Credit is increasingly important as the cost of inputs
escalates and larger cash outlays are needed due to more advanced farming
methods. The credit component financed under the proposed Project is
*  imited to areas in Mzuzu ADD where credit is necessary to reap full
benefit from Bank funded infrastructure investment, and to other areas in
the Mzuzu ADD where credit is required to enable farmers to adopt new or
improved technology. Seasonal credit for the purchase of seasonal inputs,
e.g., fertilizer, seeds and insecticides, would be provided to qualified
farmers who are members of credit groups/clubs in the Mzuzu ADD and who are
judged to have good potential for increased production. The total funding
requirements for incremental seasonal credit over the Project period are
estimated at USS 3.1 million. Funds for seasonal credit are relatively
modest, since it is intended that credit to farmers would be in the nature
of a pilot project. In the event that the planned improvements in the
present agricultural extension system in Mzuzu are substantially realised,
additional funds (by way of physical contingency) are provided to
supplement resources specifically allocated for seasonal credit. It was



- 20 -
agreed that the Government would carry out a study of the suallholder
credit system, to determine the demand for credit and the adequacy of
present interest rate structure and existing systems of credit
administration. The study would make recommendations on the appropriate
on-lending term and conditions of sub-loans, the most appropriate
institution to administer the credit scheme, and the strategy to be
followed in making credit more widely available. It would be submitted to
the Association for review and comment not later than March 31, 1986. A
new lending structure arising out of the study, including appropriate terms
and conditions of sub-loans to farmers, will be put into effect not 'later
than January 1987 (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
58.      The total cost of the proposed Project, including capital and
incremental operating costs and contingencies, is estimated at US$20.2
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$15.3 million or
76 percent. Taxes and duties are negligible. The Project cost comprises
US$2.0 million for civil works, US$1.7 million for vehicles, furniture and
equipment, US$6.1 million for technical assistance, US$4.4 million for
training, US$3.1 million for credit and US$2.9 million for incremental
operating costs. Project baseline costs have been estimated on the basis
of September 1984 prices, updated to reflect expected prices as of
negotiations. Physical contingencies have been included at 15 percent for
civil works, 10 percent for vehicles and equipment and 22 percent for
seasonal credit. Local price contingencies fo: all iteus have been
included at 12 percent for 1985, 11 percent for 1986, 10 percent for 1987
and 9 percent thereafter, except on local salaries and wages which have
been adopted at midpoints on the respective civil service scale. Foreign
price contingencies have been calculated assuming international inflation
rates of 5 percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for 1986 and 8 percent for
1987-1990.
59.       Financing of Project costs is summarized in the table below.
Financing Plan:
USAID      IDA        GOM        TOTAL
-(US$ mllion) n       -
Planning Division                       -          2.6       0.4          3.0
National Extension Planning,            3.8        3.4       0.3          7.5
Management and Training
Agricultural Communications             2.2        -         -            2.2
Branch
Adaptive Research Program               0.2        -         -            0.2
Mzuzu ADD (including Seasonal           -          5.6       1.7          7.3
Credit)
Total                                6.2       11.6       2.4         20.2



- 21 -
60.       The Project is being cofinanced with USAID on a parallel basis.
USAID's contribution of US$6.2 million to the proposed Project would
finance part of the training; technical assistance for extension planning
and financial management and agricultural sector planning; civil works; and
vehicles, furniture and equipment. The Government would provide the
equivalent of-about US$2.4 million (or 12%) for the balance of civil works,
building maintenance and repair costs, almost all vehicle operating costs
and incremental staff salaries.
61.       Under the proposed Project the MOA's Planning Division would be
required to carry out a comprehensive analysis of recurrent financing
requirements of all projects and to formulate proposals for setting program
priorities and funding. To ensure that the Project's recurrent cost
requirements are built into the revenue budget, the Government would
finance 100 percent of incremental operating costs (about US$2.2 million)
for all components of the Project except for those relating to the USAID
financed Agricultural Communications Branch component. These measures will
assist the Government in reallocating outlays within MOA's recurrent
expenditures while the introduction of the new budgeting system will help
to control the expansion of non-developmental services.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Project procurement would be in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines and is summarized below:
Project Element                        Procurement Method          Total
ICB    LCB    Other    N.A.    Cost
(USs million)
Civil Works                                   2.0                       2.0
(1.8)                     (1.8)
Vehicles, Furniture and                0.9            0.8*               1.7
Equipment                          (0.9)           (0.1)             (1.0)
Training                                              4.4*              4.4
(2.9)             (2.9)
Technical Assistance                                  6.1*              6.1
(2.8)             (2.8)
Credit                                                        3.1       3.1
(3.1)     (3.1)
Operating Costs                                               2.9*      2.9
(0.0)     (0.0)
TOTAL                  0.9    2.0    11.3      6.0      20.2
(0.9)  (1.8)   (5.8)   (3.1)    (11.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Association.
* Includes amounts for items financed by USAID and procured under its
own procedures.



- 22 -
63.       All civil works would be procured through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) as they consist of small scattered works unlikely to attract
international bidders. There are, however, numerous local contractors
capable of executing the required smaller works. For housing and offices,
Mzuzu ADD management would be assisted by the Government's Ministry of
Works and Supplies in drawing up specifications, preparing bid documents,
evaluating bids and supervising the construction program. Where LCB would
not be feasiLle, the construction would be done through force account of
MOA.
64.      Vehicles, furniture, equipment and spare parts would be bulked to
the extent fi-asible and orders of US$100,000 or more would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) from suppliers who maintain
or agree to maintain an adequate inventory of spare parts and after-sales
service in Malawi. Any orders for vehicles of less than US$100,000 would
be procured through LCB from suppliers in Malawi. Miscellaneous small
amounts of spare parts, equipment and furniture may be purchased in lots of
less than US$25,000 and procured through competitive shopping including at
least three price quotations or through the Central Government Controller
of Stores Department, up to an aggregate of US $100,000 of such purchases.
Training would be at selected overseas or local institutions which meet the
training requirements. A total of 214 person-months of technical
assistance would be financed by the Association (the remainder of the
technical assistance to be funded by USAID) and would be procured in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
65.       Proceeds from the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
902 of expenditures for civil works; 100% of foreign expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures for vehicles, furniture and equipment; and 100% of
expenditures for training, technical assistance and incremental credit.
Disbursements against contracts or purchase orders of less than US$5C,000
equivalent and for expenditures for incremental credit would be supported
by Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), signed by the managers of the
specific components and the Financial Controller of NRDP in MOA. Full
supporting documentation in respect of such SOEs would be retained by the
borrower and made available for inspection by IDA during normal project
supervision. All other disbursements would be supported by full
documentation. To expedite disbursements, a Special Account (Revolving
Fund) would be established in US dollars with the Reserve Bank of Malawi or
at another location satisfactory to the Association to prefinance all
project expenditures.  The initial deposit of US$ 0.2 million from the
Credit would be made after the Government opens the Special Account in US
dollars at the Reserve Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. This will be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b),
Development Credit Agreement). This sum is the equivalent of the estimated
first four months of expenditures averaged for all categories. A schedule
of estimated disbursements is provided in the Credit and Project Summary.
Accounts and Audits
66.       Financial records would be maintained at MOA and ADDs in
accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect the operations and
the financial position of the project. Credit fund accounts, which would
operate as a revolving fund, would be maintained and audited separately.



- 23 -
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be separately recorded. Project
accounts would be audited by the Auditor-General or by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and wcould include a specific audit of SOEs.
Certified copies of the annual audited accounts and the auditors' report
would be submitted to the Association within six months following the end
of the fiscal year (Section 4.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
67.       A major review of the current Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
system is being undertaken by the Government to strengthen the Planning
Divisionts ability to coordinate and direct the monitoring and evaluation
of rural development programs within ADDs. A Principal Evaluation Officer
is being recruited internationally to assist in organizing the M&E Unit
within PD. Additional staff to strengthen the Unit would be provided under
the project to enable PD to make full use of available information to help
in project preparation, and also for project completion reports and
cross-project analyses. In addition, the project would provide short-term
technical assistance for ad hoc studies on the impact and effectiveness of
NRDP projects at the smallholder farmer level.
Project Organization, Implementation and Review
68.       In addition to specific implementation conditions previously
noted, the following management arrangements would pertain. Overall
responsibility for Project implementation would be with the Ministry of
Agriculture, acting through the Controller of Agricultural Services -
NRDP. This arrangement has proven to be satisfactory in the past. The
Controller of Agricultural Services would be responsible for establishing
organizational linkages and coordinating programs to ensure that objectives
of the project are met. To assist in this effort, Government would
establish, no later than March 1, 1986, an MDA Program Steering Committee,
(para. 1, Schedule 5, draft Development Credit Agreement). This Committee
would be chaired by the Principal Secretary of MOA and include the
CAS-NRDP; the Chief Agricultural Research Officer; the Chief Projects
Officer; the Chief Agricultural Officer (head of DOA); the Chief
Accountant; and a representative from the Ministry of Finance. The
Steering Committee would: (i) monitor the carrying out of the project in
accordance with predetermined benchmarks; (ii) review, discuss and make
recommendations concerning any policy level issues or concerns which
substantially affect the project; (iii) ensure coordination of program
implementation between the donors and among the various Government
departments concerned; and (iv) recommend actions required to resolve
issues identified by USAID and IDA project review missions.
69.       The project would have no separate identity from the overall
programs of PD and DOA, and the day to day operation of project components
would be carried out under the direction of the line managers of PD, DOA,
and the ADDs. The training program in the Project would be implemented by
the newly established MOA Training Unit (see para. 53). Credit in the
Mzuzu ADD would be administered by MOA in the same fashion as other
smallholder credit programs under NRDP. Internationally recruited advisors
and specialists financed under the Project would be selected by MOA,



- 24 -
subject to satisfaction of the Association as to their qualifications,
experience and terms of reference. Whenever practicable, terms of
reference for technical assistance will specify responsibility for
on-the-job training of local staff.
70.       In addition to normal Project supervision, the Association would
also schedule review missions, with USAID if feasible, in order to exchange
views with project managers at critical times during the implementation of
the Project, e.g., shortly after receipt of annual work plans from PD and
DOA; during the last stages of preparation of the five year agricultural
strategy plan for PD and the five year extension plan for DOA; and prior to
final decisions on replicating the new extension procedures tested in the
Mzuzu ADD.
Environmental Effects
71.       The Project would have a generally favorable impact on the
environment. The closer research-extension linkages would generate
extension recommendations for specific problems including soil management,
water conservation and agroforestry development. The Project would support
primarily sun-air cured tobacco production in the Mzuzu ADD, so that
minimal new demands would be made on fuel wood resources. Pesticides used
under the project are limited to small amounts of insecticides utilized for
crops such as tobacco and cotton.
Benefits and Risks
72.       Although the benefits of this type of Project are difficult to
quantify, the Project would result in (a) improved efficiencies in
agricultural sector planning and extension services and (b) increases in
agricultural productivity and production. The strengthening of the MOA at
the Planning Division level w-ill permit the PD to accomplish better its
goals, namely: MOA budgeting, project identification and evaluation,
sectoral analysis and advice, and statistical preparation. Improved
research and extension linkages mean that MOA priorities will better
reflect local concerns as well as national economic realities.
73.       Upgrading the technical capacity and financial management of the
DOA would improve financial control and productivity of the department.
The new career development stream, as well as in-service training, would
result in an improvement in the quality and continuity of the MOA civil
service, leading to a more effective research and extension program. The
improved linkages between research and extension would ensure two way
communication between farmers and agricultural researchers, with a more
rapid spread of information, improved adaptation to local conditions, and a
more complete acceptance of new techniques. Better support materials and
improved supervision would result in a more effective extension program.
The final result would be increased productivity and yields.
74.       Finally, the Mzuzu component and accompanying credit package
(about 30 percent of disbursements) would have directly quantifiable
benefits. This component has been calculated to have an internal economic
rate of return of 22 percent. This results from increased production of
maize, groundnuts, tobacco, cotton, wheat and rice, vaiued at import or



- 25 -
export parity price. The relatively high rate of return stems from the
more efficient utilization of existing staff and infrastructure put in
place under previous NRDP investments in the Mzuzu area. The knowledge
gained from the Mzuzu component would also assist in better implementation
of the new research and extension methods when applied to the other ADDs.
75.       Risks affecting any such long-term institutional development
effort would include inadequate local funding (which could jeopardize
returns from existing and future investments), ineffective management of
the extension and planning programs, and difficulties of adoption by
farmers of improved technical packages. The Project has addressed the
issue of stability of funding by securing the Government's commitment to
finance virtually all the recurrent costs, thus making easier their
ultimate phasing to the revenue account. The introduction of the new
planning and budgeting system for the extension system would lead to better
resource utilization and cost effectiveness. The Project would also
provide DOA and PD with consultancy services and adequate funds to train
relatively inexperienced local staff. The difficulties of developing new
and improved extension techniques and technical packages are being
explicitly addressed by the NARP and the proposed Project, although higher
costs of inputs attributable to increases in external transport costs due
to chronic problems with traditional import/export routes through
Mozambique, may still discourage their adoption by some farmers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRDMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are: (a) establishment of
the Training Unir in MOA; and (b) establishment of a Special Account.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attacbments
Washington, D.C.
August 29, 1985



- 26 -
MALAWI SOCIM INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                        ANNEX I
MIAMI                               RSFS3N   GWUPB (WIGNISU  S~                       PAGE   1  of  7
mr                       (Ms 2Rwr nmA)&
1%dib    197,Lb                   LO  INC    AMC           MIOEIC
A    (inAn  SC. 00
TOni.-                            11.5      I.3         113.5.
SARICtLTUIAL                       37.9        39.5       41.7
cvr Nt CArs Can)                       ..          ..       110.0              238                     1063.3
Sru couesows omnsa cwAm
(ZILOCRANS OF OIL QUIVA r)          ..         35.0      4".0                62.3                    581.5
POvauONo ae vim snmnmc
v0pULATIONWNItTEm  (TNOSA*lS)   3529.0       4513.0     402.0
URAN POPULATION CT OF TOAL)         4.4         6.6       11.1               20.1                      2.0
POPULATION PUOJICTIONtS -
POULATION in TEA  2000 (ILL)                            11.4
STATIOART POPULATIO  (KILL)                             38.0
POPULATION MMNUMu                                        2.0
POPULATION   DItn
PER SQ. LI                       29.B        38.1       55.9               53.2                     65.1
PIt SQ. m. ACRI. LUl             93.1       1143       154.1              112.3                    124.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTU  CZ)
0-14 IRS                        45.5        46.3       47.1               U6.0-                    45.6
15-4 IRS                         52.0        50.S       48.                50.4                     31.5
65 AND Avw                        2.4         24         4.0                2.9                      2.7
POPULATION CEOwmN KATE (Z)
TOTAL                             2.0         2.5        3.0                2.8                      2;;
URBAN                             4.3         6.2        7.0                6.4                      5.1 
CODE  mm RAt-E (PM TVoS)           56.0        56.0       54.0              47.2                      47.0
CRoU D011 rATS (PE 13wUs)          29.7        2S.0       23.0               17.8                     15.0
OS REPUODUCTIOI Ra                  3.A         3.8        3.8               3.3                       3.2
AMILT WPLANINC
ACCEPTORS. aMAL (mans)            ..                                        33 ..
USERS CE OF   ARID lE)                                   iD. 1.0 _3J                                 6
Nwar M ulrns
IOaU or rooP   Po. iR cair
C1969-71-100)                      90.0       91.0        96.0               3.3                     82.9
PE CAPITA SUPFLY OF
CALORES Cs OF RSQUItRNES)        51.0         9.0       ".0                87.7                     98.5
PROTENS (CRAMS PER DAT)          62.0        71.0       68.0               51.9                     55.4
OF 13ICR ANIMAL AD PULSE        13.0        19.0       19.0 /C            18.7                     164
CHLrD (CCS 1-4) DEATH MNA          5.7         50.3       38.0              23.1                      18.6
LIFEXnPC. AT BIRs (tumS)           36.3        40.0       44.2              47.8                      32.0
INFANTr TNR. RATE (PtM T3US)      207.0       193.5      164.0              11945                   1iO
ACCESS TO SANE WATER (CZPa)
-sOrAlL                                       .         41.0 Id            27.1                     42.4
URBAN                         i.                                          --77.071  63.3            67.3
RURA. L                                                 37.07a             193                      35.8
ACCESS TO atTA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATIOII)
TOTAL                            0..          ..        53. Id             26.5                     28.9
URBS.                                                  100.0 7r            65.4                     57.7
RURAL                             ..          ..        61.0 7            20.8                      20.7
POPULATION FR  SICtS            36380.0    38630.0    409.0 /a            27l0.                    11791.7
POP. PER NURSIG P1350          13220.0 /f  9050.0      330.77            3308.4                   2459.s
POP. PER HOSPITAL ED
TOTAL                           890.0       650.0      740.0 1           U173.6                    931.1
URBS                            120.0 /f   160.0        80.0 7            423.2                    36.3
RAL                            1310.0 7    900.0      1480.0 7           3252.5                   4371.9
ADISSIONS U HOSPITAL   D..                     32.1       39.0 /e             ..                      27.2
AVERAGC SIZE OF USENLO
TrOAL                             ..          ..
uRA                               ..          3.4j       .                  .                        .
RURAL                             ..          5.0        .
AVERAG NO. OF PErSUIRSO
nrag                              ..          ..         .                   ..
ORSM~,                               1.7 lb      .                 _.
RURAL                             ..          ..
PERCENTAG OP DUELLINGE MITE ELEC.
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBA                              .,         16.0.,      .                   ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
'..



-27-                                                  ANNEX  I
PAGE 2 of 7
NAELAMiI               - SCIAL IKDITOS UAA SHEET
XMAW                             NDCVF=isuCTA cPs (WEIGHTED AVEGS) /a
HALAWI *           HOS
DST                     (MST 6wA*m bSTINATSJ Jb
1b CES         LOW INCOUS AFRICA         KDOLE INCaN
196fl/b    ~       ~~T     h        SOUTH OF SAHARA       AFRICA  . 4W SAhARA
aJCsA O TE   RTIOS
PRIKMA:  TOTAL                     ..         36.0       62.0               67.8                     93.7
MALE                    ..         45.0        73.0              77.6                     IUU,U
FEMALE                  ..         26.         51.0              56.9                      5.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   1.0        2.0         6.0               13.5                     17.3
nALE                    1.0         3.0         3.0              17.9                      25.0
FALE                    0.3         1.0        2.0                9.1                      14.5
voCuTroAL (I OF SD^RY)              23.S         2.9        2.9 /d            13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TEACUt RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0       ".0         65.0 /d            46.9                     41.1
SECONDAr                          14.0        16.0       21.0 Wi            27.5                     25.5
PASSEER CARS/THOISO  aOP             l.a         2.2        2.4 /1             3.B                     20.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/fII0USAUD raP       21.6        23.5       44.8               55.8                    107.5
TV uaIVRS/nSTOusoD  OP               1.7        ..          ..                 2.6                     zo.n
NEWSPAPER (PAUl CGENEUAL
IEFEREST") CIRCULATtON
PE  THOUSAND POPLATION              ..          ..         6.3                5.0                      1.4
CINEMU   ANNEAL ATTENDA /CAPIA       0.3        ..          ..                 o:s                      0.4
LAwR  onc
ToTAL Uo TOR= (TSnS)              1621.0      1953.0     2751.0
FEMAlE (PERCENT)                  38.7        38.1       37.5               36.2                     36.2
ACRICILTURE (PERCENT)             92.0       89.0        56.0 /d            77.5                     54.5
IDUmSTRY (PECENT)                  3.0        4.0         5.0 W              9.7                     18.3
PARTICIPATIN RATE (PERCET)
TOTrAL                             5.9        43.9       60.9               39.3                      36.8
HALE                              57.5        55.3       52.6               50.9                     67.1
rEMLE                             34.8        32.9       30.8               2B.1                     27.2
ECoaNOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.0         1.1        1.2                1.3                      1.3
PERcr OFr PRIVAIE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
SICRESr SR or UUSEOLS-             ..        32.6         ..
REaMs 20 OF ROUSHLDS               ..        50.6 i       ..
LoEST 2ZO OF HOUSases              .          IO.A.       .                  .     
UST 4OZ OF IUMSERUS                ..        21.S IL      .                  .     
Per To ms
ESTDMTEANSOlUTE POVERIY ITNCU
mVEL (USS PER CAPT)
URBAN                              ..          ..       123.0 Ic           10.5                     590.7
RURAL                                                    99.0 iF            95.0                    275.3
ESTIMTED RELATV  POVERTY 18X12
LVEL (USS PER CAPIT)
URBN                               ..          ..        65.0 le           113.1                    545.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        52.0 iF            67.6                    201.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERY   INCOME LEVEL (S)
URBAN                              ..          ..        25.0 /c            3b.6
-  RURAL                           ..          ..         H5.07             61.8
NW AVAILABLE
.ODT APPLICrALE
N  OTE  S
Ia  The group aerages for eacb Indicator  e popultion-wighted afltletlc ma_s- Coverag  of Countries
among the indicators depend. on evailabiLtty of data and Ia not uniform.
lb  Unleas otherlsee noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to ny year beten 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and date for "Host Recent Estimte" betwaen 191l and 19U3.
lc 1977; Id 1980; Ie 1979; /f 1962; a 1967; fb 1972; /A 1978.
JUNE. 1985



- 28 -ANI                                             TI
DEFINNOIM  OFPSOCIAL INDICATORS                                    PAGE 3   of 7
Non sAlthough she damsare draw fnro,mour ene#rllyjudgedthe mat atuthmrimtlettand rellabk ishould ala.be mated thatmey maynotbe intenmamionafl) 
comrparabl beue of the lack of stanardied definitions and concepts umad by diflerent cmm.un  in coering the datts The das are. nonetheles. uSl to
dacribe urders or msapitude. indicate trnds and chmacterize ccrtain major differences bewn  countris
The reGermce roups are l I the same country poop of the subject country and (2) a country gp witb somewhat biger ave  income thn the country
pofheshubject muntry (except for "High lIcome Oil Exponrt" group where "Middle Income North Africa and Middl a' is ehoen beaueof stro
soo-dultural aimnittes). In the reference pgup data the averWm are populaion weighed arithmesic nmca for cach iadicator and an   nly when mjority
of th countrcs ins poup ha data for that indicatot Sinc the coverae oecountrica ammgn the indicators depend oav te ailability ofdata  is not uniform.
coubtn must beeexrcied in reLaing awega of oaer indicator to another. b eaverageareonly uerul in compating the valueof oe indicator aa timeamong
the cauarv and reference gmroup
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Cr   Bt Rate (perth.usaadI-Numberof live births in the year
Torta-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crndr Death Rate (fpr th*smnf)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricukm'aIL-Estimase of agricultural area used temporarily or  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
permanentlv for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  GrC  Reprodwties Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. ;960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
present ag-specific fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World   Fauiy Planning-A wptors, Amnnu  (rh.isad-Anaual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis)-. 1983 data.                          F    P q        tr,Aa   t-               n ulnm
ber ofac&eptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    FkmSi7fO PIDUUtr        (percent of nried uoentam-The peren-
petrokum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermnal ekec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capitam 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generaRy women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                Proups.
Total Paplie, n.M fid- Year (thoasandsl--As of July 1;1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Urban Pupukuzrion (percent of total)-Ratio of urban to total   Index of FoodPraduaon Per Capite (1969-71 = I -Ilndex of per
Jr  Peprr {prtenter teiJ-Ran   of uban t  toul capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; differcnt definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food cesmmoditioes
ability or data among countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     *cxud * primary cm dites (eg sgarcane Finsteadof tsu
*    3     *           mcl~~~inude primary axmtodities (eg.& sugareane instead of suear)
Ptpulrion Prjections                                           which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pipulation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded): they comnprise cereals, root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
made 'or each economy separately Starting with informnation on  vegetables, ruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis or generalized  1932 data.
assumptions until the population becamc stationary.            Per p11a Spply O'CafOriS (percent Ofruh'eaKWts)-Comput-
Stauionary population-Is onc in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food suppGis available in country
tality rates have not changed ovcr a long period. while agc-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levd  tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(nct reproduction rate = I). In such a population. thc binh ratc is  cxdude animal feed, secds for usc in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the dcath rate. th-'age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requiremneiits were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. Thc stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiologicl needs for normal acti' ity
sizc was estinmated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 perent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
Popidation famonrun nt-Is the tendency for population growth to  Pfr Capita Sapply of Proteia (mras per day)-Protein content of
conminue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food perday. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at rplace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year : onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Poprlaeon DenWsty                                              average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.An. -Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
tares) of total arca: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capita eProte  Supply Fm Aninalt and    -Protein supply
Per sq.km. agriculrural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 19 1-65,
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Ptp.liiaw Age Sterucre (percent)-Children j0-14 years). work-  Child (ages 1-4) Death Rate (tperthousadj-Nlumber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 yearsj. and retired (65 years and over) as percentase  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data,             group in a given year For most developing countries data dented
Population Growth Rare (percenta-tetal-Annual growth rates of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total nud-vear population for 1950-60: 1960-70. and 1970-S3.   HEALTH
Popmsatio Growth Rate (perent p-mrhan--Annual growth rates     Life Expectany a Rirk (yrwrs)-Nlumber of vears a newborn
of urban population for 150-60. 1960-70. and 1971-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing pattcrns of mortality for all people



- 29-                                          AhNNEX  I
PAGE 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to say the same throughout its lire;  Pupr-teacher Rauo - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Isnfat  adutalt Ra (pt   rhosad)-Number of infants who die    teAchers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one yar of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
AMa  go Saif Wor  (pen of popubtdon)--qtate  urbu Jit   Passenr Cars (Per rtaband popuslreou)-Passenger cars com-
urul-Number or people (totaL urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
aocem  to sfe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hears. and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontuminated water such * that from protected  Rago Receivers (per thowsand populalon)-All types of receivers
borehols, sprinp and anitay wells) as percntags of their respec-  for radio broadcast; to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio set was in eRect; data for recent years may
au being within resonable aess of that house. In rural areas   not be comparable since most countries abolished licensin ma
reasonable accus would imply that the housewfe or members of the
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRewivers (per thousand popubiln)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                          to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Aaw  to Exee D;JPOsaI (ptv  of popsilirtin)--totl, war-       in efet
and rural-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by  n efect.
excreta disposal as percentages or their respective populations.  Newspaper Crclation (per thorl;ndppedonj-Shows the aver-
Exceta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treattment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systms or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Populaio per Pysician-PPulation divided by number of prac-     Cinema Annual Attendance per Capita per Year-Based on the
tsing physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Ppuladton per NIsig Person-Population divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing malc and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE *
Populasion per Hospital Bed-total, urban, and ral-Population   Totda Larmr Force (thosanduj-Economic lly acive persons, in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  studing armet forces and unemployed but excluding housenives,
hospital beds available in public and private. general and specialzed  students. etC. covenrng population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  varous countris  are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at east one physician. Establishmer's prov-  Femafk rpereenti-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals,    force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricaure (percent)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a unmited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        Industry (percern)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospitl Bed-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force: 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Participation Rate (percen)---talw. mae, andfemak--Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity razes are computed as total, male. and femakl labor force
Avewe &S- of Hosh    (person per hoaEhold)-towa. arba,        as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
andrurul-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A fcw estimates are from national sources.
Aerage Number of Persons per Room-rtotal, urban, and rural--   Economic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number, of persons per room in all urban. and rural   65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively- Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structutes and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Prcaetage of Dwellgs wh Ekcrriciy-4ortal, arban, and ral-      Percensage of Totaf Disposable Income (borh in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     . POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted E&nwr  t Ratios                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prsnary school - total, male and female-Gross total. male and  levels, and should be interpretcd with considerable caution.
female enrolment of all ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Etimaed Absohaire Poverty Income Lerel USS per capita)-urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolutc povcrty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  bdow which a minimal nutritionally adcquate diet plus essential
differenc:s in country practices in the agcs and duration of school  non-food requircmcnts is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countrics with universal  Estimated Reltie Povrty Incom  Lerel (LISS per capira)-urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent sincc somc  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban lcvl is
age.                                                          derivcd from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost or
Secondry school - total, me andfemal-Computed as above,    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimaed Popslatiol Below Absolute Porerty Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides gneral, vocational. or teacher training  centJ -urbn and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuaLly of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
Cece courses arc generally excluded.
Vocational Enrolnmeni fpercenr of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial, or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



30 
-30-                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX   I
PAGE 5 of 7
Pum&lai    t 6452 - (rsddISZ. dm .W
PW MI CJti LSW'10 - (19W
MGM - eMac ow.u=u
WICAtSr                   a um        M)
1W            D179       1        19111     196       1910             am8'  an5    1986   1967         19pI
N4AML CS
_ar   eIIC pmb&AA                1326.9         5.4       0.6      0.3        2.6      CA               3.3   3.4      3.7    3.         6.1
.UdrIwlt                        A2.1          9.2      -5.4       3.6       5.9      3.2              3.2   3.4      3.6    3.7        3.6
Lb*O                            229.1        -2.        0.7      6J        -3.7     11.0              3.2   3.6      6.0    &A         4.8
S.4w                             D9.2         1.0       7.5      -L2         W .      .8              3.2   3.4      16      3.8       41
Cmmm                             1140.2        -Li        *.1      -26       -4.1      6.4              9.4   0.6      Li    2.3         2.5
Qms IDvc.r                        302.J        11.      -23    -1.7         -LI        3.2            -16.2   S.7      5.3    55         5.7
gs o fGas                        250          39.7      210    -u.S         -&a       9.0              9.8   6.4      6.7    6.8        4.3
m       of cWs                    36L3          1.3     -DOJ    -50.4       -114I      4.              M.   -3.2       1.5   I          1.7
Oma rAzlnt.1  mdzw                 52.0        50.3     -26.         .4      56.9    -47.6              -     -        -      -          -
t_ ddlIar (1979-100)                      10.0    1O04      139.0      159.2     174.0           .191.4 210.5   Z3.-  245.A       Z&.0
!wjium !ut.fLSSjaJ.h)                     1-.224    1.111     1.139     0.950     0.651            0.750 0.750   0.150  0.75        O.750
m  of CUP at  %c ft*s CZ)                                  Atmu hmim  laL          (:)
(aC awe    prit,)b                                    (at watuc 1919 prct)
1975   191      9I   lff0                               1975S-       19!50      195.
Gem. dc.k  pr=                                     10OA    OAO   1000   100.0                                 5.6          2.9        6.1
A 1rlcut-                                         37.5   39.6   51.7   41.2                                 5a           3.9        3.8
Irecry                                            19.4   17.    Ih5   17.1                                  4.7          2.4         .7
serim                                             Sl43.1   43.0   41.8   *.J                                5.9          LS         '.1
IxW_nU                                              85 .   8S.9   9L3   87.2                                   .O          :.5        2.L
Om  i.aur.                                          31.6   25.9   18.9   5.3                                  4.3         i.S         S.6
>orts QFS                                          28II  10.9   27.0  23L                                     8.7          1.1        4.8
irCn. OiF                                          50.9   42.7   J.2   3.4                                    3.2          2.4        2.4
Cri rAtlauI .sawnm                                .'.6.  13.4
- I of CDP
197371 t97576  191I/82   1IS3:4.
P.-.1C TLI#Z
OaTWt *                                                              1.5 5     13.5     13.2      17.1
O.z.tc car.                                                          16.5      15.4     1.1       17.4
Surpas (. or ddecId  (-                                             -1.1        1.1     ifl.9     0.4
CLt&L ai~qwn                                                     A12.4      12.9      10.2      9.0
FoCtjp t-r.a                                                         11.2       113      2.6      6.6
197540   1930-4   lW5-
C:     hth race (:)                                           5.8      3.2       4.3
Or pr wUt. wyodh raCe (1)                                     1.9      0.3       1.5
EmrV co-win1 ,bm'h race (:1                                    JI L.1            2.Z
I=                                                           6.;       5.0      :.*
M.rtrAL artm cats                                              .1    .0.;       0.4
lnapi  eL.J.tycL                                             0).2      0.8      0.6i
of Cauuw Iam    *at  facor c-e
bI ft AOca 'aam at C      Cr ;;D                                                                                        ai.  'aulca r



-31-                                                         ANNEX   I
PAGE 6 of 7
ya1atiwz        6452 - (.d-192. thmuiIaJ
oW fIrCttaI I1SS2I0 - (1982)
nAlAII - Bepml Tra
AhUna Q*b r tte (7)
(at cau'I  1900 wlw)
-                                        (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~auw.t  O5S  A.LMiI                                       ftoecced
Inditor                            S onuut pe1                                                                                 97)
3983        1979   1900   1981   19Z    1983                  198 .         19      MY   19
UERML TrAM
3kda ^m  ,ggs                                 212.2       29.5   22.9  -14.2  -9.4    6.2                    7.5    f.7    4.5    4.6    4.7
ftt-ry                                     3D2.8       3LO   17.3  -13.7  -7.1    85                      7.9   7.0    4.6    4.6    4.7
flaagam                                      9.4        8.   137.F    0.0  -2.3  -28.1                    4.0    4.0    &.0    4.5    5.0
Ih_mvLm 1iptu                                 325.8       0.1  -9.7  -17.1  -187    0.1                      3.9    2.4    2.9    3.0    3.2
Faa                                          85        17.5  3I.0   57.Z  -56.3  -11.4                    9.5  -Z.5    0.8    3.0    1.3
%cc M                                       -A50.6     27.3  -86   -3.0  -208    1.7                      L6    L7    2.A    2.9        1
KhIWhzy _d  uApm-                           65.6      -33.0   11.9  -51.3  -16.9   -3.8                   4.6    5.9    5.5    5.7    5.9
OtFor                                      20[.1        6.5  -24.5  -6.4   -.6    2.5                     LS    1.6    2.2    2.3    2.3
PM=S (1980-100)
Art plM I1&Z                                  -          -9.9    3.4   29.9    9.9                          8.6    4.0   10.2    8L9    8.9
Uptt pi m                                     -           1. 0   21.8   16.9    7.6    9.9                  LZ    7.2    9.1    9.4    9.4
Term of trad _                                 -         -.9  -15.1   11.1    2.2  -16J                      L2   -3.0    1.0  -0.5    0.4
Q.1tna of  1        _gwh.d1a Trad CS)                            stvp Amu  Lbicrum  (S)
(at Prra prln)                                         (at cSma  1979 ptkz)
1975   191    iaS   1W                                     J975-0     19-3    1985IS
ErIW                                       1100.0I00.0  W0.0   1OO0                                      9.6        -1.1       4.7
ftYqzy                                   92.6  89.7   89.8   89.5                                     8.3       -0.8        4.6
1tuufaw                                   7.4   10.3   W.2   10.5                                    17.8        -3.5       5.2
10.0  3.O IDQ0  10.0  10.                                  -1.4        -6.0       3.2
4.9    73    6.5    6.1                                    .0.9      -13.0        1.7
1.to1al                                   9.1   119   35.6   15.5                                     83        -4.6        3.0
Iaddmzy ard qeu- l-                      24.5   34A    20.7   23.4                                    1.0      -12.8        5.8
Oichg,                                  l6.5   44.4   57.2   55.0                                    -4.5        -1.3       2.4
Shate E Tta bwth                 gm=  Ef Tcgi. 'tch                  S9un of Trade wictd
L-mre   C-au2T*  (2)           Da1e,ipb  Caumt1e (2)            Cptal S"71118 OL        ar 1,;C)
9190    1975    law             1970     1975    191             1910        3075
DtEE'z  w  DI
ENV=s                                       65.3   76.2     69.0            11.3     10.3     7.0            23.4         13.5         24.0
mer                                         --         -           -         _       _         _            _            _-
Ibn,.faLz                                  -.. -           -               -        -        -        _             _            _    -  
xcg                                         SLY56.?   6.8    75.0           24.2      IS      6.0             9.0         M.7          19.0
LI  cjdasm  CC da.UU coxc1zs                                                                                             tetm AEtIca  U.1n
OcbEr 24. 1964



- 32 -
ANNEX   I
PAGE 7 of 7
Pqopultion      6452 (ad-1982. cbmmands)
Qp Pr  C.ta   tSS210 - (1962)
PALA1Wn - 8ALVM OF PAN15. EVERAL CAPtrAL A5:0 rw
('uls, I55 at UatZw   pic)
A~~.tuaL                                     ftoj.g~"ved
1979   !9eo   1981  1982   t983                            1981    19J5   3986   19117   1990
8AL*i Cf PArN1s
"rt oF ,A-  -NwM        m                 274.1  353.6  348.8  302.6  277.8                           314.0  347.6  398.   453.7  668.1
af 'k' rrdDe f.rc'                       222.4  28.5  27Y.7  242.6  212.6                            24a.2  275.1  317.1  361.I  5380
morrs of ;p       ad seivv    .            525.S  585.6  50L5  420.3  419.6                            453.5  43.8  206   593.5  gL29
Of #dch:    c FhanLm f.o.b.              309.9  3429  iD.8  214.0  209.0                             22L1   243J8 2D3.6  3W.5  430.
tremEm                                 -0.4    .8.4   -1.5   -7   -9.9                            -0.8  -1.6  -1L4   -132    2
Oarrz ac t blao                         -251.S -238.4 -159.2 -10.84 451.7                            -50.3 -147.4 -154.2 -152.9 -15I.0
Prvwce dlrecr 1m z                           -      -       -      -      -                              -      - -   -        -      -
OffIcial gu~ a6646.6   50.1   46.3   36.3   2.5                                                         350   42D    50.0   53.5   65.5
>zlZ1m    (ne=)                            96.8  1.Z   87.8   43.5   37.7                             27.4   24.9   83.3   75.   10M5
Offidal                                   81.8   99.1   72.3   58.6   49.9                            5L.9   55.    05    84    119.7
.-wecz                         1~~~~~~~~~~~5A    29.1   15.   -15.1  -12.Z                -3.   -30.4  -Zl.2   -9.0   L5.Z
XLer 1te                                    97.1   421   40.1   -0.7   3.2                              77.9   85.5      .        33.0  -47
Chmzm  Le tmzum(- - 1zSmm.)                 11.3   1I0  -15.0   31.3   46.3                             10.0  -SD    45    -.8  -IL1
IwreyAti-naL mes                            6'.5   71.5   49.0   227   19.8                              9.8   14.8   283   33.1   68.1
d       ch Cld                             -      -      -       -      -                              -          -    -      -      -      -
-bsemm  as ts LWrtu                         LJ    1.5    L2    0.7    0.6                               L2    0.      05    07    I
Ea--RHL  CA DEA  A      D
Cram Mob.jrwow,'                           171.9  21L3    3-5  ID9.5   96.0                            112.7  12.1   87.9  153.1  2S2.5
Offltfdl Cxw=                             466   5L1   46.3   36.3   29-S                              35.0   42.0    50.0 53.5 6 5.5
Conumminwu i -                            43.1   aL5   46.1   42.8   4L9                              49.0   4.3   5S.1   63.3   87
DRC                                     1$.8   17.7   11.6    5.4    1.8                             5.9    6.2   10.0   121 I6.1
fl1                                     14.4   15.1   21.0   27.1   32L3                            282   30.8   35.9   61.1   57.0
Ot?er                                    11.9   27.8   13.5   10.3   14.8                            1;.8   11.3   9.2   10.1   14.4
)bn.Cne drmLol t-m                        82.2  100.7   81.1   30.4   17.6                            2LJ   29.    g.    63.3   99.4
offUdL Eovt Cmits                        8.9   2a.2    3.4    1.2    6.7                             5.3    .1   1L3        .3   3.1
mmiD                                    12.8    7.6   26.8   21.0    1.5                            I    10.6   52.5   22.7   31.9
Ocher -Is:L!aceCA                        5.1    6.9    3.0    0.7    2.0                             6.1    3.5    6.3    9.6   19.8
PrIvate                                 S5.4   57.9   47.9    7.6    7.3                             6.1    7.6   I.5   15.6   27.6
ExmrraL ObI
Dbt Osz.wnal   ard Mllt                 7185  638.8  726.6  70.1   W7.8                             615.2  tL60   e43.3  1a1.6 11358.
.3fftdal                               547.1  413.4  485.6  54.2  594.L                            65'.9  ;062  8127  8S6.9 113.5
171.4  225.4  210.9  235.9  213.7                          IS2.2  151.8  131.6  121.6  I1;0S
L)hsl,ugusd __c                          171.4  171.2  203.8  188a  225.6                            26L3  335.6  412.0  52L1   747.8
Debc Sevrv2e
Toetl Serk    1                           43.5   67.6  -6.B  -6i.7  -5L3                              -dD.9  -91.3 -403.  -101.8 -1:J
TizMLL SerueC .- Payl   a24.3  -34.6  -9.3  -32.0  -29.6                                           -30.6  -33.2  -0.1  -37.9  -51.0
lu a-      ad     1                     -6.0   -6.6  .13.5  -10.9  -26.J                           -27.6  -5.9  -3N2  -37.2  -31.9
Payunnc as 2 xou                         15.9   19.1   25.8   20.4   21.0                            25.S  2I.3   25.9   2LS   30
A  r.     emtbo  anemrv  lo   (Z)            8.3    5.8    6.6  4.0    2.4                               8.8    8.      7.3    7.5    L4
Oftidal
A    r Mturity e fMw loM   (YBGrN)          184   23.3   29.9   30.7   27.7                             22.2   22.2   263   25.7   22.4
Offitlal
An % of Debt OutscandLry
ac Erd of Deceimber 31. 1983
maturicy struccure  of  debt outcarcdit
Maturltlew due wvthtn  5 year.                       9.0
MaturitLas due  wthLn  10 yeaCr                     4. 1
,Lt.ree cttruccure of debt outecanding
Intres t due  vSchl  tfirt   year                    3.6
iD:TnA g1-C.   WIM
Ottbe~r & 24 !&



-33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                   Undis-
Credit No. Year  Borrower    Purpose               Bank     IDA    bursed
6 loans and 17 credits have been fully disbursed  74.96    184.64
Cr. 711-MAI  77    Malawi  Water Supply             -        7.00    0.17
Cr. 857-MAI  79             NRDP I                          22.00    3.57
Cr. 910-MAI  79      -      Education III                   14.50    1.36
Cr. 992-MAI  80             NRDP II                         13.80    4.61
Cr.1099-MAJ  81             Highway IV                      33.00    0.86
Cr.1123-MAI  81             Education IV                    41.00   13.09
Cr.1183-MAI  82             NRDP III                         7.30    3.43
Cr.1272-MAI  82             Lil. Water Supply Eng.           4.00    1.91
Cr.1330-MUI  83             Education V                     34.00   28.74
Cr.1343-MAI  83      -      NRDP IV                         10.60    8.89
Cr.1351-MUI  83             Health                           6.80    4.65
Cr.1352-MAI  83             Smallholder Fert.                5.00    0.62
Cr.1423-MAI  84             Highway V                       26.90a/ 21.87a/
Ln.2363-MAI  84             Highway V              18.00             17.96
Cr.1428-MAI  84             Tech. Assist. II                 1.50    1.26
Ln.2486-MAI  85      -      Wood Industries bl      6.40              6.40
Cr.1528-MAI  85             Urban Housing b/                15.00   15.00
Cr.1549-MAI  85             Natl. Agri. Res. b/             23.80   23.80
TOTAL                                        99.36   450.84  158.19
of which has been repaid                    4.36     5.48
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               95.00   445.36
Amount sold          .30
of which repaid    .30
TOTAL undisbursed                            24.36   133.83  158.19
a/ Includes Special Fund.
b/ Not yet effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Investment Fiscal                     Type of
Number     Year   Obligor             Business        Loan    Equity   Total
--(US$ Million) -
326-MAI    76,82  David Whitehead    Textiles         10.8        -     10.8
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI    77,81  Dwangwa             Sugar            9.9        -      9.9
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI    79     Investment and      Development       -        0.6     0.6
Development         Finance
Bank of Malawi     Company
502-MAI    80,84  Malawi              Tourism          2.0        -      2.0
Hotels
Limited
542-MAI    81,82  Ethanol Company    Manufactur-
Limited of          ing Alcohol
Malawi             from
Molasses       2.2         0.3    2.5
Total gross commitments                              24.9         0.9   25.8
Less cancellations, terminations,                     8.6         -      8.6
repayments and sales
Total commitments now held by IFC                    16.3         0.9   17.2
Total Undisbursed                                     1.6         -      1.6



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Rey Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                         One year
(b)  Prepared by:                                   Government with IDA
assistance.
(c)  First IDA mission:                             January 1983
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:                   September 1984
(e)  Negotiations:                                  July 25-30, 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 February 1, 1986
II.   Special Bank Implementation Action                  None
III. Special Conditions
A.  Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of Project Special Account       By credit
(Para. 77)                                     effectiveness
Cb) Ectablishment and staffing of the              By credit
Tialning Unit in MOA (Para. 51)                effectiveness
B.  Ministry of t'griculture (MOA)
(a) Establishment of the MOA Program Steering      By March 1, 1986
Committee (Para. 68)
C. Planning Division (PD)
(a) Employment of Planning and Management          By April 30, 1986
Advisor (Para. 41)
(b) Employment of Systems Analyst (Para. 42)       By March 31, 1986
(c) Staff Recruitment Program developed and        By Sept. 30, 1986
submitted to IDA for comment (Para. 41)
(d) Formulation of Five-Year Plan Completed        By July 1, 1987
and sent to IDA for comments (Para. 41)
(e) Annual work plans and budgets due              By Sept. 30 of each
(Para. 41)                                   year



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
D. National Extension System (DOA)
Reorganization
(a) Recruitment of Extension Management and         By March 1, 1986
Planning Advisor (Para. 44)
Management and Systems Improvement
(a) Recruitment of Financial                       By July 1, 1986
Advisor/Controller (Para. 45)
(b) Design and implementation of Extension         By April 30, 1987
Programming and Budgeting System:  Mzuzu       and thereafter to
ADD (Para. 45)                                  other ADDs
(c) Implementation of Mass Comunication            By Oct. 31, 1986
Scheme (Para. 56)
Cd) Annual workshops (Para. 46)                    May/June of each
year
Ce) Formulation of Five-Year National              By July 1, 1987
Extension Strategy Plan Completed and
sent to IDA for comments (Para. 46)
Strengthening DOA's Technical Capacity
Ca) Recruitment of USAID-financed Training         By Sept. 30, 1985
Advisor (Para. 51)
(b) Training Advisor's responsibility will be      By iept. 30, 1985
broadened to include all professional and
technical training within MOA (Para. 51)
(c) Design and implementation of Extension         By April 30, 1987
Programming and Budgeting System: Mzuzu         and thereafter to
ADD  (Para. 45)                                 other ADDs
(d) Proposed Establishment of Career Stream        By March 31, 1987
mand Promotion System for DOA (Para. 48)
Credit
(a) Completion of Study (Para. 57)                 By March 31, 1986
(b) Implementation of agreed recommendations        By Jan. 1, 1987
(Para. 57)



IBRD 18833
MA LAWI
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION AND
v -S   r   PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
MZUWU ADD
                        -^,  >   \   POUNDARIES OF AGRICULTUPAL
DEVELOPMENT DIVISICNS I A.D DI
- <   \, 4>  ! '      *    ADD HEADOL'ARTERS
H  t\   <  OChF"lI   zIIIMAIN ROADS
4        k -   )   v O.,- '  o A.  -., - RAILWAYS
.CRilo   ,  -             RIVERS
*                             r       --                )    D   -. -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~. -s .;--   --                      /> 
'U-
Z   A    Mi B    I  A          f    1  >                                                                   r
fp                     I -           '    i
M                           -M Z  A  M                .LB  I                             O U
A%GOLA ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    -               ILAI
5A  -W                      -                                                F-  C .  ' 
F                      /  ------
MUM MMCAM                                               ZA          B      QU
s    f-    -FAv~~~<\I  \E-                                                                                                I
--p   ).-  *^
M   O   Z  A  M  -B  I QLO UE              O'v@&
'~~~~~~~~~i                   I D" lb  I                    /3-  \(\ =y_
MAsgPCH 19N5






