Document of
The World Bank
FOlR OFFCIAL USiE ONLY
Report No. 13633
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1626-MAI)
OCTOBER 25, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
South Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1985US$ 1.0 = MK 1.72
1986US$ 1.0 = MK 1.86
1987US$ 1.0 = MK 2.21
1988US$ 1.0 = MK 2.56
1989US$ 1.0 = MK 2.76
1990US$ 1.0 = MK 2.73
1991US$ 1.0 = MK 2.80
1992US$ 1.0 = MK 3.60
1993US$ 1.0 = MK 4.39 (Av. Jan.-Sept. 1993)
1994US$ 1.0 = MK 7.0 (Av. Apr.-June 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB            Agricultural Communications Branch
ADD            Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC         Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
AGREDAT        Agricultural Economics, Statistics and Data Processing Unit
ARC            Agricultural Research Council
ART            Adaptive Research Teams
ASP            Agricultural Services Project
BES            Block Extension System
CAETO          Chief Agricultural Extension and Training Officer
CAO            Chief Agricultural Officer
CARO           Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CAS            Controller of Agricultural Services
CIMMYT         Wheat and Maize Improvement Centre
CPO            Chief Planning Officer
CTL            Commodity Team Leaders
DAR            Department of Agricultural Research
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DCAO           Deputy Chief Agricultural Officer
DCARO          Deputy Chief Agricultural Research Officer
DEVPOL         Development Policy
DO             Development Officer
DOA            Department of Agriculture
EP&D           Department of Economic Planning and Development
EPA            Extension Planning Area
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FA             Field Assistants
FAO/CP         FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FHA            Farm Home Assistants
FSNU           Food Security and Nutrition Unit
GOM            Government of Malawi
ICRISAT        International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA           International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
INIBAP         International Institute for Banana and Plantain Research
ISNAR          International Service for National Agricultural Research
LLDP           Lilongwe Land Development Progmrame
MADD           Mzuzu Agricultural Division
MAEPS          Malawi Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project
MARE           Malavi Agricultural Research and Extension Project
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NARP           National Agricultural Research Project
NRC            National Research Coordinators
NRDP           National Rural Development Programme
OFD            On Farm Demonstration
OSU            Oregon State University
PCP            Pilot Communication Programme
PCR            Project Completion Report
PD             Planning Division (MOA)
PO             Project Officer
RDP            Rural Development Project
RMEA           Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
SACA           Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SFFRFM         Smallholder Farmers' Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi
SMS            Subject Matter Specialist
T&V            Training and Visit
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
TOT            Training of Trainers
TRFCA          Tea Research Foundation of Central Africa
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                          October 25, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Malawi -
Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project (Cr. 1626-MAd)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malawi Agricultural Extension and
Planning Support Project (Cr. 1626-MAI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was
contributed by the Borrower. While in general agreement with the conclusions of Parts I and II, the
Borrower mentions some difference on points of detail and also correctly notes that the Staff
Appraisal Report did not make specific recommendations concerning the poorer smallholders who
constitute 55 percent of farmers and operate one third of arable land without access to significant
credit; failure to assist this majority was mentioned as a disappointing result in Part I.
The project aimed to improve the planning capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), improve the planning, budgeting and management in its extension department, enhance staff
quality through training, and improve extension services in a large administrative region (Mzuzu); the
latter also received equipment, infrastructural development and additional credit. The MOA
institutional improvement was reasonably successful but has been plagued by senior staff retention
problems. Improvements in the extension department proved difficult to implement; at the end of
the project a planning and budgeting system was installed but its impact is as yet unknown, and the
intended improved career structure for extension staff was abandoned. On-farm demonstrations were
successfully introduced to the existing modified T&V system of extension in Mzuzu, and even during
the project period this innovation spread to the rest of the country. However, there was an
unexplained reduction in the number of on-farm demonstrations in the last two project years. Mass
media programs were enhanced with USAID support, and there was an increased involvement of
women in extension and credit activities. The extension system, however, was affected by serious
operational funding constraints; there is room for rationalization of staff numbers and services;
research-extension linkage is deficient and site specificity in fertilizer recommendations needs to be
improved; and little attention is being given to those without access to credit (as has been traditional
in extension in rural development projects in Malawi).
Data to quantitatively assess impact even in Mzuzu were unavailable, but the extension
system did at least contribute to the substantially expanded use of hybrid flint maize and higher
nutrient fertilizers. The project is rated as having a satisfactory outcome, with a modest institutional
development impact. Sustainability is uncertain, especially considering the funding problems. A
follow-on project is attempting to address the identified problems and should at least temporarily
alleviate the operational support constraint. The quality of the Completion Report is satisfactory.
An audit is not immediately planned, but the project is likely to be audited together
with other research and extension interventions in Malawi in the future.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1626-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   .......................................................    i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY    ...........................................  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .................   1
1.       Project Identity .            ..............................................                                               1
2.    Background .................................................   1
3.        Project Objectives and Description   ..................................                                                   2
4.        Project Design and Organization  ....................................                                                     2
5.        Project Implementation  ..........................................                                                        3
6.        Project Results  .            ..............................................    11
7.        Project Sustainability  ...........................................    14
8. Bank's Performance .15
9.        Borrower's Performance  .........................................    16
10.  Lessons Learned . ..............................................  16
11.  Project Relationship .                   ............................................  18
12.       Consultancy Services  ...........................................    18
13.      Project Documentation  ..........................................    18
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                          ........ 19
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .................................   27
TABLES
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ..................27
2.   Credit Time Table........................28
3.   Credit Disbursements.......................29
4.   Project Implementation ......................30
5.   Project Costs and Financing.....................35
6.   Project Results.........................37
7.   Status of Covenants .......................38
8.   Use of Bank Resources ......................40



ANNEX 1 - TABLES
1.     Comparison of Target and Achievement Dates ........                ...................  43
2.     Extension Service Demonstration Data ...........              .....................  44
3.   Mzuzu ADD Credit Operations ..................................... 45
4.     Inflators and Exchange Rates ......................................  46
5.     Incremental Maize Production (1983/84 - 1992/93)  ........................  47
6.      Switch of Fertilizer Mix: Estimated Savings in Fertilizer Imports Expenditures in 1992/98  48
7.     Investment Costs for Economic Analysis ..........             .....................  49
8.     Smallholder Sector: Maize Area and Yields  ........              ....................  50
9.     Import Parity Prices  .........................................    51
10.    Budget per Hectare for Local and Hybrid Maize .......              ...................  52
11.    Mzuzu ADD Net Value of Maize (Local and Hybrid) Production in Economic Terms . .. 53
12.    Economic Rate of Return Estimated: Mzuzu ADD  ........................  54



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1626-MAI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Malawi Agricultural Extension and
Planning Support Project (MAEPS) for which Credit 1626-MAI in the amount of SDR 11.7 million
(USS 11.6 million) was signed on December 20, 1985. The credit became effective on 20 March
1986. Originally expected to be implemented over a five-year period and closed on September 1,
1991, the credit was actually closed, after two extensions totalling 22-months, on 30 June 1993.
Actual disbursement totalled SDR 11.2 million (US$ 15.0 million) or approximately 96%, in SDR
terms, of the originally approved credit amount. The last disbursement was made on October 1, 1993.
Parts I and HI of the PCR were prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(FAO/CP) for the Agriculture and Environment Division of the Southern Africa Department (AF6AE)
of the World Bank. Part II is being prepared by the Borrower.
Preparation of the PCR was started during a visit to Malawi by a teaml from FAO/CP in
December 1993, and is based,.inter alia, on information gathered in Malawi from discussions with
project staff and officials of the Planning Division and the Department of Agricultural Extension and
Training within the Ministry of Agriculture and with officials from USAID which participated in
project co-financing. Meetings were held with officials of the Department of Economic Planning and
Development and the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration. The report also takes into
account information and data gathered from the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA), Supervision Reports, USAID Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(MARE) final evaluation report, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower and internal IDA
memoranda.
1   Messrs. R. Suppa, Economist and Mission Leader; G. Stem, Agricultural Extension Specialist (Consulant).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1626-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The project, signed in December 1985, formed part of the fifth phase of the National Rural
Development Programme (NRDP) which included the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP)
(Credit 1549-MAI) and the USAID financed Malawi Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(MARE), which provided parallel financing to the two IDA Credits. The project aimed at supporting
Malawi's institutional development in the agricultural sector with the specific objectives to: (i)
improve MOA's analytical and long-term planning capability; (ii) strengthen the National Extension
Service including the establishment of a mechanism for better defining extension strategies, priorities
and programs and rationalizing existing structures; and (iii) develop the human resources needed for
an efficient extension programme.
The following is a description of project components: (i) strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture's (MOA's) Planning Division (PD); (ii) improving the national agricultural extension
system, including developing an extension planning and budgeting system; (iii) upgrading the
Department of Agriculture's (DOA's) technical capacity by establishing a professional career stream
and promotion system for extension staff, and in-service training program; (iv) producing and
distributing of teaching and training materials; (v) improving extension services in the Mzuzu
Agricultural Development Division (ADD); (vi) providing incremental credit for farmers in the
Mzuzu ADD; and (vii) improving research-extension linkages through the participation of extension
staff in Adaptive Research Teams (ARTs), research-extension workshops and the development and
dissemination of locally-specific technical recommendations.
Implementation Experience
The project was originally scheduled to be completed by September 1, 1991 after an
implementation period of five years. Although investment planned at appraisal and subsequent
modifications were substantially completed on time, the project was extended to 1993 to bridge the
gap between it and a follow-up Agricultural Services Project (ASP) which supports both national
research and extension systems. Major implementation constraints included: (i) senior staff vacancies
and changes; (ii) inadequate project management and coordination, with the Steering Committee
established for that purpose meeting only infrequently; and (iii) weak procurement and financial
services, that seriously delayed equipment and operating funds for extension work.
The constraints were to some extent alleviated by implementation assistance provided by Bank
staff, particularly in the fields of extension, disbursements, finance and procurement. Changes to
project design agreed upon during implementation included: (i) a pilot operation to improve field
procedures and practices of the extension services, that started on a very small-scale in Mzuzu ADD
and spread to all parts of Malawi, this, rather than planning and budget improvements, became the
iii



centerpiece of the project; (ii) Technical Assistance (TA) for the Food Security and Nutrition Unit,
newly established in the Department of Economic Planning and Development; and (iii) provision of
operating funds for new extension activities (i.e. expansion of the extension methodology used in
Mzuzu ADD to the rest of the country), by amending the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and
using previously unallocated funds for the new disbursement category.
Results and Impact
Overall, project performance was generally satisfactory, and the outcomes were mixed.
Observable results and impact suggest that the project made significant progress toward achieving
many of the original objectives (training, production and distribution of teaching and training
materials, infrastructure development, improvement of the extension system in Mzuzu ADD,
provision of incremental credit to farmers in Mzuzu ADD) and was disappointing in other aspects
(planning and budgeting system, professional career stream, research-extension linkages).
Technical assistance and 12 masters degree fellowships have strengthened the Planning
Division's analytical and planning capacity, but improvements were constrained by continuing senior
staff vacancies and turnover. Of the various interventions to strengthen extension, an improved
planning and budgeting system has been developed and adopted, but so late that the impact is not yet
apparent. The two USAID funded components, the Women's and Communications Programs were
successful. The Women's Programme helped to formulate policy and procedures, including the
change of emphasis from home economics to equal attention being paid to agricultural production
activities. The Communications TA, training and equipment gave the Agricultural Communications
Branch (ACB) of the MOA a much strengthened desk top publishing capacity, and the ACB now
conducts regular radio programs for a wide audience and produces advisory leaflets and other printed
material on demand. A pilot scheme designed during implementation, to improve extension methods,
procedures and field training, spread to all parts of the country and has been adopted nationally.
However, there was no funding for vehicles, equipment and operating funds needed for that purpose.
As a result, a better system is in place, but some shortcomings identified during implementation
remain to be addressed, including funding and transport problems, failure of extension to reach the
poorer smallholder sector and training weaknesses.
With regard to upgrading DOA's technical capacity, the Government was not able to
introduce an improved career stream, the fellowship and massive local training programme was
implemented efficiently, but the latter proved so costly that it could not be completed for most field
level staff. The Adaptive Research Teams, which received support from both this project and NARP,
did not improve the research/extension linkage in Mzuzu ADD. The complementary credit component
expanded lending seven fold in current terms, but almost 45% of total lending has not been
recovered. This was not a local but a national trend. However, the fact that despite the Mzuzu
investments, extension performance does not appear to be sustainable after very promising initial
improvement, must cause concern. The Food Security and Nutrition surveillance scheme introduced
into the project after appraisal, has become a vital tool for the Government to monitor national food
supplies and nutrition status and design remedial actions if and when needed.
Additional contributions of the project include: (i) a major strengthening of Malawi's
smallholder extension delivery system throughout the country; (ii) contribution of the extension
service to the spread of hybrid maize from about 70,000 ha before the project (average 1984/85-
1985/86) to about 330,000 ha in 1992/93. The hybrid expansion had increasing impact on production
both in the 1991/92 drought, when the 16% of the area sown to it accounted for 40% of the harvest,
and in the 1992/93 "boom" year, when 25% of the area under hybrids accounted for 50% of the
iv



record two million tons maize crop. However, the hybrid maize area dropped significantly in
1993/94 (to about 175,000 has), primarily due to the collapse of the rural credit system; and (iii)
contribution of the extension service to the conversion by farmers from using low nutrient content
fertilizers to those with high content. The conversion to high nutrient content fertilizers resulted in
considerable foreign exchange savings.
Limited availability of empirical evaluation makes it difficult to provide conclusive evidence
of production impact at this time, although the accrual of project benefits may be forthcoming as the
improvements in the extension system are fully implemented.
Sustainability
The project, in line with its objectives, tried to raise the effectiveness of the extension service.
However, with operating fund shortages that have handicapped the extension service during the
project period and with worsening cuts in MOA's revenue budget, the sustainability of the project's
main activities is in doubt without greater and sustained Government commitment and continued
donor support (during the 1990s) for operating costs, including vehicle and equipment replacement.
Cost economies, in addition to improvements to be gained from better planning and budgeting, must
therefore be seriously and constantly considered and implemented, including detailed review and
streamlining of existing staffing and services to improve staff working conditions. Ways of doing so
without affecting extension performance materially should be explored. It is important to note that the
Agricultural Services Project (ASP) is supporting various actions to address these issues and develop
and implement workable solutions.
Lessons Learned
The major lessons to be derived from the implementation of the project are the following:
a comprehensive pre-project/pre-program analysis within country of farming systems
and technology needs of the main farmer types, the available stock of technology, and
the technology generation capacity are needed to ensure cost-effective and sustainable
interventions;
-      an improved program budget system for recurrent cost funding should be developed
and implemented within MOA, and this should be coordinated with an ongoing review
of staff levels and job description;
-     more thorough assessment of the borrower's financial and procurement capabilities is
needed during project preparation/appraisal, as well as operational requirements for
their strengthening;
-      it is important to establish effective project management and coordination
arrangements before project implementation;
-     field supervision of financial, technical and management aspects of projects with IDA
donor assistance is extremely important;
-      a detailed review of the various NRDP is needed to ascertain whether there are
sustainable and effective alternatives to cost-intensive staff and operating requirements
of the extension system;
v



greater attention needs to be devoted to ensuring that improvements in extension
methods are complemented by ensuring strong research-extension-farmer linkages;
the importance of separating extension and credit activities to ensure extension
workers devote their time to extension activities; and
-     monitoring and evaluation of project activities are essential in order to communicate
the positive results of extension activities to Government and obtain Govermnent
commitment/support (particularly financial).
The design features of the follow-up project ASP, have taken into account all of the above
lessons. It is important that ASP implement effectively the various action plans prepared to address
the key lessons from MAESP. Regarding improved and sustainable extension services, ASP is giving
emphasis to:
improved mechanisms to ensure a constant flow of improved technologies to a broader
range of smallholders through greater emphasis on low-cost technical messages and
more effective researcher-extension-farmer linkages;
improved MOA budgeting and planning procedures and capacities, including
development and application of improved 'yardsticks" for determining the level of
non-salary operating funds for ensuring effective extension services; and
improved monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness and impact of improved
extension services.
vi



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1626-MAI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name        Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project
Credit No.          1626-MAI
RVP Unit            AF6AE
Country             Malawi
Sector              Agriculture
2.    Background
Introduction
2.1   The project was identified by IDA in early 1983, prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) Planning Division assisted by Bank staff, and appraised by the Bank in September/October
1984. The Credit Agreement was signed on December 20, 1985 and the project became effective on
March 20, 1986. The project formed part of the fifth phase of the National Rural Development
Programme (NRDP) which also included the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP,
Credit 1549-MAI) and the USAID-financed Malawi Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(MARE), which provided parallel co-financing to the two IDA Credits.
The Agricultural Sector
2.2    Agriculture is the backbone of Malawi's economy. Up to 1990, it accounted for about 40% of
GDP, and 85% of exports and employment. Maize is by far the most important crop in terms of
cultivated area, number of growers, and food security. Other major food crops include groundnuts,
pulses, cassava and rice. Exports are dominated by three crops: tobacco, tea and sugar. Production is
predominantly under rainfed conditions. Malawi's agriculture is characterized by smallholders and
estates, differentiated by regulations concerning production, marketing, pricing and land tenure. While
estate production focuses mainly on export crops, the smallholder sector accounts for about 80% of
food production and only 10% of exports. It involves about 1.8 million families operating under
customary tenure on about 1.75 million hectares, producing primarily for subsistence. Land and labor
productivity among the majority of smallholders is very low, and nearly half of the population lives
below the level of absolute poverty. High population growth, low productivity of land and labor in
agriculture, limited employment opportunities, low quality of human capital due to low nutritional
levels and limited access to education and health services, are the main causes of poverty. Ibis
1



situation was, at project preparation time, further aggravated by the failure of research to find high-
yielding maize varieties acceptable to smallholder farmers, inadequate supply and use of fertilizers
and a narrow range of high-value cash crops available to smallholders.
The Agricultural Development Policy
2.3    As outlined in its "Development Policy (DEVPOL) 1987", the Government accorded priority
to promoting agricultural growth. The primary objectives for the agricultural sector were to ensure
food security at the household and national levels, improve rural incomes and increase export
earnings, while protecting the environment. In addition to increasing agricultural productivity, the
strategy envisaged policies and investment measures to expand off-farm employment opportunities.
The donor community, including the Bank, supported this Government strategy.
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    Project objectives were described in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) as follows: (i)
improve MOA's analytical and long-term planning capability; (ii) strengthen the national extension
system, including the establishment of a mechanism for better defining extension strategies, priorities
and programs and rationalizing existing structures; and (iii) develop the human resources needed to
put in place a more efficient extension programme.
3.2    The following is a description of project components: (i) strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture's (MOA's) Planning Division (PD) through training and consultant services; (ii)
improving the national agricultural extension system, including developing an extension planning and
budgeting system; (iii) upgrading the Department of Agriculture's (DOA) technical capacity by
establishing a professional career stream and promotion system for extension staff, and an in-service
training programme; (iv) production and distribution of teaching and training materials; (v) improving
extension services in the Mzuzu Agricultural Development Division (ADD)' by constructing offices,
staff houses and marketing sheds, and purchasing vehicles and motorcycles for extension managers
and supervisors and equipment and materials needed by extension staff; (vi) providing incremental
credit for farmers in the Mzuzu ADD; and (vii) improving research-extension linkages through the
participation of extension staff in Adaptive Research Teams (ARTs), research-extension workshops
and through the development and dissemination of locally-specific technical recommendations. The
DCA allowed for component modifications mutually acceptable to the Government of Malawi (GOM)
and IDA.
4.     Project Design and Organization
4.1   Initial project preparation followed NRDP lines, to strengthen staff and infrastructure in areas
not covered by earlier projects. However, during preparation it was believed that, given Government
budgetary constraints, priority should be given to consolidating and improving maintenance of
existing NRDP investments. Both GOM and the Bank considered that there was already a basic
framework for satisfactory extension in Malawi, which needed considerable strengthening by
improving: cost effectiveness, extension planning and evaluation, the staff's technical capacity and
linkages with research. Consequently, project design focused on consolidation and institutional
improvements of the agricultural planning and extension systems. However, planning aspects went
beyond extension and were designed to have the Planning Division provide sector strategy and advice
I   The Mzuzu ADD, as Lhe second largest ADD and representative of most of the country's agricultural area, was
selected to pilot the first phase of a national programme to improve extension service (SAR).
2



for policy formulation and determine investment priorities. PD was also expected to improve project
preparation, and monitoring and evaluation services. Orthodox NRDP investments (paras 3.2(iv) and
(v)), accounting for 30% of project cost, were designed for Mzuzu Agricultural Development
Division only, which was to serve as a pilot area for improved extension planning and budgeting and
resultant modifications (improvement) of the extension service; and for a "mass communication
system" that was not described in project documents. Technical assistance and training, totalling 55%
of project cost, was envisaged to cover the entire extension service.
4.2    Overall responsibility for project implementation was vested in the MOA Principal Secretary
(PS), assisted by the Project Steering Committee, comprising the two Controllers of Agricultural
Services (CAS), one for the NRDP and one for institutions; the Chief Agricultural Officer; the Chief
Veterinary Officer; the Chief Agricultural Research Officer, the Chief Projects Officer, the Chief
Accountant; and a Ministry of Finance (MOF) representative. Procurement services were to be
provided by the Consultant funded by NARP, and the same firm of architects, already appointed
under NARP, was to be entrusted with supervision of the civil works. The USAID contribution to the
project under the MARE project, which had been approved in July 1985, was managed by the
Consortium for International Development, a consortium of four universities, with Oregon State
University (OSU) serving as the lead institution.
Design Weaknesses
4.3   In retrospect, there were design shortcomings that led to implementation difficulties or
changes, notably: (i) a weak project management structure (para 5.31); (ii) inadequate provision for
procurement of goods (para 5.29); (iii) inadequate analysis of extension methods in use in the field
(paras 5.10-5.15); (iv) inadequate analysis of and arrangements for ensuring adequate operating fund
shortages (paras 5.13 and 7.1); and (v) inadequate attention to ensuring effective research-extension-
farmer linkages.
5.    Project Implementation
General
5.1   Implementation of IDA-financed components started slowly, despite two launch workshops,
which were held a year apart, and labelled successful by participants. Action plans for implementing
each component were drawn up, but these seemed to have little impact on subsequent implementation
(Annex 1, Table 1). The main reason for the slow start was a change of virtually every senior MOA
manager, including the PS, the two CASs, and heads of DAR, DOA and the Planning Division. By
contrast, USAID-funded components, managed by OSU (para 4.2), made good progress.
5.2    Three key developments emerged from the Project. The first of these was initiation of a pilot
operation in Mzuzu ADD to improve field extension, which spread to the rest of Malawi and became
the centerpiece of the project (para 5.10). The second was the establishment of a Food Security and
Nutrition Unit (FSNU) in the Department of Economic Planning and Development (EP&D) in the
office of the President and Cabinet, and agreement by the Bank to finance TA to support it (para
5.26). Finally, at GOM's request, the Bank agreed to some changes of TA to be financed by the
Project (para 5.4).
5.3   Implementation was constrained by procurement (para 5.29) and financing problems (para
5.30) and by lack of project direction/coordination/monitoring (para 5.31). Nevertheless, most of the
project components were completed as expected at appraisal. The closing date was extended twice, by
3



a total of 22 months, mainly to ensure continuation and replication to other ADDs of the extension
pilot operation until the work could be funded by the follow-up project Agricultural Services Project
(ASP).
Implementation of Individual Components
5.4    Strengthening the MOA Planning Division. PD has five sections, respectively responsible
for: (i) price policy and marketing; (ii) project preparation; (iii) surveys, statistics and evaluation;
(iv) planning and budgeting; and (v) data processing. The project was to finance about 84 months of
long-term TA for a Planning Adviser, Price Policy Economist and Systems Analyst, and 12 months of
short-term TA. Other investments included six Masters fellowships and six vehicles plus office
equipment for the Division. Project activities were delayed because the Chief Planning Officer (CPO)
post was vacant for the first year (para 5.1). Two further changes of this post and staff vacancies,
some due to staff absences on training, impeded the Division's work, but ultimately the components
were implemented more or less as planned with only a few exceptions. EEC provided the planner on
a grant basis and MOA requested and IDA agreed to finance a monitoring and evaluation specialist
instead. At the end of the project, 90 person-months of long-term TA were delivered. Figures on
short-term TA were not available. The overseas graduate training programme was doubled, and there
were 12 Masters fellowships instead of the six projected in the SAR. Furthermore, some 156 person-
weeks were provided to the Planning Division under the short-term (off-shore) training component
against the 100 foreseen at appraisal (Part III, Table 4).
5.5    The quality of the TA provided during project implementation has varied. Monitoring and
Evaluation TA was poor and is reflected by the lack of extension or project impact studies. The first
national survey of extension impact, conducted in early 1993, had not yet been collated and analyzed
at the time of PCR field work. By contrast, the systems analyst is credited with designing the MOA
computerization programme, conducting effective training, and designing the systems that remain in
use today. Of the two pricing policy advisers, the first was so difficult to manage that he had to be
replaced. The second performed his pricing policy evaluation duties competently, but it is difficult to
judge whether there was a lasting impact of his work on the Division.
5.6    The enlarged masters training programme (para 5.20), supplemented by short-term training
for 26 PD staff (156 person-weeks) disrupted the work of the Division during the project period, and
the performance of the Division remains constrained by staff vacancies, particularly at Principal
Economist level. The Division was to prepare a five-year Agricultural Strategy and a draft was
provided to IDA for review over two years after the target date (Annex 1, Table 1).
Improving National Extension System
5.7    General. The SAR agreed with the 1982 NRDP review that a satisfactory institutional
framework to deliver extension services was in place, but that effectiveness of the extension service
was increasingly hampered by inadequate numbers of properly trained technical and management
staff; absence of structured career development opportunities or incentives for high achievement;
paucity of technical packages for smallholder crops; inadequate extension planning and budgeting
systems; and unsatisfactory and scarce extension materials. The project was designed to address these
shortcomings as well as to address the need for special work to help the many women farmers.
Specific investments for these purposes (Part III, Table 4) were to be mainly: (i) 276 months of TA
for two Training Specialists, a Women's Programme Adviser and a Communications Specialist, both
financed by USAID; and an Extension Planning Adviser, Financial Controller and Seeds Specialist,
financed by IDA, plus 74 months of short-term TA; (ii) the US$ 3.5 million staff training
4



programme, comprising 10 Masters fellowships, 34 diplomas, 120 weeks of short-term training
abroad, plus some 13.000 weeks of in-country training; and (iii) 14 vehicles for DOA Headquarters
and 4 for the Agricultural Communications Branch (ACB), office equipment for both and printing,
binding and audio-visual equipment for ACB. In general, USAID-financed vehicles, equipment and
operating costs were to support its TA, in this case the ACB and the MOA Women's programme. At
project completion, long-term TA amounted to 244 person-months (178 financed by USAID). Data on
actual delivery of short-term TA were not available. The training component was successfully
implemented and included 1 Ph.D., 23 MSc. and 20 diplomas. With regard to short-term training,
actual delivery included 808 weeks and 850 weeks for off-shore and in-country courses respectively.
Details on SAR targets and actual implementation are given in Part III, Table 4.
5.8    Extension Planning and Budgeting. The main purpose of the project was to strengthen the
extension service by eliminating wasteful expenditures identified by improved planning and budgeting.
The long-term TA for this purpose proved ineffective, as were proposals to strengthen impact by
moving TA from the Accounts Department to either PD or DOA. Although DOA did not accept
proposals resulting from TA, efforts to improve planning and budgeting continued. Short-term courses
in the later stages of the project in the use of a logical framework approach to designing a 'Five-Year
Extension Strategy", led to its adoption by all DOA units and all ADDs. However, adoption is so
recent that the impact is not yet apparent.
5.9    Management Planning. The main output from the Extension Management Planning Adviser
was the Five-Year Extension Strategy, published in January 1990, and amended in June 1992. The
document became the policy guideline for all branches and programs of the extension service. Aninal
husbandry work was not included because the Department of Animal Health and Industries was
primarily responsible for related advisory work. The Strategy details resources required, but does not
take into account the Government's budget constraints.
5.10  Improving Extension Methods, Procedures and Practices. Under NRDP, the country was
divided into eight ADDs, each directed by a Programme Manager (PM); subdivided into 30 Rural
Development Projects (RDPs), each under a Project Officer (PO), further subdivided into 147
Extension Planning Areas (EPAs), each supervised by a Development Officer (DO) and each of which
was divided into sections. These represent the activity sphere of Field Assistants (FA) who are the
frontline extension workers interacting with farmers. In 1991 there were 1,898 sections staffed by
about 1,777 FAs2. In 1981, MOA introduced the Block Extension System (BES) to be standard for
Malawi. This was a modified Training and Visit (T&V) system, entailing FA visits on a regular
schedule to farmer contact points and bi-weekly FA training. For this purpose, FAs were to divide
each section into 8 Blocks, each one to be visited on the same day, once every two weeks. The main
extension tool was to be a demonstration plot, called the Block Garden, to be provided and tilled by
farmers of the area. Recommended practices were to be demonstrated there and discussed with
farmers by the FA on his visits, which it was hoped would attract most farmers. Farmers were
encouraged to form "Block Committees" to help guide and organize extension work within their
Blocks. FAs were supported by a range of Subject Matter Specialists, both at ADD and RDP level,
and primary responsibility for their guidance and training lay with their immediate supervisors, the
DOs.
5.11   The March 1987 Project Supervision Mission found that attendance at Block Gardens was
low, which a Mzuzu ADD review ascribed to "monotony of subjects and failure of BES to cater for
2   Source: Five Year Extension Strategy Plan - MOA - June, 1992.
5



farmers' demands and aspirations". It was hard to tell what extension work other than visiting Block
Gardens extension workers were doing. To address this situation, the mission recommended either
replacing Block Gardens or supplementing them with demonstrations on farmers' land, to cater to
their needs and interests. These findings led to subsequent regular visits of a Bank extension
specialist. In October 1987, in line with appraisal objectives to experiment with improving extension
in Mzuzu ADD, the extension specialist initiated a small pilot operation to strengthen BES in two of
its EPAs. It included the establishment of demonstration plots on farmers' fields, allied to more
structured FA work programs and intensified bi-weekly training. Because of the hostile reception to
the March 1987 supervision findings by Mzuzu extension staff, the pilot operation was designed to
minimize changes and reinforce existing practices rather than replace them. Although the new system
was viewed with suspicion by managers and by DOA HQ staff, the field staff found it to be helpful
and in 1988, it was expanded to other Mzuzu EPAs and to small parts of two other ADDs. By 1992
it had been adopted country-wide.
5.12   The rapid spread of the above methodology to the national scene had not been initially
planned or anticipated, but the new system was popular in the field because it addressed the difficulty
of establishing Block Gardens. In 1991, 10 years after BES introduction, only 32% of blocks had a
Block Garden and it was difficult to tell what extension work FAs were doing in blocks without
gardens. These gardens were especially difficult to establish in the densely populated South, where
land is scarce, and hard to obtain for communal purposes. There and elsewhere, FAs found that
farmers were interested in "On Farm Demonstrations (OFDs)" on their own land, reflecting their own
interests. The Block Garden/OFD combination remained the most desirable option, with a range of
recommendations shown on Block Gardens and specific ones, selected by specific farmers, on OFDs.
However, OFDs enabled FAs to demonstrate improved practices, as foreseen in BES, even in areas
without Block Gardens. By 1990/91, about 5,000 Block Gardens had already been reinforced by
about 22,000 OFDs (Annex 1, Table 2). The Pilot Operation seemed to benefit even the establishment
of Block Gardens which, by 1992/93 had increased to 8,000 and that of OFDs to 30,000. The latter is
only about 30% of the minimum target of establishing five OFDs per block, but quite a commendable
effort, considering that the project had not been designed to remodel extension procedures in the
field. OFDs allied to block gardens, could become a powerful extension tool if the national target of
operating 75,000 OFDs is attained.
5.13   Successful BES needs mobility for close FA supervision. A Chronic shortage of vehicles was
exacerbated by a two-year delay in arrival of new motorcycles for the Mzuzu ADD. Special efforts to
overcome breakdowns and lack of spares, which were the cause of most of the national MOA fleet
being inoperative most of the time, brought only temporary relief. Recommendations for managing
MOA transport (presently valued at MK 35 million), by an expert study, are to be dealt with by the
successor project (ASP). Operating fund shortages, equally crippling to extension work, were
somewhat alleviated by a DCA amendment that reallocated SDR 1 million of unallocated funds for
extension operating costs (Part m, Table 5-B). However, it took two years from the DCA amendment
for any funds to reach the field, and only SDR 678,000 of the allocation (which could have been
replenished) was spent, despite dire fund shortage in the field, which seriously impeded extension
work.
5.14   NRDP had established monitoring and evaluation (M&E) teams in each ADD. However,
extension impact studies were conducted only in the early stages of the pilot operation, mainly by
interested ADD-based Evaluation Officers. With staff changes, vacancies and, allegedly, also
operating fund shortages, the studies stopped and there seemed to be little that the MOA Central
M&E Unit could do to restart them. This defect received considerable attention during ASP
preparation activities. The early studies showed that only credit club members, usually commercial
6



smallholders with larger holdings, attended block demonstrations, and that the same farmers were
conducting OFDs. The majority of the farmers who are subsistence smallholders farming on less than
I ha of land did not benefit from block demonstrations. It seems that despite the efforts of
supervision and encouragement of Bank staff, there has been little change. As a result, in the 1993/94
crop year when, due to particularly poor loan recovery, the number of credit clubs and farmers
entitled to loans was drastically reduced, the number of farmers interested in extension work and
conducting OFDs also fell. One reason for farmers' loss of interest in FAs was the FAs'
responsibility for collecting loan repayments. Since 1987, supervision missions have tried
unsuccessfully to separate credit servicing from extension functions, but this delinkage was finally
initiated on a pilot basis only in July 1992. However, it is expected that the credit operation will be
transferred from ADDs to a new rural financial institution to be established under the recently
approved Rural Financial Services project. Such delinkage would enable FAs to devote more time to
providing improved extension services. Up until now many FAs spent more time on supervising
credit and loan repayment than on demonstrating agricultural technology, an estimated more than 80
percent of their time was spent on credit-related activities.
5.15   By the time of project closure, the new extension methodology had been adopted as the
National Extension Policy and had spread to all parts of the country. However, the faults identified
during implementation, have not yet been eliminated, such as poor financing to meet incremental
operating costs, lack of transport, inadequate supervision, weak training, and lack of success in
expanding the extension clientele or evolve messages of value to poor farmers, unable to afford
purchased inputs. Adequate funding has never been available for equipping and operating the whole
niational extension service, but it remains disappointing that even ADDs that benefited from support
by this and other projects were unable to overcome the above-listed problems. The recently approved
ASP has been designed to address these problems.
5.16   Women's Programs and Communications. Both USAID funded consultants did good work
that left considerable impact. The TA for Women's programs helped to formulate policy and
procedures including the change of emphasis from home economics to equal attention to agriculture
by Farm Home Assistants (FHA). Helped by some well focused short-term assistants, the TA helped
to accelerate implementation of Income Earning Activities Programs. These policies and programs
have continued to the present. The associated fellowships programs have strengthened the
management and execution of the Women's programs. The result of intensified MOA Women's
Programs has been the provision of extension and credit to many women farmers previously deprived
of these facilities, as exemplified in Mzuzu ADD (para 6.5).
5.17   The Communications TA, training and equipment assistance gave ACB a much strengthened
desk top publishing capacity. The sharply focused short-term training programs in various printing
and publishing skills was very effective and could serve as an example for further training. ACB now
conducts regular radio programs that have a wide audience, and on demand, supplies well designed
and produced advisory leaflets and other printed materials. The consultant was also responsible for
introducing a Pilot Mass Communication System for Mzuzu, which became known as the Pilot
Communication Programme (PCP). In line with the SAR outline, this Programme focussed on 'visual
presentation", which taught ADD staff how to formulate technical advisory leaflets. In addition, video
cameras were provided to most ADDs. The Communications Programme provided important support
to extension staff, it also helped the Pilot Extension Improvement Operation materially, but fell short
in identifying a more cost effective alternative to BES.
5.18 Professional Career Stream. At appraisal time a major study of the entire Malawi civil
service was expected to bring about comprehensive changes of terms of service, that could include
7
'U



improved career streams for MOA staff. This did not happen. Subsequently the Government insisted
that isolated career improvements for MOA staff alone, were not possible because of the budget
implications, and eventually the Bank waived the relevant DCA requirements. GOM is addressing
these broader issues of career structure and incentives under a proposed institutional development
project and a recently completed Bank subsector study on civil service pay and employment.
5.19   Training, together with TA, were the major investments expected to have most impact on
improving PD and the Extension Service. The project established the Training Unit in MOA and
consultants (USAID funded) did excellent work together with Malawi staff, to organize the massive
MOA training programs arising from MARE, NARP and MAEPS. However, the Unit remained
without a Chief Training Officer after the consultants' departure and became less well staffed and
therefore with less capacity to serve MOA's training needs. There is now a recognition that the full
Unit performed a vital service and it is likely to be strengthened.
5.20 Details of MAEPS training are shown in Part III, Table 4. In MAEPS, academic training
abroad was entirely financed by IDA and reportedly resulted in 12 Masters degrees for planning staff
(rather than 6 as planned) and one Ph.D., 10 Master degrees and 20 diplomas for DOA and extension
staff instead of targets of one, eight and 34 respectively. This was supplemented by about 800 person-
weeks of short-term off-shore training for about 100 staff (40% USAID financed). However, the main
programme focus was on intensive in-country training (50% USAID financed), especially the Training
of Trainers (TOT) programs. Training concentrated on senior and middle level management and
supervision staff, resulting in roughly SDR I million higher IDA disbursement for training than
scheduled at negotiations. Only a relatively small percentage of the 7,800 person-weeks training
projected for FA staff in the SAR could be conducted, because of the high cost of training.
5.21   Improving the Mzuzu ADD Extension Service. The main investment was the civil works
programme, which consisted of constructing two offices, 117 staff houses, 16 marketing sheds and
five diptanks, and was completed as planned. Several problems were encountered. One contractor was
slow and completion was delayed. More seriously, water supplies could not be provided at seven
sites. The Ministry of Works Water Supplies Department failed to suggest alternative supply systems
when trial boreholes failed. The 16 marketing sheds could not be used for inputs sales initially,
because housing for store-keepers was overlooked. This did not come to light until the 1989 inputs
supplies crisis (para 5.24), and was not corrected until 1993. However, the most serious complaint
came from the staff, about project funded houses, arising from IDA insistence that costs based on
standard Malawi designs, should be reduced by 20%. Complainants pointed out that rooms were too
small, finish was unsatisfactory, kitchens and stoves were unusable or causing smoke to pollute the
house; and that temperate designs with inadequate ventilation were built in the hot lakeshore areas.
While a considerable amount of housing was provided, the users were unhappy.
5.22   Provision of vehicles. Altogether, 28 motor vehicles, 107 motorcycles and 100 bicycles were
bought for Mzuzu ADD. Their arrival was seriously delayed by inept procurement by MOA. In
particular, motorcycles ordered in early 1987 arrived later than expected and some of the replacement
transport, ordered in 1991, had still not arrived at project closure. Since motorcycles are vital for
field staff supervision, the delays undermined the effort to improve extension services.
5.23   Seed production at Mzuzu ADD was to be supported by a TA seeds specialist. Early during
the Project, GOM felt and IDA agreed that there was no need for this TA. The modest bean and
groundnut seed production programme did not expand, mainly because the difference between ware
and seed prices was too narrow. The unsuccessful seed production attempt at Mzuzu, confirmed that
8



MOA supervised farmers cannot produce seed at significantly lower cost than seed companies, and
that effective seed bulking is best done by such companies.
5.24  Incremental Credit. Incremental credit for seasonal loans Mzuzu ADD was channelled
through the smallholder (SACA). Disbursement and repayment performance are shown in Annex 1,
Table 3. Lending started slowly, began to expand gradually in 1987/88 and jumped dramatically in
1989/90, from MK 4.2 million to MK 10 million respectively. This came about because the
Agriculture Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) closed its retailing outlets, and
with the 16 inputs sheds constructed by the project inoperative (para 5.21), distributed inputs only
from a few major markets. As a result, most farmers found that they could obtain all their fertilizer
requirements easier and much quicker through credit systems and changed from cash to credit inputs
purchases. Until then, recovery was satisfactory but the ADD staff could not handle the sudden large
increase in credit clubs and borrowers and this caused the first serious repayment default. Repayments
improved only marginally during the next two years and then deteriorated drastically due to the
1991/92 drought. The recovery rate, slid even further in 1992/93 to as low as 11.4% due to a
combination of overgenerous repayment moratoria after the drought, even for those who could have
paid; another doubling of lending, which, like in 1989 could not be properly administered; the
emergent politics giving rise to suggestions that loans need not be repaid, and the relaxation of
lending criteria requiring 100% repayment by a club, to qualify for new loans. This led to about 43%
overdues in 1992/93, amounting to MK 23.5 million. Total lending during the project period was MI
54.5 million, of which about MK 13 million was incremental (MK 5.8 million of this amount came
from 1992/93 lending). Only MK 5.2 million were claimed from project funds, which translated into
SDR 1.4 million or only 50% of the SDR 2.8 million allocation to this category. Additional funds
were channelled to Mzuzu ADD from other resources including emergency funds released by the
National Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1549-MAI) and from the Smallholders Agricultural
Credit Project (Credit 1851-MAI and IFAD Loan 212-MW).
5.25   Initially, the credit component brought credit rationing to an end, but in the last project year
no project resources were used to expand lending. There was an eightfold increase, in nominal terms,
of seasonal lending, mainly used for hybrid maize seed and fertilizer. Part of this increase paid for
higher inputs prices and much of it replaced cash purchases. To what degree the higher lending
helped to expand production is difficult to gauge, but it helped enable farmers to continue using
inputs.
5.26   Food Security and Nutrition Unit. Following food security studies by the World Bank and a
1986 seminar on the subject by Principal Secretaries, the Government decided to form a new Food
Security and Nutrition (FSNU) in the Economic Planning and Development Department (EP&D) and
requested Bank help to finance technical assistance to guide the new unit. FSNU was to design,
evaluate and assist with implementation of food security and nutrition policies and programs; monitor
food security and nutrition conditions; coordinate food security and nutrition activities; and coordinate
Government's relations with donors with regard to food security and nutrition. Bank funding was used
for a contract with the Harvard Institute for International Development to provide senior advisors for
several three-week visits per year, and to provide training for local staff. Emphasis was on building
local capacity and this was successful up to the point where, due to promotion opportunities, some
key staff left the Unit. Consequently, after five years of Bank assistance, TA has continued, but on
grant terms from other donors.
5.27   One reason for requesting further TA was the key role being played by FSNU in the
country's food security system. Early on, FSNU assessments helped to mobilize donor support to
avert disaster during the 1987 food crisis. Subsequently, a continuous food security surveillance and
9



assessment system has been installed, a strategy for managing strategic grain reserves established,
options for meeting grain crises prepared and a food and nutrition data base established. The TA also
collaborated with UNDP financed experts in similar nutrition oriented work. FSNU has become a key
GOM unit in the Food Security and Nutrition field, but apparently cannot yet dispense entirely with
foreign expertise. The importance of the FSNU is confirmed by its useful role in the droughts of
1991/92 and 1993/94.
5.28   Improving Extension Linkage was funded entirely from USAID, MARE funds. The design
seemed ideal, with an Adaptive Research Team (ART) in each ADD, guided technically by the
Research Department, and accountable for its work programme to the ADD Manager. Each ART was
composed of an economist and agronomist and would conduct on-farm trials to generate location
specific production recommendations and identify constraints affecting small farm productivity. Their
level of performance, however, was below expectation. This was partly because of the excessive
work load, but also because the economists who were needed for diagnostic work on farmers'
economic constraints found more lucrative employment and left. Research-extension links were not
improved nor were location specific recommendations generated. Nevertheless, the most important
research findings, notably on flint maize hybrids, reached a large proportion of smallholders. It may
well be that extension workers obtained the most important research findings at the excellent annual
Research Station field days. With regard to local recommendations, quite a lot of field trials were
conducted, but were not evaluated by Research Headquarters. Evaluation should be worthwhile and
may result in useful production recommendations.
Special Implementation Problems
5.29   Procurement became a problem even before the departure of the NARP funded consultant.
His counterpart was not qualified for the work and this led to some contracts either not being awarded
at all or not being delivered because of letter of credit or down payment problems. There were two
changes of MOA procurement staff; in each case with staff without procurement qualifications and
experience, and in each case claiming that the predecessor had left no hand-over notes or
documentation on past and ongoing transactions. Typing and communication facilities provided were
inadequate. Tender documents took months to prepare and required many amendments, even after
short-term TA provided model bid documents; and skilled guidance for evaluations was lacking. The
result was long delays in vehicles and motorcycle deliveries (para 5.22). Towards the end of the
project there was some improvement with a more senior officer in place and provision of a computer
and telephone, several training courses, and most importantly, the benefit from field visits by a
knowledgeable Bank procurement specialist. As identified at a Project Implementation Review, there
are very few procurement specialists in Malawi, pointing to the need for major training programs.
5.30   Finance and accounting problems became apparent early when credit withdrawal difficulties
were encountered. Assistance from visiting Bank disbursement staff proved invaluable in overcoming
the problems, but recommendations for considerable strengthening of MOA financial and accounting
services were not followed. Then, the DCA amendment, establishing a new disbursement category for
"Operating Funds", caused major problems. Since this category did not exist initially, there was no
provision for it in the GOM Development Estimates and its introduction seemed to baffle MOA and
Treasury staff. The eventual solution, two years after the DCA amendment, required an input from a
Bank financial specialist. Even then, the MOA Accounts Department could not provide a satisfactory
cash flow to the field (para 5.13). Almost concurrently, it became apparent that GOM Development
Estimates were inaccurate. There was no mechanism for adjusting balances to exchange rate changes
and the estimates did not reflect project off-shore spending (direct donor disbursements). The net
effect was that the GOM Estimates often showed low or no balances of project funds while the Donor
10



showed considerable balances. As a result some project activities requiring local expenditures were
'cut' from the estimates due to the apparent lack of resources. The delay in constructing
storekeepers' houses for Mzuzu marketing sheds (para 5.21) is a typical example. Workshops to
improve the GPM estimates were suggested by Treasury staff and were to be funded by the project,
they were arranged, postponed and ultimately abandoned. The present status of Development
Estimates accuracy is not known. Under the ASP special emphasis is being given to addressing the
above issues, especially through development of a yardstick as a basis for determining required non-
salary operating funds, improved financial management procedures and associated in-service training.
5.31   Project Management. The Principal Secretary (PS) for Agriculture was given overall
responsibility for project management, assisted by a Steering Committee. The PS and his Senior
Manager, who had helped design the project, were moved soon after project approval (para 5.1) and
the replacements were not familiar with the project and its management concepts. The new PS had
little feeling of 'Project Ownership" and was probably not informed that he was the Project Manager
and, among other things, responsible for convening the Steering Committee. In any case, he was too
busy to undertake day-to-day project management tasks. As a result, the Steering Committee rarely
met, and there was no overall project management or coordination. Consequently, PD, DOA, Mzuzu
ADD and later also FSNU handled their components almost as free-standing projects. There was
virtually no project reporting and only occasional submission of work programs. Above all, there was
no central manager prepared to deal with financial, procurement and other problems.
5.32   With regard to extension management aspects, ADD managers reported directly to the
Controller of Agricultural Services (CAS) of (NRDP) and were on the same seniority level as the
Chief Agricultural Officer (CAO), who therefore had relatively little impact on field activities. That
may be the reason why there was little push from MOA headquarters to introduce extension planning
and budgeting reforms and why headquarters initially had little interest in the pilot operation to
improve extension. This changed in 1992 when a new PS made ADD Managers responsible to CAO
who was retitled Chief Agricultural Extension and Training Officer (CAETO), after which Head
Office became an active participant in the field operations. While extension work benefitted from the
line of control change, it left the direction of animal husbandry and health services undefined.
Project Costs and Disbursement
5.33   The final cost of the project is estimated at US$ 23.0 million, or 14% above SAR estimates
(Part III, Table 5-A). Credit disbursement lagged considerably behind SAR estimates averaging 55%
of the amount expected to be disbursed throughout the project life. The last disbursement was made
on October 1, 1993, when the total amount had reached SDR 11.2 million (US$ 15.0 million)
representing 96% (if expressed in SDR) or 129% (if expressed in US$) of SAR estimates (Part m,
Tables 3 and 5). This increased US$ amount reflected the appreciation in the value of the SDR vis-a-
vis the US$ during the project period.
6.    Project Results
6.1     Overall, project performance was generally satisfactory, and the outcomes were mixed.
Observable results and impact suggest that the project made significant progress toward achieving
many of the original objectives (training, production and distribution of teaching and training
materials, infrastructure development, improvement of the extension system in Mzuzu ADD, and
provision of incremental credit to farmers in Mzuzu ADD) and was disappointing in other aspects
(planning and budgeting system, professional career stream, research-extension linkages).
11



6.2    The agricultural sector underwent two major changes during the course of the project. The
first was the conversion from predominantly low nutrient content fertilizers to using mainly those with
high nutrient content, resulting in about US$ 14 million savings per year on the import bill (Annex I,
Table 6). The second and even more significant change was the rapid increase of the hybrid maize
area from 80,000 ha during 1983184-1985/86, to 330,000 ha in 1992/933. The impact of hybrid
maize (para 6.11), was high in the favorable 1992/93 season when the 330,000 ha (25% of the maize
area) produced 50% of the record 2 million tons of maize crop. It was even more significant during
the serious 1991/92 drought, when the 217,000 ha hybrids (only 16% of the maize area) produced
283,000 tons, over 40% of the 660,000 tons maize crop. Extension staff taught farmers to convert to
new fertilizers, and similarly extension played an important role in the expansion of hybrid maize, but
how much and what role the project played has not been measured, and is discussed further below.
6.3    The national pattern is mirrored in Mzuzu. In the 1991/92 drought season, hybrids, sown on
19% of the maize area, accounted for 50% of production, while in the "boom year" 1992/93, the
hybrid maize area, which had expanded to 30% of the total, produced 60% of the record 180,000
tons crop. An indication of the benefits of hybrids is given in the recently published Draft
Agricultural Sector Memorandum, which records that according to field surveys, converting one
hectare of unfertilized local maize to hybrid, results in a net benefit of about US$ 120 equivalent, or
about US$ 36 million for the entire hybrid maize area in Malawi, in 1992/93.
6.4    Two major MOA departments were to be strengthened by the project, the Planning
Department and Extension Service. The graduate training programme strengthened PD's operational
capacity, while the TA impact was mixed with the most visible and lasting impact being MOA's
computerization. Continuing problems in filling and retaining key senior posts, to some extent,
continue to constrain PD's performance.
6.5    The emphasis of the extension improvement component changed during the project. It proved
difficult in the early project period to introduce a better planning and budgeting system. Such a
system was adopted late in the project period and has not yet made an impact (para 5.8).
6.6    Review of the extension system in the field showed critical problems at the FA/farmer level
(para 5.11). This led to the Pilot Operation to address the problems in Mzuzu, which aroused so
much interest in MOA and extension staff in other ADDs, that it spread country-wide (para 5.11 and
5.12), and became the project's centerpiece. Such a development had not been anticipated or funded
at project appraisal, and it is therefore laudable that such a system could be installed nationally, but
not surprising that imperfections remain to be addressed. For instance, in Mzuzu ADD, where the
Pilot Operation started, the new system was accepted enthusiastically and spread rapidly until
1990/91. Since then, a drop in OFD numbers (Annex 1, Table 2), indicates problems that have not
yet been diagnosed. Consolidating the new system and dealing with the problems that were identified
during the course of intensive field work (para 5.15), formed the core of ASP preparation. However,
a measure of the difficulties encountered by MAEPS, indicates that several project cycles may be
needed to solve all the problems.
6.7    The extension service has been censured for dealing mainly with credit club members of the
"commercial smallholder sector". This sector, which comprises 45% of Malawi's farmers, and
3    Information received after field work for this report was completed shows that the hybrid maize area has dropped
steeply during the current season, due to the breakdown of the smallholder credit system. As the credit constraints are
resolved and the smallholders are able to gain access to cash crops and world market prices for their crops, the use of maize
hybrids will expand significantly during the 1990s.
12



operates two-thirds of the arable land, has been largely responsible for the hybrid maize expansion.
Extension has been working with up to 30% of Malawi's farmers, or almost 75% of the commercial
smallholder sector, and has played a part in their agricultural improvements. However what part, and
how much of that was achieved through credit-related visits to farmers and how much by the
improved demonstration system (para 5.12), has not been measured. ASP preparation efforts will be
looking into this issues.
6.8   It is disappointing that the new system has so far failed to help the majority group of farmers,
who farm less than one hectare of land. They constitute 55% of smallholders and operate about one-
third of the arable land. Improved farming would have enormous impact on the welfare of this group,
but less on national production. This subject has assumed more urgency this season, when many
former borrower clients are ignoring extension workers, but it would be counterproductive to discount
the needs of the commercial smallholder sector in future.
6.9    The Women's Programme has made important contributions towards bringing women farmers
into the credit and extension network. National figures were not obtained, but Mzuzu ADD is a good
example replicated in most other ADDs; where the number of women's extension groups bringing
extension to women not previously in contact with extension workers increased from 175 to 530 with
membership increasing from 2,200 to 13,400, and the number of women who received seasonal credit
rose from 3,500 to 14,500 an increase of 11,000 borrowers compared to the increase of about 8,500
male borrowers.
6.10   As indicated (para 5.17) improving ACB's publishing capabilities and capacity was an
important project success and benefit. By contrast, the success and benefit of the Pilot Communication
Program (PCP) is. less apparent. It may be that support for this programme ceased too early, before it
had firmly taken root, and follow-up should be considered.
6.11   Although establishing the Food Security and Nutrition Unit (paras 5.26 and 5.27) was not
planned at appraisal, the unit has developed into an indispensable food security and nutrition
monitoring agency. In 1987, its work helped to avert a serious food shortage. Since then, a food
security strategy, including guidance of strategic grain reserves operations, has been developed and
food security and nutrition monitoring systems have been established. It is expected that further TA
will be needed to maintain effectiveness.
Economic Re-evaluation
6.12   At appraisal an economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for the directly productive
components of the project, with incremental production in the Mzuzu extension area of maize,
groundnuts, tobacco, cotton, wheat and rice being the major quantifiable economic benefits. The ERR
was estimated at 22%. In trying to reassess the economic viability of the project it is important to
consider some relevant aspects. While average yields of all crops grown by smallholders have
fluctuated or remained fairly constant over the 1980s and early 1990s, those of maize increased from
about 1 ton/ha in 1986/87 to about 1.5 ton/ha in 1992/93. However, this increase is not part of a
sustained trend in view of the fact that total cereal production in Malawi in 1993/94 is estimated .t
some 900,000 tons, only 40% of the record harvest of last year. The decline reflects lower plantdr
area (13% less) and poor yields, as well as the collapse of the rural credit system. The fact remains
that whether in a good or bad year and whether fertilized or unfertilized, hybrid maize varieties
always out-yield local varieties. This has been demonstrated through a series of experiments
conducted by the Maize Agronomy Team, FAO, MOA and the Maize Commodity Team, and
indicated that hybrid maize grown without fertilizer performed significantly better than unfertilized
13



local maize in 3 out of 4 years. It was also demonstrated that local maize which received 40 kg/ha N
and 10 kg/ha P205 did not yield significantly more than unfertilized hybrid maize. The above clearly
indicates that hybrid maize is more efficient than local maize in utilizing and partitioning nutrients to
the grain, and therefore production of hybrid maize should be encouraged. To the extent farmers
have resources to purchase fertilizers, the hybrid/fertilizer package (with appropriate site-specific
recommendations and application practices, will provide attractive financial and economic returns.
6.13   At the national level, the increase in average maize yields in 1992/93 (an exceptional year),
mentioned above, is the result of an increase in the proportion of hybrid maize planted from 3% of
total maize area in 1986/87 to nearly 25% in 1992/93 (Part 111, Annex 1, Table 8), as well as
increased use of inorganic fertilizer throughout the 1980s and early 1990s, and the one-off extra
availability of nitrogen in the soil as a result of the drought the previous year. The first two factors
are the results of: (i) technological changes; (ii) increased supplies of fertilizers and credit to the
smallholder subsector; (iii) Government extension efforts, and (iv) changes in smallholder produce
pricing (i.e. increase in maize prices) and marketing policies (i.e. liberalization of markets).
6.14   It is also important to recognize that the average yields of hybrid maize have been relatively
stagnant e.g., averaging about 2.5 tons/ha, well below attainable yields of about 4 tons/ha under
smallholder conditions. This yield gap is partly due to deficient fertilizer recommendations and farmer
crop husbandry practices. However, the increased use of hybrid maize and fertilizer is encouraging,
and if smallholders are able to obtain access to world market prices for other crops and to seed,
fertilizer and credit supplies, the increased use of hybrid maize should lead to enhanced household
food security and a diversification of production in this sub-sector. This is supported by the fact that
since the liberalization of agricultural produce marketing in 1987, there has been an increase in the
production of a variety of high value crops,, including tobacco, pulses, cashewnuts, sunflower seeds
and chilies (ASM-1994). Bearing in mind the above considerations, the economic re-evaluation of the
project, relative to Mzuzu ADD only, has been carried out on the basis of an indicative breakeven
analysis. The analysis, the details of which are presented in Part III, Annex 1, Tables 7 to 12, shows
that in order to generate an ERR of 13%, which would define the project as economically viable, the
hybrid maize area, presently (average 1990/91-1992/93) representing about 20% of the total maize
planted area in Mzuzu, should increase to about 40% in 15 years from now. This assumption is
considered conservative in view of the fact that in 1984/85-1985/86, the without-project situation,
hybrid maize already accounted for about 14% of the total maize area in Mzuzu. A similar approach
taking into consideration not only Mzuzu ADD, but the country as a whole, would have produced a
much higher ERR and well above the opportunity cost of capital. Economic viability would be
improved if the extension system is able to provide better site-specific fertilizer recommendations.
Under the above possible scenario, it makes economic sense for GOM to invest in sustaining the
extension system. Further improvements in the cost-effectiveness and ensuring dissemination of
relevant extension messages to a broader scope of smallholders would further enhance sustainable
economic benefits. Some considerations in trying to estimate other possible benefits to be attributed
to the project are given in paras 6.1 and 6.2.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.1    The project, in line with its objectives, tried to raise the effectiveness of the extension service.
However, with operating fund shortages that have handicapped the extension service during the
project and with the revenue budget cuts worse, sustainability of the project's activities is in doubt
without greater and sustained Government commitment and donor support (during the 1990s) for
operating costs, including vehicle and equipment replacement. Cost economies, in addition to
improvements to be gained from better planning and budgeting, must therefore be seriously and
14



constantly considered and implemented, including detailed review of existing staffing and services,
benefits from them and whether they are all needed. For instance, the ADD structure seems excessive
and should be reviewed to ascertain the value and contribution that all the staff and sections there are
making, and whether the vehicle fleet noticeable at some ADD offices is all needed. In addition, the
value of the large SMS complement, particularly at ADD and RDP levels is questionable. Most of
the time SMSs are office-bound through lack of travel funds. With most farmers practicing a simple
rotation, the well qualified RDP and EPA managers should have the technical capability to deal with
technical problems and train the staff (particularly since many SMS are no more specialized or
qualified than the managers), so that all but a very few SMS may be redundant. Equally, some EPAs
have as much specialist FA level staff, usually serving few beneficiaries, as the section staff. A
reduction or virtual elimination of these, by attrition, early retirement or transfer to FA vacancies,
may generate considerable economies without affecting extension quality. Another issue, mainly
concerning revenue expenditures, is the high allowances paid to trainees. This factor led to
curtailment of project training for FAs and is reportedly straining training resources of ASP. These
costs rule out sizeable training programs on revenue budgets, and need to be reviewed.
7.2    Without really stringent economies, the extension system remains vulnerable to the vagaries of
donor assistance. Whether the service needs to be so large and costly as at present needs to be re-
examined. In the meantime, the improved extension system emerging from the project, to be
adequately equipped and funded by ASP, is well poised to make important contributions to Malawi's
economy, with challenging tasks such as spreading the new flint hybrid maize technology widely,
especially to the small farm sector; and teaching farmers the recent promising findings of involving
site-specific fertilization recommendations and associated husbandry practices to enhance the economic
efficiency of fertilizer use. Also, with the delinking of credit and extension, greater effort should
focus on low-cost technical messages for a broader range of food and cash crops. Such assistance
continues to be justified to steer effective extension to a sustainable stage, which should continue to be
treated as an important objective.
8.     Bank's Performance
8.1    The Bank's main strength was the close supervision of the project. Details of staff inputs by
the Bank during appraisal, negotiations and supervision, and data on supervision missions are
provided in Part III, Table 8. Staff time on supervision totalled 421 weeks. The project was
supervised 15 times, mostly as one of a group of inter-related agricultural projects supported by IDA,
and benefiting from the interaction between several of these. The Bank provided considerable
implementation assistance through the visiting extension specialist, and this was reinforced from 1989,
by a resident extension specialist. This appointment enhanced even further the key role of the Bank's
Field Office in trouble shooting and assisting all project implementation aspects. The valuable
assistance to the project of Bank disbursement, computer, procurement and financial specialists must
be especially stressed. In addition, the Bank played a particularly active role in supporting the hybrid
maize program.
8.2    Even though the Bank showed flexibility in amending the DCA to alleviate operating fund
constraints, and agreed to extend the project by a total of 22 months to continue to support the
extension improvement programme, the change in supervision emphasis in 1987 from planning and
budgeting aspects to replication of the extension system to other ADDs resulted in the poor
implementation of planning and budgeting aspects. In addition, there was lack of specificity on the
part of the appraisal team. For example, programming and budgeting was to eliminate waste in the
extension service, but there was no guideline on what waste the appraisal mission had identified.
15



Similarly, the project was to implement a "Mass Communication' component, but there is no hint as
to what project designers had in mind.
9.     Borrower's Performance
9.1    The Borrower showed committment to the ideals, objectives and substantive goals of the
institutional development of an extension system, and GOM's committment to a better performing
extension system is reflected by the willingness to extend the Mzuzu ADD pilot extension scheme
nationwide. Performance was enthusiastic in the field, but there were shortcomings in project
direction and services, summarized as follows: (i) lack of project management and coordination,
exacerbated by several changes of MOA senior management staff, in addition the Project Steering
Committee met rarely and only after repeated supervision mission reminders (para 5.31); (ii) weak
procurement and financial services (paras 5.29 and 5.30); and (iii) only "lukewarm" support of field
activities from headquarters except for the last two years of the project (para 5.32).
9.2    Compliance with DCA covenants is shown in Part III, Table 7. In general, covenants were
fulfilled, albeit late in the case of time-bound obligations. Two covenants, requiring credit studies and
a modified lending structure, became unnecessary with implementation of the Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Project. There were two covenants that GOM was unable to fulfil the
establishment of a career stream and the provision of incremental operating expenses. Of these, the
Bank waived the requirement to establish a career stream for extension staff (para 5.18). The
Government failed to meet 100% of incremental operating costs, and its stated intention to do so was
overtaken by the deteriorating national economy, requiring major budget cuts in all ministries. The
extension improvement pilot scheme needed higher operating expenses than foreseen at appraisal,
which led to project financing of some incremental operating costs.
9.3    Project accounting and auditing was complex, because there were separate accounts for
Mzuzu, PD and DOA. They were completed but invariably late. Reporting and submission of budgets
and work plans varied from late to no submission at all and reflected weak project management.
10.   Lessons Learned
10.1   The major lessons to be derived from the implementation of the project are the following:
-      a comprehensive pre-project/pre-program analysis within country of farming systems
and technology needs of the main farmer types, the available stock of technology, and
the technology generation capacity are needed to ensure cost-effective and sustainable
interventions;
an improved program budget system for recurrent cost funding should be developed
and implemented within MOA, and this should be coordinated with an ongoing review
of staff levels and job description;
more thorough assessment of the borrower's financial and procurement capabilities is
needed during project preparation/appraisal, as well as operational requirements for
their strengthening;
it is important to establish effective project management and coordination
arrangements before project implementation;
16



field supervision of financial, technical and management aspects of projects with IDA
donor assistance is extremely important;
a detailed review of the various NRDP is needed to ascertain whether there are
sustainable and effective alternatives to cost-intensive staff and operating requirements
of the extension system;
greater attention needs to be devoted to ensuring that improvements in extension
methods are complemented by ensuring strong research-extension-farmer linkages;
the importance of separating extension and credit activities to ensure extension
workers devote their time to extension activities; and
-      monitoring and evaluation of project activities are essential in order to communicate
the positive results of extension activities to Government and obtain Government
commitment/support (particularly financial).
10.2   Other lessons include:
the following problems, identified during the course of field work (para 5.15) require
special attention: field work financing, transport provision and maintenance,
improving field staff supervision and technical skills, and expanding extension staff
clientele to the "small farm' group;
the lack of discernible impact from high training expenditures is troubling and
warrants a review of the benefits from the type of training financed by the project and
the high cost of local training; and
MOA has become the owner and custodian of very considerable assets, by way of
buildings and vehicles, and care needs to be taken to ensure they are properly
maintained.
10.3   The design features of the follow-up project ASP, have taken into account all of the above
lessons. It is important that ASP implement effectively the various action plans prepared to address
the key lessons from MAESP. Regarding improved and sustainable extension services, ASP is giving
emphasis to:
improved mechanisms to ensure a constant flow of improved technologies to a broader
range of smallholders through greater emphasis on low-cost technical messages and
more effective researcher-extension-farmer linkages;
improved MOA budgeting and planning procedures and capacities, including
development and application of improved "yardsticks' for determining the level of
non-salary operating funds for ensuring effective extension services; and
improved monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness and impact of improved
extension services.
17



11.   Project Relationship
11.1   There was good Borrower/Bank collaboration, due largely to the constant dialogue between
MOA and the Bank's Field Office. This was reinforced by the appointment of the Malawian
Agricultural Specialist, who devoted much of his time to the project, in particular to fostering
progress of extension improvements at the field level. In addition, as pointed out elsewhere,
supervision missions provided considerable implementation assistance, which was effective, and
appreciated by the Government.
12.   Consultancy Services
12.1   The quality of the consultancy services provided by the project varied. The two USAID
funded consultants who collaborated with the MAEPS project - on communications and women's
programs - did excellent work. Two of the IDA financed six multi-year consultancies failed.
Interestingly, short teaching courses succeeded in introducing log frame planning and budgeting
systems, after the two year TA had failed to do so. On the whole, the TA for this project was needed
and well-conceived, but success depended on the quality of the consultants and the adequacy of the
supervision by MOA staff.
13.   Project Documentation
13.1   The SAR, in general, provided a useful framework for project implementation. However,
certain specific aspects were missing that would have made implementation, supervision and PCR
preparation easier, for example, the omission of detailed cost tables, which are the only record of
proposed investment details. On the Borrower's side, lack or irregularity of reporting would have
made supervision very difficult, but for the close contact maintained by the Bank's resident staff with
MOA. Lack of recent impact evaluation makes it impossible for the Borrower and the Bank to judge
the merit of ongoing extension work, and this aspect of the project deserves urgent attention.
18



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND PLANNING SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1626-MAI)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE4
1.    COMMENTS ON PART I AND II.
Project Design
1.1   The project is consistent with Government efforts to improve analytical capability within the
Ministry of Agriculture to provide for a conducive policy environment to facilitate delivery of
agricultural services. It therefore focussed on provision of Technical Assistance and training of staff
in both the Planning Division and the Department of Extension.
1.2   Project Management and Organization: The Management of the project rested in the Principal
Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and coordination to be done through the Project Steering
Committee. This Management Structure proved ineffective in coordinating activities of the project
which were in three separate units, namely, the Planning Division under the Chief Planning Officer,
the Department of Agriculture and Mzuzu ADD. However, it is not true that ADD Managers were at
the same seniority level with the Chief Agricultural Officer. The CAO was a grade higher than the
ADD Managers. The lack of direction in the Department of Agriculture (DOA) was largely due to
staff turnover. The CAO's office saw five different officers, during the life of the project. This
made follow-up on issues difficult.
Implementation of Individual Components
1.3   The implementation of most project components was largely satisfactory however the project
faced several major constraints which slowed or prevented the implementation of some components of
the project. Although most of these were resolved during the course of implementation of the
project, some still persist. There is need therefore to take cognisance of these and address them in
future projects.
Strengthening of the Planning Division
1.4   To strengthen the analytical capabilities of the Planning Division, the project focussed on
provision of three Technical Assistants totaling 84 man months, post-graduate Master's training,
vehicles and equipment. The original estimates of the training programme for short-term offshore
courses was revised upward from 99 foreseen at appraisal to 585 person weeks on 19.2.1988 with the
Bank's concurrence, although only 156 person weeks were achieved. The doubling of the Master's
programme to 12 M.Scs was made possible because some took one year instead of the two years
planned. In addition there was a transfer of resources from the short-term offshore training to the
4   Prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
19



Master's programme to meet the expressed need of the Division and the revision that was made to
include one Masters for an Economist in the Food and Nutrition Unit of the Department of Economic
Planning and Development.
1.5    The performance of the Technical Assistance Inputs is mixed. As observed in Part I of the
PCR, while others did develop lasting systems, others either left little or no imprint. This calls for
need for careful selection and supervision of TAs to ensure that they perform up to expectation. The
fact that most of the TAs served up to the end of their contracts without being checked leaves one
wondering as to whether they were supervised or not.
Improving the National Extension System
1.6    The assessment of the extension component in Part I and III has been reviewed and the
borrower has the following comments to make:
(a)    Part III Table 4 has been revised in line with the revision that was done on 19.2.1988. The
actual delivery for in- country extension courses was 8,479 person weeks out of the planned
13,109 person weeks.
(b)    Section 5.20. The low coverage of field level technical staff was due to the reallocation of
funds to the Training of Trainers (TOT) programme which was felt to be a prerequisite for
the field one. In addition, the programme used hotels for this training. This proved very
costly and was later changed to utilize Residential Training Centers (RTCs).
(c)    Section 5.23: The failure of the Seed Production Programme was due to poor pricing
structure which did not give -any incentive to seed producers. This however does not
automatically mean that smallholder farmers cannot multiply seed at competitive prices to
commercial seed producers.
(d)    Section 5.25: It is not true that the injection of incremental credit into Mzuzu ADD stopped
credit rationing. An examination of the smailholder fertilizer sales on both cash and credit
shows that cash sales have been on the increase throughout the projected life except in
1989/90 and 1992/93. (Part II Table 2 and Fig. 1).
(e)    Section 5.28: While the design of the linkage between Research and Extension seemed ideal,
experience shows that there was no full establishment of the ARTs. This was due to the
requirement for training of the staff and the unforeseen staff turnover of scientists for better
oportunities. In addition the ARTs did not receive adequate support from Commodity
Research Teams. There is need for future programme to address this.
(f)    Section 5.31: It should be noted that while the Principal Secretary is held responsible for the
overall responsibility of the Project, much of the weakness in project implementation was due
to its poor design. The project did not have a definite Project Management Unit despite its
dispersed nature.
(g)    Section 5.32: The CAO is a grade higher than Programme managers.
(h)    Section 6.5: The PCP activities did not expand outside the pilot areas due to staff turnover
and lack of funds. Although all ADDs did benefit from equipment purchased under the
project.
20



(i)    Section 6.6: It is not entirely true that extension messages went to credit farmers only.
There have been messages on low cost technologies such as use of organic manure, soil
conservation and nutrition. It should also be noted that the SAR does not make definite
recommendations for reaching the poorest smallholders. There is therefore need for future
programmes to be more explicit as to how these can be reached.
(j)    Section 6.8: National figures for women credit groups increased from 34,273 to 104,598
while Women IGA groups increased six-fold from 157 to 1,032.
(k)    Section 7 - Project Sustainability: Whilst it is recognized that the present extension system is
resource intensive and expensive, there does not seem to be any viable alternatives. The
suggestion to retrench some staff at the ADD level in favour of lower level staff may not
reduce costs as there will be need to strengthen this level and may compromise quality. The
high costs of training programmes are not due to high allowances paid to trainees. Trainers
are given normal government rates which are the subsistence allowances paid to officers.
Cost cutting measures have been adopted including holding of courses at Residential Training
Centres (RTCs).
2.    ADEQUACY AND ACCURACY OF FACTUAL INFORMATION IN PART I
2.1    The country data used in the definition of the project profile for the PCR was in a large part
provided by the participating institutions including the Planning Division, the Agricultural Training
Unit, Departmnent of Extension & Training and the Chief Accountant. This has been reviewed and a
few amendments made. The following are the major corrections that were made:
(i) Table 4 page 3 of Part HI: The Appraisal Estimates were revised as indicated in Table 1 below.
Consequently the PCR estimates ought to be assessed in light of the revised targets.
3.    EVALUATION OF BANK'S PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
3.1    Bank personnel played a significant role in both the appraisal and execution of the project.
The Supervision Missions during the implementation phase were judged to be professionally qualified
and did assist in guiding the project, including effecting the amendments made to the DCA and the
Extension System. However, it is surprising to note that they were unable to resolve the management
problems which were recognized early at the beginning of the project. For example, the lack of a
definite project manager, despite early recognition of the need for one; nothing was suggested by the
mission to correct the situation by either suggesting the positioning of a project manager or
facilitator or setting up a Project Management Unit (PMU).
3.2   The Bank's insistence on forcing the borrower to accept its recommendations without careful
consideration of the implications and justification did contribute adversely to the implementation of
the project. The instance on having the borrower to accept modification of standard housing designs
in the interest of cost cutting without considering the effects and availability of funds from the
totality of the project is one example which resulted in building of inappropriate house designs which
will require further financial resources to correct.
3.3    The introduction of the Training and Visit (T&V) Extension System and the associated OFDs
to the rest of the ADDs was done without due appraisal of the availability of resources to implement
21



the system although this was later recognized and reallocation of SDR 1.0 million was made to the
operation costs category. Even this proved very insignificant to effectively assist eight ADDs which
had serious shortages of operating funds.
3.4   These shortcomings have been recognized and attention has been given to provision of
operating funds, transport and a project facilitator in the ASP.
3.5    The performance of other co-financiers was satisfactory as can be seen from the success made
in the Women IGA Component and the External Training Programme.
4.  EVALUATION OF THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
4.1    Overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory given the environment within which the
project was implemented. Most of the actions indicated in the project action plan were implemented.
These included the establishment of the Project Steering Committee, the recruitment of the Technical
Assistance.
4.2    There were however, a number of implementation weaknesses as evidenced by the
ineffectiveness of the Project Steering Committee and failure of Government to comply with the one
important covenant to provide adequate financial resources to cover incremental recurrent operating
costs. This had an important bearing on the ability of field staff to implement the extension system.
However, with hindsight it would be appreciated as indicated by the Bank evaluation report that this
commitment was frustrated by the deteriorating situation of the national fiscal budget.
4.3   Frequent staff turnover of senior staff both in the Department of Agriculture (DoA) and
Planning Division mitigated against follow-up and continuity of crucial project activities for
example, the supervision and control of Technical Assistant staff. The Project saw five different
Chief Agricultural Officers (CAOs) heading the Department of Extension while the Planning Division
saw three changes of the Chief Planning Officer. In the absence of elaborate handover notes,
follow-up of issues was seriously compromised. Compliance with project progress reporting
requirements and preparation of annual workplans was partial. This was largely due to inadequate
staffing of the Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit which was to coordinate the activity. This
weakness has been addressed in the preparation of the follow-up project (ASP).
5.    MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
5.1   The major lessons that were learnt from the experiences with the
Project are:
(a)    The need to ensure an effective management unit. It should be noted that the office of the
Principle Secretary cannot be made a coordinating unit for a particular project. As has been
pointed out in Part I, this has been taken into account by the provision of the post of a Project
Facilitator in case of the ASP and the post of Programme Manager for the GOMIUNDP Fifth
Country Programme.
(b)    The need for a thorough mid-term project review would avoid focusing on a few selected
components to the exclusion of other equally important components of the project.
Experience with the project clearly shows that the Bank supervision missions remained partial
in the treatment of the management problems. A thorough Mid-term review would give a
more balanced review of the project implementation.
22



(c)    The need for the borrower to keep staff transfers to the minimum. Although some staff
movements may be inescapable it would be advisable for Government to keep staff
movements to a minimum particularly for those working in key areas of projects.
(d)    The insistence on forcing new introductions as evidenced by the forced modification of staff
houses in Mzuzu and the wholesale expansion of the T&V Extension system with its
associated OFD underscores the need for donors and implementers to appreciate the existing
or client specifications and availability of local resources. Future projects should ensure that
any modifications to standard designs in buildings and systems are carefully evaluated before
adoption.
(e)    The need to restore credit discipline. The relaxation of the 100% repayment condition for
eligibility for credit, coupled with wholesale moratorium extended to all farmers during the
1991/92 drought season led to the credit crisis which affected the whole country including
Mzuzu ADD. Given the important role credit plays in the uptake of improved inputs and
production, it is important that such moratorium be selective. A study on the Credit Crisis
was carried out on a national scale to determine the causes of the credit crisis and made
recommendations to ensure the restoration of the smallholder farmer credit system. It is
important that these recommendations be adopted if agricultural productivity is not to be
compromised.
23



Table 1
(a) EXTENSION         APPRAISAL               REVISED                ACTUAL
PESTMAIE               ESTMAIM                (PCR ESTIMATE)
Ph.D                                          2                       1
MSc                    16                     24                     23
Diploma                34                     34                      20
TOTAL
-PhD                                         2                       1
- Diploma              34                     34                      20
(b) SHORT TERM
(OFF SHQRE1
- Planning Division    99                     585                     156
- Extension            122                    103                     808
TOTAL                  221                    688                     964
(c) SHORT-TERM
IN-COLNThY                                              __
- Training of Trainers   1,328                1,328 p. weeks          2,380 p.weeks
- Technical and others  13,109                13,109                  6,009
24



Table 2: Smallholder fertilizer cash and credit sales,
Mzuzu ADD. 1984/85 - 1993/94 seasons
(tons of fertilizer)
Season               Cash                 Credit                Total
1984/85              6615                 5781                  12396
1985/86              5530                 6474                  12008
1986/87              6639                 4290                  10929
1987/88              6914                 5047                  11961
1988/89              7298                 5398                  12696
1989/90              4570                 10745                 15315
1990/91              6195                 8126                  14321
1991/92              8859                 5654                  14513
1992/93              7624                 10461                 18085
1993/94.             9411    .            3622                  13033
25



Figure 1: Cash and Credit Sales Mzuzu ADD
(Tons of Fertilizer)
15
10
0L        l       .
1984    1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
-C  CASH           CREDIT       W  TOTALS
26



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title                Purpose             Calendar Year of         Status               Comments
Approval
(1)     National Rural    The project was designed to      November 1978  Closed               The project included co-
Development      assist GOM to implement the                       June 30, 1986.     financing from CIDA, EDF,
Programme        first five-year phase of the                      PCR dated          UK and Fed. Rep. of
NRDP Phase I    programme. Completion of                           June 1987.         Germany.
(Credit 857-MAI) Lilongwe Land Development
Programme (LLDP).
(2)     National Rural    Very similar components to        October 1981   Closing date        Third IDA project to support
Development      NRDP IV. Main objectives to                       September 1986    rural development in
Programme        increase agricultural production,                 extended to        Karonga Agricultural
NRDP Phase III5  income and welfare of the                         September 1988.   Division (ADD) in North
(Credit 1183-MAI) smallholder sector. It also                      PCR dated          Malawi.
included forestry.                               May 1990.
(3)     National Rural    The project included components    April 1983     Closed             Fourth IDA project to
Development      to strengthen and support                         April 30, 1991.    support rural development in
Programme        extension services, training and                  PCR dated          Lilongwe ADD. Extension
NRDP Phase IV   adaptive research and made                         April 1991.        services satisfactory and an
(Credit 1343-MAI) provision for improved credit                                       effective mechanism for the
and marketing facilities.                                            issue and recovery of
seasonal credit was
established.
(4)     National          Provide improvements in the       February 1985   Closed             In terms of its general
Agricultural     infrastructure and planning and                   October 31, 1993.  objectives, the project has
Research Project  management procedures of DAR                     PCR dated          been successful, particularly
(Credit 1549-MAI) and research-extension linkages.                 February 1994.     on its breeding programme
to produce flint type grain of
high yield maize. Linked
with USAID financed
lMARE.
(5)     Smallholder       To transform Malawi's                 1988        Under              IFAD co-financier.
Agricultural Credit smallholder credit system into a               implementation.
Project          better managed, more efficient,                   Closing date
(Credit 1851-MAI) and financially viable national                  June 30, 1995.
credit delivery system.
(6)     Agricultural      Designed to help formulate and        1993        Under              Total project cost: US$ 79.2
Services Project  implement Institutional and                      implementation.    million. Co-financing
(Credit 2514-MAI) Management reforms in                            Launched in        provided by IFAD and
Research, Extension and Input                    December 1993.    African Development Bank.
Supply Systems.
NRDP II was a Wood Energy Project.
27



Table 2. Credit Timetable
Item              Date Planned               Revised Date              Actual Date
- Identification6        January 1983                -                        January 1983
- Preparation'           June 1983                   -                        June 1983
- Appraisal'             September/October 1984      -                        September/October 1984
- Credit Negotiations9   July 25-30, 1985            -                        July 25-30, 1985
- Board Approval         September 19, 1985          -                        September 19, 1985
- Credit Agreement       December 20, 1985           -                        December 20, 1985
- Credit Effectiveness   February 1, 1986           March 20, 1986            March 20, 1986
- Credit Closing         September 1, 1991          February 28, 1993         June 30, 1993
6    Carried out by IDA.
7    MOA/APD was responsible for preparing the project proposal. Bank staff assisted the GOM in the preparation work
and periodically reviewed progress.
s    The project proposals were submitted to IDA and USAID in June 1984 for co-financing. The proposals were reviewed
and discussed with GOMIMOA by an IDA mission which visited Malawi in June/July 1984.
9    Held in Lilongwe, Malawi at Ministry of Finance.
28



Table 3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (IDA)
IDA Fiscal Year       F1985/86          1986/87        19M/88   |  1988/89   |-1989/90   |   1990/91              1991/92        1992/93        1993/94
......................................                          million).....................................
A. In US$
Appraisal Estimates            0.7           3.3            7.2            9.3            10.8           11.6           11.6           11.6          11.6
Actual                         0.5           0.7            1.8            4.0            6.9             9.2           11.8           13.5          15.0
Actual as % of Estimates        71            21             25             43             64            79             102            116           129
..................................... .(SDR' million) .
w      B. In SDR
Appraisal Estimates'0          0.7           3.3            7.3            9.4            10.9           11.7           11.7           11.7          11.7
Actual                         0.5           0.6             1.4           3.1             5.3            7.0            8.9          10.1           11.2
Actual as % of Estimates        71            18             19             33             49             60            76             86             96
Date of Final Disbursement: November 16, 1993: MK 67,650 (SDR 10,958).
The undisbursed balance of SDR 509,750 was cancelled as follows: SDR 500,000 as of March 19, 1993 and the remainder as of November 16, 1993.
10   Mission's Estimates: Figures in SDR were not given in SAR.



Table 4. Project Implementaton
(Page 1)
Indicators                     Appraisal Estimates              Actual (or PCR Estimates)
A. Civil Works
For Mzuzu ADD:
. Houses                                           118                                136
. Offices                                           2                                    2"
Marketing Sheds                                     16                                 17
Dip Tanks                                           5                                   5
B. Vehicles
Planning Division                                   3                                   4
Department of Agriculture                          14                                  14
Mzuzu ADD                                          21                                  28
Communications/Adaptive Res."2                    _11                                  _
Total                                              49                                  57
C. Other Transport
Mzuzu ADD:
|   Motorcycles                                    99                                  107'3
|   Bicycles                                       25                                 100
Other ADDs:
l   Motorcycles                                     -                                  224"'
. Bicycles                                                                            200
Total:
. Motorcycles                                      99                                 331
l   Bicycles                                       25                                 300
Also several large
consignments of motorcycle spares
D. Equipment
Office Equipment                                For PD                     Believe more than projected
DOA                           was supplied
Mzuzu
Extension Equipment                                Mzuzu                            Supplied
Audio Visual Equipmentv                         For ACB                             Supplied
Computers                                           2                                  20
With Software
l   There was additional construction for renovating and expanding residential training centers.
12    USAID financed.
3    Of these, 26 had been paid and reportedly skipped but had not yet arrived in Mzuzu.
14   Paid and reportedly skipped but not yet arrived in Malawi.
30



Table 4. Project Implementation
(Page 2)
Indicators                      Appraisal Estimates            Actual (or PCR Estimates)
E. Technical Assistance (Long-termn)
(i) Planning Division
Planning Management Advisor                      36 months                      Financed by EEC
Senior Systems Analyst                           24 months                         30 months
Pricing Policy Specialist                        24 months                         30 months
M&E Specialist                                                                     30 months
Sub-total                                       84 months                          90 months
(ii) Department of Agriculture
Extension Planning Advisor                       30 months                         36 months
Financial Advisor                                30 months                         30 months
Seeds Specialist                                 36 months
Training Advisor"5                               60 months                          60 months'6
Training Specialist"                             60 months                         48 months"
Mass-Media Specialist"                           30 months                         34 months
Women's Programs Advisor"                        30 months                         36 months
Sub-total                                       276 months                        244 months'"
Total                                           360 months                        334 months
F. Technical Assistance (Short-term)
Planning Division                                    12                                n.a.
Training (Extension)                                 35                                n.a.
Ag. Communications (Extension)                       X                         Believed mostly used
Total                                                 83'5                             n.a.
G. Training
I. Long-term
(i) Planning Division
MSc                                                6                                 12
I5    USAID financed.
16    Mission Estimate.
17    Of which 178 months financed by USAID.
18    Of which 74 for extension.
31



Table 4. Project Implementation
(Page 3)
Indicators                       Appraisal Estimates             Actual (or PCR Estimates)
(ii) Extension
PhD
MSc                                                 1019                               23
Diploma                                             34 
Total:
. PhD                                               -                                   1
. MSc                                               16                                  3520
. Diploma                                           34                                 20
H. Short-term (Off-shore)
(i) Planning Division                            100 person-weeks                   156 person-weeks
(ii) Extension                                    120 person-weeks2'                 808 person-weeks22
Total                                         220 person-weeks                   964 person-weeks4'
M. Short-term (In-country)
Training of Trainers                          1,328 person-weeks                 2,380 person-weeks
Technical and Other Courses                   11,800 person-weeks'              6,099 person-weeks24.
Period during which training
took place was 143 weeks
19    SAR figures of which 6 to be financed by USAID, however training unit data shows a revised plan for 24 MScs with
16 for USAID finance.
20   Includes 13 financed by USAID.
21    SAR projection of which 72 weeks were to be financed by USAID training unit records show revised plan of 210
weeks half for USAID finance.
22    334 person-weeks financed by USAID.
23    Of which 9,900 to be funded by USAID. Total includes 7,800 person-weeks training for FAs and FHAs.
24    Mission estimate.
32



Table 4. Project Implementation
(Page 4)
Activity                  Expected Implementation'           Actual Implementation
H. Key Implementation Indicators
I. Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
(i) Establishment of the MOA            By March 1, 1986             Committee established, but met
Programme Steering Committee                                     infrequency and irregularly.
(ii) Establishment of Project Special   By credit effectiveness      Implemented.
Account
II. Plannino Division (PD)
(i) Recruitment of Planning and         By April 30, 1986            Financed by EEG.
Management Advisor
(ii) Employment of Systems Analyst      By March 31, 1986            On September 8, 1987.
(iii) Review of PD's proposed           By September 30, 1986        Done, but date not recorded.
functions and reorganization-
completed
(iv) Staff Recruitment Programnme       By September 30, 1986        Done, but recruitment is EP&D
developed and submitted to IDA                                    responsibility, and due to staff shortage
for comment                                                       there remained vacancies, somewhat
(v) Recruitment of additional senior    By March 31, 1987            reduced in later project years.
staff-completed
(vi) Formulation of Five-Year Plan-     By July 1. 1987              1st draft October 1988 never
Completed and sent to IDA for                                     satisfactorily completed.
comment
(vii) Review of Planning and            By February 28, 1988         Not applicable.
Management Advisor's contract
for purpose of possible
extension
(viii) Annual Work Plans and            By September 30 of each year  Submitted spasmodically, sometimes
Budgets Due                                                     incomplete, usually late.
HII. National Extension System
(DOA)
Reorganization
(i) DOA - Internal reorganization       By March 1, 1986             Not clear from SAR what was merit. If
completed                                                         appointments to DOA HQ, a Deputy
CAO was appointed, but no economist,
due to staff shortages.
(ii) Recruitment of Extension           By March 1, 1986             On August 28, 1987.
Management and Planning
Advisor
25    Expected Project Effectiveness February 1986. Actual Project Effectiveness March 1986.
33



Table 4. Project Implementation
(Page 5)
Activity                Expected Implementation              Actual Implementation
Management and Systems Improvement
(i) Recruitment of Financial        By July 1, 1986             In February 1987.
Advisor/Controller
(ii) Establishment of DCAO post     By March 1, 1986            Done, but date not recorded.
and appointment
(iii) Design and Implementation of                              Long-term TA for this purpose was ineffective
Extension Planning and                                      but short-term training brought results and log
Budgeting Systems                                           frame system adopted in 1992/93 by most
- Mzuzu ADD                     By April 30, 1987           ADDs and DOA units.
- Other ADDs                    Thereafter
(iv) Implementation of Mass         By October 31, 1986         Pilot communication project to design and
Communication Pilot Scheme                                   produce advisory leaflets introduced March
1989.
(v) Annual Workshops                May/June of each year       Implementation not recorded, but believed that
they took place.
(vi) Annual Extension Work Plans    By September 30 of each year Unsatisfactory most of the time, but improved
for DOA and Mzuzu ADD                                        in 1992/93.
(vii) Five-Year National Extension  By July 1, 1987             Ist version published January 1990. Revised
Strategy Plan Completed and                                 incorporating Bank's suggestions, July 1992.
sent to IDA for comments
Strengthen DOA's Technical Capacity
(i) Recruitment of USAID financed   By September 30, 1985       October 1986.
Training Advisor
(ii) Training Advisor's responsi-   By September 30, 1985       October 1986.
bility to be broadened to
include all professional and
technical training within MOA
(iii) Establishment and staffing of  By credit effectiveness    Implemented.
the Training Unit
(iv) Recruitment of Agricultural    By July 1, 1986             On October 10, 1986.
Communications Specialist
(financed by USAID)
(v) Proposed establishment of       March 31, 1987              MOA attempted to implement this requirement,
Career Stream and Promotion                                  but it was turned down by the Government on
System for DOA                                               the grounds that a new career stream cannot be
introduced for one department or ministry in
isolation from the rest of the public service.
Rural Credit Study
(i) Formulation of TOR              By September 30, 1985       Studies were carried out as part of project
(ii) Study completed and sent to    By March 31, 1986           preparation of the Smallholders Agricultural
IDA for comment                                              Credit Project, which took over the obligations
for credit system improvements from MAEPS.
(iii) Implementation of agreed      By January, 1987
recommendations
34



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
|  SAR Estimates26          Revised"             Actual28           Actual as a %
I    I                    I                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~of SAR Estimates
................. (US$000) .
A. IDA Financing
1.  Civil Works                                          1.8                   1.9                 2.2                   122
2.  Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture                     1.0                  1.2                 2.3                   230
3.  Consultants' Services                                2.8                   2.9                 4.9                   175
4.  Training                                             2.9                   3.3                  2.7                   93
5.  Credit                                               3.1                   3.6                  1.9                   61
6.  Incremental Operating Costs                           -                    1.3                  1.0                   ...
7.  Unallocated                                           -                    1.0                  ...
u'                  Total IDA Financing                                 11.6                  15.2                15.0                  129
B. USAID Financing2e                                        6.2                  6.2                  5.6                   90
C. Government Contribution                                  2.4                  2.4                  2.4                  100
Total Project Cost                                  20.2                 23.8                 23.0                  114
26   As given in SAR; IDA Financing as per DCA amounted to SDR 11.7 million equivalent as indicated in part B below.
27   Mission estimates. For IDA financing. figures are derived from the amended DCA expressed in SDR and converted into USS using the exchange rate of I SDR = 1.3
(Average 1989).
25   IDA financing derived from actual disbursement equivalent to SDR 11.2 million (US$ 15.0 million) as indicated in part B below.
29   Mission estimates. USAID contribution amounted to USS 14.8 million for both NARP and MAEPS. Separate contributions for each project were not available and it
is assumed that USS 9.2 million and USS 5.6 million were disbursed for NARP and MAEPS respectively in line with SAR estimates.



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
B. IDA Financing
Planned                    Revised                     Actual             Actual as a %
Categories                      Value   T       %           Value          %           Value                       f %Pn
(SDR'000)                  (SDR'000)                   (SDR'000)
1.  Civil Works                                    1.5          12.8           1.5         12.8           1.7          15.2
2.  Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture              0.9           7.7           0.9           7.7          1.7          15.2
3.  Consultants' Services                          2.2          18.8           2.2          18.8          2.1          18.8
4.  Training                                       2.5          21.4           2.5          21.4          3.6          32.1
5.  Provision for Incremental Credit               2.8          23.9           2.8          23.9           1.4         12.5
o         6.  Operating Costs                                 -             -            1.0           8.6          0.7           6.3
7.  Fund                                                   -             -            -                   ...           ...
8.  Unallocated                                    1.8          15.4           0.8           6.8           -            -
Total IDA Financing                            11.7        100.0          11.7         100.0          11.23      100.0            96
30   The undisbursed balance was cancelled as follows: SDR 500,000 as of March 19, 1993 and SDR 510 as of November 16. 1993.



Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                  SAR Estimates         I               PCR Estimates
i. Increased Productivity    a) Extension Plarnning and     Results: The impact of the project is difficult to
and Production from:        Budgeting.                   gauge. The impact of (a), (b) and (c) were as
b) Upgrading Management and   follows:
Technical Capacity.         (a) Extension planning and budgeting improvements
c) Improving Research/        have been introduced, but so late that there has not
Extension Linkage.          been any impact yet. The benefits may become
d) Improve Cost Effectiveness.   apparent in the future.
(b) The projected major technical assistance and
training programs were implemented, but impact on
production has not been readily apparent and has not
been measured.
(c) The Adaptive Research component, financed
partly by this project and partly by NARP (US AID
financing in both projects) did not improve research
extension linkage, but the most important technology
improvements reached farmers, which indicates that
apprehensions of lack of communications between
research and extension may have been exaggerated.
(d) As indicated under (a) above improved planning
and budgeting has been adopted too recently to make
any impact; while efforts to improve impact
evaluation services were disappointing.
ii. Number of Beneficiaries    36,000 farmers in Mzuzu ADD    - Extension: 30,000 (6,000 Block Gardens
(pilot area).                   for an average of 5 farmers/group).
- Credit: 38,000 (through credit clubs).
iii. Incremental Production          At PCR's Datesi                          Projections'l
(Mzuzu ADD)
- Local Maize        2,000             7,500                                (4,000)
- Hybrid Maize       5,800            25,400                                 99,100
- Composite Maize    2,900              n.a.                                  n.a.
- Groundnuts           920              n.a.                                  n.a.
- Tobacco              526             n.a.                                   n.a.
Average 1990/91-1992/93.
h/      Full development at Year 2007/2008.
B. Economic Impact
(i) Economic Rate of Return                22%                                   13%GI
(Mzuzu Component)
Based on a breakeven analysis. Detailed analysis is given in Part III, Annex 1, Tables 7 to 12. Basically, the
following assumptions have been taken into consideration: (i) incremental benefits would only derive from maize,
(ii) average 1984/85-1985/86 considered as the without project situation, (iii) average 1990/91-1992/93
considered as present situation (PCR's date), (iv) full development would be reached in Year 2007/2008 when it
is assumed that hybrid maize area would represent 40% of total maize area in Mzuzu, (v) within the context of
Malawi, maize is treated as non-tradable and its financial farmgate price of t/49/kg has been considered adequate
to reflect the economic price of maize.
C. Financial Impact
(i) Financial Rates of Return              n.a.                                   n.a.
37



Table 7. Status of Covenants
(Page 1)
Covenants                     Subject                                  Status
Section 3.03      Carrying out a study of rural credit and    Compliance with this covenant became
introducing a new lending structure.   unnecessary following implementation of the
Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project
(Credit 1851-MAI).
Section 3.04      Employment of a planning and management Compliance with this covenant is considered
adviser in MOA's planning division.     satisfactory as MOA has employed such an
adviser with EEC funding.
Section 4.01(a)   Borrower to maintain accurate records and  Compliance is believed to be satisfactory.
accounts.
Section 4.01(b)   Audit of Accounts.                      Audits have been completed but were
frequently delayed.
Section 4.01(c)   Special procedures to be used for       Same as 4.01(b)
Statements of Expenditure.
SCHEDULE 5
para 1            Establishment of Project Steering       This Committee was established as required,
Committee.                              but has met irregularly and infrequently.
Part A, para 3(a)   Planning Division to submit recruitment    This covenant has never been complied with
programme to IDA.                       and it is really not feasible for MOA to do
so, as recruitment of economists is controlled
by EP&D. Since 1992, the number of
vacancies in the Planning Division has been
reduced significantly.
Part A, para 3(b)   MOA to provide IDA with five-year     The plan was submitted to IDA, but two
agricultural strategy plan by July 1987.    years later than scheduled.
Part A, para 3(c)   Planning Division to submit annual work   Compliance with this covenant has never
plans and budgets to IDA.               been satisfactory. 1990/91 work plans for
the Planning Division were submitted to IDA
although they did not cover the whole of the
next financial year, but 1991/92 plans were
overdue in July 1992, the last time that this
covenant was checked.
Part A, para 4    Planning Division to employ a systems   These conditions have been complied with,
analyst and pricing policy advisor and create although several staff positions in the
six new posts for economists.           Planning Division remained vacant.
Part B, para 5    Part B of project to be managed by Deputy The Deputy Chief Agricultural Officer was
Chief Agricultural Officer assisted by an   appointed but an economist was not
economist from the Planning Division.   seconded from the Planning Division, due to
Extension advisor to be employed by March staff shortage. The two advisers were
1986 and financial specialist by July 1986.  recruited, albeit later than planned.
38



Table 7. Status of Covenants
(Page 2)
Covenants                     Subject                                  Status
Part B, para 6   New extension planning and budgeting    An improved planning and budgeting system
system to be introduced not later than  was outlined in the 1990 5-year extension
April 1987 in Mzuzu ADD and             strategy and MOA has trained ADD staff in
subsequently in other ADDs.             the log frame work planning and budgeting
system, which was in use in most units at
Project Closure.
Part B, para 7   MOA to provide IDA not later than       This covenant has never been satisfactorily
September 30 each year annual extension   complied with, although some plans for the
work plans and budgets for Mzuzu ADD    extension programme have been submitted
and the Department of Agriculture.      for Mzuzu ADD. As the extension
programme is now countrywide, IDA had
requested submission of National Extension
Work Programme by January 31, 1992,
which was submitted, and similar submission
for the 1992/93 season was expected but
compliance is not known.
Part B, para 8   MOA to furnish IDA with a five-year     A five-year strategy plan was submitted to
extension strategy plan by July 1987.   IDA in January 1990. This was not
considered fully satisfactory and IDA
proposed a number of improvements. These
were taken into account in the revised
strategy plan, published in June 1992.
Part C, para 9    MOA to introduce a career stream for   There were very few staff losses, unlike
subject matter specialists in the Department DAR whose staff have better job
of Agriculture.                         opportunities outside MOA than extension
staff. Consequently, this covenant was not as
important for MOA as a similar requirement
in NARP. In any case, no progress was
recorded in establishing the proposed career
stream, although Bank missions discussed this
issue with MOA, MOF and the Department
of Personnel Management and Training. At
GOM's request, IDA agreed to waive this
covenant.
Part C, para 10   MOA to establish a Training Division and  This has been fulfilled.
implement a training development
programme.
Part E, para 12   Introduce in Mzuzu ADD: (a) a mass     This covenant has been complied with except
communication scheme; (b) improved      for part (d), which was supposed to be
outreach of the extension system, especially addressed by the Adaptive Research Team,
to women; (c) a seed multiplication     which had only partial success in adapting
programme; and (d) area specific technical national recommendations to the various
packages.                              localities in the ADD. Part (c) never received
much attention from ADD management or
supervision missions, and never developed as
envisaged at appraisal.
39



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Bank Staff Inputs
Planned               Actual
.......... .Staff-weeks .
Preparation              n.a.                   62.7
Appraisal                n.a.                  101.3
Negotiations             n.a.                   10.5
Supervision              n.a.                 246.23
PCR                      n.a.                    0.3
Total                 n.a.                 421.1
31   Including full-time Malawian agricultural services specialist in the Resident Mission.
40



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle           Month/Year            Number of        Specialization     Days in Field33    Performance Rating    Types of Problems35
I                               Persons        Represented32                               Status
Pre-appraisal                      June/July 84               -                 -                 n,a.
Appraisal                     September/October 84            -                -                  n.a.
Supervision  1                      March 86                  1                A                   5                    1
Supervision 2                        May86                    1                A                   4                     1
Supervision 3                      October 86                 2              A, E                  5                    2                     PM, 0
Supervision 4                  February/March 87              2               A, E              20 (10)                 2                     PM, 0
Supervision 5                 October/November 87             436         A, A, E, EX            26 (9)                 2                       PM
Supervision 6                     May/June 88                435/         A, A, E, AR            24 (6)                 2                       PP
Supervision 7                 October/November 88            435/         A, A, E, EX            31(6)                  2                    PM, PP
Supervision 8                  February/March 89              3            A, E, EX             31(10)                  2                    PM, PP
Supervision 9                November/December 89            335/          A, A, AS              25 (9)                 2                    PM, PP
Supervision 10                     June/July 90               2              E, AS               26 (9)                 3             PM, AF, PP. LC, DO
Supervision 11               December 90/January 91           2              E, AS              30 (11)                 2                    PM, AF
Supervision 12                    April/May 91                5          A, E, AS, F, P          22 (6)                 3             PM, AF, PP. LC, DO
Supervision 13                October/November 91            6'      A, A, E, AS, EX,          26 (6)                 3                       LC
P
Supervision 14                     June/July 92              435/        A, A, AS, EX            28 (6)                 2
Supervision i5                  May/June 93                 2             AS, AS               18 (9)               n.a2                   n.a"
Note: The project enjoyed additional visits by the Extension Specialist, and by Bank Disbursement, Procurement and Computer Specialists.
32   Specializations are: A = Agriculturist; AR = Architect; AS = Agricultural Specialist (resident staff): E = Economist; EX = Extension Specialist; F = Financial
Analyst; P = Procurement Specialist.
    From the fourth Supervision mission, the World Bank combined the supervision of other IDA assisted projects; e.g., NARP. NRDP Ill, NRDP IV, Agricultural
Marketing and Estate Project, Dowa West Rural Development Project, Kasungu Agricultural Development Project and SniallIioIdtr Agricultural Credit Project. Figures
in brackets are attributed to MAEPS.
    Performance rating status: 1 = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
    AF = Availability of Funds; DO = Development Objectives; LC = Compliance with Covenants; 0 = Other; PM = Project Management; PP = Procurement Progress.
    Including consultants.
No Form 590 was prepared.



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle          Month/Year           Number of       Specialization    Days in Field33   Performance Rating    Types of Problems35
l                          |  Persons        Represented2T                             Status3'      l
Pre-appraisal                    June/July 84              -                -                 n.a.
Appraisal                    September/October 84          -                -                 n.a.
Supervision I                     March 86                 1                A                  5                   1
Supervision 2                      May 86                  1                A                  4                   1
Supervision 3                     October 86               2              A, E                 5                   2                    PM, 0
Supervision 4                 February/March 87            2              A, E              20 (10)                2                    PM, 0
Supervision 5               October/November 87            436         A, A, E, EX           26 (9)                2                     PM
Supervision 6                    May/June 88              435/         A, A, E, AR           24 (6)                2                      PP
Supervision 7                October/November 88           435/        A, A, E, EX           31 (6)                2                   PM, PP
Supervision 8                 February/March 89            3            A, E, EX            31(10)                 2                   PM, PP
Supervision 9               November/December 89           335'         A, A, AS             25 (9)                2                   PM, PP
Supervision 10                   June/July 90              2              E, AS              26 (9)                3             PM, AF, PP, LC, DO
Supervision 11             December 90/January 91          2              E, AS             30 (11)                2                   PM, AF
Supervision 12                   April/May 91              5          A, E, AS, F, P         22 (6)                3             PM, AF, PP, LC, DO
Supervision 13               October/November 91           635'     A, A, E, AS, EX,         26 (6)                3                      LC
P
Supervision 14                   June/July 92              4351       A, A, AS, EX           28 (6)                2
Supervision 1537                 May/June 93               2             AS, AS              18 (9)              n.a 36                 n.a.3
Note: The project enjoyed additional visits by the Extension Specialist, and by Bank Disbursement, Procurement and Computer Specialists.
32   Specializations are: A = Agriculturist; AR = Architect; AS = Agricultural Specialist (resident staff); E = Economist; EX = Extension Specialist; F = Financial
Analyst; P = Procurement Specialist.
33   From the fourth Supervision mission, the World Bank combined the supervision of other IDA assisted projects, e.g., NARP. NRDP 111, NRDP IV, Agricultural
Marketing and Estate Project, Dowa West Rural l)evelopment Project, Kasungu Agricultural Development Project and Smalillolder Agricultural Credit Project. Figures
in brackets are attributed to MAEPS.
34   Performance rating status: I = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems: 3 = Major problems.
35   AF = Availability of Funds; DO = Development Objectives; LC = Compliance with Covenants; 0 = Other; PM = Project Management; PP = Procurement Progress.
36   Including consultants.
37   No Form 590 was prepared.



Part m: Annex 1: Table 1. Comparison of Target and Achievement Dates
Activity                           Target Date               Achievement Date
(a) Effectiveness                                  February 1986                 March 1986
(b) Recruiting Bank-Funded TA                     March-July 1986           September-October 1987
(c) Start Bank-Funded Fellowships Training          Calendar 86                  Calendar 88
(d) Complete 5-year Agricultural Strategy            July 1987               1st Draft October 1988
(e) Complete 5-year Extension Strategy               July 1987                   January 1990
(f) Design and Implement New Extension              April 1987                     1992/93
Planning and Budgeting System
(g) Design and Implement Mass                      October 1986                  March 1989
Communication System in Mzuzu ADD
43



Part III: Annex 1: Table 2. Extension Service Demonstration Data
No. of       No. of       FA/Sections       No. of Blocks    |  Actualarget9        No. of Block    Actual/TargetW     No. of OFD31'    ActuallTargetaJ
ADD          Sections       FA3                         Target    Atual              %              Gardens   .                    Target   Actual
1. 199/91:
Karunga            142           141            99           1,136       839            74                466              41           5,680     1,852         33
Mzuzu              247          231             94           1,976      1,823           92                488              25           9,880    5,422          55
Kasngu             239          245            103           1,912      1,680           88                578              30           9,560    3,310          35
Lilongwe           355          342             96           2,840      2,725           96               2,064             73          14,200    1,390           10
Salima             135           134            99           1,080       869            80                487              45           5,400     1,275         24
Liwonde            305          228             75           2,440      1,589           65                286              12          12,200    4,604          38
Blantyre           296          266             90           2,368      1,491           63                520              22          11,840    3,147           27
Ngabu               179          190           106           1,432       743            52                 -                -           7,160     1,432          20
Total            1,898        1,777            94          15,184     11,559            76              4,889             32          75,920   22,435           30
11. 1M/93:
Karunga             130          120            92           1,136       891            86                660              63           5,680    2,311           44
MDIzu              243          238             98           1,976      1,889           97                713              37           9,880    3,026           31
Kasungu            246          234             95           1,912      1,341           68               1,261             64           9,560    4,067          41
Lilongwe           368          347             94           2,840      2,648           90               2,375             81          14,200    7,336           50
Salima              136          133            98           1,080      1,009           93                568              52           5,400     1,224          23
Liwonde            329          303             92           2,440      1,763           67                868              33          12,200    5,675          43
Blantyre           294          287             98           2,368      1,628           69                491              21          11,840    3,757           32
Ngabu               195          171            88           1,432      1,293           83                909              58           7,160    2,651           34
Total            1,941        1,833            94          15,184     12,462            80              7,845             51          75,920   30,047           39
Sources: 1990/91 - Five-Year Extension Strategy Plan, MOA, June 1992.
1992/93 - From ADD progranme managers, through Chief Agrkultural and Training Officer.
38    FA = Field Assistant; OFD = On Farm Demonstration.
39    The target for each section is to have 8 Blocks; and for each Block to have I Block Garden and 5 Demonstrations.
40    The target for Block Gardens is the same as for Blocks.



Part III: Annex 1: Table 3. Mzuzu ADD Credit Operations
Lending and Repayment Levels
Season               Amount Lent"             Amount Recovered     I         Balance                  Recovery (%)
........                  ......(MK) ..............
1984/85                1,982,605                   1,959,954                   22,651                     98.9
1985/86                2,903,898                  2,571,460                    333,438                    88.5
1986/87                1,936,886                   1,842,325                   94,561                     94.5
1987/88                3,223,837                  3,064,548                    159,289                    95.0
1988/89                4,174,181                  3,741,795                   432,386                     89.7
1989/90                9,981,135                  8,007,775                  1,973,360                    80.2
1990/91                8,731,884                  7,058,116                  1,673,768                    80.8
1991/92                7,851,971                  2,957,659                  4,894,312                    37.6
1992/93                15,739,059                  1,793,589                13,945,470                    11.4
T    24               54,542,851                 31,037,267                 23,505,584                    43.1
Number of Clubs and Borrowers
tA              Season           No. of Clubs      No. of Club Repaid    No. of Clubs with   No. of Women's      No. of Borrowers      No. of Women          % Women
100%              Overdues              Clubs                                  Borrowers           Borrowers
1984/85               580                 481                   99                n.a.43              23,035               3,500                 15
1985/86               656                 342                  214                 n.a.               18,042               3,500                 19
1986/87               481                 256                  130                 n.a.               14,006               3,400                24
1987/88               797                 482                  297                 n.a.               21,162               7,500                35
1988/89               870                 590                  228                 n.a.               22,899               6,200                29
1989/90              1,355                672                  683                 n.a.               38,261               1,200                 3
1990/91              1,066                460                  606                 175                26,360               5,600                21
1991/92               910                  31                  879                 215                 n.a.                7,200
1992/93              2,002                 85                 1,917                450                27,100               14,500               54
Sources: Mzuzu ADD, Credit and Marketing Ofricer and Farm Home Assistance Officer.
41   Includes 12% interest charges.
42    Excludes 1984/85 which was the last year before the project started.
43   n.a. = Information not available.



Part III: Annex 1: Table 4. Inflators and Exchange Rates
Consuner Price                           Excange Rate             GOM Fiscal                           Exchange Rates
Calendar Year         ldeex            Inftors                                         Year"4        Infbtors
am = 10)                           MKSDR    MKIUS$                                               MK/SDR         MK/USS
1985              100.0              3.93           1.84           1.72             -               -               -              -
1986              114.0             3.45            2.39           1.86           1985/86          3.57           2.25           1.83
1987              142.8             2.75            2.91           2.21           1986/87          2.93           2.78           2.12
1988              191.1             2.06            3.41           2.56          1987/88           2.23           3.29           2.47
1989              215.0             1.83            3.52           2.76           1988/89          1.89           3.49           2.71
1990              240.3              1.64           3.77           2.73          1989/90           1.67           3.21           2.74
1991              270.7             1.45            3.81           2.80           1990/91          1.50           3.80           2.78
&;                     1992               332.1             1.18            6.04           3.60          1991/92           1.25           5.48           3.40
1993              393.2"            1.00            6.19"          4.39          1992/93           1.05           6.15           4.19
44    Source: IFM: International Financial Statistics, January 1984.
45    GOM Fiscal Year: April I - March 31.
46    First quarter 1993.
47    Average January/September 1993.



Part III: Annex 1: Table 5. Incremental Maize Production (1983/84 - 1992/93)
Area                            Production                            Yield                             Increases
1983/84-1985/86      1992/93      1983184-1985/86       1992/93      1983/841985/86|       1992/93             Area           Production
......... .(Ha'000)            .... (Tons'000)                     ...  (Kg/ha)  ..   (Ha'000)   (Tons'000)
Country as a Whole
Maize  - Local              1,073 5            997.2           1,083.2          1,032.2          1,009             1,035             (76.3)            (51.0)
- Composite            22.5               3.9             39.6              6.3           1,760             1,615             (18.6)            (33.3)
- Hybrid               77.5             236.0            226.7            695.5           2,925             2,900             158.9             468.8
- Hybrid                 -              100.0              -              300.0             -               3,0004            100.0             300.0
(MH17-MH18)
Total                1,173.5          1,337.5           1,349.5          2,034.0          1,150             1,521             164.0             684.5
vA.             Increase                              + 14%                              + 51%                               + 32%
Mzuzu ADD
Maize  - Local                74.9              83.3             61.5              70.0           821              1,138               8.4
- Composite             7.5               ...             19.1               ...          2,527             n.a.               (7.5)              8.5
- Hybrid               12.5              38.4             42.6             113.2          3,409             2,951              25.9             (19.1)
- Hybrid                 -                n.a.              -                n.a.           -               n.a.                -                70.6
(MH17-MH18)
Total                  94.9             121.7            123.2             183.2          1,297             1,505              26.8              60.0
Increase                              + 28%                              + 49%                              + 16%
48    Mission's estimate: no wide spread surveys were carried out by MOA on the overall performance of MH17 and MH maybe hybrid varieties. The average yield of 3
ton/ha relative to the overall hybrid maize production in 1992/93 has been applied.



Part I1: Annex 1: Table 6. Switch of Fertilizer Mix: Estimated Savings in Fertilizer Imports Expenditures in 1992/93
Fertilier (Mate)                Quantities"                            Nutrient Content              Pries 1992/93 of             Values of Fertiliers
1987/88      |      1992/93              197/8        |      1992/93                                  1987/8       |
............................   (To.............. Tns)  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .  (M I  . .. .. .. . ..  (MK  niUion)  . .. .. .. .. .
S/A        (21%)           8,500                 -                  1,785                                    1.000                 8.5
CAN         (26%)         30,000               25,000               7,800                6,500               1.390                41.7                34.8
20:20:0     (40%)         20,000                 -                  8,000                 -                  1.300                26.0
23:21:0:4S  (44%)          5,000               18,751               2,200                8,250               1.400                 7.0                26.3
UREA        (46%)          9,000               55,000               4,140               25,300               1.216                10.9                66.9
DAP         (64%)          5,000               37,500               3,200               24,000               1.323                 6.6                49.6
Total              77,500              136,251              27,125               64,050                                   100.7               177.6
oo1.      Average Price of Fertilizer in 1987/88: MK 1.3/kg   (MK 100,700,000: 77,500,000)   N.B. in 1992/93 terms.
00
Average Price of Fertilizer in 1992/93: MK 1.3/kg   (MK 177,600,000:136,251,000)   N.B. in 1992/93 terms.
Average Price of Nutrient in 1987/88:  MK 3.712/kg  (MK 100,700,000: 27,125,000)   N.B. in 1992/93 terms.
Average Price of Nutrient in 1992/93:  MK 2.773/kg  (MK 177,600,000: 64,050,000)   N.B. in 1992/93 terms.
Total Savings in Fen. Imports Expend. in 1992/93 as compared to 1987/88: [(64,050,000 x 3.712) - (64,050,000 x 2.773)] = MK 60.2 million (US$ 14.4 million)
49   Source: MOA (SFFRFM Fertilizer Imports).
50    Source: MOA (SFFRFM Fertilizer Selling Prices: Ist April to 26th September 1993).



Part III: Annex 1: Table 7. Investment Costs for Economic Analysis
1986/87       1987/88        1988189        1989190        1990/91         1991/92       1992/93
A. Investment Cost.' .................................                                                            ................................
In current terms:
- Civil works                                               1,276          1,407         1,966            139            458             434          2,269
- Vehicles and equipment                                      117           209          1,182            663            293             591            263
-T.A.                                                           3            -             -               -               11             72            699
- Training                                                     59           674          1,065           1,509          3,352          2,243          1,602
- Incremental credit                                          -              -           2,706             33           2,511            -              467
- Operating costs                                             191           410            660            763           1,292          2,423          2,032
Total Investment Costs:                                      1,646         2,700         7,579           3,107          7,917          5,763          7,332
of which Planning Division                                     63           121            407            508             808            935          1,024
Total Investment Costs Excluding Credit and Planning         1,583         2,579         4,466           2,566          4,598          4,828          5,841
P       ~~~Division
Inflators'                                                   2.93           2.23          1.89            1.67           1.50           1.25           1.05
B. Tod  Invesinent Costs in Cotantun199293 Prices for       4,638          5,751         8,441           4,285          6,897          6,035          6,133
Ecok AnayJsi
51    Source: MOA Planning Division.
52    See Part m, Annex 1, Table 4.
53    For the economic analysis, the credit and the Planning Division components have not been taken into account.



Part III: Annex 1: Table 8. Smallholder Sector: Maize Area and Yields
{1982/83  1  1983/84        1984/85  1  1985/86  1  1986/87  i  1987/88  1  1988/89  1  1989/90        1990/91   1  1991/92     1992/93
Area                                   ............................................ ('000 ha) ...................................
Total Maize                             1,196        1,174       1,145        1,198       1,182        1,215       1,271        1,344        1,352       1,368        1,327
of which:
-Local                                   n.a         1,068       1,048        1,105       1,132        1,138       1,160        1,184       1,194        1,138         997
- Composite                              n.a           26           22          20           14          19           25          25           19          13            4
- Hybrid                                 n.a           89          75           69           37          59           86          135         179         217          326
% of local maize over total              n.a           91          92           93          96           94           91          88           86          83           75
% of hybrid maize over total             n.a            8           7            6           3            5           7           10           13          16           25
3-Year Average Smaliholder Yields ..............................................(os/a...........................................(toos/ba) .
- Maize                                  . . .       . . .        1.17        1.15         1.09         1.09        1.13        1.12         1.11        0.87         1.05
Local maize                            . . .        . . .       . . .        1.01        0.98         1.00        1.03         0.99        0.91         0.67         0.74
- Hybrid maize                         . .          ...         . . .        2.94        2.92         2.77        2.74         2.69        2.77         2.26         2.42



Part III: Annex 1: Table 9. Import Parity Prices
LUI E    |    TSP       |  Potassium Chloride
1.                  .       ($/ton) -...
World Market-Constant 1990 prices5'               109          115           110                100
MUV (1992/93)                                    1.06          1.06         1.06                1.06
World Market-Constant 1992/93 prices              116          122           117                106
Freight Insurance and Port Charges                 45           45 ..451  .4S
CIF Beira                                         161          167           162                151
Transport Costs to Lilongwe'                        56         _36          ....36
CIF Lilongwe                                      197          203           198                187
................... (               ....... .c..
CIF Lilongwe                                     0.86         0.89          0.87               0.82
SFFRFM Costs 5                                    -           0.15          0.15               0.15
Prices at Main Delivery Sites                    0.86         1.04          1.02               0.97
Transport Farm Delivery Sites5'                 (0.10)        0.10          0.10               0.10
Losses (5%)                                     (0.05)        0.05          0.05               0.05
Farmgate Economic Prices                         0.71         1.19          1.17                1.12
Farmgate Financial Prices                        0.49         1.21'
54    World Bank commodity price forecasts (1994).
55    400 km at Tambala 40/ton/km.
56   Including rebagging, storage, ADMARC fees, transport and overheads (Source: SFFRFM).
57    Average 150 kn at Tambala 70/ton/km.
58    Part III, Annex 1, Table 6.
51



Part III: Annex 1: Table 10. Budget per Hectare for Local and Hybrid Maize
Local Maize        Hybrid Maize
Gross Value of Production:
Yield (kg/ha)                                          900                 2,700
Price (t/kg)'9                                          49                    49
Gross Value of Production (MK/ha)                      441                  1,323
Production Costs:
Seed (local)                                            12                   -
Seed (selected: 25 kg)                                   -                    l2560
Fertilizer - 23:21:0+45 (50 kg)6'                       70                   -
Fertilizer - DAP (80 kg)6"                                                   106
Fertilizer - CAN (40 kg)6"                              56                              l
Fertilizer - UREA (170 kg)'                             -                    206
Chemicals (600 g)                                        -                     7
Transport                                               120                 340
Credit Charges6'                                         2                   dl
Total Production Costs                                 297                  902
Net Value of Production (MK/ha)                         144                  421
59    As indicated in Table 9, the import parity price for maize has been estimated at Tambala 71/kg. In the context of
Malawi where maize is to be considered as now tradeable, the farmgate price of Tambala 49/kg would better reflect
the economic price of maize.
60    At MK 5/kg (without subsidies).
61    At MX 1.4/kg.
62    At MK 1.32/kg.
63    At MK 1.39/kg.
64    At MK 1.21/kg.
65    Estimated at 15% of production costs.
52



Part III: Annex 1: Table 11. MZUZU ADD
Net Value of Maize (Local and Hybrid) Production in Economic Terms
Average"         ~~~Average"7                      Projections
1984/85-1985/86    1990/91-1991/92-1992/93      1997/98"    12002/03"   72007/08
............................... ('000 ha) ..)
Local maize             79.4                     87.8                 80.5         78.0         75.0
Hybrid maize            13J                       2.72                X5           -42.0        50
Total:                 92.7                    110.5                115.0        120.0        125.0
....................... Net Value of Production7' .................. .
(MK million)
Local maize             11.4                     12.6                 11.6          11.2         10.8
Hybrid                  ..i6                     9.6                  _1 5L 1211
Total:                 17.0                     22.2                 26.1         28.8         31.9
Incremental               -                       5.2                  9.1          11.8        14.9
66    Considered as without project situation.
67    Hybrid maize represented 20% of total maize area.
68    Assuming hybrid maize would represent 30% of the total maize area.
69    Assuming hybrid maize would represent 35% of the total maize area.
70    Assuming hybrid maize would represent 40% of the total maize area.
71    Based on budgets per ha as presented in Table 10.
53



Part III: Annex 1: Table 12. Economic Rate of Return Estimated: MZUZU ADD
Project Year            Investment Costs"       Incremental Net Benefits"    Balance to be Discounted
1 (1986/87)                   4.6                                                  (4.6)
2                        5.8                          -                        (5.8)
3                        8.4                                                  (8.4)
4                         4.3                         -                        (4.3)
5                        6.3                          -                        (6.3)
6                         6.9                         -                        (6.9)
7                        6.0                         5.2                      (0.8)
8                        0.4                         5.9                        5.5
9                        0.4                         6.7                        6.3
10                        0.4                        7.4                        7.0
11                        0.4                        8.3                        7.9
12                        0.4                        9.1                        8.7
13                        0.4                        9.6                        9.2
14                        0.4                        10.0                       9.6
15                        0.4                        10.5                      10.1
16                        0.4                        11.1                       10.7
17                        0.4                        11.8                       11.4
18                        0.4                        12.4                       12.0
19                        0.4                        13.0                       12.6
20                        0.4                        13.6                       13.2
21                        0.4                        14.3                       13.9
22 (2007/2008)                 0.4                        14.9                       14.5
Economic Rate of Return: 13.1%
72   See details in Table 7.
73   See details in Table 11.
54



